CorporateCraftsmanship John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016/17 The John Keells Group is and has always been, a benchmark of corporate excellence in Sri Lanka, with diversified investments across several key growth sectors that have made us the largest listed conglomerate on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Over the years we have crafted your Company to be a model of business excellence; deepening our local sector expertise, strengthening our partnerships with the communities and people whose lives we touch and developing a reputation for delivering to the highest of standards with innovation, creativity and finesse. We have honed our tradecraft, applying our own distinctive management skills to the design and administration of our portfolio, using our wide experience to execute the right decisions at the right time; strategically entering and exiting markets while ensuring that our vision and virtuosity remain the guiding principles of all that we do. Today we are a multi-faceted organisation possessing the imagination, insight and understanding required to keep such a complex group of companies vibrant and strong. We have selectively shaped the strengths and synergies that now set us apart; the talent and flair of our human capital, the focus on triple bottom line performance, the inspired management of our portfolio and the principles of good governance we now exemplify. Our commitment to long-term partnerships, entrepreneurship and sustainable growth remains strong. Our desire to constantly renew our capabilities and stay relevant is obsessive, as we continuously evolve our chain of value to accelerate the Group into the future. Now, we look forward to crafting the future by unleashing our potential for growth and expansion in the years ahead; setting the standards in all that we undertake to do. 2 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Contents 116 Transportation Group Highlights 04 Introduction to the Report 06 Our Business Model 08 Organisational Structure 09 Year at a Glance 10 Performance Highlights 12 Chairman’s Message 124 Leisure Governance 21 Board of Directors 23 Group Executive Committee 24 Group Operating Committee 26 Corporate Governance Commentary 136 Property Management Discussion and Analysis Group Consolidated Review 60 The Economy 63 Capital Management Review Financial and Manufactured Capital Natural Capital Human Capital 144 Consumer Foods and Retail Social and Relationship Capital Intellectual Capital 83 Outlook 85 Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management 91 Materiality and Stakeholder Relationships 101 Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls 106 Share and Warrant Information Industry Group Review 154 Financial Services 116 Transportation 124 Leisure 136 Property 144 Consumer Foods and Retail 154 Financial Services 160 Information Technology 166 Other including Plantation Services 160 Information Technology 166 Other including Plantation Services Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 3 Financial Statements About Us John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is one of 175 Annual Report of the Board of Directors the largest listed firms on the Colombo 180 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility Stock Exchange, with business interests in 181 Independent Auditors’ Report Transportation, Leisure, Property, Consumer 182 Income Statement Foods and Retail, Financial Services, 183 Statement of Comprehensive Income Information Technology and Plantations 184 Statement of Financial Position among others. 185 Statement of Cash Flows 186 Statement of Changes in Equity Started in the early 1870s as a produce 191 Notes to the Financial Statements and exchange broking business by two Englishmen, Edwin and George John, the Group has been known to constantly re-align, Supplementary Information re-position, and re-invent itself in pursuing growth sectors of the time. 261 History of the John Keells Group 262 Economic Value Statement JKH was incorporated as a public limited 264 Decade at a Glance liability company in 1979, and listed on the 266 Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements Colombo Stock Exchange in 1986. By way of 268 Sri Lankan Economy issuing Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) on 270 Group Real Estate Portfolio the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, the firm 272 Memberships Maintained by the Group subsequently went on to become the first Sri 273 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting Lankan company to be listed overseas. Today, 276 Group Directory the firm’s market capitalisation exceeds USD 283 GRI G4 Content Index 1.5 billion. 288 Glossary of Financial Terms 289 Notice of Meeting The Group’s investment philosophy is 290 Corporate Information based on a positive outlook, bold approach, 291 Proxy Form commitment to delivery, and flexibility to change. JKH is also committed to maintaining integrity, ethical dealings, sustainable development, and greater social responsibility in a multi-stakeholder context. JKH is a full member of the World Economic Forum and a member of the UN Global Compact. The Holding Company of the Group John 12 Chairman’s Message Keells Holdings PLC, is based at 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2, and has offices and businesses located across Sri Lanka, India, and the Maldives. 63 Capital Management Review Strategy, Resource Allocation and 85 Portfolio Management Risks, Opportunities and Internal 101 Controls 106 Share and Warrant Information 289 Notice of Meeting www.keells.com 4 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 G4 17 G4 18 G4 23 Introduction to this Report We are pleased to present our second Integrated Report in accordance with the Standards and Principles Integrated Reporting Framework of the Reporting International Integrated Reporting Council • Integrated Reporting Framework of the International Integrated Reporting (IIRC). Council (IIRC) This report reflects on: Governance, Risk Management and Operations • The value creation model of the Group • Laws and regulations of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 which combines different forms of Capital • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) and subsequent revisions to in the short, medium, and long term date • Code of Best Practices on Corporate Governance jointly advocated by the • Governance, risk management, and Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) and the Institute of sustainability frameworks entrenched Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) within the John Keells Group • UK Corporate Governance Code (formerly known as the Combined Code of 2010) • Financial, operational, environmental, and social review, together with the results of Financial Reporting the Group • Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) In keeping this Report concise and pertinent to the year under review, whilst being Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting comprehensive and detailed, we have • 'in accordance' -core option of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 Sustainability ensured that the commentaries in certain Reporting Guidelines sections are limited to a helicopter view of the • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals events and progress within the year, whilst • United Nations Global Compact Active Principles the Group’s standard policies, operating guidelines and management approaches are available on the corporate website. Scope and Boundary The John Keells Annual Report 2016/17 is a identified in the reporting boundary specified reflection of the Group’s integrated approach in the Group Directory 2016/17. In expanding The seven guiding principles in of management (during the period from 1 its sustainability scope, going forward, the April 2016 to 31 March 2017), and strives to Group will also seek to report on companies integrated reporting; strategic deliver a balanced and relevant report that over which it does not exercise significant focus and future orientation, will bring clarity and detail to the complex management control, where relevant. connectivity of information, task of reporting a year of diverse business stakeholder relationships, operations across multiple industry groups. Adoption of the Integrated Reporting Material events post this reporting period, up Guidelines materiality, conciseness, reliability to the sign off date by the Board of Directors In keeping with our attempts to achieve a more and completeness, consistency on 26 May 2017, have been included in this cohesive and efficient approach to corporate and comparability; have been Report, ensuring a more relevant and up to reporting, the Group voluntarily adopted the date Report. given due consideration when Integrated Reporting Framework of the IIRC. Given the complex task of reporting a year of preparing and presenting this All Group subsidiary and equity accounted operations of a conglomerate, the Group has Report. investees were considered in capturing its strived to deliver a comprehensive, balanced financial performance. For the purpose of and relevant Report, while adhering to the reporting its sustainability performance, the recommendations of the IIRC. Group has considered the companies in its sphere of influence which are the legal entities The seven guiding principles in integrated for which the Group remains accountable and reporting; strategic focus and future has direct control. The companies not included orientation, connectivity of information, for reporting on sustainability performance stakeholder relationships, materiality, are companies in which the Group does not conciseness, reliability and completeness, exercise significant management control, consistency and comparability; have been non-operational companies, investment given due consideration when preparing and companies, and companies owning only presenting this Report. land. Such companies have been clearly Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 5 G4 18 Determining Materiality Materiality analysis is a key process that HIGH enables the Group to define key triple bottom line issues that are of greatest significance to our businesses and stakeholders, both Importance to external stakeholders Included in this Report and/or internal and external, in the short, medium and Company website long term. Our focus on materiality, through emphasis on 26 material aspects recognised by both internal and external stakeholders, is vital as we drive performance, improve our sustainability framework, and institutionalise the Group’s corporate governance philosophy at all levels. The Group conducts an independent external Minimal reporting/ stakeholder engagement every three to not reported four years to ascertain aspects material to its significant stakeholders. In addition, materiality is also assessed internally in ascertaining the aspects material to the LOW Group and to fine-tune and streamline its strategy and processes to manage these Importance to internal stakeholders material issues. The outcome of these studies are prioritised using a materiality matrix, representing the level of significance to the Group and its external stakeholders, Information Verification and is then disclosed as per the clearly The accuracy and reliability of information contained in this report has been defined aspects under the GRI G4 guidelines, reviewed, as applicable, by: as further described in the Materiality and Stakeholder Relationships section of this • The Board of Directors Report. • The Group Executive Committee • Audit Committee of the Company While the matrix, as illustrated above, • An independent auditor conﬁrming the accuracy of the annual ﬁnancial statements indicates the prioritisation of these material • An independent assurance engagement for the non-ﬁnancial information aspects, the Group continues to assess prepared 'in-accordance' -core option on GRI G4 guidelines its internal and external materiality and disclose the performance of such aspects. Its reporting scope will be expanded as and when an aspect becomes material to the Group and its stakeholders. Disclaimer for the Publication of indicators in future years may differ from the Forecast Data forward-looking statements published in this The Report contains information about the Report. The reader is advised to seek expert plans and strategies of the Group for the professional advice in all such respects. medium and long term, and represents Contact with Stakeholders the management’s view of the Group. The As you flip through the pages of this Report, Preparation of this Report took place plans are forward-looking in nature and we trust you will find a relevant, transparent in cooperation with stakeholders their feasibility depends on a number of and noteworthy value proposition entrenched in order to improve transparency, economic, political and legal factors, which within the John Keells Group that strives to accountability and the process in which are outside the influence of the Group and achieve the highest form of stakeholder materiality of disclosed information is Company, such as global and domestic satisfaction. viewed. Feedback is gathered through financial, economic and political situations, questionnaires, a dedicated mail-box, the situation of key markets, changes in tax, one-on-one meetings and stakeholder customs and environmental legislation and engagement fora. so forth. Given this, the actual performance of 6 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Our Business Model Vision: Building businesses that are leaders in the region The basic types of capital deployed by JKH INPUTS Financial and Social and Relationship Intellectual Capital Manufactured Natural Capital Human Capital Capital Capital • Debt and equity • Energy • Diversity • Stakeholder • Brand stewardship • Cash ﬂow from • Water • Experience engagement • Technological operations • Other natural • Relationship building expertise • Fixed asset base resources • Research and development Sustainability F nc e | ram rna ew ve or Go k | IT Hu | m ste Strategy, Resource Financial and ma t Sy Allocation, Non-Financial nR and Portfolio Performance Stakeholder returns and engagement Management during the year eso Value creation levers isk Managemen urce Our business activities: Transportation, Management Leisure, Property, Consumer Foods and Retail, Financial Services, Information Technology, and Other including Plantation Services ise R pr | C ter Business Outlook Risks and En Opportunities orp lity ibi o | ra ns t e po e Co c So s an rp Re er or cia l n ate v lRcia Go Gov espSo ibility | Corporate ernan onsate ce | C o r p o r Transformed capital which creates stakeholder value OUTPUTS Financial and Social and Relationship Intellectual Capital Manufactured Natural Capital Human Capital Capital Capital • Shareholder returns • Efficient disposal of • Staff motivation • Community skill • Intellectual property and dividends effluent and waste • Talented, efficient development Patents • Payments to other • Reduction of carbon workforce • Well informed and Copyrights stakeholders footprint • Job satisfaction sound investment • Share price • Reduced utility • Career progression decisions appreciation consumption • Safe and equitable • Better supplier/ environment distributor and stakeholder relations Values: Caring, Excellence, Trust, Innovation, Integrity Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 7 Inputs Activities Outputs Outcomes Financial and Manufactured Capital • Financial Capital: The pool of • Shareholder • Effective and responsible investments • Shareholder returns • Financial stability funds that is available for use in funds and debt of shareholder funds and dividends • Financial growth the production of goods or the • Cash flow from • Business development activities • Payments to other • Creation of wealth provision of services. operations • Cost reduction initiatives stakeholders • Manufactured Capital: • Land bank • Share price Manufactured physical objects • Machinery and appreciation that are available to the Group equipment for use in the production of goods or the provision of services Natural Capital All renewable and non-renewable • Energy • Adoption of Global Goals • Disposal of all effluent • Sustainable environmental stocks that • Water • Environmental impact assessments and waste efficiently natural resource provide goods and services for • Other natural and mitigation of impact • Reduction of carbon utilisation the Group resources • Roll-out of carbon footprint and footprint • Bio-diversity energy initiatives • Reduced resource preservation • Strengthening of water and waste consumption through management processes better monitoring Human Capital The employees’ competencies, • Employee • Channelling of employee skills and • Staff motivation • Alignment of capabilities and experience, diversity expertise for business growth • Talented and efficient workforce with including their ability to understand, • Experience • Training and development of workforce Group vision develop and implement the Group’s employee cadre • Job satisfaction • Profitable strategy. This encompasses their • Performance management and • Career progression businesses motivation for improving processes, appraisals • Safe and equitable through improved goods and services, and their ability • Employee survey initiatives environment productivity and to lead, manage and collaborate • Structured career development efficiency programmes Social and Relationship Capital The institutions and relationships • Occupational • Investment in community and • Community skill • Brand visibility and established within and between health and safety livelihood development development reputation each community, group of initiatives • Regular dialogue with investors, • Well informed and • Strengthened stakeholders and other networks • Dedicated CSR analysts and other stakeholders sound investment supply chain to enhance individual and team within the • Social impact assessments decisions • Adherence to UN collective well-being. Social and Group • Identification of key stakeholders and • Better supplier/ SDGs relationship capital includes • Community material aspects in relation to them distributor and key relationships, and the trust development • Awareness creation and engagement stakeholder relations and loyalty that the Group has • Investor relations of suppliers through the Supplier developed and strives to build and stakeholder Management Framework and protect with customers, management • Social needs assessment based on suppliers and business partners Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) /UN Global Compact/national agenda Intellectual Capital Intangibles that provide • Brand • Development of intangible • Intellectual property • Evolving competitive advantage, including: stewardship infrastructure, processes and products businesses to suit • Intellectual property, such as • Research and procedures to improve efficiency Patents the ever changing, patents, copyrights, software development • New product development Copyrights dynamic consumer systems, procedures and • Technological • Innovation • An organisation protocols expertise better prepared • The intangibles that are to face disruptive associated with the brand and business models reputation that the Group has developed over time 8 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Organisational Structure INDUSTRY GROUPS, SECTORS AND PRIMARY BRANDS TRANSPORTATION Ports and Shipping Transportation LEISURE City Hotels Sri Lankan Resorts Maldivian Resorts Destination Management Hotel Management PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Property Development Real Estate CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL Consumer Foods KREST Retail FINANCIAL SERVICES Insurance Banking and Leasing Stock Broking INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information Technology Office Automation IT Enabled Services OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES Plantation Services Other Centre Functions Corporate Communications Group Human Resources Legal and Secretarial Corporate Finance and Strategy Group Tax New Business Development Group Business Process Review and Group Treasury Strategic Group Information Insurance Technology Group Finance John Keells Research Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management and Group Initiatives John Keells Foundation Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 9 Year at a Glance 2016/17 June 2016 • JKH concluded the conversion of 57.4 January 2017 • JKH announced a subdivision of shares, million 2016 Warrants in to ordinary • Union Assurance PLC launched “GOYO”, whereby 7 of its existing shares were shares and received Rs.3.18 billion from an app based personal health advisor subdivided into 8 shares 21.3 million 2016 Warrants that were that provides rewards to customers for exercised and accepted achieving fitness goals • John Keells X: Open Innovation Challenge 2016 was launched, creating a unique December 2016 platform for disruptive and innovative • John Keells Research filed for its first solutions. The challenge provides the patent for a novel energy source material initial investments required for start-up that was developed through a research businesses and technologies with the project undertaken in collaboration goal of empowering startups and local with the National Metallurgical Lab of entrepreneurs the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR-NML) in India February 2017 • JKH emerged as the “Overall Sustainability Reporting Award” winner at the ACCA Sri Lanka Sustainability Awards 2017 • The premium ice cream range of Elephant House ice creams was relaunched as September 2016 “Imorich” • The second residential tower of the “Cinnamon Life” project, “The Suites • JKH was awarded the Gold award for at Cinnamon Life”, comprising of 196 “Overall Excellence in Annual Financial apartment units was launched Reporting” at the 52nd Annual Report Awards Ceremony organised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka • SAGT was awarded The Best Terminal in South Asia by the Singapore based Global Ports Forum November 2016 March 2017 • In line with the succession plan of the • JKH conducted its first e-auction for Group, Messrs. Krishan Balendra and Group Initiatives on the newly launched Gihan Cooray were appointed as Executive online sourcing platform Directors to the Board of John Keells • JKH Group revenue exceeded Rs.100 Holdings PLC billion for the first time in the Company’s 147 year operating history Financial Achievements and Goals Indicator (%) Goal Achievement 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 EBIT growth >20 15.5 5.0 16.3 EPS growth (fully diluted) >20 12.6 (15.3) 15.7 Cash EPS growth (fully diluted) >20 (1.0) (6.2) 13.9 Long term return on capital employed (ROCE) 15 11.5 11.1 11.5 Long term return on equity (ROE) 18 9.8 9.6 11.0 Net debt (cash) to equity 50 (28.5) (30.8) (28.8) 10 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Performance Highlights FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS THREE YEAR PERFORMANCE Year ended 31 March 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Earnings highlights and ratios Group revenue consolidated Rs. million 106,273 93,710 13 91,852 Group revenue including equity accounted investees Rs. million 119,623 105,183 14 98,090 Group profit before interest and tax (EBIT) Rs. million 23,324 20,192 16 19,226 Group profit before tax Rs. million 22,888 19,198 19 18,557 Group profit after tax Rs. million 18,117 15,792 15 15,746 Group profit attributable to shareholders Rs. million 16,275 14,070 16 14,348 1 Dividends Rs. million 7,280 8,038 (9) 3,476 Diluted earnings per share Rs. 11.84 10.52 13 12.41 Cash earnings per share Rs. 13.89 14.03 (1) 14.96 Interest cover No. of times 52.8 51.5 3 27.7 Return on equity (ROE) % 9.8 9.6 2 11.0 Pre-tax return on capital employed (ROCE) % 11.5 11.1 4 11.5 Balance sheet highlights and ratios Total assets Rs. million 277,272 240,975 15 218,086 Total debt Rs. million 22,766 20,750 10 23,934 2 Net debt (cash) Rs. million (55,309) (51,849) 7 (43,224) Total shareholders' funds Rs. million 178,635 154,982 15 137,798 No. of shares in issue Millions 1,387 1,189 17 997 Net assets per share3 Rs. 128.75 111.70 15 99.32 Debt/equity % 11.7 12.3 (5) 15.9 2 Net debt (cash)/ equity % (28.5) (30.8) (7) (28.8) Debt/total assets % 8.2 8.6 (5) 11.0 Market / shareholder information Market price of share as at 31 March (actual) Rs. 137.90 148.00 (7) 199.40 Market price of share as at 31 March (diluted) Rs. 137.90 129.50 6 152.67 Market capitalisation Rs. million 191,332 176,032 9 198,899 Enterprise value2 Rs. million 136,022 124,182 10 155,675 Total shareholder return4 % 10.0 (12.2) (12.0) Price earnings ratio (PER) (diluted) No. of times 11.6 12.3 (6) 12.3 Dividend announced for the financial year Rs. 6.00 7.00 (14) 3.50 1 Dividend payout for the financial year % 45.9 46.7 (2) 33.5 1 Dividend paid per share Rs. 5.50 7.00 (21) 3.50 Dividend yield1 % 3.99 5.41 (26) 2.29 1 Cash dividends paid during the year 2 Customer advances in the Property Development sector and cash and cash equivalents relating to the UA Life fund has been excluded 3 Net assets per share have been calculated, for all periods, based on the number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2017 4 Includes the proportionate impact arising from the ownership of the 2015 and 2016 Warrants Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 11 NON FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS THREE YEAR PERFORMANCE Indicator 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 FINANCIAL CAPITAL EC1 Economic value retained (Rs. million) 12,731 9,873 14,589 NATURAL CAPITAL EN3 Energy consumption non renewable sources (GJ) 220,911 213,7471 223,321 Energy consumption non renewable sources (GJ) per Rs. million of revenue 2.05 2.26 2.40 Energy consumption renewable sources (GJ) 101,112 111,061 130,067 Energy consumption renewable sources (GJ) per Rs. million of revenue 0.94 1.18 1.40 Purchased energy national grid 350,486 332,9611 311,263 Purchased energy national grid (GJ) per Rs. million of revenue 3.24 3.521 3.4 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 (MT) 16,134 15,6211 16,332 Greenhouse gas emissions from combustion of biomass 11,181 12,284 14,254 EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions scope 2 (MT) 66,359 63,0411 58,933 Total carbon footprint (MT) 82,492 78,6611 75,264 Total carbon footprint (MT) per Rs. million of revenue 0.76 0.83 0.82 EN8 Water withdrawal (m3) 2,021,739 1,995,0081 1,803,061 Water withdrawal (m3) per Rs. million of revenue 18.72 21.111 19.72 EN22 Water discharge (m3) 1,460,799 1,439,1381 1,390,650 EN23 Volume of hazardous waste generated (MT) 329 285 134 Volume of non hazardous waste generated (MT) 8,517 7,967 7,669 Waste recycled/reused by Group companies and through third party contractors (%) 42 43 43 EN29 Significant environmental fines4 Nil Nil Nil HUMAN CAPITAL Total workforce (employees and contractors’ staff) 20,100 19,522 18,981 EC3 Employee benefit liability as of 31 March (Rs. million) 1,880 1,650 1,495 LA1 Total attrition (%) 24 21 24 New hires (%) 55 50 45 LA6 Number of injuries and diseases 213 217 199 Injury rate (number of injuries per 100 employees) 1.06 1.11 1.05 Lost day rate (%) 0.04 0.05 0.05 Number of people educated on serious diseases5 199,802 21,384 16,323 LA9 Average hours of training per employee 41 35 40 LA11 Employees receiving performance reviews (%) 100 100 100 HR5 Incidents of child labour (below age 16) Nil Nil Nil Incidents of young workers (aged 16-18)2 Nil Nil Nil HR6 Incidents of forced labour during the year Nil Nil Nil SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL EC7 Community services and infrastructure projects (Rs. million) 150 105 58 EC9 Proportion of purchases from suppliers within Sri Lanka (%) 83 81 81 SO1 Community engagement (number of persons impacted)3 1,010,200 855,364 59,278 Sustainability integration awareness (number of business partners) 80 80 80 Business partners screened for labour, environment and human rights 90 100 90 PR3 Proportion of labels carrying ingredients used (%) 81 81 80 Proportion of labels carrying information on disposal (%) 93 76 60 Proportion of labels carrying sourcing of components (%) 1 1 1 PR7 Voluntary standards relating to advertising Group policy based on ICC code PR9 Significant fines for product/service issues4 Nil Nil Nil SO2 Proportion of businesses analysed for risk of corruption (%) 100 100 100 SO8 Significant fines for violation of laws/regulations4 Nil Nil Nil 1 Figure has been restated 2 Young workers are employed under the guidelines of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon 3 This excludes people impacted indirectly and includes the commuters using the Slave Island Railway Station 4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes are deﬁned as ﬁnes over Rs.1 million 5 Signiﬁcant increase due to islandwide awareness programme conducted by UA 12 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Chairman’s Message Vision and virtuosity remain the guiding principles of all that we do.... I am pleased to present the Integrated Summarised below are the key financial highlights of our operating performance during the Annual Report and the Financial year under review. Statements for the ﬁnancial year • Group revenue increased by 13 per cent to Rs.106.27 billion ended 31 March 2017. • Group profit before tax increased by 19 per cent to Rs.22.89 billion. Recurring profit before tax, excluding the impacts of fair value gains on investment property, This is the second Annual Report prepared in conformance with the Integrated Reporting increased by 18 per cent to Rs.22.40 billion Framework of the International Integrated • Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent increased by 16 per cent to Rs.16.28 Reporting Council. This year’s Report billion. Recurring profit attributable to equity holders of the parent increased by 15 strives to provide our stakeholders with per cent to Rs.15.86 billion an in-depth understanding of the Group’s value creation process and the strategies in • Net cash flow from operating activities was Rs.21.02 billion managing the diverse portfolio of businesses • Return on capital employed (ROCE) increased to 11.5 per cent from 11.1 per cent in towards driving sustainable growth. The the previous year integrated nature of this report exemplifies the stakeholder centric strategies and • Return on equity (ROE) increased to 9.8 per cent from 9.6 per cent in the previous year actions which are founded on the principles • The adjusted ROCE and the ROE are 14.4 per cent and 11.5 per cent respectively, as of compliance, conformance, governance, ethical conduct and sustainable development. explained below • Debt to equity ratio decreased to 11.7 per cent compared with 12.3 per cent in the The Group profit before tax (PBT) increased previous financial year by 19 per cent to Rs.22.89 billion for the financial year ended 31 March 2017. The • The Company PBT decreased by 3 per cent to Rs.17.25 billion profit attributable to equity holders of the • Diluted earnings per share increased by 13 per cent to Rs.11.84 parent was Rs.16.28 billion, representing • Cash earnings per share decreased by 1 per cent to Rs.13.89 an increase of 16 per cent over the Rs.14.07 billion recorded in the previous year. • The total shareholder return (TSR) in 2016/17 was 10.7 per cent • The carbon footprint per one million rupees of revenue decreased by 8 per cent to 0.76 metric tons Rs. 22.89Bn As was highlighted last year, the investment in the “Cinnamon Life” project which is under changing conditions, with the administration and operating expenses increasing by less Group PBT A growth of 19 per cent construction and the regular revaluation of than market norms despite the increased assets under fair value accounting principles activity and the resultant 13 per cent growth have short to medium term implications on in revenue. The increased contribution from our ROCE and ROE ratios. This is discussed the Consumer Foods and Retail industry Given our strong balance sheet in detail in the Group Consolidated Review group to overall revenue and profitability has and anticipated robust cash section of this Report. The ROCE and the ROE, resulted in a more balanced portfolio. In this adjusted for these impacts and other onecontext, it is pleasing to note that with the generation, the Group is currently off non-operating incomes are 14.4 per cent exception of Leisure and Property, where evaluating signiﬁcant investment and 11.5 per cent respectively. We remain monetisation of property assets have a “lag” opportunities across its industry confident that the investments which we effect, all industry groups achieved ROCE's in are making today, and the strategies we are excess of the Group’s hurdle rate of 15 per groups, some of which are employing, in pursuing a sustainable long cent. Given our strong balance sheet and morefully described in the Industry term future will result in improved returns anticipated robust cash generation, the Group Group Review section, and on our capital employed, and our shareholder is currently evaluating significant investment Strategy, Resource Allocation and funds, in the medium to long term. opportunities across its industry groups, some of which are morefully described Portfolio Management sections of in the Industry Group Review section, and Despite the policy uncertainty which prevailed this Report. during the period with regards to taxation and Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio other reforms, I am pleased to state that your Management sections of this Report. Group remained agile and adapted to the Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 13 The Annual Report contains discussions on the The increased room inventory arising out macro-economic factors and its impact on our Since the expansion of capacity of entrants into the 3-5 star segments of businesses as well as a detailed discussion with the commissioning of the the market, and the resultant competitive and analysis of each of the industry groups. As pricing, exerted pressure on the city sector’s such, I will focus on a high level summation South Container Terminal, the average room rates during the period under of the performance of each industry group overall capacity utilisation of the review. However, with this capacity being during the financial year 2016/17. Port of Colombo is now in excess gradually absorbed during the financial year, of 70 per cent, demonstrating overall occupancy in the city was strong Transportation Industry Group and this is an encouraging trend. Despite The Transportation industry group reported the strong potential for capacity the aforementioned increase in competition, revenues, including the share of revenues led growth. In this context, timely the Group’s City Hotels sector witnessed an from the equity accounted investees, of development of the deep-draft East increase in both occupancy and average room Rs.18.44 billion and a PAT of Rs.2.98 billion, rates compared to the previous financial year. Container Terminal (ECT) is critical contributing 15 per cent and 16 per cent to The profitability of the City Hotels sector for Group revenue and PAT respectively. The to ensure that capacity continues the year under review included a full year 2016/17 PAT increased by 21 per cent over to be enhanced towards attracting of operations for Cinnamon Lakeside, which the previous year. The significant increase in further volumes and sustain was partially closed for refurbishment for six profitability is mainly attributable to the Ports months in 2015/16. Cinnamon red continued continued growth at the Port. to perform beyond expectations. and Shipping, and Bunkering businesses. Read more on Transportation on page 116 During the financial year, volumes at the Port of The Group will seek to optimise the returns Colombo witnessed a year on year growth of 9 of its Leisure business by re-evaluating the per cent whilst South Asia Gateway Terminals effective capital deployed in its existing hotel (SAGT) recorded an encouraging throughput Leisure Industry Group portfolio, and, where relevant, following an increase of 22 per cent. You will be pleased to The Leisure industry group reported asset light investment model in new projects. note that SAGT was recognised as the Best revenues, including share of revenues from Terminal in South Asia , awarded by the Global equity accounted investees, of Rs.26.14 billion With new capacity expected to come in Ports Forum in February 2017. Since the and a PAT of Rs.5.01 billion, contributing 22 over the next few years, especially into the expansion of capacity with the commissioning per cent and 28 per cent to Group revenue city, there is an urgent need for the country of the South Container Terminal, the overall and PAT respectively. The 2016/17 PAT to enhance its product and entertainment capacity utilisation of the Port of Colombo is increased by 15 per cent over the previous offering to attract the higher spending now in excess of 70 per cent, demonstrating year. During the calendar year 2016, arrivals tourists. the strong potential for capacity led growth. to Sri Lanka reached 2,050,832, representing In this context, timely development of the a year-on-year growth of 14 per cent. China The Sri Lankan Resorts segment recorded deep-draft East Container Terminal (ECT) and India, being the two largest source an overall improvement in occupancy and is critical to ensure that capacity continues markets, recorded a 24 per cent and 13 per average room rates, despite the increase in to be enhanced towards attracting further cent increase in arrivals in 2016, respectively, competition within the sector, particularly in volumes and sustain continued growth at whilst arrivals from other regions also the coastal areas of the island. the Port. Subsequent to the Expression of demonstrated encouraging growth. Interest submitted in September 2016 in this Tourist arrivals to the Maldives displayed regard, the Group will look to leverage on signs of a recovery with an increase of 4 per this investment opportunity considering the overall prospects for the Port of Colombo. Rs. 5.01Bn cent during the calendar year 2016. Despite increased activity in the informal sector, the Leisure PAT Revenue and profitability of the Group’s A growth of 15 per cent Bunkering business improved as a result of the increase in base fuel prices during the year and growth in volumes. The Logistics In keeping with the present growth The Group will seek to optimise business recorded a strong performance due opportunities within the sector, better physical the returns of its Leisure business to an increase in throughput in its warehouse infrastructure such as enhanced connectivity by re-evaluating the effective facilities while DHL Keells improved its market through road networks and the expansion of capital deployed in its existing leadership position in the year under review. the passenger handling capacity of the airport by expediting the planned new terminal, is a hotel portfolio, and, where Rs. 2.98Bn priority. The partial closure of the Bandaranaike International Airport to resurface and expand the runway was handled commendably by the relevant, following an asset light investment model in new projects. Transportation industry group PAT authorities demonstrating the capability to Read more on Leisure on page 124 A growth of 21 per cent handle the growth in the volume of traffic. 14 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Chairman’s Message Maldivian Resorts segment experienced currently under way. More specifically, the growth on the back of improved occupancy, Group has entered into a Memorandum of The penetration of modern Fast which was well above the industry average, Understanding with a partner in relation to Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) and improved average room rates. one such prospective property development project in central Colombo. Subject to the retail in the country is still low, Bentota Beach by Cinnamon will be closed for finalisation of the concept, cost parameters compared to more developed construction of a new hotel. Construction is and other approvals, the project is expected regional countries, and this planned in a manner to conserve the original to be launched in early 2018. presents a signiﬁcant opportunity structure designed by Geoffrey Bawa. This, together with the partial closure of Cinnamon The construction of the “Cinnamon Life” for growth. With a number of Ellaidhoo and Dhonveli for the refurbishment project is progressing with encouraging new locations having been of rooms, details of which are more fully momentum, where much of the complex sub already identiﬁed, the sector will described in the Leisure Industry Group structural work has been completed. The continue to strategically expand Review section of this Report, will impact construction of the six lane bridge, which will profitability in 2017/18. be the main access point to the project, was its store network and distribution commissioned during the year, and work is in capabilities in gaining market Property Industry Group progress. The demand for the residential and share. The Property industry group reported commercial buildings of the project remains Read more on Consumer Foods and revenues of Rs.1.12 billion and a PAT of Rs.623 encouraging. The second residential building, Retail on page 144 million, contributing 1 per cent and 3 per cent “The Suites at Cinnamon Life”, comprising of to Group revenue and PAT respectively. The 196 units, was launched in September 2016. 2016/17 PAT decreased by 61 per cent over the previous year. The decline is on account Consumer Foods and Retail Industry was approved and construction is currently of the revenue recognition cycle, where the Group underway with expected completion in majority of the revenue of the 7th Sense The Consumer Foods and Retail industry the first quarter of 2018/19. Similarly, the on Gregory’s Road residential project was group recorded revenues of Rs.45.81 billion installation of a new bottling line at a cost of recorded in the previous financial year. and a PAT of Rs.3.90 billion, contributing approximately Rs.2.50 billion is expected to 38 per cent and 22 per cent to Group commence shortly. The Group is cognizant of the fact that revenue and PAT respectively. The 2016/17 revenue recognition in the Property industry PAT increased by 21 per cent over the The Retail sector recorded a strong group has shown volatility in the past previous year, with both the Consumer performance on the back of significant years due to the lack of a robust pipeline Foods sector and Retail sector contributing growth driven by contributions from newly of projects. Given the opportunities arising to the improved performance. However, a opened outlets and an encouraging growth from landmark infrastructure projects tapering of demand was witnessed in the in footfall. The continued emphasis on such as Port City Colombo and the Western last quarter, and continues so, in the face of improving the service quality, and product Region Megapolis Planning Project, the subdued consumer discretionary spending offering, is contributing towards enhancing Group will seek to establish a continuum of arising from the increases in value added tax, the overall shopping experience. It is pleasing projects, in both commercial and residential interest rates and inflation. to note that the outlets opened in recent years spaces. In this light, land parcels in the city are performing above expectations. The and the suburbs have been identified and Profitability of the Beverage and Frozen penetration of modern Fast Moving Consumer negotiations and due diligence exercises are Confectionery businesses was driven by Goods (FMCG) retail in the country is still robust volume growth combined with the low, compared to more developed regional expansion of the product portfolio in line with countries, and this presents a significant evolving consumer tastes and preferences. opportunity for growth. With a number of The Group has entered into a Continued focus on the distribution network, new locations having been already identified, Memorandum of Understanding production efficiencies and cost control the sector will continue to strategically further contributed towards this growth. expand its store network and distribution with a partner in relation to capabilities in gaining market share. It is In order to cater to the envisaged demand one such prospective property and address existing capacity constraints, with a view to complementing its growth development project in central an investment of approximately Rs.3.80 plans and further improving its productivity Colombo. Subject to the billion in a new frozen confectionery plant and product offering that the sector plans to shortly commence construction of a new ﬁnalisation of the concept, cost distribution centre, which is expected to be parameters and other approvals, operational in the first half of the calendar the project is expected to be launched in early 2018. Rs. 3.90Bn year 2019. This distribution centre will be operated in collaboration with the Group’s Consumer Foods and logistics arm, John Keells Logistics. The Retail PAT Read more on Property on page 136 Nexus mobile loyalty programme, which A growth of 21 per cent enables the business to identify key trends in Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 15 customers and shopping lifestyles using data unique advantages of biocompatibility and a analytics, proved to be a key tool in retaining lower cost per unit of power stored. JKR is and attracting customers and in enhancing customer experience. During the year under Rs. 11.11Bn in the process of building a prototype energy storage device that utilises the patented Information Technology review, the loyalty programme membership technology to enhance the Technology revenue exceeded the 650,000 mark. A growth of 34 per cent Readiness Level (TRL) of the intellectual property and assess the commercial viability Financial Services Industry Group of a prototype product. The Financial Services industry group Other including Plantation Services recorded revenues, including the share of The Plantation Services sector recorded During the year under review, the Group revenues from equity accounted investees, of revenues of Rs.2.80 billion and a PAT of Rs.245 made a concerted effort to drive a culture of Rs.14.06 billion and a PAT of Rs.2.04 billion, million, contributing 2 per cent and 1 per cent disruptive innovative amongst our employees contributing 12 per cent and 11 per cent to to Group revenue and PAT respectively. The and businesses. To this end, the Group Group revenue and PAT. The 2016/17 PAT 2016/17 PAT increased significantly over the launched “John Keells X: An Open Innovation increased by 19 per cent over the previous previous year. The Plantation Services sector Challenge 2016”, to create a conducive year. recorded an improvement in profitability as ecosystem for young entrepreneurs to a result of improved tea prices and other thrive, and to encourage businesses at operational efficiencies. JKH to engage in a model of open sourced Rs. 2.04Bn Other, comprising of the Holding Company innovation. An award on Disruptive Innovation was presented for the inaugural time at the Financial Services PAT and other investments, and the Plantation JKH Chairman’s Awards 2016, to recognise A growth of 19 per cent Services sector, together, recorded revenues businesses which have made disruptive of Rs.2.95 billion and a PAT of Rs.3.10 innovation an integral part of their operating During the year under review, Union billion for 2016/17, contributing 2 per cent culture and have formulated successful Assurance PLC (UA) continued to record and 17 per cent to Group revenue and PAT responses to address current, and emerging, encouraging double digit growth in Gross respectively. The 2016/17 PAT increased business disruption. Written Premiums (GWP). by 32 per cent over the previous year. The increased PAT is mainly attributable to the The banking industry recorded healthy interest income generated on the Group’s growth driven mainly by the strong credit Rupee and US Dollar portfolios and exchange The year under review marked demand stemming from both the private and gains recorded at the Company on its foreign a signiﬁcant development for public sectors. However, performance was currency denominated cash holdings. John Keells Research (JKR), the dampened, to an extent, by the increased pressure on net interest margins due to rising research and development arm of funding costs and intensified competitive pressures. Notwithstanding the challenging Rs. 3.10Bn the Group, which was established to drive science based innovation operating environment, Nations Trust Bank Other, including Plantations (NTB) recorded a double digit growth in both Services PAT in the Group with a view to deposits and credit, which trended above the A growth of 32 per cent creating a portfolio of projects industry average. with intellectual property. In this Research and Innovation light, JKR ﬁled for its ﬁrst patent Information Technology Industry Group The year under review marked a significant The Information Technology industry group development for John Keells Research for a novel energy source material recorded revenues of Rs.11.11 billion and (JKR), the research and development arm that was developed through a a PAT of Rs.468 million, contributing 9 per of the Group, which was established to drive research project undertaken in cent and 3 per cent to Group revenue and science based innovation in the Group with a collaboration with the National PAT respectively. The 2016/17 PAT increased view to creating a portfolio of projects with significantly over the previous year. The Office intellectual property. In this light, JKR filed Metallurgical Lab of the Council for Automation (OA) business improved its market for its first patent for a novel energy source Scientiﬁc and Industrial Research share in both the mobile and copier markets, material that was developed through a (CSIR-NML) in India, based on an driven by increased volumes and revenue research project undertaken in collaboration from new products. The increase in consumer with the National Metallurgical Lab of the idea generated by JKR. purchasing power, particularly in the early Council for Scientific and Industrial Research part of the financial year, coupled with the (CSIR-NML) in India, based on an idea increased substitution of feature phones with generated by JKR. The patent application smart phones drove volumes in the Mobile which was filed at the Indian patent office in Phone segment. The OA business's extensive December 2016 is in respect of a composite dealer network also enabled a growth in the nanomaterial which could be used in energy market share of the Copier segment. storage. The composite material has the 16 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Chairman’s Message Corporate Governance, jointly advocated by through regular fora, and the supplier code The Group has, over the years, the Securities and Exchange Commission of conduct and on-site assessments. During developed a substantial pool of of Sri Lanka and the Institute of Chartered the year under review, the Group’s proven Accountants of Sri Lanka. Further details on central sourcing process was shifted to an young, talented individuals and compliance can be found in the Corporate online platform which facilitated increased I am conﬁdent that the depth of Governance Commentary of this Report. effectiveness, reduced paper usage, enabled leadership augurs well for the information retention and provided our Sustainability significant supply chain partners access to an Group’s future. As in the previous years, this Integrated international market place. Annual Report has been prepared 'in accordance'-core option of the GRI (G4) I am pleased to announce that this year, too, Retirement and Succession Guidelines and has successfully completed we made significant progress on the agenda As you are aware, in November 2016, we the GRI Materiality Disclosures service. The items reported in last year’s Integrated announced plans for the succession of the Report contains the overall sustainability Annual Report. Although the Group’s carbon Deputy Chairman and the Group Finance strategy, framework and performance of footprint increased by 5 per cent to 82,492 Director, who retire at the end of December the Group and has also been independently MT, in absolute terms, as a result of higher 2017, and myself, as I am due to retire at the assured by DNV GL which is represented in levels of operational activity during the year end of December 2018. In addition, plans Sri Lanka by DNV Business Assurance Lanka under review, key industry groups such as for succession of various Key Management (Private) Limited. Leisure and Consumer Foods and Retail Personnel who are due to retire by the end experienced a combined reduction of 8 per of the calendar year 2018 were internally This year, I am pleased to announce that the cent in carbon footprint per million rupees announced in February 2017. I am delighted Group has established energy and water of revenue, reflecting the positive results of to say that the announcements were well reduction goals for the first time, as a pivotal the initiatives embarked upon in these areas. received amongst our employees and other stride in its sustainability journey. These Similarly, although the water withdrawal, stakeholders. The Group has, over the years, goals have been set on the basis of empirical during the year under review, increased by 1 developed a substantial pool of young, evidence gathered through in-depth energy per cent to 2,021,739 cubic meters in these talented individuals and I am confident that and water audits carried out across, key industry groups, there was a reduction the depth of leadership augurs well for the approximately, 90 operational sites. As a goal, of 11 per cent in water withdrawal per Group’s future. the Group will strive to achieve a 12 per cent million rupees of revenue. Waste generated reduction in its energy usage and a 6 per cent increased by 7 per cent to 8,846 MT due to Employees reduction in its water usage by the year 2020, the aforementioned increase in operational As we mark the conclusion of a successful against its 2015/16 baseline figures. activity across the Group. year, I wish to acknowledge with gratitude the contribution and commitment of our As part of its sustainability strategy, From an employee perspective, 213 incidents employees during a year which saw many and alongside its comprehensive of occupational injuries and diseases were challenges and opportunities. Our employees risk management process, the Group recorded this year, whilst Group employees are an integral part of our success and continuously seeks to conserve energy received, on average, 41 hours of training a key pillar of our Corporate Governance and water, dispose of waste responsibly, per person. It should be noted that the System. We will continue to implement provide training and development, maintain training hours for employees are determined processes by which we attract, and retain a safe working environment and ensure the on a needs basis, where business specific talent, as an employer of choice. During the highest standards of product stewardship. training gaps are identified in respect of both year, the Group carried out the Great Place This has extended to its value chain in operating and roof competencies in keeping to Work (GPTW) survey and it is pleasing to recent years through ongoing engagements with the Group Learning and Development note improvements in the scores on every and awareness creation with key suppliers policy guidelines. dimension. The Corporate Governance Commentary and the Group Consolidated Review sections of This year, I am pleased to announce that the Group has established this Report explain in further detail the best practices, policies and procedures that are energy and water reduction goals for the ﬁrst time, as a pivotal stride in place to ensure that John Keells is “More in its sustainability journey. These goals have been set on the basis of Than Just a Work Place”. empirical evidence gathered through in-depth energy and water audits carried out across, approximately, 90 operational sites. As a goal, the Corporate Governance I am pleased to state that there were no Group will strive to achieve a 12 per cent reduction in its energy usage departures from any of the mandatory and a 6 per cent reduction in its water usage by the year 2020, against provisions of the Code of Business Conduct its 2015/16 baseline ﬁgures. and Ethics of the Code of Best Practice of Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 17 Village Adoption Our CSR activities continue to be on six key areas, namely, Education, The construction of a 3-classroom block at Iranaipalai R.C.M.V. in the Mullaitivu District Health, Environment, Livelihood Development, Arts and Culture and was completed, while a family empowerment Disaster Relief. During the year, focused initiatives in the form of programme was initiated, in collaboration “Promises” were established in respect of each of these areas, towards with Sri Lanka Red Cross Society (SLRCS), enabling strategic focus. for low income families in Iranaipalai and Puthumathalan GS Divisions. In the Morawewa North GS Division, rehabilitation work of a tank was completed towards Corporate Social Responsibility Promoting Science Education amongst addressing the water scarcity in the area. The John Keells Group is fully committed School Children The Foundation also initiated a youth to our responsibility to make a positive The Foundation, in collaboration with the empowerment programme, in collaboration difference in the communities that we Sri Lanka Association for the Advancement with SLRCS, for school dropouts, towards operate in. Corporate Social Responsibility of Science, conducted 7 Science Day guiding them in embarking on livelihoods. (CSR) is an integral part of our business Programmes (SDPs) aimed at promoting an ethos, permeating naturally throughout the interest in science among school children. Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) Prevention organisation and is now a part of the DNA of The SDPs were conducted in Anuradhapura, The Foundation continued its partnership our employees. Staff volunteerism is a key Monaragala, Ratnapura, Jaffna, Ampara and with the National Water Supply and Drainage component of our CSR, and has enabled our Vavuniya, and benefitted 1,536 students from Board (NWSDB) by funding two more Reverse staff to enrich their personal experiences approximately 94 schools. Osmosis (RO) filtration systems in the through community involvement and service. Anuradhapura District as part of an overall Project WAVE (Working Against Violence plan to address CKD issues. Our CSR activities continue to be on six through Education) key areas, namely, Education, Health, This project, aimed, particularly, at combating Project Leopard Environment, Livelihood Development, Arts gender based violence and child abuse This long-term project, done in collaboration and Culture and Disaster Relief. During through awareness raising, made substantive with Cinnamon Nature Trails, has made the year, focused initiatives in the form of strides in its third year, sensitising a total of significant strides, being selected as a finalist “Promises” were established in respect 6,269 persons including Group staff, police for the World Travel and Council Award during of each of these areas, towards enabling officers and lawyers. A public awareness the reporting period. The project involves strategic focus. All projects undertaken are campaign targeting sexual harassment on a simple, yet effective, way of minimising inspired and sustained by our CSR vision of public transport was also initiated with the the human leopard conflict through the “Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow”. The support of Group volunteers involving the donation of steel cattle pens to farmers in CSR initiatives of the Group are centrally pasting of 2,300 stickers (in Sinhala and areas adjacent to the Yala National Park. This planned and implemented by John Keells Tamil) inside 1,150 buses, as well as depot has facilitated the safeguarding and uplifting Foundation (Foundation), a company limited precincts, and the distribution of over 30,000 of livelihoods of cattle farmers. by guarantee which is also registered as information cards to commuters. a “Voluntary Social Service Organisation” with the Ministry of Social Welfare. The The John Keells Vision Project Foundation is also a participant of the United A total of 133 eye camps were conducted A public awareness campaign Nations Global Compact and ensures that resulting in the completion of 1,185 cataract targeting sexual harassment surgeries. Under the School Screening its activities are aligned to the Sustainable on public transport was also Development Goals and national priorities. Programme in the Colombo District, collaboration between Ceylon Cold Stores initiated with the support of Group Whilst further details are available under the Group Consolidated Review and Industry PLC and the Ministry of Health, vision volunteers involving the pasting Group Review sections of this Report, some screening was conducted in 103 schools, of 2,300 stickers (in Sinhala of the highlights of the Foundation’s work testing over 54,600 school children whilst 3,465 spectacles were donated. and Tamil) inside 1,150 buses, during the year are listed below. as well as depot precincts, and English Language Scholarship Programme HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign the distribution of over 30,000 A total of 23,758 persons were sensitised on A total of 1,148 school children completed information cards to commuters. courses under the foundation, preHIV and AIDS, including over 10,243 trainees intermediate and intermediate levels. A of the National Cadet Corps. The Foundation’s customised programme for the senior HIV and AIDS e-learning platform, which students of the School for the Blind in provides awareness free of charge via its Ratmalana was also initiated. website, attracted more than 622 visitors with 125 persons completing the module. 18 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Chairman’s Message Our Volunteers and the availability of cash reserves to meet During the year in review, the Foundation equity commitments through the capital recorded a total of 7,649 hours of CSR raised via the 2013 Rights Issue, 2015 and volunteerism by 1,008 staff volunteers 2016 Warrants and internally generated cash. across the John Keells Group in respect of activities conducted by the Group. This Subdivision of Shares number excludes the substantial volunteer Subsequent to receiving shareholder activities at the business or sector level. approval on 24 June 2016, the Company completed the subdivision of its ordinary Dividends shares whereby seven shares were Your Board declared a third and final dividend subdivided into eight shares. of Rs.2.00 per share to be paid on 16 June 2017. The first and second interim dividends Resignation and Appointment of for the year of Rs.2.00 per share, each, were Directors paid in October 2016 and February 2017, Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy resigned from respectively. the Board with effect from 3 July 2016 consequent to his appointment as the The Company increased its dividend per Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. share to Rs.6.00, paid out of profits for I would like to place on record our deep the financial year 2016/17, from Rs.3.50 appreciation of the invaluable contribution per share (excluding the special dividend made by Dr. Coomaraswamy during his of Rs.3.50 per share which was paid on tenure on the Board. account of the cash inflow of Rs.4.14 billion to the Company from the share repurchase I welcome Dr. Hans Wijasuriya who was of Union Assurance PLC), paid out of profits in appointed to the Board with effect from 4 the previous year. The Group believes that a October 2016 and Messrs. Krishan Balendra higher dividend per share is warranted given and Gihan Cooray who were appointed to the the current, and anticipated, robust cash Board with effect from 5 November 2016. flows of the businesses. Conclusion From a cash flow perspective, excluding In conclusion, on behalf of the Board of the special dividend paid in the financial Directors and all employees of the John year 2015/16 (Rs.3.50 per share), the total Keells Group, I thank all our stakeholders for dividend payout in the financial year 2016/17 the support extended to the Group during the (Rs.5.50 per share) increased significantly by year. 88 per cent to Rs.7.28 billion from Rs.3.88 billion recorded in the previous year. Finally, I thank my colleagues on the Board and the Group Executive Committee for their guidance and support extended to me during the year. The total dividend payout in the ﬁnancial year 2016/17 was Rs.7.28 billion. 2016 Warrant Subsequent to the exercise and conversion of Susantha Ratnayake the 2016 Warrant, 21,279,672 voting shares Chairman of the Company were listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange on 1 December 2016. Based 26 May 2017 on the final conversion of 2016 Warrants into ordinary shares, the Company received a sum of Rs.3.18 billion. The equity and debt financing requirement for the Cinnamon Life Project remains secured with the conclusion of the required debt financing for the Project GOVERNANCE Shaping Success This section introduces the Board of Directors and Senior Management Committees that oversee the Group of Companies. It also offers a detailed analysis of the John Keells Group governance framework; the mandatory requirements complied with as well as the Group’s own internal benchmarks of good governance. 21 Board of Directors • 23 Group Executive Committee • 24 Group Operating Committee • 26 Corporate Governance Commentary Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 21 Board of Directors Susantha Ratnayake* Accountants, UK, and the Society of Certified Amal Cabraal Chairman Management Accountants, Sri Lanka and Non-Executive Director holds an MBA from the University of Cape Susantha Ratnayake was appointed as the Appointed a Director on 1 November 2013, Town, South Africa. Previously, the Chairman Chairman and CEO of John Keells Holdings Amal Cabraal is a former Chairman and Chief of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors, he is PLC (JKH) in January 2006 and has served Executive Officer of Unilever Sri Lanka. He currently a member of the Committee of the on the JKH Board since 1992/1993 and has has over 3 decades of business experience Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. 38 years of management experience, all of in general management, marketing and which is within the John Keells Group. He is sales in Sri Lanka, the United Kingdom, India a past Chairman of the Sri Lanka Tea Board, and Bangladesh. He is presently the NonCeylon Chamber of Commerce, and the Executive Chairman of CIC Feeds (Private) Krishan Balendra* Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. Limited and an Independent Non-Executive Executive Director Director of Hatton National Bank PLC, Ceylon Krishan Balendra has responsibility for the Beverage Holdings PLC, Lion Brewery (Ceylon) Leisure industry group and John Keells Stock PLC, Silvermill Investment Holdings (Pvt) Ltd Ajit Gunewardene* Brokers. He also serves as the Chairman and a member of the Supervisory Board of Deputy Chairman of Nations Trust Bank PLC and is the Hon. Associated Motorways (Private) Ltd. He has Consul General of the Republic of Poland recently been appointed to the Monetary Ajit Gunewardene is the Deputy Chairman in Sri Lanka. He is a former Chairman of Policy Consultative Committee of the Central of John Keells Holdings PLC and has been a the Colombo Stock Exchange. He started Bank of Sri Lanka and is a committee member member of the Board for over 24 years. He is his professional career at UBS Warburg, of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and also a Director of several companies in the John Hong Kong, in investment banking, focusing serves on the Management Committee of Keells Group and is the Chairman of Union primarily on equity capital markets. After a the Mercantile Services Provident Society. A Assurance PLC. He is a member of the Board four year stint in Hong Kong, he continued his Chartered Marketer by profession and a Fellow of SLINTEC, a company established for the career in corporate finance at Aitken Spence of the Chartered Institute of Marketing UK, he development of nanotechnology in Sri Lanka PLC, Sri Lanka prior to joining JKH. Krishan holds a MBA from the University of Colombo under the auspices of the Ministry of Science holds a law degree (LLB) from the University and is an alumnus of INSEAD-France. and Technology. He is also a member of the of London and an MBA from INSEAD. Tourism Advisory Committee appointed by the Minister of Tourism Development. He has also served as the Chairman of the Colombo Nihal Fonseka Stock Exchange and Nations Trust Bank PLC. Gihan Cooray* Non-Executive Director Ajit has a degree in Economics and brings Executive Director over 34 years of management experience. Nihal Fonseka is a career banker and served Gihan Cooray is responsible for the Retail as the Chief Executive Officer/Ex-Officio sector, the Corporate Finance and Strategy Director of DFCC Bank from 2000 until his division, Group Treasury function, John Keells retirement in 2013. He is currently a Member Ronnie Peiris* Capital the investment banking arm of the of the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of Group Finance Director Group and John Keells Research. He is also a Sri Lanka, Non-Executive Director of Phoenix Non-Executive Director of Nations Trust Bank Ventures Pvt Ltd, Chairman of the Group Audit Appointed to the John Keells Holdings PLC Committee of Brandix Lanka Limited and PLC. Gihan holds an MBA from the Jesse Board during 2002/03, Ronnie, as Group President of the Sri Lanka National Advisory H. Jones Graduate School of Management Finance Director, has overall responsibility Council of the Chartered Institute of Securities at Rice University, Houston, Texas. He is an for the Group’s Finance and Accounting, and Investments, UK. Associate member of the Chartered Institute Taxation, Corporate Finance and Strategy, of Management Accountants, UK, a certified Treasury, and the Information Technology Prior to joining the DFCC Bank, he was the management accountant of the Institute functions. He is also a Director of several Deputy Chief Executive of HSBC Sri Lanka. of Certified Management Accountants, companies in the John Keells Group. He He is a past Chairman of the Colombo Stock Australia and has a Diploma in Marketing was previously the Managing Director of Exchange and the Association of Development from the Chartered Institute of Marketing, Anglo American Corporation (Central Africa) Financing Institutions in Asia and the Paciﬁc UK. He serves as a member of the Economic Limited in Zambia. (ADFIAP). He has also served as a Director Planning Steering Committee of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. of the Employees’ Trust Fund Board and as He has over 40 years of finance and general a member of the Presidential Commission management experience in Sri Lanka and on Taxation (2009), National Procurement abroad. He is a Fellow of the Chartered Commission and Strategic Enterprise Institute of Management Accountants, Management Agency (SEMA). He holds a BSc UK, Association of Chartered Certified from the University of Ceylon, Colombo, is a Fellow of the Institute of Financial Studies, (FIB) UK and a member of the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investments, (MCSI) UK. * Refer Group Directory for Directorships held by Executive Directors in other Group companies 22 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Board of Directors Ashroff Omar Dr Hans Wijayasuriya Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ashroff Omar is the Chief Executive Officer In his capacity as the Regional CEO for South of the Brandix Group. He also serves as a Asia, Dr. Hans Wijayasuriya heads the South Director on numerous corporate Boards Asian Operations of the Axiata Group Bhd., including subsidiaries under the umbrella spanning Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, of Phoenix Ventures, and the national body Pakistan and India. Axiata is Asia’s second of the Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology largest Telecommunications Group. (SLINTEC). He also serves as a Member of the Board of Directors of the United States-Sri Up to and including the year 2016, he Lanka Fulbright Commission. additionally functioned as the Group Chief Executive of Dialog Axiata PLC. He is a past He is the Founder Chair of the Joint Apparel Chairman of GSM Asia Pacific the regional Association Forum (JAAF), the apex body of interest group of the GSM Association, and the Sri Lankan apparel industry, in addition to also serves on the Board of the TM Forum chairing the Advisory Committee on Garments (TMF), and was also honoured by the GSM of the Sri Lanka Export Development Board Association as the first recipient of the and being a frequent spokesperson for “Outstanding Contribution to the Asian Mobile the apparel industry both in Sri Lanka and Industry” Award in 2016. abroad. He has also spearheaded the Sri Lanka Apparel Exporters Association as its Dr. Wijayasuriya graduated from the Chair. University of Cambridge, UK in 1989. He subsequently obtained his PhD in Digital Mobile Communications from the University of Bristol UK in 1994. A Chartered Engineer Premila Perera and Fellow of the Institute of Engineering Non-Executive Director Technology UK, Dr. Wijayasuriya also holds an MBA from the University of Warwick, UK. Premila Perera was appointed to the Board of the Company with effect from 1 July 2014 Dr. Wijayasuriya has published widely on the as an Independent Non-Executive Director. subject of digital mobile communications, Premila Perera, formerly a Partner, KPMG including research papers in publications in Sri Lanka, also served as the Global of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Firms Regional Tax Director for ASPAC in Engineers (IEEE) USA, Royal Society and the 2000/01, as a member of the Global Task Institute of Engineering Technology (IET) UK. Force commissioned in 1998, to advise the International Board of KPMG on future directions in determining long term strategic plans, and faculty of the KPMG International Tax Business School. She also served a period of secondment with the US Firm’s National Tax Office in Washington DC, and was a participant at the KPMG-INSEAD International Banking School programme. She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, currently serves as an Independent Director and Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC, and served as a Non-Executive Director of Holcim (Lanka) Limited until August 2016. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 23 Group Executive Committee Dilani Alagaratnam Jitendra Gunaratne President President Dilani Alagaratnam is a member of the Group Jitendra Gunaratne is responsible for Executive Committee of John Keells Holdings the Consumer Foods sector. Prior to his PLC, the President with overall responsibility appointment as President, he oversaw the for Human Resources, Legal and Secretarial, Plantations and Retail sectors. His 37 years Corporate Communications, Sustainability of management experience in the Group also and Enterprise Risk Management, and covers Leisure and Property. He is a Director Group Initiatives functions of the Group. She of Ceylon Cold Stores PLC and Keells Food is also a Director of Union Assurance PLC Products PLC and is also the President of and several unlisted companies within the the Beverage Association of Sri Lanka. He is John Keells Group. A Lawyer by profession, a member of the Council of the Employers' she has been with John Keells Holdings Federation of Ceylon and a member of the PLC since 1992 and is a law graduate and a Food Advisory Committee of the Ministry of holder of a Masters’ Degree in Law. Currently, Health. she is the Chairperson of the Legislation Sub Committee of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, member of the National Labour Advisory Committee, and a Council member Suresh Rajendra of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors. President Suresh Rajendra is responsible for the Property industry group of the John Keells Group and also serves as a Director of Romesh David Union Assurance PLC and Asian Hotels and President Properties PLC. He has over 22 years of Romesh David leads the Transportation experience in the fields of finance, property industry group of JKH. He has been with and real estate, travel and tourism, and the JKH Group for 37 years during which business development acquired both in Sri he has served in the Leisure, Domestic and Lanka and overseas. Prior to joining the International Trade and IT sectors of the Group Group, he was the head of commercial and in addition to Transportation. He presently business development for NRMA Motoring serves as a Vice President of the Indo-Lanka and Services in Sydney, Australia, Director/ Chamber of Commerce and Co-Chair of the General Manager of Aitken Spence Hotel CCC National Agenda Committee on Logistics Managements (Private) Limited, and also and Transport. He is a Chartered member served on the Boards of the hotel companies of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and of the Aitken Spence Group. Suresh is a Fellow Transport and serves on the International of the Chartered Institute of Management Management Committee of the Institute as Accountants, UK. International Vice President for South Asia. He is a past Chairman of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport Sri Lanka, the Sri Lanka Logistics and Freight Forwarders Association and the Council for Business with Britain. 24 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Operating Committee Zafir Hashim Vasantha Leelananda Mano Rajakariar Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Zafir Hashim is the Head of the Transportation Vasantha Leelananda is Head of the Mano Rajakariar, has been the Group Sector and has been with the Group for 14 Destination Management sector and counts Financial Controller since April 2005. He years. He joined the Group in 2003, seconded over 38 years in the Leisure industry group has been with the Group for over 21 years to Lanka Marine Services where he served with the John Keells Group. He served as in many capacities including serving as as CEO from 2005-2015. He has also served the Managing Director of Walkers Tours the Sector Financial Controller of the as a member of the Transportation Sector from 1997 to 2005 and heads inbound travel Plantations sector and heading the Shared Committee from 2005. During the last 13 operations in Sri Lanka. Vasantha holds an Services implementation within the Group. years he has held the position of CEO at John MBA from the University of Leicester. He has over 28 years of experience in audit, Keells Logistics Lanka Ltd., for a short time, finance and general management acquired and Mackinnons Mackenzie Shipping Co. Ltd. He is a past President of the Sri Lanka both in Sri Lanka and overseas. Mano is a He has an MSc in Chemical Engineering from Association of Inbound Tour Operators Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered the University of Birmingham (UK). (SLAITO), a Board member of the Sri Lanka Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) Convention Bureau from 2003 to 2007, Board and the Chartered Institute of Management member of the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism Accountants, UK. He currently serves as and Hotel Management from 2007 to 2010 a member of the Statutory Accounting Sanjeewa Jayaweera and served as a Board member of American Standards Committee, the Financial Executive Vice President Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) from 2012 Reporting Standards Implementation to 2014. He is currently a Board member of and Interpretation Committee, the IFRS Sanjeewa Jayaweera, Chief Financial Officer the Responsible Tourism Partnership which Education Committee, the Tax Faculty and for the Consumer Foods and Retail industry is affiliated to the Travel Foundation UK, Board the Examinations Committee of the Institute group, has been with the Group for 24 years, member of the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. He during which he served in the Resort Hotels Bureau (SLTPB) and a Director of Sri Lanka also serves in the Board of Management of sector of the Leisure industry group and was Business and Biodiversity Platform. the Integrated Reporting Council of Sri Lanka. the Sector Financial Controller for Resort Mano is also a member of the Taxation Hotels from 1998 to 2005. Prior to joining sub-committee of the Ceylon Chamber of the Group, Sanjeewa was based in the United Commerce. He also serves in the Finance Kingdom and worked for several years as an Chandrika Perera Committee of the Sri Lanka Cancer Society. Audit Manager. Executive Vice President Chandrika Perera was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the Leisure industry group Waruna Rajapaksa Rohan Karunarajah in March 2005 and has been with the Group Executive Vice President Executive Vice President for 34 years. She was the Group Financial Controller from 1999 to 2005. She has also Waruna Rajapaksa, Head of New Business Rohan Karunarajah, Sector Head of the held the position of Sector Financial Controller Development for the John Keells Group City Hotels sector, currently overlooks in Food and Beverage, Property Development and Head of Operations for the “Cinnamon the management of the Cinnamon Grand, and Consumer Foods. She is a member Life” integrated project, has over 30 of Cinnamon Lakeside and Cinnamon red. A of the Group Management Committee for experience in Sri Lanka and in the UK, career hotelier counting over three decades, the Leisure industry group. A Fellow of primarily in management consultancy, both in the local and international hospitality the Institute of Chartered Accountants of project infrastructure, finance, and audit. industry; he held the position of General Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and the Society Prior to joining the Group in 2002, he worked Manager in several hotels in the United of Certified Management Accountants, Sri for the Government as an Executive Director Kingdom, lastly being the Marriott Marble Lanka, she holds an MBA (Finance) from the at the Bureau of Infrastructure Investment, Arch, London. He is a Director of Asian Hotels University of Southern Queensland, Australia. Informatics International Limited (UK) and at and Properties PLC and Trans Asia Hotels She is currently serving on the Technical Ernst & Young. He is a member of the Board PLC. He read for his Masters in Hospitality Committee for the National Conference of of Directors of South Asia Gateway Terminals and Business Studies from the Thames Chartered Accountants. (Private) Limited. Waruna is a Fellow member Valley University, London. of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK, and an Associate member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. He also holds an MBA from City University Cass Business School, London, UK. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 25 Sunimal Senanayake Charitha Subasinghe Suran Wijesinghe Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Sunimal Senanayake is an Executive Vice Charitha Subasinghe is the Sector Head of Suran Wijesinghe, joined the Group in January President of the John Keells Group and the the Retail sector. He has been with the John 2004 as the Sector Financial Controller of Sector Head of the Resorts sector (Sri Lanka Keells Group since 2003. He was the Sector the Financial Services industry group and and Maldives). He is also a member of the Financial Controller of the Retail sector, was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer Group Operating Committee and has over 30 before being appointed as the Chief Executive of the same industry group in July 2010. years of experience in the Leisure Industry, Officer in 2005. He was also employed at He is a Director of Nations Trust Bank PLC both in Hotels and Inbound Tourism. He Aitken Spence Hotel Management as the and has over 30 years of experience in the served as the Managing Director of Walkers Sector Financial Controller before moving fields of auditing and financial and general Tours Limited from 1991 1997. He is a over to John Keells. He is an Associate management which has been acquired past President of the Sri Lanka Association Member of the Chartered Institute of while serving in organisations both locally of Inbound Tour Operators (SLAITO) and Management Accountants (UK) as well as a and overseas. Suran is a Fellow member of has held many positions in travel trade Diploma Holder of the Chartered Institute of both the Institute of Chartered Accountants of related associations and committees. He has Marketing (UK). He also holds a MBA from the Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and the Chartered also been a member of the Tourist Hotels University of Colombo. Institute of Management Accountants, UK. Classification Committee and Chairman / Member of the Advisory Board of the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management. Nadija Tambiah Executive Vice President Nadija Tambiah, Head of Legal and Ramesh Shanmuganathan Secretarial is a law graduate from the Executive Vice President University of Manchester, United Kingdom, Ramesh Shanmuganathan is the Group’s Chief a Barrister at Law (Middle Temple), UK and Information Officer, a member of the Group is also qualified an Attorney at Law in Sri Management Committee for the Information Lanka. She also heads the Corporate Social Technology industry group as well as Chief Responsibility arm of John Keells Holdings Executive Officer of John Keells IT (JKCS cum PLC. She has been involved in most of the SGIT). He has over 21 years of experience in strategic transactions of the John Keells the ICT industry both in Sri Lanka and the USA, Group during her 21 year tenure. She serves with over 16 years in C-level management. as a member of the Steering Committee Ramesh is a Hayes-Fulbright Scholar and on Arbitration and Mediation at the Ceylon holds to his credit a MSc (Information Chamber of Commerce. Technology and Computer Science) with Phi Kappa Phi Honours from Rochester Institute of Technology (New York, USA), Master of Business Administration from Postgraduate Devika Weerasinghe Institute of Management, University of Sri Executive Vice President Jayewardenepura, Bachelor of Science Devika Weerasinghe, Chief Financial Officer of in Electronics and Telecommunications the Transportation industry group previously Engineering with First Class Honours from held the position of Sector Financial the University of Moratuwa. He is reading for Controller of the Transportation sector. She his Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) also served as the Sector Financial Controller at the International School of Management, of the Airlines SBU of the Transportation Paris at present. He is a Chartered Engineer, sector during the period 1998-2004. An Chartered IT Professional and a Fellow of Associate member of the Chartered Institute the British Computer Society. He has active of Management Accountants UK, Devika memberships in several other professional also holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business institutions and is a visiting faculty member Administration, from the University of Sri for several post-graduate programmes. He Jayawardenepura. is also the Chair of the Sri Lanka SAP User Group (SLSUG) and is actively involved with the ICTA, SLASSCOM as well as other bodies in steering IT to greater heights within the country. He is also a member of the Gartner Research Circle. 26 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary Executive Summary The corporate governance framework at Highlights of the 37th Annual General Meeting held on 24 June 2016 John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is built on the core principles of accountability, participation • Mr. R Peiris, who retired in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company, and transparency and is the bedrock for the was re-elected as a Director of the Company creation, enhancement and maintenance of a sustainable business model. It has been • Mr. A Omar, who retired in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company, institutionalised across all levels through a was re-elected as a Director of the Company strong set of Corporate Values, a written Code • Ernst & Young were re-appointed as the External Auditors of the Company of Conduct, a well articulated Operating Model and a proven Performance Management System and is designed to be a working other legislation and rules applicable to the The ensuing sections will describe in greater structure for principled actions, effective businesses of the Group. Further, the Group’s detail, where material and relevant, the decision making and appropriate monitoring practices are in line with the Code of Best components of the JKH Corporate Governance of both compliance and performance. Practices on Corporate Governance jointly System; the mechanisms in place to ensure advocated by the SEC and the Institute of strict adherence to the Group’s governance Against this backdrop, the Group confirms Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA policy and gain assurance of its disciplined that it is fully compliant with all the Sri Lanka). All systems and procedures application and effectiveness, and an outlook mandatory provisions of the Companies Act, are continuously reviewed to provide and summation of the emerging challenges Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange transparency and accountability, and as such, in the area of corporate governance. (CSE) and the Securities and Exchange are continuously updated to adhere to the Commission of Sri Lanka Act (SEC) and all stipulated guidelines. Key corporate governance initiatives undertaken at JKH for the year 2016/17 • Plans of succession of the Deputy • The Group Business Process Review a Managed Security Operations Centre Chairman, and the Group Finance division implemented a digital forensic (MSOC). This will strengthen our present Director, who retire at the end of tool, Forestpin, to analyse transactional layered security filters and ensure that December 2017, and the Chairman, who data from key systems using techniques our critical IT assets, concentrated in our retires at the end of December 2018, such as standard deviations, Z-scores, data centers and cloud platforms, are were announced in November 2016 and time series analysis in detecting optimally protected from cyber threats outliers and raising alerts for and intrusions • Plans of succession of various Key management actions and responses. It Management Personnel who are due to • A new automated, centralised further serves to enhance the internal retire by the end of the calendar year procurement platform was implemented audit function by providing a platform 2018 were announced in February 2017 to assist in enhancing the sourcing, for regular management reporting contracting and supplier management • In line with the Group’s digitisation around existing processes and controls initiatives initiatives, as elaborated in last year’s that safeguard stakeholder interest for Report, the Group businesses invested improved assurances • The Group engaged a global software in information technology systems. As a company, to provide a software solution • The Group has embarked on the first steps step towards supporting the digitisation for its Enterprise Risk, Audit and Incident of the “Framework for Improving Critical drive, the Strategic Group Information Management processes. As the system Infrastructure Cybersecurity” as developed Technology division of the Group offers real-time and online visibility of by the National Institute of Standards and revamped its service offerings for the the risks and audit framework across Technology (NIST) in addressing cyber financial year 2016/17. The “John Keells the companies within the Group, this risks. Approval has been received, and X Open Innovation Challenge 2016” platform will enable the Group to move funds have been allocated, to address was also launched, as part of a broader towards a digitally driven internal audit security in a systematic manner, within a digitisation drive with the aim of providing function culture of enhanced security awareness, to a platform for innovative ideas that can facilitate an environment which supports disrupt traditional business models the Group’s ongoing digitisation initiatives. and open new avenues for enhancing The Group is in the process of establishing customer experiences In order to ensure a clear dissemination of information, a two-tier structure has been employed in This Corporate Governance authoring this Commentary. As such, key details with regard to the JKH corporate governance framework Commentary is available on our corporate website at will be discussed in the ensuing sections, whilst, detailed regulatory related information will be discussed www.keells.com/governance in the compliance tables that follow this Commentary. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 27 The Corporate Governance System JKH Corporate Governance System within a Sustainability Development Framework LEVEL INTERNAL GOVERNANCE INTEGRATED ASSURANCE REGULATORY STRUCTURE GOVERNANCE MECHANISMS BENCHMARKS Board of Directors and Senior Integrated Governance Key Components Management Committees Systems and Procedures Strategy Senior Human Related Party Companies Act No. 7 of Formulation and Independent Resources and Transaction 2007 Decision Making Director Compensation Review Mandatory compliance Committee Committee Process Board Committee Listing Rules of the Human Resource GROUP Colombo Stock Governance Exchange (CSE) Mandatory compliance Employee Participation Nominations Audit Integrated Risk The Code of Best Committee Committee Management Practice on Corporate Governance as Internal published by the Control Securities and Exchange Chairman-CEO Commission and the IT Governance Institute of Chartered GROUP + Group Executive Committee (GEC) Accountants, Sri Lanka INDUSTRY / JKH Code of Conduct Voluntary compliance FUNCTION Group Operating Committee (GOC) INDUSTRY / Stakeholder FUNCTION Group Management Committee (GMC) Management and Recommendations of Effective the UK Corporate SECTOR / Communication Ombudsperson Governance Code as FUNCTION / Sector Committee practicable in the SUBSECTOR context of the nature of Management Committee businesses and risk BUSINESS / Sustainability proﬁles External FUNCTION / Governance Employee Empowerment Control Voluntary compliance BU / DEPT • All 4 Board Sub-Committees are chaired by Independent Directors appointed by the Board • The Chairman-CEO attends the Human Resource and Compensation Committee with the Group Finance Director and President HR as frequent attendees • The Audit Committee is attended by Chairman-CEO, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Group Business Process Review and External Auditors • The Group Operating Committee (GOC) acts as the glue binding the various businesses within the Group towards identifying and extracting Group synergies and driving Group initiatives • Only the key components are depicted in the diagram due to space constraints The diagram above depicts the key components Integrated Governance Systems and Assurance Mechanisms of the JKH Corporate Governance System and Procedures Section 3 of this Commentary Assurance their inter-linkages. The Corporate Governance Section 2 of this Commentary Integrated Mechanisms, discusses the “bodies and Commentary is broadly sequenced in keeping Governance Systems and Procedures, mechanisms” which are employed in with this diagram as follows: discusses the overarching frameworks enabling regular review of progress against which govern the key functions of the Group, objectives, with a view to highlighting Internal Governance Structure which support businesses in conducting their deviations and quick redress, and in providing Section 1 of this Commentary Internal activities more effectively and efficiently in assurance that actual outcomes are in line Governance Structure, discusses and contains keeping with best practices and in line with with expectations. Where appropriate, and information about the committees which ethical and transparent corporate conduct. relevant, best practices are sought, proposed formulate, execute and monitor strategies, and implemented. initiatives, policies and processes, and procedures employed throughout the Group. 28 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary Regulatory and Performance • Overseeing systems of internal control, 1.1.2 Board Composition Benchmarks risk management, and monitoring and The Group’s policy is to maintain a healthy Section 4 of this Commentary Regulatory and establishing whistle-blowing conduits balance between the Executive, NonPerformance Benchmarks, summates, among • Determining any changes to the Executive and Independent Directors with others, the regulations which govern all JKH discretions/authorities delegated from the Executive Directors bringing in deep corporate activities from the Companies Act the Board to the executive levels knowledge of the businesses, and Nonto the Listing Rules of the CSE and the rules Executive Independent Directors bringing • Reviewing and approving major of the SEC. It also indicates, where relevant, in experience, objectivity, and independent acquisitions, disposals and capital the benchmarks set for the Group in working oversight. expenditure towards local and global practices. • Approving any amendments to As at 26 May 2017, the Board comprised of 10 1. Internal Governance Structure constitutional documents Directors, with 5 of them being Non-Executive This section details the components that • Approving in principle the issue of JKH and Independent. The current Board are embedded within the Group, and as a equity/debt securities composition will change on 31 December result, have an impact on the execution, 2017, following the retirement of the Deputy and monitoring of all governance related Key decisions made by the Board during Chairman and the Group Finance Director. initiatives, systems and processes. The the year under review included: Thereafter, the composition of the Board will Internal Governance Structure encompasses: comprise of a majority of NEDs, similar to • In May 2016, the Board recommended previous years. i. The Board of Directors an increase of the number of shares of ii. Board Sub Committees the Company in issue by way of a share During the year under review, the Board iii. The Combined Role of the Chairman-CEO sub division whereby seven (7) existing membership changed as follows: iv. Group Executive Committee, Group ordinary shares were divided into eight Operating Committee and other (8) ordinary shares • Mr. F Amerasinghe and Mr. T Das, who are Management Committees over the age of 70 years, and who have • Increasing the dividend pay-out ratio v. Employee Empowerment served the Company for over 9 years, did (excluding any special dividends) not offer themselves for re-election and by declaring higher than previously As depicted in the Governance framework, accordingly ceased to be Board Directors declared dividends per share in the first the above components in the structure are with effect from 24 June 2016 and second interim dividends for the strengthened and complemented by internal • Dr. I Coomaraswamy resigned from the financial year 2016/17, in October 2016 policies, processes and procedures such as Board with effect from 3 July 2016, in and February 2017 respectively strategy formulation and decision making, order to assume duties as the Governor human resource governance, integrated risk • Submission of an Expression of Interest of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka management, IT governance, stakeholder (EOI) for the East Container Terminal of the Port of Colombo • Dr. H Wijayasuriya was appointed as a management, and effective communication. Non-Executive Director to the Board with • Consideration of a proposal from its effect from 4 October 2016 1.1 The Board of Directors subsidiary, John Keells Hotels PLC, to 1.1.1 Board Responsibilities extend the head lease on the Dhonveli • In keeping with the succession plans The Board’s key responsibilities include: Island in Maldives approved by the Board, Mr. K Balendra and Mr. G Cooray were appointed as • Consideration of proposals from its • Providing direction and guidance to the Executive Directors with effect from 5 subsidiary, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, Group in the formulation of high-level November 2016 to construct two production facilities: medium, and long term strategies which an ice cream plant in the Seethawaka are aimed at promoting the sustainable Accordingly, the composition of the Board as Export Processing Zone, and a bottling long term success of the Group at the end of the financial year is illustrated line in Ranala as follows: • Reviewing and approving annual plans, • Recommendation to shareholders for and longer term business plans the issue of share options under an 0 2 4 8 10 6 • Tracking actual progress against plans Employee Share Option Plan 9, in which NED SID ED • Reviewing HR processes with emphasis the shares on offer will be a maximum Designation on succession planning for the top of 2.25 per cent of the issued shares of Female Male management the Company, of which not more than Gender 0.75 per cent will be issued annually • Appointing and reviewing the over a period of three years 40-50 51-60 61-70 performance of the Chairman-CEO Age group (years) • Monitoring systems of governance and <5 5-20 >20 compliance Board tenure Executive Directors (years) <3 3-7 Board tenure Non-Executive Directors (years) Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 29 1.1.3 Board Skills In choosing Directors, the Group seeks 1.1.4 Board Meetings Collectively, the Board brings in a wealth of individuals who have a very high level of During the financial year under review, four diverse exposure in the fields of business, integrity, business savviness, shareholder pre-scheduled Board meetings, and three finance, economics, banking, marketing, tax, orientation and a genuine interest in JKH. The special meetings were convened. All preIT, and human resources, which facilitates Group is conscious of the need to maintain scheduled Board meetings are generally constructive and challenging discussions an appropriate mix of skills and experience coupled with a Pre-Board meeting, which is in the Board room. Further details of their in the Board, and thus, a regular review of usually held on the day prior to the formal qualifications and experience are provided the Board is conducted to ensure that the Board meeting. Pre-Board meetings serve under the Board Profiles section of this skills representation is in alignment with the as a forum to discuss issues of strategic Annual Report. current and future needs of the Group. importance requiring extensive discussions. The Board also communicates regularly on routine matters depending on the need. The attendance at the Board meetings held during the financial year 2016/17 was as follows: Board meeting attendance Year of 24/05/2016 25/05/2016 28/07/2016 04/10/2016 04/11/2016 26/01/2017 16/03/2017 appointment to Eligible to Attended the Board attend Executive S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO 1992/93        7 7 A Gunewardene Deputy Chairman 1992/93        7 7 R Peiris Group Finance Director 2003/04        7 7 K Balendra+ 2016/17    3 3 G Cooray+ 2016/17    3 3 Senior Independent Non-Executive F Amerasinghe¡ 1999/00   2 2 N Fonseka 2013/14        7 7 Independent Non-Executive A Cabraal 2013/14     x   7 6 I Coomaraswamy* 2010/11   2 2 T Das¡ 2000/01 x x 2 0 A Omar 2012/13        7 7 P Perera 2014/15    By Phone By Phone   7 7 H Wijayasuriya+ 2016/17   By Phone 3 3 ¡ Ceased to be a Director during the year 2016/17 * Resigned from the Board during the year 2016/17 + Appointed to the Board during the year 2016/17 1.1.4.1 Board Agenda • Status updates of major projects • New resolutions The Chairman-CEO ensured that all Board • Review of performance in summary, and • Report on corporate social responsibility proceedings were conducted in a proper in detail, including high level commentary • Review of Group Risks, Sustainability/ manner, approving the agenda for each on actual performances and outlook CSR, HR practices/updates, Tax and meeting prepared by the Board Secretary. • Summation of strategic issues discussed Treasury updates The typical Board agenda in 2016/17 was: at Pre-Board meetings • Any other business • Confirmation of previous minutes • Approval of quarterly and annual financial statements • Ratification of Circular Resolutions • Ratification of capital expenditure and • Matters arising from the previous donations minutes • Ratification of the use of the company • Board Sub-Committee reports and other seal and share certificates issued matters exclusive to the Board 30 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary 1.1.5 Board Evaluation 1.1.7 Managing Conflicts of Interests and Ensuring Independence The Board conducted its annual Board In order to avoid potential conflicts or biases, the Directors make a general disclosure of performance appraisal for the financial interests, as illustrated below, at the time of appointment, at the beginning of every financial year 2016/17. This formalised process of year, and during the year as required. Potential conflicts are reviewed by the Board from time to individual appraisal enabled each member time to ensure the integrity of the Board’s independence. to self-appraise, on an anonymous basis, the performance of the Board under the areas of: Prior to appointment Once appointed During Board meetings • Role clarity and effective discharge of responsibilities Nominees are requested Directors obtain Board Directors who have an interest • People mix and structures to make known their clearance prior to: in a matter under discussion: • Systems and procedures various interests • Accepting a new position • Excuse themselves from • Quality of participation • Engaging in any transaction deliberations on the subject • Board image that could create or matter The results of the evaluation revealed that the potentially create a conflict • Abstain from voting on the Board has improved in all areas mentioned of interest subject matter (abstention above in comparison to the previous year, from decisions are duly All NEDs are required to notify and consequently, improved Board dynamics. minuted) the Chairman-CEO of any There was however, a lack of clarity amongst changes to their current Board few Non-Executive Directors regarding representations or interests the Board’s decision rights and the Group and a new declaration is made Executive Committee’s (GEC) decision rights. every ﬁnancial year The “Decision Rights Matrix” was circulated among all Directors subsequently. We believe in a diverse workforce to serve The independence of all its Non-Executive Directors was reviewed on the basis of criteria our diverse consumer base. Inclusion is the summarised below. foundation of a sustainable, strong culture. We Definition Status of conformity want our people to feel confident, comfortable and able to reach their potential regardless 1. Shareholding carrying not less than 10 None of the individual EDs or NED/IDs of gender, age, ability, background or sexual per cent of voting rights shareholding exceeds 1 per cent preference. The Board acknowledges the need for diversity and is committed to make 2. Director of another company* None of the NED/IDs are Directors of another progress in improving the gender diversity of related party company as deﬁned the Board and the senior management. 3. Income/non cash beneﬁt equivalent to NED/ID income/cash beneﬁts are less than 20 per cent of the Director’s income 20 per cent of individual Director’s income 1.1.6 Access to Independent Professional Advice 4. Employment at JKH two years None of the NED/IDs are employed or In order to preserve the independence of the immediately preceding appointment as have been employed at JKH or any of its Board, and also to strengthen its decision Director subsidiaries making, the Board encourages its members to seek independent professional advice, in 5. Close family member who is a Director, No family members of the EDs or NED/IDs is furtherance of their duties, at the Group’s CEO or a Key Management Personnel a Director or CEO of a related party company expense. This is coordinated through the 6. Has served on the Board continuously No NED has served on the Board for more Board Secretary as and when requested. for a period exceeding nine years from than nine years from the date of their ﬁrst the date of the ﬁrst appointment appointment * Other companies in which a majority of the other Directors of the listed company are employed, or We believe in a diverse workforce are Directors or have a significant shareholding, or have a material business relationship. to serve our diverse consumer base. Inclusion is the foundation of a sustainable, strong culture. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 31 In addition to the profiles of the Directors provided in the Report, the following table illustrates 1.2 Board Sub-Committees the total number of Board seats (excluding Group Board seats on the basis of subsidiary or The Board has delegated some of its functions equity accounted investees) held in other listed companies outside the Group by each serving to the Board Sub-Committees, whilst Director as at the end of the financial year 2016/17. retaining final decision rights. Members of these Sub-Committees are able to focus on Name of Director Directorship status at Board seats held in other listed Sri Lankan their designated areas of responsibility and JKH companies impart knowledge and oversight in areas Executive capacity Non-Executive capacity where they have greater expertise. Executive The four Board Sub-Committees are as follows: S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO N/A Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC i. Audit Committee A Gunewardene Executive Director N/A Nil R Peiris Executive Director N/A Nil ii. Human Resources and Compensation Committee K Balendra Executive Director N/A Nil iii. Nominations Committee G Cooray Executive Director N/A Nil iv. Related Party Transaction Review Senior Independent Non-Executive Committee N Fonseka Non-Executive Director N/A DFCC Bank PLC Independent Non-Executive During the year, Board Sub-Committees were A Cabraal Non-Executive Director Nil Ceylon Beverage Holdings PLC reconstituted in order to accommodate new Hatton National Bank PLC appointments to, and resignations from, the Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC Board. The current membership of the four A Omar Non-Executive Director Nil Textured Jersey Lanka PLC Board Sub-Committees is as follows: P Perera Non-Executive Director Nil Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC H Wijayasuriya Non-Executive Director Nil Dialog Axiata PLC The Board has delegated some of its functions to the Board SubCommittees, whilst retaining ﬁnal decision rights. Board Sub-Committee Membership Human Resources Related Party Nominations (as at 31 March 2017) Audit Committee and Compensation Transaction Review Committee Committee Committee Executive S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO ● ● A Gunewardene Deputy Chairman R Peiris Group Finance Director K Balendra G Cooray Senior Independent Non-Executive N Fonseka  ● Independent Non-Executive A Cabraal ●  ● A Omar ●  P Perera ● ●  H Wijayasuriya ● ●   Committee Chair ● Committee Member 32 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary 1.2.1 Audit Committee Designate, Group Financial Controller and the External Auditors attended most parts of these Composition All members to be exclusively Non-Executive, Independent Directors with meetings by invitation. The Internal Auditors at least one member having signiﬁcant, recent and relevant ﬁnancial carrying out outsourced assignments and management and accounting experience and a professional accounting other officials of the Company and the Group qualiﬁcation. also attended these meetings on a needs basis. The Chairman-CEO and the Group Finance Director are permanent invitees The Committee engaged with management to for all Committee meetings. The Group Financial Controller is also present review key risks faced by the Group as a whole at discussions relating to Group reporting. and the main sectors, with a view to obtaining assurances that appropriate and effective risk Mandate Monitor and supervise management’s ﬁnancial reporting process in mitigation strategies were in place. ensuring: • Accurate and timely disclosure The activities and views of the Committee • Transparency, integrity and quality of ﬁnancial reporting have been communicated to the Board of Directors quarterly through verbal briefings, Scope 1. Conﬁrm and assure: and by tabling the minutes of the Committee’s • Independence of External Auditor meetings. • Objectivity of Internal Auditor Financial Reporting 2. Review with independent auditors the adequacy of internal controls and The Audit Committee has reviewed and quality of ﬁnancial reporting discussed the Group’s quarterly and annual 3. Regular review meetings with management, Internal Auditor and financial statements, prior to publication, External Auditors in seeking assurance on various matters with management and the External Auditors. The review included ascertaining compliance of same with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, the appropriateness and changes in accounting policies and material Report of the Audit Committee entities was held to discuss ways and judgemental matters. The Committee also Role of the Committee means of improving coordination with Group discussed with the External Auditors and The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the BPR and to exchange information on best management, any matters communicated Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities practices. to the Committee by the External Auditors in in relation to the integrity of the financial their reports to the Committee on the audit statements of the Company and the Group, The effectiveness of the Committee is for the year. the internal control and risk management evaluated annually by each member of the systems of the Group and its compliance Committee and the results are communicated The External Auditors were also engaged with legal and regulatory requirements, the to the Board. to conduct a limited review of the Group’s External Auditors’ performance, qualifications interim financial statements for the six and independence, and, the adequacy and Composition of the Committee and months ended 30th September 2016. The performance of the Internal Audit function, Meetings results of this review were discussed with the undertaken by the Group Business Process There was a change in the composition of the External Auditors and management. Review division (Group BPR). The scope of Committee during the financial year whereby functions and responsibilities are adequately Dr. I Coomaraswamy resigned, effective 3 Internal Audit, Risks and Controls set out, in the terms of reference of the July 2016. Thereafter the Audit Committee The Committee reviewed the adequacy of Committee which has been approved by the comprised the undersigned and the following the Internal Audit coverage for the Group Board and is reviewed annually. Independent Non-Executive Directors: and the Internal Audit Plans for the Group with the Head of the Group BPR division and The Committee’s responsibilities pertain A Cabraal management. The Internal Audit function to the Group as a whole and in discharging P Perera of most Group companies is outsourced its responsibilities, the Committee places to leading professional firms under the reliance on the work of other Audit The Head of the Group BPR division served as overarching control of the Group BPR division. Committees in the Group without prejudicing the Secretary to the Audit Committee. the independence of those Committees. The Group BPR division regularly reported However, to the extent, and in a manner The Audit Committee convened seven times to the Committee on the adequacy and it considers appropriate, the Committee during the financial year. Information on effectiveness of internal controls in the Group provides feedback to those entities for their the attendance at these meetings by the and compliance with laws and regulations and consideration and necessary action. An members of the Committee is given in the established policies and procedures of the interactive forum with the participation of ensuing section. The Chairman-CEO, the Group Group. Reports from the outsourced Internal members of Audit Committees of Group Finance Director, Group Finance DirectorAuditors on the operations of the Company Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 33 and some of the unquoted direct subsidiaries the Committee met with the External Auditors The performance of the External Auditors of the Company were also reviewed by the and management to discuss all audit issues has been evaluated and discussed with the Committee. Follow-up action taken on the and to agree on their treatment. This included senior management of the Company and the recommendations of the outsourced Internal the discussion of formal reports from the Committee has recommended to the Board Auditors and any other significant follow-up External Auditors to the Committee. The that Ernst & Young be re-appointed as the matters were documented and presented to Committee also met the External Auditors, Lead/Consolidation Auditors of the Group the Committee on a quarterly basis by the without management being present, prior to for the financial year ending 31 March 2018, Head of Group BPR. the finalisation of the financial statements. subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. During the year, the Group BPR division The External Auditors’ reports on the successfully implemented a digital forensic audit of the Company and Group financial project across the entire Group, for analysing statements for the year, were discussed with transactional data, to report on outliers for management and the auditors. management oversight and continuously improve controls to enhance assurances in The Committee is satisfied that the relation to establishing the integrity of data independence of the External Auditors has N Fonseka used for reporting purposes. not been impaired by any event or service Chairman of the Audit Committee that gives rise to a conflict of interest. Due The Sustainability and Enterprise Risk consideration has been given to the nature of 26 May 2017 Management division (SRM) reported to the the services provided by the Auditors and the Committee on the process of identification, level of audit and non-audit fees received by evaluation and management of all significant the Auditors from the John Keells Group. The risks faced by the Group. The report covered Committee also reviewed the arrangements the overall risk profile of the Group for the made by the Auditors to maintain their year under review in comparison with that independence and confirmation has for the previous year, and the most significant been received from the Auditors of their risks from a Group perspective together with compliance with the independence guidance the remedial measures taken to manage given in the Code of Ethics of the Institute of them. Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. Formal confirmations and assurances were obtained from the senior management of Group companies on a quarterly basis, regarding the efficacy and status Audit Committee Meeting Attendance of the internal control systems and risk 17.05.2016 24.05.2016 27.07.2016 24.10.2016 03.11.2016 25.01.2017 27.03.2017 Eligible to Attended management systems, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. attend The Committee reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements for the Group and had direct A Cabraal     X   7 6 access to the Ombudsperson for the Group. I Coomaraswamy*   2 2 N Fonseka        7 7 The effectiveness and resource requirements P Perera        7 7 of the Group BPR division were reviewed and By Invitation discussed with management and changes S Ratnayake    X    7 6 were effected where considered necessary. R Peiris        7 7 External Audit * Resigned during the year 2016/17 The External Auditors’ Letter of Engagement, including the scope of the audit, was reviewed and discussed by the Committee with the External Auditors and management prior to the commencement of the audit. The External Auditors kept the Committee advised on an on-going basis regarding matters of significance that were pending resolution. Before the conclusion of the Audit, 34 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary 1.2.2 Human Resources and Compensation Committee ESOPs were executed in accordance with the approvals given by the Board on the Composition The Chairperson must be a Non-Executive Director. Committee should basis of discussions conducted between the comprise exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, a majority of whom shall Committee and Management. be independent. The Chairman-CEO and Group Finance Director are present at all The performance of the Chairman-CEO was Committee meetings unless the Chairman-CEO or Executive Director evaluated and remuneration determined as remuneration is under discussion respectively. The President, Human per the methodology set out by the Board. The Resources and Legal, is also present at all meetings. Chairman-CEO’s evaluation of the performance of the Executive Directors, and the members Mandate Determine the quantum of compensation (including stock options) for of the Group Executive Committee was Chairman and Executive Directors, conduct performance evaluation of considered by the Committee and accepted. Chairman-CEO, review performance evaluation of the other Executive The remuneration of the Executive Directors Directors and key Executives and establish a Group Remuneration Policy and the other Members of the Group Executive Committee was determined on the basis of Scope i. Determine and agree with the Board a framework for remuneration of performance, market comparators, and in line the Chairman and Executive Directors with Company C&B policy. ii. Consider targets, and benchmark principles, for any performance related pay schemes I wish to note that Mr. F Amerasinghe and iii. Within terms of agreed framework, determine total remuneration Dr. I Coomaraswamy served until June package of each Executive Director, keeping in view; 2016 and July 2016 respectively. I thank Mr. F Amerasinghe for the leadership and • Performance • Industry trends • Past remuneration guidance given to the Committee during his iv. Succession planning of Key Management Personnel tenure as Chairman. v. Determining compensation of Non-Executive Directors will not be under the scope of this Committee I wish to thank my colleagues for their valuable inputs in guiding the Committee in its deliberations, and the President responsible for Human Resources of the Report of the Human Resources and which have taken place since the last Board Group for enabling fruitful interactions at the Compensation Committee meeting, if any, and also updates the Board meetings of the Committee. The Committee met twice during the year. on various matters, as requested and as The Committee, together with the other Board relevant. members, reviewed the outcomes of the Group-wide “Great Place to Work” Employee The Committee wishes to report that the Survey (GPTW survey) which was conducted Company has complied with the Companies A Cabraal in the third quarter of 2016/17. It was noted Act in relation to remuneration of Directors. Chairman of the Human Resources and that, at the Executive level, the survey has The annual appraisal scheme, the calculation Compensation Committee shown a significant improvement in every of short term incentives, and the award of 26 May 2017 dimension when compared with the overall GPTW survey results of 2014, and that such improvement has brought the organisation Human Resources and Compensation Committee Meeting Attendance closer to the global benchmarks. Whilst this 23.06.2016 31.03.2017 Eligible to attend Attended augurs well for the company, issues which F Amerasinghe¡  1 1 require attention were noted for further action. A Cabraal   2 2 An important task that was carried out during I Coomaraswamy*  1 1 the year was the deliberation of plans for N Fonseka  1 1 succession at the senior management level. A Omar   2 2 These plans were announced in November H Wijayasuriya  1 1 2016 and in the quarter ended 31 March By invitation 2017. It is to be noted that further plans S Ratnayake   2 2 for succession to senior positions will be announced in a phased manner over the next R Peiris   2 2 two years. ¡ Ceased to be a Director during the year 2016/17 * Resigned during the year 2016/17 A report from the Chairman of the Committee continues to be a standing agenda item at the During the year 2016/17, the Great Place to Work (GPTW) survey was conducted across the entire quarterly Board meetings. The Chairman of Group. Following its conclusion, the resultant report was placed before the Board. The management the Committee reports on the developments also briefed the Committee of an action plan geared towards addressing the findings of the survey at the meeting held on the 31 March 2017. Please see Section 3.4.1 for more information. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 35 1.2.3 Nominations Committee The Committee was also apprised, regularly, by the Chairman JKH PLC, of the succession Composition The Chairperson must be a Non-Executive Director. The Chief Executive plans in respect of Susantha Ratnayake, Officer should be a member. Ajit Gunewardene and Ronnie Peiris. As a Mandate Deﬁne and establish the nomination process for Non-Executive Directors, part of such succession plan, the Chairman lead the process of Board appointments and make recommendations to nominated Krishan Balendra and Gihan the Board on the appointment of Non-Executive Directors. Cooray to the Board of the Company, and also as successors to Ajit Gunewardene and Scope i. Assess skills required on the Board given the needs of the businesses Ronnie Peiris, respectively, who retire at the ii. From time to time assess the extent to which the required skills are end of December 2017. The Nominations represented on the Board Committee, in discussion with the Board, iii. Prepare a clear description of the role and capabilities required for a considered the Chairman’s recommendation particular appointment and agreed with the same. iv. Identify and recommend suitable candidates for appointments to the The Committee, with the undersigned Board. abstaining, recommended to the Board v. Ensure, on appointment to Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a that Mr. Ashroff Omar be reappointed as a formal letter of appointment specifying clearly Non-Executive Director for a further period • Expectation in terms of time commitment of 3 years commencing 1 March 2016. • Involvement outside of the formal Board meetings The Board ratified its acceptance of such • Participation in Committees recommendation at its meeting of 25 May The appointment of Chairperson and Executive Directors is a collective 2016. decision of the Board Report of the Nominations Committee Name of Name of appointee The Nominations Committee, as of 31 March subsidiary 2017, consisted of the following. Keells Food Shehara de Silva A Omar • A Omar Products PLC Indrajit Samarajiva Chairman of the Nominations Committee • P Perera Pravir Samarasinghe 26 May 2017 • S Ratnayake Amal Sanderatne • H Wijayasuriya Ceylon Cold Sharmini Ratwatte The mandate of the Committee remains; Stores PLC Dr. Shanthi Wilson • To identify suitable persons who could be John Keells Anarkali Moonesinghe considered for appointment to the Board Hotels PLC of JKH PLC or other Listed Company in the Group as Non-Executive Directors John Keells Anandhiy Gunawardhana PLC Aruni Rajakariar • To recommend to the Board the process Charitha Wijewardene of selecting the Chairman and Deputy Chairman. Tea Manjula de Silva • Make recommendations on matters Smallholder referred to it by the Board. Factories PLC During the period under review, the These recommendations were accepted by Committee had one formal meeting, with all the Board. members in attendance, and several other informal discussions. Nominations Committee Meeting Attendance During the year, the Committee recommended the following appointments to the various 28.07.2016 Eligible to attend Attended JKH PLC subsidiaries. A Cabraal*  1 1 A Omar  1 1 P Perera  1 1 S Ratnayake  1 1 H Wijayasuriya* 0 0 * The Committee was re-constituted during the year 2016/17 36 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary 1.2.4 Related Party Transaction Review Committee The Committee reviewed and pre-approved Composition The Chairperson must be a Non-Executive Director. Must include at least all proposed non recurrent RPTs of the one Executive Director. parent, John Keells Holdings PLC, and all its listed subsidiaries, namely: John Keells PLC, The Chairman-CEO, Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller Tea Smallholder Factories PLC, Asian Hotels are permanent invitees for all Committee meetings. and Properties PLC, Trans Asia Hotels PLC, Mandate To ensure on behalf of the Board that all related party transactions of JKH John Keells Hotels PLC, Ceylon Cold Stores and its listed subsidiaries are consistent with the Code of Best Practices on PLC, Keells Food Products PLC, and Union related party transactions issued by the SEC. Assurance PLC. Further, recurrent RPTs were reviewed annually by the Committee. Whilst the above requisitions the minimum required by the CSE, the Group Other significant transactions of nonhas broadened the mandate to include senior decision makers in the list listed subsidiaries were presented to the of Key Management Personnel, whose transactions with Group companies Committee for information. are also reviewed by the Committee. In addition to the Directors, all Presidents, Scope i. Develop and recommend for adoption by the Board of Directors of JKH Executive Vice Presidents, Chief Executive and its listed subsidiaries, a Related Party Transaction Policy which is Officers, Chief Financial Officers and Financial consistent with the operating model and the delegated decision rights of Controllers of respective companies/sectors the Group. were designated as KMPs in order to increase ii. Update the Board on related party transactions of each of the listed transparency and enhance good governance. companies of the Group on a quarterly basis. Annual disclosures from all KMPs setting iii. Deﬁne and establish threshold values for each of the subject listed out any RPTs they were associated with, companies in setting a benchmark for related party transactions, if any, were obtained and reviewed by the related party transactions which have to be pre-approved by the Board, Committee. related party transactions which require to be reviewed annually and The Committee held four meetings during the similar issues relating to listed companies. financial year. Information on the attendance of these meetings by the members of the Committee is given below. Report of the Related Party The Committee in discharging its functions primarily relied on processes that were The activities and views of the Committee Transaction Review Committee validated from time to time and periodic have been communicated to the Board of The undersigned and the following Directors reporting by the relevant entities and Key Directors, quarterly through verbal briefings, served as members of the Committee during Management Personnel (KMP) with a view to and by tabling the minutes of the Committee’s the financial year: ensuring that: meetings. F Amerasinghe (ceased to be a Board member with effect from 24 June 2016) • there is compliance with the Code; A Cabraal • shareholder interests are protected; and N Fonseka • fairness and transparency are S Ratnayake maintained P Perera Chairperson of the Related Party Transaction In addition, the Group Finance Director Mr. Review Committee Ronnie Peiris, the Group Finance Director Designate Mr. Gihan Cooray and the Group 28 April 2017 Financial Controller Mr. Mano Rajakariar attended meetings by invitation, and the Head Related Party Transaction Review Committee Meeting Attendance of Group Business Process Review, served as 24.05.2016 27.07.2016 24.10.2016 25.01.2017 the Secretary to the Committee. Eligible to Attended The objective of the Committee is to exercise attend oversight on behalf of the Board, of John Keells Holdings PLC and its listed Subsidiaries, F Amerasinghe¡ X 1 0 to ensure compliance with the Code on A Cabraal     4 4 Related Party Transactions, as issued by the N Fonseka     4 4 Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri P Perera     4 4 Lanka (“The Code”) and with the Listing Rules S Ratnayake   X  4 3 of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). The Committee has also adopted best practices By Invitation as recommended by the Institute of Chartered R Peiris     4 4 Accountants of Sri Lanka and the CSE. ¡ Ceased to be a Director during the year 2016/17 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 37 1.3 The Combined Role of the Chairman1.4 Group Executive Committee and Chairman, the Group Finance Director, the CEO Other Management Committees Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. The The Group’s Chairman continued to play The Group Executive Committee and GOC provided a forum to share learnings, and the role of the CEO during the financial year the other Management Committees met identify synergies, across industry groups, 2016/17. The Board deems that combining regularly as per a time table communicated sectors, business units and functions. The the two roles is more appropriate, for the to the participants 6 months in advance. GOC is instrumental in preserving a common Group at present, in meeting stakeholder In the absence of a compelling reason, group identity across diverse business units objectives. attendance at these Committee meetings is (refer the GOC Profiles section of this Annual mandatory for the Committee members. All Report for more details). As the head of the Group Executive the Committees carried out their specific Committee, the Chairman-CEO provides tasks as expected. 1.4.3 Other Management Committees the overall direction and policy execution These include the Group Management framework for the Board’s decisions via this Whilst the Chairman-CEO and Presidents Committee, Sector Committee and structure. are ultimately accountable for the Company/ Management Committee which are Group and the industry groups, businesses responsible at the industry group level, sector Experience has proved that the healthy and functions respectively, all decisions are level and business unit level respectively. balance of the JKH Board composition taken on a committee structure as described The underlying intention of forming these coupled with the role of the Senior below. Committees is to encourage the respective Independent Director, and other supporting business units to take responsibility and Board dynamics, enable him to effectively 1.4.1 Group Executive Committee (GEC) accountability at the grass-root level via balance his role as the Chairman of the Board As at 26 May 2017, the 9 member GEC suitably structured Committees and teams in and the CEO of the Company and Group. consisted of the Chairman-CEO, the Deputy a “Management by Objectives (MBO)” setting. Chairman, the Group Finance Director and Given the above, the Chairman-CEO does the Presidents of each business/function. The Illustrated below is the structure of the three not come up for re-election as is the case GEC is the overlay structure that implements, Committees. with other Executive and Non-Executive under the leadership and direction of the Directors. It should be noted that the Articles Chairman-CEO, the strategies and policies 1.5 Employee Empowerment of Association of the Company allow for determined by the Board. The GEC manages Given the importance the Group places on its this. In order to bolster the Board’s, and through delegation and empowerment, employees for the growth of the organisation, by extension, the Group’s adherence to the business and affairs of the Group, policies, processes and systems are in place corporate governance best practices, the makes portfolio decisions and prioritises to ensure effective recruitment, development Senior Independent Director acted as the the allocation of capital and technical and and retention of this vital stakeholder. The independent party to whom concerns could human resources. A key responsibility of the bedrock of these policies is the Group’s be voiced on a confidential basis. members of the GEC is to act as enablers competency framework. To support these of the Operating Model of the Group. The policies, the Group continued with, and 1.3.1 Chairman-CEO Appraisal members of the GEC are well equipped to further strengthened, the following practices. The Human Resources and Compensation execute these tasks and bring in a wealth Committee, chaired by the Senior Independent of experience and diversity to the Group in • Top management and other senior staff Director together with all other Independent terms of their expertise and exposure (refer are mandated to involve, as appropriate, Directors, appraised the performance of the the GEC Profiles section of this Annual Report all levels of staff in formulating goals, Chairman-CEO on the basis of pre-agreed for more details). strategies and plans goals for the Group, set in consultation with • Decision rights were defined for each level the Board, covering the following broad 1.4.2 Group Operating Committee (GOC) of employment in order to instil a sense aspects: As at 26 May 2017, the 22 member GOC of ownership, reduce bureaucracy and consisted of the Chairman-CEO, the Deputy speed-up the decision making process • Creating and adding shareholder value • Achievement of financial goals • Execution of sustainability developments and green agenda Group Industry Management President • Success in identifying and implementing group • Strategy formulation Committee projects • Performance • Sustaining a first class image monitoring • Developing human capital Sector Executive Vice • Career management • Promoting collaboration and team spirit Sector and succession Committee President • Building sustainable external relations planning • Leveraging Board members and other • Risk management stakeholders Vice President/ • Implementation of Business Management Assistant Vice Group Initiatives • Ensuring good governance and integrity unit/ Committee President/ in the Group Function Manager 38 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary • A bottom-up approach was taken in 2.1 Strategy Formulation and Decision The following section further elaborates on the preparation of annual and longMaking Processes the Group’s project appraisal and execution term plans and the Group also ensured The Group’s investment appraisal process. employee involvement in strategy, and methodology and decision making thereby empowerment, in the process process ensures the involvement of all 2.1.1 Project Approval Process • Organisational and Committee structures key stakeholders that are relevant to the Projects undertaken at the Group follow are designed to enable, and facilitate, evaluation of the decision. a detailed feasibility report covering high accessibility of all employees to key business considerations under every level of management In this manner: multiple scenarios, within a framework of sustainability. The feasibility stage is not • Open, honest and constructive • Several views, opinions and advice are restricted to a financial feasibility only, but communication was encouraged at all obtained prior to making an investment encompasses a wider scope of work covering levels. The Group strongly believes that decision risk management, sustainable development constructive disagreement is essential • A holistic view is taken on the and HR considerations. for optimal decision making commercial viability and potential of any project, including operational, financial, Subsequent to the project satisfying the Moreover, the Group provides a safe, funding, legal, risk, sustainability and tax Group’s investment criteria, the final approval secure and conducive environment for its implications to proceed will be granted by the Board. employees, allows freedom of association • All investment decisions are When appropriate, the GEC is empowered and collective bargaining, prohibits child consensual in nature, made through the to approve such proposals in terms of the labour, forced or compulsory labour and aforementioned management committee delegated decision rights with the Board any discrimination based on gender, race, structure where no single individual has being kept informed. religion, gender identity or sexual orientation, unfettered decision making powers over and promotes workplaces which are free investment decisions from physical, verbal or sexual harassment. In furtherance of this, the Group continued • The ultimate responsibility and its CSR initiative, Project WAVE (Working accountability of the investment decision Against Violence through Education), aimed rests with the Chairman-CEO at combating gender based violence and child abuse through awareness creation. The illustration below depicts the Group’s Approximately 10,000 Group employees strategy formulation process: have been sensitised under the project as at 31 March 2017. During the year, the Group continued its project to sensitise employees regarding gender identity and sexual Form orientation towards building a truly inclusive ula object tin the ives gb culture within the Group. Additionally, the n of an d us atio each r i ne Group strives to incorporate these practices, valu ear BU i s k ss ll y for m where relevant, in its sourcing initiatives ee /fu the an nc l f y, undertaken by the Group. Pe ha ﬁn teg for rfo d a ra en t rm st se a em ar ag co n ye 2. Integrated Governance Systems and ial nc Procedures Listed below are the main governance systems and procedures of the Group. These e systems and procedures strengthen the th Continuous performance for monitoring at BU/ i GE elements of the JKH Internal Governance in et s sector/industry group ta Structure, and are benchmarked against arg Cr level ob Reforecasting t industry best practices. GEC a nd e vi ar a ew he ye i. Strategy formulation and decision s e t and a making process c o n d h alf of pproval val ppro ii. Human resource governance iii. Integrated risk management ng iv. IT governance Busin nc e ess performa eva hs v. Stakeholder management and effective luatio ont n of the ﬁrst six m communications against target vi. Sustainability governance Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 39 The aforementioned project appraisal framework flow is illustrated below: For succession planning at senior management levels, a sub-committee of Risk management the Board the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, is mandated to review the performance evaluation of Project Feasibility Review by Due Board/GEC origination Executive Directors and key Executives, apart study the GEC diligence approval from establishing the Group remuneration policy. The scope of this committee entails Sustainability management succession planning of Key Management Personnel. Annually, the Executive Directors and the 2.2 Human Resource Governance 2.2.1 Performance Management Group Executive Committee are evaluated The Group human resource governance The Performance Management System, as based on measurable criteria, which have framework is designed in a manner that illustrated below, is at the heart of many been pre-agreed on an individual basis. The enables high accessibility by any employee supporting human resource management evaluation involves the closer examination to every level of management. Constant processes such as learning and development, of achieved results in a background of dialogue and facilitation are also maintained career development, succession planning, controllable and/or non-controllable external ranging from work related issues to matters talent management, rewards/recognition conditions which have impacted performance pertaining to general interest that could affect and compensation/benefits. either favourably or adversely. Further, the employees and their families. The Group senior management holds regular talent follows an open door policy for its employees 2.2.2 Succession Planning discussions to further develop and identify and this is promoted at all levels of the Group. Our Board has in place plans to ensure the “talent”. progressive renewal of the Board. As part The Group performance management of the Group’s talent identification initiative, dynamics and compensation policy is the Group has continuously introduced explained in the ensuing sections. innovative and effective ways of focusing on promising talent. Identification of: • Long term development plans • Competency based training needs Learning and • Business focused training needs Development Identification of: Pay decisions based on: Compensation Career • Promotions • Performance rating • Intercompany transfers • Competency rating and Benefits Development • Inter department transfers Performance Management System Identification of: Nomination for Awards: • Jobs at risk • Chairman’s Award Rewards and Succession • Suitable successors • Employee of the Year Recognition Planning • Readiness level of successors • Champion of the Year • Development plans • External recruitments Talent Identification of Management • High performers • High potential 40 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary 2.2.3 Performance Based Compensation Philosophy The JKH Group Compensation Policy is as follows: Performance Management Satisfaction “Pay for Performance” “More Than Just A Workplace” Greater prominence is given to the incentive component of the total Continuously focuses on creating a sound work environment target compensation covering all aspects of employee satisfaction and engagement Compensation Policy • Compensation comprises of ﬁxed (base) payments, short term incentives and long term incentives • Higher the authority levels within the Group, higher the incentive component as a percentage of total pay • Greater the decision inﬂuencing capability of a role, higher the weight given to organisational performance as opposed to individual performance • Long term incentives are in the form of Employee Share Options at JKH Internal Equity External Equity • Remuneration policy is built upon the premise of ensuring equal • Fixed compensation is set at competitive levels using the median, pay for equal roles 65th percentile and 75th percentile of the best comparator set of • Manager and above level roles are banded using the Mercer companies (from Sri Lanka and the region, as relevant) as a guide methodology for job evaluation, on the basis of the relative worth • Regular surveys are done to ensure that employees are not of jobs under/over compensated 2.2.3.1 Equity Sharing • Supporting executives/managers in The IT governance framework used within Employee Share Option Plans are offered moving the organisation forward in the Group leverages best practices and at defined career levels based on prea cohesive, integrated and aligned industry leading models such as CoBIT determined criteria which are uniformly manner to improve performance, while (Control Objectives for Information and applied across the eligible levels and operating effectively, efficiently, ethically Related Technology), ISO 35800, ISO27001, performance levels. These long term and legally, within the established limits ISO 9000:2008, COSO (Committee of incentives have been instrumental in for risk taking. The risk management Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway inculcating a deep sense of ownership in programmes have allowed greater Commission)/BCP (Business Continuity the recipients. Share options are awarded to visibility and understanding of risk Planning), ITIL (Information Technology individuals on the basis of their immediate appetite Infrastructure Library), in providing a best of performance and potential importance of breed framework. their contribution to the Group’s future plans. Please refer the Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls section and Notes to the A comprehensive audit of the IT structure 2.3 Integrated Risk Management Financial Statements of the Annual Report covering the entire Group was performed JKH’s Group-wide risk management for a detailed discussion on the Group’s during the year to highlight both strengths, programme focuses on wider sustainability Integrated Risk Management process and the and weaknesses. A priority-based action plan development, to identify, evaluate and key risks identified in achieving the Group’s has been formulated to address issues of manage significant Group risks and to stressstrategic business objectives. concern that stemmed from the audit. test various risk scenarios. The programme ensures that a multitude of risks, arising as 2.4 Information Technology (IT) 2.5 Stakeholder Management and a result of the Group’s diverse operations, Governance Effective Communication are effectively managed in creating and IT governance stewardship roles are Following are the key stakeholder preserving stakeholder wealth. governed through layered and nested management methodologies adopted by committees, cascading from the GEC to the the Group. Please refer the Materiality and The steps taken towards promoting the Group’s Group IT Management Committee to the Stakeholder Relationship section of the integrated risk management process are: Group IT Operation Committee with wellAnnual Report for a detailed discussion. defined roles and responsibilities at a Group, • Integrating and aligning activities and sector and business unit level. processes related to planning, policies/ procedures, culture, competency, internal audit, financial management, monitoring and reporting with risk management; Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 41 • Presence of an investor relations team • Social media presence Shareholders/ • Prompt release of information to public/CSE Investors • Effective communication of AGM related matters • Measures in place in case of serious loss of capital • Accessibility to all levels of the management • Various means for employee involvement • Providing of quality and safe products Employees Customers/ • Constant engagement with customers • Corporate Communications Suppliers • Procedures to ensure long term • JK Forum Stakeholder business relationships with suppliers • Young Forum Management • Transactions in compliance with • Provision of formal and all relevant laws and regulations, sometimes informal, Other Key transparently and ethically Government • Zero tolerance policy in ensuring that access to other key Stakeholders stakeholders all business units meet their statutory obligations in time and in full 2.5.1 Annual General Meeting and Stakeholder Relationships section of functions, by providing the ability to maintain The Group adheres to the following the Report for a detailed discussion of the live, dynamic risk registers which are linked procedures and makes use of the AGM Group’s strategy of entrenching sustainability to business goals and responsible personnel constructively to enhance relationships with within its business operations, and the scope along with the provision of timely alerts shareholders. and boundary of its sustainability content. on action plans, and escalation processes for over-due risks. Key Management • Notice of the AGM and related documents During the year under review, a new Personnel at all levels (CEOs, Sector Heads, are sent to the shareholders along with procurement platform was implemented and Presidents) will have visibility of the the Annual Report, within the specified to streamline the Group’s sourcing, and structure under management in terms of time supplier management initiatives. The current risk management, mitigation, and action • Summary of procedures governing Group Initiatives process, though robust, is plans for better monitoring and control. It voting at general meetings are clearly manually driven. Through this new platform will also enable visibility across sectors, and communicated it will be transformed in its entirety to an the Group, on risk mitigation and knowledge online, real-time platform, where the entire sharing best practices. • All Executive and Non-Executive sourcing process from supplier identification, Directors are present at the meeting to requesting for proposals, submission of 3. Assurance Mechanisms answer queries proposals, evaluation, contracting and The Assurance Mechanisms comprise of • The Chairman-CEO ensures that the supplier management for products and the various supervisory, monitoring, and relevant senior managers are also services sourced from the Group Initiatives benchmarking elements of the Group available at the AGM to answer specific Division will be performed on the platform. Corporate Governance System which are queries This will enable the Group to have clear used to measure “actuals” against “plan” • Separate resolutions are proposed for visibility of the sourcing process in real with a view to signalling the need for quick each item time, shorten contracting life cycles and corrective action, when necessary. These • Proxy votes, those for, against, and have the ability to make better supplier mechanisms also act as “safety nets” and withheld are counted related decisions based on better and more internal checks in the Governance system, accurate analytics. The Group intends to which are discussed in detail in the ensuing 2.6 Sustainability Governance enable Business Units of the Group to use section. The John Keells Group places importance this platform in the near future. on sustainable development. The Group believes that its financial performance and Furthermore, the Group has contracted a brand image are closely aligned with sound global software developer and vendor, to corporate governance practices, product and provide a solution to manage the Group’s service excellence, a productive workforce, Enterprise Risk, Audit, and Incident environmental stewardship and social Management processes. The solution is responsibility. Please refer the Materiality able to aid the Group’s Risk Management 42 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary 3.1 The Code of Conduct Report of the Senior Independent Director JKH CODE OF CONDUCT Independent Directors F Amerasinghe (ceased to be a Board member w.e.f. 24 June 2016) • Allegiance to the Company and the A Cabraal Group I Coomaraswamy (resigned w.e.f. 3 July 2016) • Compliance with rules and regulations T Das (ceased to be a Board member w.e.f. 24 June 2016) applying in the territories that the Group N Fonseka operates in A Omar P Perera • Conduct all business in an ethical H Wijayasuriya (appointed w.e.f. 4 October 2016) manner at all times in keeping with acceptable business practices All Independent Directors serving at present have been Directors for less than nine years from • Exercise of professionalism and integrity their date of first appointment. The undersigned was appointed by the Board as the Senior in all businesses and “public” personal Independent Director on 24 June 2016, succeeding Mr F Amerasinghe. transactions Apart from unstructured and informal contacts, the Independent Directors had two formal meetings to discuss matters relevant to their responsibilities as Non-Executive Directors. The objectives of the Code of Conduct are These meetings concluded with a wrap up session with the Chairman-CEO, who provided strongly affirmed by a strong set of corporate responses to matters raised, or agreed to provide further information or clarification at Board values which are well institutionalised at all meetings. A matter that received the special attention of the Non-Executive Directors was levels within the Group through structured senior management succession. A plan was approved by the Board during the year and communication. The degree of employee implementation has commenced. conformance with corporate values and their degree of adherence to the JKH Code of The meeting minutes of the Group Executive Committee (GEC) are circulated to the NonConduct are the key elements of reward and Executive Directors and this ensures that there is a high degree of transparency and recognition schemes. interaction between the Executive and Non-Executive members of the Board. The Group Values are found in the About The Ombudsperson has reported to me that no issues have been brought to his attention that Us section of the Annual Report, and are indicate mismanagement, unfair treatment or justified discontent on the part of any employee continuously and consistently referred to by or ex-employee during the financial year. the Chairman-CEO, Presidents, Sector and Business Unit Heads during employee and The Independent Directors thank the Executive Directors, the GEC, Sector Heads and members other key stakeholder engagements, in order of the management team for their openness and co-operation on all matters where their input to instill these values in the hearts and DNA was sought by the Non-Executive Directors. of all employees. 3.2 Senior Independent Director Considering the combined role of the Chairman-CEO, the presence of the Senior Independent Director is important in N Fonseka ensuring that no one person has unfettered Senior Independent Director decision making powers, and that matters 26 May 2017 discussed at the Board level are done so in an environment which facilitates independent 3.3 Board Sub-Committees thought by individual Directors. The Board Sub-Committees play an important supervisory and monitoring role by focusing on the designated areas of responsibility passed to it by the Board. For more information on the The Senior Independent Director meets with Board Sub-Committees, refer Section 1.2 of this Commentary. other Non-Executive Directors, without the presence of the Chairman-CEO, at least twice 3.4 Employee Participation in Assurance every year to evaluate the effectiveness of the The Group is continuously working towards introducing innovative and effective ways of Chairman-CEO and has regular meetings with employee communication and employee awareness. The importance of communication topthe other Non-Executive Directors on matters down, bottom-up, and lateral, in gaining employee commitment to organisational goals has relating to the effectiveness of the Board as been conveyed extensively through various communications issued by the Chairman-CEO appropriate. The Senior Independent Director and the management. Whilst employees have many opportunities to interact with the senior is also kept informed by the Ombudsperson management, the Group has created formal channels for such communication through feedback of any matters in respect of the JKH Code of as listed below. Conduct which has come to his attention. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 43 • Skip Level meetings 3.5.2 System of Internal Control The Group is currently engaged with its • Exit interviews The Board has, through the involvement of External Auditors to jointly understand the • Young Forum meetings the Group Business Process Review function, extent of realigning the scope of the Auditor’s • 360 degree evaluation taken steps to obtain assurance that systems report in keeping with reporting best practices • Employee surveys designed to safeguard the Company’s associated with the disclosure of Key Audit • Monthly staff meetings assets, maintain proper accounting records Matters (KAM) to the shareholders. The • Ombudsperson and provide management information, are proposed revisions to the Auditor’s Report • Confidential access to Chairman on in place, are robust, and are functioning are expected to enhance the communicative “Chairman Direct” according to expectations. value and relevance of the report via • Access to Senior Independent Director reinforced transparency, and will come into • Continuously reiterating the “Open-Door” The risk review programme covering effect together with other applicable financial policy the internal audit of the whole Group is reporting requirements, on or after 31 March outsourced. Reports arising out of such audits 2018. Additionally, the Group continued with its are, in the first instance, considered and whistle-blower policy and securities trading discussed at the business and functional unit 3.6 The Ombudsperson policy. The Group has witnessed an increased levels, and after review by the Sector Head An Ombudsperson is available to report level of communication flow from employees. and the President of the industry group, are any complaints from employees of alleged Such communication and feedback received forwarded to the relevant Audit Committee violations of the published Code of Conduct if from the employees by the management on a regular basis. Further, the Audit the complainant feels that the alleged violation are recorded, irrespective of the level of Committees also assess the effectiveness has not been addressed satisfactorily by the anonymity, and subsequently discussed and of the risk review process and systems of internally available mechanisms. followed up. The respective outcomes are internal control on a regular basis. duly recorded. The findings and the recommendations 3.5.3 Segregation of Duties (SoD) under of the Ombudsperson, subsequent to 3.4.1 Great Place to Work Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Guidelines an independent inquiry, is confidentially During the year, the Group conducted the As discussed in the Corporate Governance communicated to the Chairman-CEO or to “Great Place To Work” (GPTW) survey among Commentary section of the JKH Annual the Senior Independent Director upon which all its employees. GPTW is conducted by the Report 2015/16, the Group reviewed the the involvement duty of the Ombudsperson Great Place To Work Institute and seeks to Segregation of Duties (SoD) under Sarbanesceases. provide a comprehensive insight into how Oxley (SOX) guidelines, and developed a employees perceive the culture, structure, revised SoD matrix. During the financial year On matters referred to him by the and management of an organisation, among ended 31 March 2017, the Group took steps Ombudsperson, the Chairman-CEO or the others. The feedback received from this to review and streamline the roles of each Senior Independent Director, as the case may exercise will be used towards crafting a better user on its Enterprise Resource Planning be, will place before the Board: and more cohesive workplace, which will (ERP) system. Furthermore, in line with JKH’s in turn drive productivity across the Group. digitisation initiatives, an authentication i. the decision and the recommendations The Group’s management considers the application was developed to enable a more ii. action taken based on the objective of an engaging, inspiring workplace efficient and transparent process in assigning recommendations which enables, and empowers people, to be a roles to users of the ERP system. iii. in the event the Chairman-CEO or the strategic priority, in keeping with JKH’s goal Senior Independent Director disagrees to be “More Than Just A Workplace”. 3.5.4 Internal Audit with any or all of the findings and or the The Group internal audit process is conducted recommendations thereon, the areas of 3.5 Internal Controls by outsourced parties at regular intervals, disagreement, and the reasons therefore The Board has taken necessary steps to and coordinated by the Group Business ensure the integrity of the Group’s accounting Process Review function (GBPR) of the Group. In situation (iii), the Board is required to and financial reporting systems, and that GBPR ensures that the internal audit plan consider the areas of disagreement and internal control systems remain robust and adequately covers the significant risks of the decide on the way forward. The Chairmaneffective via the review and monitoring of Group, reviews the important internal audit CEO or the Senior Independent Director is such systems on a periodic basis. findings and follow-up procedures. expected to take such steps as are necessary to ensure that the complainant is not 3.5.1 Internal Compliance Towards this end, an Internal Audit Process victimised, in any manner, for having invoked A quarterly self-certification programme Facilitation tool is being adopted across the this process. requires the Presidents, Sector Heads and Group. It is envisaged that this solution, in Chief Financial Officers of industry groups, to addition to enabling a digitally driven internal confirm compliance with statutory and other audit function, will help increase internal regulatory procedures, and also identify any efficiencies, transparency, accountability, and significant deviations from the expected build synergy between participating entities, norms. in order to optimise delivery of impactful process outcomes. 44 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary 4. Regulatory and Accounting review, to stay abreast of best practices in the Report of the Ombudsperson Benchmarks area of corporate governance. Mandate and Role The Board, through the Group Legal division, For purposes of easy reference, I set out the Group Finance division and its other Summarised below are the more significant below, the Ombudsperson’s mandate and operating structures, strived to ensure that challenges, amongst many others, being role: the Company and all of its subsidiaries and addressed by JKH. associates complied with the laws and (a) legal and ethical violations of the Code regulations of the countries they operated in. 5.1 Gender Diversity on the Board of Conduct for employees, but in an JKH believes a wide range of people and appellate capacity, when a satisfactory The Board of Directors also took all experiences is beneficial to achieving a outcome using existing procedures and reasonable steps to ensure that all financial high performance culture, which enables processes has not resulted or when the statements were prepared in accordance innovation and thereby helps us deliver matter has been inadequately dealt with; with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards excellence. Given that women comprise a (b) violations referred to above by individuals (SLFRS/LKAS) issued by the Institute of significant proportion of the customer and at the Executive Vice President, President Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri employee populations, the Group recognises and Executive Director levels, including Lanka) and the requirements of the CSE and the value of capitalising on our inclusive that of the Chairman/CEO, in which case other applicable authorities. Information culture to attract, develop, and retain a talent the complainant has the option of either contained in the financial statements of the mix to fuel our competitive advantage. complaining to the Ombudsperson in Annual Report is supplemented by a detailed the first instance, or first exhausting the Management Discussion and Analysis which We acknowledge the challenges of increasing internal remedies; explains to shareholders, the strategic, diversity within our industry, and the (c) sexual harassment, in which event the operational, investment, sustainability and Group will make greater efforts to attract complainant has the option of either risk related aspects of the Company, and the appropriately qualified women to add to the complaining to the Ombudsperson in means by which value is created and how diversity of the Board. the first instance, or first exhausting the it was translated into the reported financial internal remedies performance and its likely influence on future 5.2 Board Effectiveness and results. Refreshment The mandate excludes disciplinary issues There is increasing pressure for Boards to from the Ombudsperson’s responsibilities. JKH and its subsidiaries are fully compliant improve effectiveness, maintain the right The right to take disciplinary action is vested with all the mandatory rules and regulations combination of skills and experience, and exclusively in the Chairman/CEO and those to stipulated by the: enhance transparency and accountability. whom this authority has been delegated. Our Board strives to take a balance of the • Corporate Governance Listing Rules two viewpoints of tenured Directors and the No issues were raised by any member of the published by the CSE; and fresh perspectives of new members. With the companies covered during the year under • Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 change in Board composition, the average age review. of the Board is 57 years as of 31 March 2017, in comparison to an average age of 63 years Please refer section 6 of this Commentary as at 31 March 2016. JKH continues to take Ombudsperson for the compliance summary. The Group steps to seek Directors with great diversity of has also given due consideration to the Best 26 May 2017 knowledge and experience in order to match Practice on Corporate Governance Reporting boardroom talent with evolving business guidelines jointly set out by CA Sri Lanka and 3.7 External Audit strategies. the SEC, and have in all instances, barring Ernst & Young are the External Auditors of a few, embraced such practices voluntarily, the Company as well as many of the Group particularly if such practices have been 5.3 Activist Investors companies. The individual Group companies As stated during the last financial year, identified as relevant and value adding. In the also employed KPMG Ford, Rhodes, Thornton investors around the globe are increasingly very few instances where the Group has not & Co, PriceWaterhouseCoopers, and Luthra active and are asking questions on issues adopted such best practice, the rationale for and Luthra, India as External Auditors. that matter most to them enterprise risk, such non adoption is articulated. The appointment/re-appointment of these strategy and execution. This has primarily auditors was recommended by the individual led to Directors being held increasingly 5. Outlook and Emerging Challenges Audit Committees to their respective accountable and responsible for the In an ever changing and dynamic world of Boards of Directors. The audit fees paid by company’s performance, and the Group corporate governance, JKH is acutely aware the Company and Group to its auditors are expects this trend to continue. As a result, of the need to remain vigilant and geared to separately classified in the Notes to the effective communication is emerging and meet the emerging governance needs of the Financial Statements of the Annual Report. designated Directors are fully prepared to Group, its stakeholders and the environment engage directly with investors on appropriate in which the Group operates. As is evident matters. The Board will continue to focus on from the aforesaid Commentary, the Group improving shareholder communication with has continued to endeavour, in the year under a greater level of engagement. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 45 5.4 Cyber Security the year under review, necessary steps have recognise the crucial role they play in human Along with the organisation becoming more been taken to help curtail the exposure to capital matters since talent and culture are data driven, there is a significant increase cyber-attacks by reducing the threat surface arguably the biggest drivers of competitive in the organisation’s reliance on technology. and any potentially exploitable vulnerabilities. advantage. Boards will play an important In such a backdrop, securing and protecting role in ensuring that the leadership stays JKH’s most valuable assets becomes a 5.5 Talent Risk Management focused on building the right talent strategy. priority. The Board accepts that the risk of As new and complex opportunities and risks The Board will focus on how to prepare for a security breach needs to be continually emerge with evolving strategies and growth generational transitions in their organisations managed, and that one needs to be well markets, having the right people to execute on and anticipate the changing dynamics at the aware of where the vulnerabilities lie. During strategies is imperative for success. Boards boardroom and management levels. 6. Compliance Summary 6.1 Statement of Compliance under Section 7.6 of the Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Corporate Governance CSE Rule 7.6 Compliance Reference in the JKH Annual Report 2016/17 status (i) Names of persons who were Directors of the Entity Complied Board of Directors during the financial year (ii) Principal activities of the Entity and its subsidiaries Complied Management Discussion and Analysis during the year, and any changes therein (iii) The names and the number of shares held by the 20 Complied Share and Warrant Information largest holders of voting and non-voting shares and the percentage of such shares held (iv) The public holding percentage Complied Share and Warrant Information (v) A statement of each Director’s holding and Chief Complied Share and Warrant Information Executive Officer’s holding in shares of the Entity at the beginning and end of each financial year (vi) Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk Risk, Opportunities and Internal Controls Complied factors of the Entity (vii) Details of material issues pertaining to employees and During the year 2016/17, there were no material issues pertaining to industrial relations of the Entity employees and industrial relations of the Company (viii) Extents, locations, valuations and the number of Complied Group Real Estate Portfolio buildings of the Entity’s land holdings and investment properties (ix) Number of shares representing the Entity’s stated capital Complied Share and Warrant Information (x) A distribution schedule of the number of holders in each Complied Share and Warrant Information class of equity securities, and the percentage of their total holdings (xi) Financial ratios and market price information Complied Share and Warrant Information (xii) Significant changes in the Company’s or its subsidiaries’ Complied Notes to the Financial Statements fixed assets, and the market value of land, if the value differs substantially from the book value as at the end of the year (xiii) Details of funds raised through a public issue, rights Complied Share and Warrant Information issue and a private placement during the year (xiv) Information in respect of Employee Share Ownership or Complied Share and Warrant Information Stock Option Schemes (xv) Disclosures pertaining to corporate governance Complied Corporate Governance Commentary practices in terms of Rules 7.10.3, 7.10.5 c. and 7.10.6 c. of Section 7 of the Listing Rules (xvi) Related party transactions exceeding 10 per cent of the Complied Corporate Governance Commentary equity or 5 per cent of the total assets of the Entity as per audited financial statements, whichever is lower 46 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary 6.2 Statement of Compliance under Section 7.10 of the Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Corporate Governance (Mandatory provisions fully complied) CSE Rule Compliance JKH action status 7.10 Compliance a./ b./ c. Compliance with corporate governance rules Complied JKH is in full compliance with the corporate governance rules. Any deviations are explained where applicable 7.10.1 Non-Executive Directors (NED) a./ b./ c. At least two members or one third of the Board, Complied 5 out of 10 Board members are NEDs whichever is higher should be NEDs Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.2 7.10.2 Independent Directors a. Two or one third of NEDs, whichever is higher shall be Complied All NEDs are independent as of 31 March 2017 “independent” b. Each NED to submit a signed and dated declaration of Complied The independence of the Directors has been determined his/her independence or non-independence with reference to the CSE Listing Rules. The 5 Independent NEDs have submitted signed confirmations of their independence 7.10.3 Disclosures Relating to Directors a./ b. Board shall annually determine the independence or Complied Each NED discloses a formal declaration to the Board of otherwise of NEDs all their interests on an annual basis Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.7 c. A brief resume of each Director should be included in the Complied JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Board of Directors Annual Report including the Directors’ experience d. Provide a resume of new Directors appointed to the Complied The new appointments of Mr. K Balendra, Mr. G Cooray and Board along with details Dr. H Wijayasuriya were announced to the CSE along with the profiles of the Directors 7.10.4 Criteria for Defining Independence a. to h. Requirements for meeting the criteria to be an Complied Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.7 Independent Director 7.10.5 Remuneration Committee a. Remuneration Committee shall comprise of NEDs, a Complied The Human Resources and Compensation Committee majority of whom will be independent (equivalent of the Remuneration Committee with a wider scope) only comprises of Independent NEDs Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.2 One NED shall be appointed as Chairman of the Complied The Senior Independent NED is the Chairman of the Committee by the Board of Directors Committee b. Remuneration Committee shall recommend the Complied The remuneration of the Chairman-CEO and the Executive remuneration of the CEO and the Executive Directors Directors is determined as per the remuneration principles of the Group, and as recommended by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee c. The Annual Report should disclose: Complied Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.2 (i) The names of Remuneration Committee members (ii) A Statement of Remuneration policy Complied Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.2 (iii) The aggregate remuneration paid to Executive and Complied Total aggregate of remuneration paid to the Executive Non-Executive Directors Directors for the year was Rs.154 million of which Rs.41 million was variable based on performance Total aggregate of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors for the year was Rs.17 million Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 47 CSE Rule Compliance JKH action status 7.10.6 Audit Committee a. Audit Committee (AC) shall comprise of NEDs, a majority Complied The Audit Committee comprises only of Independent NEDs of whom should be independent Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 A NED shall be appointed as Chairman of the committee Complied The Chairman of the Audit Committee is an Independent NED CEO and CFO shall attend Audit Committee meetings Complied The Chairman-CEO, Group Finance Director, and the Group Financial Controller are permanent invitees to all Audit Committee meetings Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 The Chairman or one member of the Audit Committee Complied One member of the Audit Committee holds membership in should be a member of a professional accounting body a professional accounting body b. The functions of the Audit Committee as set in the CSE Complied Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 Listing Rules 7.10.6 Overseeing the preparation, presentation and adequacy Complied The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its of disclosures in the financial statements in accordance oversight responsibilities in ensuring the integrity of the with SLFRS/LKAS financial statements of the Company and the Group Overseeing compliance with financial reporting Complied The Audit Committee has the overall responsibility for requirements, and information requirements as per laws overseeing the preparation of financial statements in and regulations accordance with the laws and regulations of the country, and also recommending to the Board, the adoption of suitable accounting policies Ensuring that internal and risk management controls are Complied The Audit Committee assesses the role and the adequate, to meet the requirements of the SLFRS/LKAS effectiveness of the Group Business Process Review division, which is largely responsible for the internal control and risk management process Assessment of the independence and performance of Complied The Audit Committee assesses the External Auditor’s the Entity’s External Auditors performance, qualifications and independence Make recommendations to the Board pertaining to Complied The Committee is responsible for the appointment, reExternal Auditors appointment, and removal of External Auditors, and also the approval of remuneration and terms of engagement c. Names of Audit Committee members shall be disclosed Complied Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 Audit Committee shall make a determination of the Complied Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 independence of the External Auditors Report on the manner in which Audit Committee carried Complied Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 out its functions 48 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary 6.3 Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 Rule 168 Compliance Reference JKH Annual Report 2016/17 status (1) (a) The nature of the business of the Group and the Complied Group Directory Company together with any change thereof during the accounting period (1) (b) Signed financial statements of the Group and the Complied Financial Statements Company for the accounting period completed (1) (c) Auditors’ Report on financial statements of the Group Complied Independent Auditors’ Report and the Company (1) (d) Accounting policies and any changes therein Complied Notes to the Financial Statements (1) (e) Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register Complied Annual Report of the Board of Directors during the accounting period (1) (f) Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Complied Notes to the Financial Statements Company during the accounting period (1) (g) Corporate donations made by the Company during the Complied Notes to the Financial Statements accounting period (1) (h) Information on the Directorate of the Company and its Complied Group Directory subsidiaries during and at the end of the accounting period (1) (i) Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit Complied Notes to the Financial Statements fees and fees for other services rendered during the accounting period (1) (j) Auditors’ relationship or any interest with the Company Complied Financial Statements and its subsidiaries (1) (k) Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and Complied The Statement of Director's Responsibility signatures on behalf of the Board 6.4 Code of Best practice of Corporate Governance Issued Jointly by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) Voluntary provisions fully complied A. Directors Rule Reference A.1 The Board A.1.1 Need for the Board to meet regularly Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.4 A.1.2 The Board should be responsible for matters The Board provides direction and guidance to the Group in the formulation of including implementation of business strategy, sustainable high-level medium and long term strategies which are aimed at skills and succession of the management promoting growth and sustainability over the long term team, integrity of information, internal controls Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.1 and risk management, compliance with laws and ethical standards, stakeholder interests, adopting appropriate accounting policies, fostering compliance with financial regulations and fulfilling other Board functions A.1.3 Act in accordance with the laws of the The Group is in full compliance with Corporate Governance rules, and other forms country and obtain independent professional of applicable legislation in the country it conducts its business. In order to preserve advice where necessary, at the Company’s the independence of the Board and to strengthen decision making, the Board seeks expense independent professional advice. This is coordinated through the Board Secretary as and when required Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.6 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 49 Rule Reference A.1.4 All Directors should have access to the The Group ensures that all Directors have access to the advice and services of the advice and services of the Company Company Secretary at all times. The President HR, Legal and Secretarial is the Secretary Secretary to the Board. In addition to maintaining Board minutes and Board records, the Board Secretary has provided support in ensuring that the Board receives timely and accurate information, advice relating to corporate governance matters and that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are complied with during the year A.1.5 All Directors should bring independent All Directors possess the necessary mix of skills, expertise and knowledge judgment complemented with a high sense of integrity and independent judgment on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standard of business conduct. Non-Executive Directors are responsible for providing independent judgment for the proposals made by the Chairman and Executive Directors Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.3 JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Board of Directors A.1.6 Every Director should dedicate adequate Directors dedicated sufficient time before Board meetings to review Board papers time and effort to matters of the Board and and request additional material and information for further clarification as deemed Company necessary. This is supplemented by time allocation for discussions of issues of strategic importance It is estimated that Non-Executive Directors each devoted a minimum of 30 full time equivalent days to the Group during the year 15% 50% Strategy and performance 35% Assurance and risk management Other board matters A.1.7 Board induction and training When Directors are newly appointed to the Board, they undergo a comprehensive induction where they are apprised, inter-alia, of the Group values and culture, its operating model, policies, governance framework and processes, the Code of Conduct and the operational strategies of the Group The Directors are encouraged to adopt a mind-set of continuous learning in order to keep abreast of the Group, its dynamic business units, and even their own areas of expertise The Board of Directors recognises the need for continuous training and expansion of knowledge and undertakes such professional development as required in assisting them to carry out their duties as Directors A.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) A.2.1 Justification for combining the roles of the The appropriateness of combining the two roles has been established after rigorous Chairman and the CEO evaluation and debate internally and externally. The appropriateness continues to be discussed periodically, and at minimum, at least once per year. These discussions are supported by international best practices accessed through consultancy services and experts Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.3 A.3 Chairman’s Role A.3.1 The Chairman should ensure Board The Chairman, together with the Board Secretary continues to ensure that Board proceedings are conducted in a proper proceedings are conducted in a proper manner manner A.4 Financial Acumen A.4 The Board should ensure the availability The present Board possesses the financial acumen, and knowledge to offer guidance within it of those with sufficient financial on matters pertaining to finance acumen and knowledge to offer guidance on Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.3 matters of finance JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Board of Directors 50 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary Rule Reference A.5 Board Balance A.5.1 In the event the Chairman and CEO is the As at 26 May 2017, the Board comprised of 10 Directors, with 5 of them being Nonsame person, NEDs should comprise a Executive and Independent. The current Board composition will change by December majority of the Board 2017, following the retirement of the Deputy Chairman and the Group Finance Director Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.2 A.5.2 Where the constitution of the Board of N/A Directors includes only two NEDs, both such NEDs should be “independent” A.5.3 Definition of Independent Directors All Independent Directors of the Group conform to a set of pre-defined criteria, which JKH recognises as global best practice Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.7 A.5.4 Declaration of Independent Directors All Directors make a formal declaration of all their interests on an annual basis A.5.5 Board determinations on independence or In order to avoid potential conflicts or biases, the Directors make a general disclosure non-independence of NEDs of interests, at the time of appointment, at the beginning of every financial year and during the year as required. Any potential conflicts are reviewed by the Board from time to time to ensure the integrity of the Board’s independence Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.7 A.5.6 If an Alternate Director is appointed by a N/A NED such Alternate Director should not be an Executive of the company A.5.7 In the event the Chairman and CEO is the Given the combined role of the Chairman-CEO, the Senior Independent Director, as same person, the Board should appoint one part of his role, ensures adherence to the principles of corporate governance, and acts of the Independent NEDs to be the Senior as the independent party to whom concerns could be voiced on a confidential basis Independent Director (SID) Corporate Governance Commentary Section 3.2 A.5.8 The SID should make himself available for The Senior Independent Director continues to make himself available to meet with confidential discussions with other Directors other Non-Executive Directors, without the presence of the Chairman-CEO (when who may have concerns required), and evaluates the effectiveness of the Chairman-CEO Corporate Governance Commentary Section 3.2 A.5.9 The Chairman should hold meetings with the The Chairman-CEO conducts direct discussions with the Non-Executive Directors NEDs only, without the presence of EDs at meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, convened by the Senior Independent Director. Issues arising from these discussions are taken up for consultation with the relevant parties A.5.10 Where Directors have concerns about the The Secretary to the Board is responsible for maintaining Board minutes and Board matters of the Company which cannot be records. All concerns raised and unresolved are recorded and have been documented unanimously resolved, they should ensure in sufficient detail their concerns are recorded in the Board minutes A.6 Supply of Information A.6.1 Management should provide the Board with Members of the corporate and senior management team continue to have appropriate and timely information independent contact with the Directors and where necessary, make presentations to the Directors on important issues relating to strategy, risk management, investment proposals, re-structuring and system procedures A.6.2 Timely submission of the minutes, agenda The Board is provided with the necessary information well in advance (at least 2 weeks and papers required for the Board Meetings prior to the meeting), by way of Board papers and proposals for all Board meetings, in order to ensure robust discussions, informed deliberation and effective decision making A.7 Appointments to the Board A.7.1 Nomination Committee to make Board appointments follow a structured and formal process within the purview of the recommendations on new Board Nominations Committee, which identifies and recommends suitable candidates for appointments appointment to the Board Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 51 Rule Reference A.7.2 Assessment of the capability of the Board to The Board works closely with the Nominations Committee to assess the skills meet strategic demands of the company required on the Board, given the needs of the businesses. In the event a “skills gap” is identified, a formal document stating a clear description of the role and required capabilities is prepared. Following this, the Committee identifies and recommends suitable candidates The skills inventory of the company is also discussed by the Board during the Annual JKH Board Evaluation A.7.3 Disclosure of new Board member profiles All new Board members are required to submit their profiles and interests. and interests Details of new Directors are disclosed to the shareholders at the time of their appointment by way of public announcement as well as in the Annual Report. The Directors are required to report any substantial changes in their professional responsibilities and business associations to the Nominations Committee, which will examine the facts and circumstances and make recommendations to the Board JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Board of Directors Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.7 A.8 Re-Election A.8.1 Non-Executive Directors should be appointed All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a period of three years, and are eligible subject to re-election and to the provisions for re-election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment in the Companies Act relating to the removal Non-Executive Directors can serve up to a maximum of three successive terms of a Director unless an extended Board tenure is necessitated by the exigencies of the Group A.8.2 All Directors including the Chairman, should The Executive Directors, including the Chairman-CEO, are re-elected by shareholders be subject to election by shareholders at the at the first opportunity after their appointment first opportunity after their appointment A.9 Appraisal of Board Performance A.9.1 The Board should annually appraise itself on The Board conducted its annual Board performance appraisal for the financial year its performance in the discharge of its key 2016/17, to ensure that it is carrying out its responsibilities effectively and on a timely responsibilities basis Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.5 A.9.2 The Board should also undertake an annual The Board’s annual performance appraisal covers both the Board’s own performance self-evaluation of its own performance and and that of the Board Sub-Committees that of its Committees Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.5 A.9.3 The Board should state how such Each member self-appraises, on an anonymous basis, the performance of the Board. performance evaluations have been The scoring and open comments are collated by the Senior Independent Director, and conducted the results are analysed to give the Board an indication of its effectiveness as well as areas that required addressing and/or strengthening Despite the original anonymity of the remarks, the open and frank discussions that follow include some Directors identifying themselves as the person making the remark reflecting the openness of the Board A.10 Disclosure of Information in Respect of Directors A.10.1 Profiles of the Board of Directors and Board JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Board of Directors meeting attendance Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.1.4 A.11 Appraisal of the Chief Executive Officer A.11.1/ Appraisal of the CEO against the set strategic The Human Resources and Compensation Committee, chaired by the Senior A.11.2 targets Independent Director, appraised the performance of the Chairman-CEO on the basis of pre-agreed goals for the Group, set in consultation with the Board Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.3.1 52 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary B. Directors Remuneration Rule Reference B.1 Remuneration Procedure B.1.1 The Board of Directors should set up a The Board has created a Human Resources and Compensation Committee, which Remuneration Committee comprises entirely of Non-Executive Directors Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.2 B.1.2 Remuneration Committees should consist All members of the Remuneration Committee are Non-Executive Directors and are exclusively of NEDs appointed by the Board B.1.3 The Chairman and members of the Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.2 Remuneration Committee should be listed in the Annual Report each year B.1.4 Determination of the remuneration of NonThe compensation of Non-Executive Directors is determined in reference to that of Executive Directors other comparable companies. They are paid additional fees for either chairing or being a member of a Sub-Committee and do not receive any performance/incentive payments or share option plans. The total aggregate remuneration of Non-Executive Directors amounted to Rs.17 million B.1.5 The Remuneration Committee should The Human Resource and Compensation Committee consults the Chairman-CEO consult the Chairman-CEO about its about any proposals relating to the remuneration of Executive Directors, other than proposals relating to the remuneration of that of the Chairman-CEO other Executive Directors B.2 The Level and Make Up of Remuneration B.2.1 The Remuneration Committee should The Committee determines the total remuneration package of each Executive provide the packages needed to attract, Director in line with market trends, performance and past remuneration retain and motivate Executive Directors B.2.2 The Remuneration Committee should judge The Human Resources and Compensation Committee understands the value where to position levels of remuneration of of retaining high calibre talent within the organisation and thus determines a the Company, relative to other companies framework for remuneration based on industry trends B.2.3 The Remuneration Committee should be The “Pay for Performance” scheme is monitored and the CEO-Chairman and sensitive to remuneration and employment President of Human Resources brief the Human Resources and Compensation conditions elsewhere in the Company or Committee regularly on employee compensation Group Corporate Governance Commentary Section 2.2.3 B.2.4 The performance-related elements of The remuneration of Executive Directors has an element which is variable, linked to remuneration of Executive Directors the expected return of shareholder funds and the peer adjusted consolidated Group should be designed to align their interests bottom line with those of the Company and main Excluding the Employee Share Options (ESOP) granted, the total aggregate stakeholders remuneration paid to Executive Directors for the year under review was Rs.154 million, of which Rs.41 million was the variable portion linked to the performance benchmark as described above. This is in comparison to the total remuneration paid in 2015/16 amounting to Rs.163 million, of which Rs.76 million was the variable portion. The decline in the variable component, paid in June 2016, arises from the Group not meeting certain performance benchmarks for 2015/16. In addition, the fixed component of pay was impacted due to the inclusion of the proportionate fixed remuneration of the two new Executive Directors who were appointed to the Board with effect from November 2016 2013/14 53% 47% 2014/15 53% 47% 2015/16 53% 47% 2016/17 73% 27% Fixed Variable B.2.5 Executive share options should not be Employee Share Options are valued using a binomial pricing model, and are granted offered at a discount at a price that is deemed fair and equitable JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Share and Warrants Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 53 Rule Reference B.2.6 Designing schemes of performance-related The Human Resources and Compensation Committee considers targets, and remuneration benchmark principles for any performance related pay schemes Corporate Governance Commentary Section 2.2.3 B.2.7 / Compensation commitments in the event of In the event of an early termination of a Director, there are no compensation B.2.8 early termination of the Directors commitments other than for: Executive Directors: as per their employment contract similar to any other employee Non-Executive Director: accrued fees payable, if any, as per the terms of their contract B.2.9 Level of remuneration of NEDs The compensation of Non-Executive Directors is determined in reference to that of other comparable companies B.3 Disclosure of Remuneration B.3.1 Disclosure of remuneration policy and The aggregate remuneration paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors amounted aggregate remuneration to Rs.171 million JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.2 C. Relations with Shareholders C.1 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting and Conduct of General Meetings C.1.1 Counting of proxy votes Complied at the Annual General Meeting (AGM)/Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) C.1.2 Separate resolution to be proposed for each The Group ensures that separate resolutions are proposed for each issue that is substantially separate issue and adoption of taken up at the AGM and shareholders are given an opportunity to vote on each issue Annual Report and accounts separately C.1.3 Heads of Board Sub-Committees to be The Chairpersons of the Audit, Human Resources and Compensation, Nomination and available to answer queries Related Party Transaction Review Committees are available to answer all shareholder queries C.1.4 Notice of Annual General Meeting to be sent Notice of the AGM and related documents are sent to the shareholders along with the to shareholders with other papers Annual Report 30 days prior to the meeting C.1.5 Procedures governing voting at General The Group ensures that a summary of procedures governing voting is sent to the meetings to be informed shareholders, along with every notice of a general meeting C.2.1 Channel to reach all shareholders to The Group makes sure that timely information reaches all shareholders by way of disseminate timely information announcements to the CSE, press releases, the AGM and copies of the Annual Report, and Quarterly Reports C.2 Communication with Shareholders C.2.1 Channel to reach all shareholders of the The Group has “Board approved” policies of communication with shareholders. The company to disseminate timely information primary channel of communication is by means of the AGM C.2.2 Disclose the policy and methodology of The Group focuses on open communication and fair disclosure, with emphasis on communication with shareholders integrity, timeliness, relevance. The Group announcements are made to the CSE, SEC, and the press as and when appropriate, in compliance with any applicable regulatory and statutory timelines C.2.3 Disclose how the above policy is Information is provided to shareholders prior to the AGM to give them an opportunity implemented to raise any issues relating to the businesses of the Group. Shareholders are provided with the Annual Report of JKH in CD form and may at any time elect to receive it in printed form, free of charge Announcements to the CSE and SEC are directed to the said bodies as and when required, while adhering to established protocol C.2.4 Disclose details of the contact person for Questions, comments and requests are addressed to the Company Secretary such disclosure C.2.5 Awareness of Directors on major issues and Shareholders may, at any time, direct questions, and provide comments and concerns of shareholders suggestions to Directors or management of the Group by contacting the Secretaries, the Senior Independent Director or the Chairman. The Investor Relations team also contributes towards keeping the Board informed of shareholder concerns 54 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary Rule Reference C.2.6 Contact person for shareholders Shareholders may contact the Company Secretary for queries and in addition, the Investor Relations team of the Group is responsible for maintaining dialogues and discussions with shareholders to share highlights of the Group’s performance as well as to obtain constructive feedback C.2.7 Process for responding to shareholders The Group has a communication policy approved by the Board C.3 Major And Material Transactions C.3.1 Disclosure of all material facts involving all There were no major or material transactions that materially affected the Group’s material transactions including related party asset base transactions Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.4 JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements D. Accountability and Audit D.1 Financial Reporting D.1.1 The Board should present interim and other The Board of Directors, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, is responsible to price-sensitive public reports to regulators. ensure the accuracy and timeliness of published information and in presenting a true and fair view of the results in the quarterly and annual financial statements All price sensitive information about the Group is promptly communicated to the CSE and such information is also released to employees, the press and shareholders. The Group ensures that information is communicated accurately and in such manner as to avoid the creation, or continuation of a false market D.1.2 The Directors’ Report, which forms part JKH Annual Report 2016/17The Annual Report of the Board of Directors of the Annual Report, should contain declarations by the Directors D.1.3 The Annual Report should contain JKH Annual Report 2016/17 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility statements by Directors and Auditors on JKH Annual Report 2016/17 The Independent Auditors’ Report responsibilities towards financial reporting JKH Annual Report 2016/17 The Annual Report of the Board of Directors D.1.4 The Annual Report should contain a JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Management Discussion and Analysis Management Discussion and Analysis section D.1.5 The Directors should report that the The Directors are satisfied that the Group, its subsidiaries and associates, have business is a going concern adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future This is further justified, by adopting a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements JKH Annual Report 2016/17 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility D.1.6 In the event of a serious loss of capital the In the unlikely event that the net assets of the Group fall below half of shareholder Directors shall summon an extraordinary funds, shareholders would be notified and the requisite resolutions would be passed general meeting to notify the shareholders on the proposed way forward of the position D.1.7 The Board should adequately and accurately JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements disclose Related Party Transactions in its Annual Report D.2 Internal Control D.2.1 The Directors should conduct a review of The Board has taken necessary steps to ensure that internal control systems remain internal controls at least annually robust and effective, via the review and monitoring of such systems on a periodic basis Corporate Governance Commentary Section 3.5 D.2.2 Companies should have an Internal Audit The Group internal audit process is conducted by outsourced parties at regular function intervals, and is managed by the Group Business Process Review (GBPR) function according to an internal audit plan Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 55 Rule Reference D.2.3 The Audit Committee should review The Audit Committee receives regular reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of the process and effectiveness of risk internal controls, and compliance with laws and regulations of the Group management and internal controls The Audit Committee carries out regular review meetings with the management and External Auditors to seek assurance on various matters including internal controls, risk management systems of the Group and quality of financial reporting along with independent auditors Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 D.2.4 Responsibilities of Directors in maintaining a JKH Annual Report 2016/17 The Statement of Directors Responsibility sound system of internal control and content of Statement of Internal Control D.3 Audit Committee D.3.1 The Audit Committee should be comprised As at 31 March 2017, all members including the Chairman of the Audit Committee are of a minimum of two independent NEDs or independent NEDs exclusively by NEDs, a majority of whom The Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 should be independent, whichever is higher D.3.2 The duties of the Audit Committee should Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 include keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and the independence and objectivity of the auditors D.3.3 The Audit Committee should have a written The Committee has access to a written version of its Terms of Reference, which sets Terms of Reference, dealing clearly with its out clearly its mandate and duties authority and duties Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 D.3.4 Disclosure of the Audit Committee Report Corporate Governance Commentary Section 1.2.1 and memberships D.4 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics D.4.1 Availability of a Code of Business Conduct The Group abides by the JKH Code of Conduct, which is part of the company’s culture, and Ethics and is followed by personnel at all levels Corporate Governance Commentary Section 3.1 D.4.2 The Chairman must certify that he/she The Chairman has certified that he/she is not aware of any violation is not aware of any violation of any of the JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Chairman’s Message provisions of this Code D.5 Corporate Governance Disclosures D.5.1 The Directors should include in the A Corporate Governance Report, setting out the manner and extent to which the Company’s Annual Report, a Corporate company has complied, has been included Governance Report JKH Annual Report 2016/17Corporate Governance Commentary E. Institutional Investors E.1 Shareholder Voting E.1.1 Need to conduct regular and structured The Group communicates with its shareholders via announcements made to the dialogue with shareholders based on a CSE, Annual Reports, Quarterly Reports, and the AGM. The Investor Relations team is mutual understanding of objectives primarily responsible for such activities Corporate Governance Commentary Section 2.5 E.2 Evaluation of Governance Disclosures E.2 When evaluating Companies’ governance The Group prides itself in its widely acclaimed approach to corporate governance arrangements, particularly those relating and as such, encourages investors of all types to give weight to all relevant factors to Board structure and composition, brought to their attention institutional investors should be encouraged to give due weight to all relevant factors drawn to their attention 56 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Governance Commentary F. Other Investors Rule Reference F.1 Investing /Divesting Decision F.1 Individual shareholders, investing directly in The Investor Relations team aids investors, both local and foreign, to carry out shares of companies should be encouraged adequate analysis on the Group and its subsidiaries. Portfolio managers, and analysts to carry out adequate analysis or seek covering the Group, are given the freedom to conduct structured discussions with the independent advice in investing or divesting senior management, through which they are able to obtain all necessary information decisions in order to form a sound, and accurate view of the economic prospects of the Group, and the industries it operates in F.2 Shareholder Voting F.2 Individual shareholders should be The Group encourages all shareholders to participate in the AGM/EGM, and exercise encouraged to participate in General their voting rights Meetings of companies and exercise their voting rights G. Sustainability Reporting G. 1 Principles of Sustainability Reporting G.1.1 / Disclosure on adherence to sustainability The Group places great importance on sustainable development. During the 2016/17 G.1.7 principles financial year, the Group took steps to realign its approach on sustainability to support the Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the United Nations in 2015 JKH Annual Report 2016/17 Management Discussion and Analysis M A N A G E M E N T D I S C U S S I O N & A N A LY S I S Crafting the Future This section of the Report is subdivided into the Group Consolidated Review and the Industry Group Review. The Group Consolidated Review analyses Group performance whilst the Industry Group Review details the performance of each industry group in the year under review. 60 Group Consolidated Review • 116 Industry Group Review G R O U P C O N S O L I D AT E D R E V I E W Inspiring Excellence 60 The Economy • 63 Capital Management Review • 83 Outlook • 85 Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management • 91 Materiality and Stakeholder Relationships • 101 Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls • 106 Share and Warrant Information 60 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review THE ECONOMY The following is a discussion on the This is the second Integrated Report of John Keells Holdings PLC in movement of the primary macro-economic accordance with the Integrated Reporting Framework of the International variables during the year under review and the resultant impacts on the performance of Integrated Reporting Council. The Report is centered on the theme the Group’s businesses. A detailed discussion “Corporate Craftsmanship”, which resonates with how the Group has built on the performance of the Sri Lankan its portfolio of businesses. The continuous enhancement of our sector economy is found under the Supplementary Information section of this Report. A more expertise, partnerships with communities and people whose lives we comprehensive discussion of the strategies touch, and our reputation for delivering to the highest of standards with and risks pertaining to the industry groups are innovation, creativity and ﬁnesse, come together to craft the John Keells covered in the Chairman’s Message, Industry Group to be a model of business excellence. Group Review and Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls sections of this Report. In order to provide our stakeholders with heightened volatility and policy uncertainty an insightful view of the Group’s operations, due to unanticipated outcomes of global the Management Discussion and Analysis economic and political developments. (MD&A) section of this Report consists of the Increased investment expenditure, following: particularly in the construction sector, drove economic growth during the year, which was • Group Consolidated Review off-set by the notable decline in agricultural • Industry Group Review activity as a result of supply side disruptions on account of the aforementioned adverse Whilst the Group Consolidated Review is a weather conditions that prevailed during the helicopter view of the Group’s performance, year. the Industry Group Review section provides a detailed discussion on each of the industry A notable development in June 2016 was group’s performance during the year under the approval by the International Monetary review. Fund (IMF) for a three year USD 1.50 billion Extended Fund Facility (EFF) to support The Group Consolidated Review consists of the country’s Balance of Payments (BOP) the following sections: position and the economic reform agenda of the Government. The Government’s reform • The Economy programme, supported by the IMF, aims to reduce the fiscal deficit, rebuild foreign • Capital Management Review exchange reserves, and introduce a simpler, • Outlook more equitable tax system to restore macro• Strategy, Resource Allocation and economic stability and promote inclusive Portfolio Management growth. Under the recommendations of the • Materiality and Stakeholder Relationships IMF, the CBSL is also expected to adopt and move towards a flexible inflation targeting • Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls (FIT) monetary framework from the previous • Share and Warrant Information monetary targeting framework. It is expected that the FIT framework for the conduct of The Economy monetary policy would ensure price stability The Sri Lankan economy grew by 4.4 per in the economy on a sustainable basis, cent for the calendar year 2016, compared thereby creating an enabling environment for to 4.8 per cent GDP growth recorded in businesses by boosting confidence, leading 2015, primarily as a result of unfavourable to prospects of higher economic growth. weather conditions, tightening of monetary policy, measures to contain the fiscal deficit, See page 268 for a discussion on the Sri Lankan Economy. This is complemented with a 7 year summary of key economic indicators. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 61 Movement Cause Impact to JKH GDP growth Sri Lanka’s GDP The economic growth in 2016 was mainly Whilst the overall performance grew by 4.4 per supported by the Industries sector, of the Group demonstrated Rs. Bn % cent in 2016 which recorded a significant growth of significant growth over the 10,000 5.5 compared to 4.8 6.7 per cent. Services related activities previous year, the slow-down per cent in 2015. also contributed positively to the growth in economic growth impacted 8,000 5.0 during the year, expanding by a modest consumer and business sentiment 6,000 4.5 4.2 per cent compared to 5.7 per cent in leading to a certain moderation the previous year. The Agriculture sector of business activity, particularly 4,000 4.0 witnessed a sizeable decline of 4.2 per cent during the fourth quarter of the from the positive growth of 4.8 per cent year. 2,000 3.5 recorded in the previous year. Sri Lanka sustained its economic growth momentum 0 3.0 despite challenging global and domestic 2014 2015 2016 environments which resulted in reduced Agriculture Industries Services export earnings and an increase in foreign GDP growth outflows from Government securities. The growth in 2016 was largely driven by increased investment expenditure, whilst consumption expenditure witnessed a slowdown in response to the policy environment in place. Year-on-year Inflationary pressures during the year Although overall growth for the Inﬂation headline inflation, were compounded by the impact of consumer focused businesses NCPI % based on the NCPI, domestic supply side disruptions, remained positive for the year, the 122 10 increased to 8.6 particularly due to prevailing adverse rising inflationary trend during the 120 118 per cent in March weather conditions, increase in value financial year partially impacted 8 116 2017 from 2.2 added tax (VAT) and rising international consumer discretionary spending 114 per cent in March commodity prices. Core inflation, which which led to a moderation in the 6 112 2016. Year-onmeasures the underlying inflationary growth of the Consumer Foods 110 year core inflation, pressures in the economy, reflected and Retail industry group during 4 108 based on the NCPI an upward trend in 2016 indicating a the fourth quarter of the financial 106 increased to 7.0 possible sign of demand pressures on the year. There was no impact on the 104 2 per cent in March economy. margins of the businesses, as there 102 100 0 2017 from 5.0 were no significant impacts on the Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov per cent in March price levels of raw materials. Dec 2016. Jan Feb Mar FY 2016/17 FY 2015/16 NCPI inﬂation 2016/17 (headline) Domestic interest rates AWPLR increased The rise in market interest rates since July The Group witnessed an overall to 11.79 per cent 2016 reflected the monetary tightening increase in finance income due to the % in March 2017 measures that were adopted in early 2016 higher interest rates and unrealised 13 compared to 9.19 in view of rising inflationary pressures and gains recorded from short term per cent in the the pressure on market interest rates due equity investments made by Union 12 previous year. to foreign selling of Government securities. Assurance PLC. However, the Group’s The three month At the March 2017 Monetary Board meeting, finance expense decreased on account Government T-bill it was decided that the SDFR and the of the previous year including an 11 rate was 9.63 per SLFR will be increased by 25 basis points unrealised mark-to-market loss which cent in March each, to 7.25 per cent and 8.75 per cent, is not reflected in finance expense in 10 2017 compared respectively, as a precautionary measure the current year. The interest expense to 8.90 per cent in in order to contain the build-up of adverse of the Group increased primarily on 9 March 2016. inflation expectations and the possible account of higher interest rates and Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 acceleration of demand side inflationary the increase in overall debt. During the Oct 16 pressures through continued monetary and latter half of the year, the Group took Nov 16 Dec 16 Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 Average weighted credit expansion. initiatives to invest in more medium prime lending rate (weekly) term investments (12 months and below) based on the Group’s rate outlook for the year. 62 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review THE ECONOMY Movement Cause Impact to JKH Global interest rates 3 month USD The 3 month USD LIBOR was generally The steady rise of 3 month US LIBOR increased stable for the first few months of 2016 Dollar LIBOR rates during most % to 1.15 per cent in and averaged 0.63 per cent. Although the part of the calendar year was as 1.3 March 2017 from US Federal Reserve delayed policy rate expected by the Group. Given the 1.2 0.63 per cent in hikes, a run-up in the rate was witnessed likelihood of further rate increases 1.1 March 2016. since June 2016 due to a mix of structural in 2017 and beyond by the Federal 1.0 changes in the form of regulatory reform Reserve, and the pricing based on in the US money market fund industry the interest rate swap curve, the 0.9 and financial system uncertainties. As Group maintains a partial hedge 0.8 anticipated, the Federal Reserve Open on the USD 395 million syndicated 0.7 Market Committee voted to raise the federal loan facility as a prudent measure 0.6 fund rate by a quarter percentage point to to mitigate the Group’s exposure 0.5 between 0.5 per cent and 0.75 per cent in to rate fluctuations. The Group Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 December 2016, which was followed by a also consciously invested its US Oct 16 further rate hike in March 2017, to between Dollar cash holdings in floating rate Nov 16 Dec 16 Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 3 month US Dollar LIBOR 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent; which reflects deposits which helped more than its confidence in the US economy on the off-set the negative impacts arising back of strengthening labour market from the rise in LIBOR during the conditions and inflation firming up towards year. policy makers' 2 per cent target. The Rupee The exchange rate was maintained at The depreciation of the Rupee Exchange rates depreciated to relatively stable levels during the first had a positive financial impact Rs. Rs.151.99 as at half of 2016, with support from the on businesses having Dollar 154 31 March 2017 supply of foreign exchange liquidity denominated income streams, against the US which depleted the reserves of the particularly in the Leisure industry 152 Dollar compared CBSL. However, the Rupee depreciated group. However, due to differences to its closing rate at a higher rate in the second half of the of timing, there were short term 150 of Rs.144.69 as at year on the back of Dollar demand from impacts on the translation on foreign March 2016. higher imports and net foreign outflows currency debt in Leisure. Given 148 from Government securities, which the higher reliance on imported was driven by the expectation and the inputs, the Consumer Foods and 146 subsequent increase in interest rates Office Automation businesses took by the US Federal Reserve Bank, amidst proactive steps to mitigate exchange 144 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 which, the CBSL adopted a more flexible rate risks. The Consumer Foods Sep 16 exchange rate policy. sector was impacted to an extent in Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 LKR/USD exchange rate the last two quarters of the financial year under review, due to increased global commodity prices towards the latter part of 2016, although the impacts were not material in the context of the Group. In addition to implementing foreign exchange exposure management strategies, the Group continued to maintain, or where relevant, create a “natural hedge” to manage the volatility of the foreign exchange markets. It is noted that the exchange rate exposure arising from the “Cinnamon Life” project is mitigated to an extent since the functional currency of the project company, Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, is in US Dollars. Note: AWPLR Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate; CBSL Central Bank of Sri Lanka; GDP Gross Domestic Product; LIBOR London Inter-Bank Offered Rate; NCPI National Consumer Price Index; SDFR rate Standing Deposit Facility Rate; SLFR rate Standing Lending Facility Rate; SRR Statutory Reserve Ratio Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 63 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Financial and Manufactured Capital Review Revenue In the year under review, Group revenue increased by 13 per cent to Rs.106.27 billion [2015/16: Rs.93.71 billion] with primary contributions from the Consumer Foods and Retail (CF&R), Leisure and Transportation industry groups. The significant revenue growth of CF&R, particularly from Rs. 23.32Bn the Retail sector, offset the decrease in revenue from the Property industry group. The revenue Group EBIT decline in the Property industry group is on account of the revenue recognition cycle, where the A growth of 16 per cent majority of the revenue of the 7th Sense on Gregory’s Road residential project was recorded in the previous financial year. Revenue emanating from domestic sources was Rs.81.78 billion [2015/16: Rs.79.2 billion]. Fair value gains on investment property Group revenue inclusive of equity accounted investees increased by 14 per cent to Rs.119.62 were recorded at Rs.484 million in 2016/17, billion [2015/16: Rs.104.75 billion]. Revenue from equity accounted investees increased by comprising of gains of Rs.290 million, Rs.101 16 per cent to Rs.13.35 billion compared to the Rs.11.47 billion in the previous year. With the million and Rs.92 million at Property, Other exception of Maersk Lanka, all equity accounted investees recorded an increase in revenue. including Plantation Services and CF&R, The primary increases were from South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) and Fairfirst Insurance respectively. This compares with a total of Limited (previously known as Union Assurance General Limited). Rs.263 million recorded in the previous year. In terms of composition of EBIT, Leisure was the primary contributor with a 25 per Group revenue composition cent contribution, followed by CF&R and 3% 3% Other including Plantation Services with 9% 8% contributions of 24 per cent and 23 per cent, 15% 16% 12% 11% respectively. 2016/17 22% 2015/16 23% The graph that follows illustrates the Group EBIT, EBITDA and EBIT margins; indicating 38% 35% 1% its overall upward trend over the five year 4% period, demonstrating the robust business performance of the Group. Transportation Financial Services Leisure Information Technology Property Other including Plantation Services Consumer Foods and Retail Group EBIT, EBITDA and EBIT margins Rs.mn 19.3 19.5 % 30,000 18.7 20 Earnings Before Interest and Tax 17.7 17.0 During the year under review, the earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) increased by 16 per 25,000 16 cent to Rs.23.32 billion [2015/16: Rs.20.19 billion] driven by increases in contributions from the 20,000 Other including Plantation Services and CF&R industry groups. 12 15,000 8 10,000 Group EBIT composition 4 5,000 13% 19% 13% 0 0 23% 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 1% Depreciation and amortisation EBIT 3% 11% 2016/17 25% 2015/16 26% EBIT margin 9% 3% 22% 24% 8% Transportation Financial Services Leisure Information Technology Property Other including Plantation Services Consumer Foods and Retail 64 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Reported Recurring year. Further details on finance income EBIT margins (%) can be found in the Notes to the Financial 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Statements section of the Annual Report. Transportation 16.9 15.0 16.9 15.0 Leisure 22.7 21.1 22.7 21.1 Finance Expense Property 61.6 38.6 35.7 34.1 The finance expense, which includes interest expense, of the Group decreased to Rs.436 Consumer Foods and Retail 12.0 12.3 11.8 12.3 million from Rs.994 million recorded in the Financial Services 14.9 19.3 14.9 19.3 previous year. Finance expense in 2015/16 Information Technology 5.6 1.9 5.6 1.9 included mark-to-market losses amounting Other including Plantation Services 182.3 146.7 178.8 144.8 to Rs.602 million on short term financial Group 19.5 19.3 19.1 19.0 instruments of the life insurance fund at Union Assurance PLC, with no corresponding figure for 2016/17. For the year under review, In addition to the discussion on the financial was recorded in the previous year, arising a mark-to-market gain of Rs.267 million is performance as reported, the Group out of the termination of business with a key classified under finance income. Excluding Consolidated Review will also analyse the client in the BPO business because of nonthe aforementioned loss from the previous Group performance at a recurring levelsettlement. In spite of the CF&R industry year, the increase in interest rates had a where the impacts of fair value gains on group recording a significant improvement negative impact on finance expenses arising investment property will be excluded, as in overall performance, its EBIT margin is from an increase in interest expense this year these do not arise as a result of the Group’s comparatively lower than the other industry particularly with the increase in total Group ongoing core operations. Accordingly, the groups as the Retail industry, which is debt. recurring EBIT for the year under review increasingly a more significant contributor increased by 15 per cent to Rs.22.84 billion to Group performance, is in general Leisure accounted for approximately 47 per compared to Rs.19.93 billion in the previous characterised by low EBIT margins, both cent of the total finance expense, followed by year. locally and globally. Other including Plantation Services with 35 per cent, and Property and Transportation The above table illustrates the reported and Finance Income contributing equal amounts of 6 per cent recurring EBIT margins for each industry During the period under review, the finance each, respectively. group. The recurring Group EBIT margin income of the Group increased by 25 per cent increased marginally to 19.1 per cent from to Rs.10.03 billion [2015/16: Rs.8.01 billion], During the year, Property and Leisure 19.0 per cent in the previous year. With the of which the composition is given in the table contributed to an increase in Group debt, exception of Consumer Foods and Retail and below. which was off-set to an extent by the decline in Financial Services, all other industry groups Other including Plantation Services. Finance achieved a growth in recurring EBIT margins. Interest income relating to Union Assurance expense incurred under the syndicated For detailed discussions on the growth in PLC (UA) of Rs.3.10 billion [2015/16: Rs.2.57 project development facility of Cinnamon EBIT for the respective industry groups, refer billion], net of related costs, is classified Life is capitalised as work-in-progress, in the Industry Group Review section of this under operating segment results on the basis accordance with the Group accounting policy Report. that interest income from the life insurance and in keeping with accounting standards, funds is considered as operational income. under other non-current assets. The interest The increase in the recurring EBIT margin The increase in interest income of the Group, cover of the Group, excluding unrealised in the Other including Plantation Services including UA, to Rs.9.02 billion is mainly due gains and losses from mark-to-market industry group is driven by the increase in to higher interest rates. The decrease in other investments, increased to 52.8 times from interest income generated on the Group’s finance income to Rs.1.02 billion is mainly 51.5 times in the previous year, on account of Rupee and US Dollar portfolios, as a result attributable to a decrease in exchange rate an increase in earnings. of improved interest rates. The increase in gains on the Company’s foreign currency the EBIT margin of Information Technology denominated cash holdings to Rs.583 million is mainly due to a bad debt provision that from Rs.1.61 billion recorded in the previous The recurring EBIT for the year Finance income (Rs.‘000s) 2016/17 2015/16 under review increased by 15 per Interest income from life insurance policy holder funds at UA* 3,110,973 2,566,963 cent to Rs.22.84 billion compared Interest income of Group excluding UA 5,905,843 3,659,192 to Rs.19.93 billion in the previous Capital gains from disposals of private equity investments of JKH 9 82,406 year. Other finance income 1,016,456 1,702,391 Total 10,033,281 8,010,952 * UA Union Assurance PLC Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 65 Non-Controlling Interest Group ﬁnance expense Non-controlling interest (NCI) increased by 7 2% per cent to Rs.1.84 billion [2015/16: Rs.1.72 6% 14% billion] mainly due to the increase in profits 17% 1% at Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS), which also 35% 3% includes the profits from its 100 per cent 3% owned subsidiary JayKay Marketing Services 2016/17 47% 2015/16 Limited, where there is a relatively higher 2% 61% non-controlling interest. The NCI share of PAT 4% 6% for 2016/17 is 10 per cent against 11 per cent in the previous year. Transportation Financial Services Profit Attributable to Equity Holders of Leisure Information Technology Property Other including Plantation Services the Parent Consumer Foods and Retail The profit attributable to equity holders of the parent increased by 16 per cent to Rs.16.28 billion [2015/16: Rs.14.07 billion]. The net profit margin of the Group increased marginally to 13.6 per cent from 13.4 per Interest expense and interest coverage The proﬁt attributable to equity cent in the previous year. Rs.mn % holders of the parent increased The recurring net profit attributable to equity 1,400 52.8 60 by 16 per cent to Rs.16.33 billion 51.5 holders increased by 15 per cent to Rs.15.86 1,200 50 [2015/16: Rs.14.07 billion]. The billion from Rs.13.85 billion in the previous 1,000 net proﬁt margin of the Group year whilst the recurring net profit margin of 40 the Group increased to 13.3 per cent against 800 27.7 increased marginally to 13.6 per 30 13.2 per cent in the previous year. 600 cent from 13.4 per cent in the 15.3 13.6 20 previous year. 400 10 Proﬁt attributable to equity holders 200 and net proﬁt ratio 0 0 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Rs.mn % Accordingly, the effective tax rate on Group 18,000 14.0 13.6 16 profits increased to 20.8 per cent as against 13.4 12.8 Interest expense Interest cover 16,000 12.1 14 17.7 per cent in the previous year. 14,000 12 12,000 Taxation Other including Plantation Services, CF&R 10 10,000 During the year under review, Group tax and Leisure were the highest contributors 8 8,000 expense increased by 40 per cent to Rs.4.77 to the Group tax expense with Rs.2.13 billion, 6 6,000 billion [2015/16: Rs.3.41 billion]. The Group Rs.1.57 billion and Rs.713 million respectively. 4,000 4 tax expense comprised primarily of Rs.3.82 For further details on tax impacts of the Group refer to the Notes to the Financial Statements 2,000 2 billion from income tax on Group profits and Rs.954 million from withholding tax from section of the Annual Report. 0 0 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 inter-company dividends. Profit After Tax Proﬁt attributable Net proﬁt % For the year under review, the Group profit to equity holders The increase in the tax expense of Rs.1.36 billion was mainly on account of an increase after taxation (PAT) was Rs.18.12 billion in the income tax on Group profits and [2015/16: Rs.15.79 billion]. Of the industry dividend tax amounting to Rs.1.23 billion and groups, Leisure, CF&R and Other including Rs.130 million respectively. The increase in Plantation Services were the highest income tax was primarily on account of the contributors to PAT with contributions of higher taxes at the Holding Company and the Rs.5.01 billion [2015/16: Rs.4.37 billion], CF&R industry group. The Holding Company Rs.3.90 billion [2015/16: Rs.3.23 billion] recorded an increase in interest income and Rs.3.10 billion [2015/16: Rs.2.34 on account of higher interest rates whilst billion], respectively. Excluding the gains on CF&R recorded an increase in profits, both of investment property, the recurring Group PAT which are taxed at a higher effective tax rate. increased by 14 per cent to Rs.17.63 billion from Rs.15.53 billion in the previous year. 66 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Contribution to the Sri Lankan Economy The following economic value statement depicts the generation of wealth and its distribution among the stakeholders in all business and social activities throughout the entire value chain. It also reveals the amounts reinvested for the replacement of assets and retained for the growth and Rs. 259.12Bn development of operations. An overview of the Group’s total purchases of goods and raw materials Average Group asset base from its local community is found in the ensuing Social and Relationship Capital discussion and A growth of 13 per cent Industry Group Review section of the Report. Economic value statement (Rs. million) 2016/17 2015/16 During the year under review, the Group return on capital employed (ROCE) increased Direct economic value generated to 11.5 per cent in comparison with the Revenue 106,273 93,710 previous year, driven by an improved EBIT Finance income 10,033 8,011 margin and higher capital structure ratio. The Share of results of equity accounted investees 3,303 2,781 asset turnover ratio remained static at 0.46. Profit on sale of assets and other income 1,765 2,132 The top line growth was 13 per cent in the Valuation gain on investment property 484 263 year under review, whilst the average asset base of the Group increased by 13 per cent to 121,858 106,896 Rs.259.12 billion [2015/16: Rs.229.53 billion]. Economic value distributed The increase in the average asset base Operating costs 81,548 69,820 stemmed mainly from the revaluation gain Employee wages and benefits 12,746 11,623 on property, plant and equipment amounting Payments to providers of funds 8,339 10,763 to Rs.10.03 billion, the inclusion of work-inPayments to Government 6,285 4,694 progress costs relating to the “Cinnamon Community investments 144 125 Life” project amounting to Rs.5.93 billion 109,062 104,838 and the increase in short term investments Economic value retained by Rs.6.54 billion. For further details on the Depreciation 2,875 2,782 ROCE of each of the industry groups, refer the Amortisation 926 1,059 Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management and the Industry Group Analysis Profit after dividends 8,995 6,032 sections of the Report. 12,796 9,873 Quarterly Performance at a Glance 2016/17 (Rs. million) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Net revenue 22,732 25,756 27,937 29,848 106,273 PBT 3,584 5,171 6,725 7,408 22,888 Transportation 711 668 845 875 3,098 Leisure 558 1,364 1,362 2,437 5,721 Property 57 52 196 359 665 Consumer Foods and Retail 1,302 1,603 1,287 1,274 5,466 Financial Services 196 244 1,140 517 2,097 Information Technology 25 162 195 230 612 Other including Plantation Services 735 1,079 1,700 1,716 5,229 Profit attributable to equity shareholders 2,371 3,769 5,145 4,990 16,275 Total assets 241,123 247,411 260,255 277,272 277,272 Total equity 168,526 173,371 181,402 194,330 194,330 Total debt 20,501 19,896 22,582 22,766 22,766 Return on Capital Employed Capital Reported EBIT Asset = x x structure ROCE (%) margin (%) turnover leverage 2016/17 11.5 = 19.5 x 0.46 x 1.28 2015/16 11.1 = 19.3 x 0.46 x 1.26 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 67 Return on Equity Return on assets Common earnings Capital structure Reported ROE (%) = x x (%) leverage leverage 2016/17 9.8 = 7.0 x 0.90 x 1.55 2015/16 9.6 = 6.9 x 0.89 x 1.57 The Group return on equity (ROE) marginally increased to 9.8 per cent compared to 9.6 per cent recorded in 2015/16, due to similar impacts as discussed under Group ROCE. Adjusted ROCE and ROE Similar to the previous years, in order to provide our readers with further insight on the Group’s ROCE and ROE movements, the following adjustments are considered in re-assessing the ratios. ROCE When considering the Group capital employed for 2016/17, the following items are eliminated from the capital base, given the long gestation period. i. Equity and debt funding of the Cinnamon Life project: • Rs.34.25 billion received from the 2013 Rights Issue, and, 2015 and 2016 Warrant Issues. • Syndicated project development facility amounting to Rs.12.37 billion drawn directly by Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited. ii. The cumulative finance income portion of Rs.4.92 billion received during the period 2013/14 to 2016/17 on account of the funds from the 2013 Rights Issue and 2015 and 2016 Warrants Issue. iii. Investment property gains amounting to Rs.796 million for the period 2014/15 to 2016/17. iv. Revaluation of property, plant and equipment amounting to Rs.13.41 billion for the period 2014/15 to 2016/17. Similarly, the Group EBIT recorded for the year 2016/17 is adjusted for the following items: i. Finance income of Rs.1.87 billion received from the investment of the 2013 Rights Issue, and, 2015 and 2016 Warrants Issue funds. ii. Investment property gains of Rs.484 million. Based on the above, the adjusted industry group and overall Group ROCE is as illustrated in the table below. Reported ROCE (%) ROCE adjusted for Rights and ROCE adjusted for Rights and Warrants Issue and Cinnamon Warrant Issue, Cinnamon Life Life debt (%) debt, investment property, gains and revaluations (%) 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Transportation 19.2 16.0 19.2 16.0 19.3 16.1 Leisure 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0 11.4 11.5 Property 1.7 4.8 4.3 10.3 2.6 10.0 Consumer Foods and Retail 60.4 55.7 60.4 55.7 61.4 63.1 Financial Services 28.0 24.2 28.0 24.2 28.2 26.2 Information Technology 26.9 6.8 26.9 6.8 26.9 6.8 Other including Plantation Services 7.9 6.6 7.9 7.0 7.7 7.0 Group 11.5 11.1 13.9 13.4 14.4 14.3 The Group ROCE post the aforementioned adjustment is further analysed as follows: Capital structure Adjusted ROCE (%) = EBIT margin (%) x Asset turnover x leverage 2016/17 14.4 = 17.5 x 0.59 x 1.38 2015/16 14.3 = 17.8 x 0.58 x 1.37 68 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Adjusted ROCE, capital employed and EBIT (Size of bubble represents the relative contribution to EBIT in Rs. million) ROCE (%) 80.0 70.0 CF&R 60.0 5,394 50.0 Financial Services 40.0 IT 2,097 Transportation 621 3,124 30.0 20.0 Other Leisure 10.0 Property 3,414 5,924 400 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 (10.0) Capital employed (Rs. Bn) ROE Similarly, when adjusted for the above described impacts, the adjusted ROE for the Group is; Reported ROE (%) ROE adjusted for Rights and ROE adjusted for Rights and Warrants Issue and Cinnamon Warrant Issue, Cinnamon Life Life debt (%) debt, investment property, gains and revaluations (%) 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Group 9.8 9.6 11.2 11.1 11.5 11.8 A Du-pont analysis of the adjusted Group ROE is as follows; Return on assets Common earnings Capital structure Adjusted ROE (%) = x x (%) leverage leverage 2016/17 11.5 = 7.8 x 0.91 x 1.62 2015/16 11.8 = 8.0 x 0.90 x 1.65 The adjusted ROE declined to 11.5 per cent compared with the previous year due to a decrease in the return on assets an the relative leverage. The need for a higher debt/equity ratio has been recognised with a view to improving the ROE. Financial Position Assets (Rs. mn) Equity and Liabilities (Rs. mn) For the period under review, the Group’s total assets increased by Rs.36.30 billion to 28,049 Rs.277.27 billion [2015/16: Rs.240.98 billion], 87,670 54,892 23,936 mainly on account of additions to property, 80,199 48,559 35,172 plant and equipment, other non-current 17,293 15,696 74,634 32,837 assets and short term investments. The 14,664 13,499 12,279 increase in other non-current assets was 15,859 94,706 mainly on account of work-in-progress costs 69,321 82,488 178,635 relating to the “Cinnamon Life” project and 154,982 137,798 the lease rental advance paid for Cinnamon 58,272 63,625 77,602 Dhonveli Maldives. The cash and short term investments increased to Rs.84.29 billion 218,086 240,975 277,272 277,272 240,975 218,086 [2015/16: Rs.77.76 billion], mainly on account 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 of the cash earnings generated during the Cash, short term investments and other investments Current liabilities year and the cash infusion from the 2016 Inventories and receivables Non current liabilities Warrant Issue. Other non current assets Non controlling interests Property, plant and equipment and leasehold rentals paid in advance Shareholders' funds Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 69 During the year under review, despite an increase in overall Group debt and the cash equity infusion of Rs.4.34 billion to the “Cinnamon Life” project, net cash of the Group increased to Rs.55.31 billion from the Rs.51.85 billion recorded in 2015/16. Net cash, excludes short term Rs. 22.77Bn investments of life fund of Union Asssurance PLC and customer advances from Cinnamon Life . Group debt A growth of 10 per cent Working Capital/Liquidity industry groups continued to account for a Liquidity management majority of the Group’s total debt with Rs.13.44 Rs. Bn billion and Rs.5.87 billion respectively. 120 Where businesses have foreign currency 100 denominated incomes, borrowings in foreign currency are effected to take advantage of the 80 comparatively lower cost of foreign currency debt. This strategy has been practiced in the 60 Leisure industry group, in particular, where foreign currency receipts are regularly 40 monitored to proactively evaluate the borrowing capacity of the business. Currently, 20 approximately Rs.15.30 billion of the overall debt of the Group is denominated in foreign currency, primarily due to the increased 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 debt of Cinnamon Life . The exchange rate Current assets Cash and short term investments Current liabilities exposure arising from the “Cinnamon Life” project is mitigated to an extent since the functional currency of Waterfront Properties Net working capital of the Group increased to Net cash from operating activities increased (Private) Limited, its project company, is in US Rs.76.91 billion as at 31 March 2017 [2015/16: by Rs.507 million to Rs.21.02 billion as at 31 Dollars. Rs.70.93 billion]. Current assets recorded an March 2017, mainly due to an increase in increase on account of the aforementioned finance income amounting to Rs.1.42 billion. The Other including Plantation Services cash infusion from the 2016 Warrant Issue. Net cash used in investing activities increased industry group was the highest contributor Current liabilities also recorded an overall to Rs.17.67 billion mainly due to the increase to the decrease in Group debt as a result of increase primarily due to an increase in trade in the purchases of short term investments the loan balance of the USD 10 million IFC and other payables and bank over drafts. of the life fund of UA and an extension of the facility being fully repaid as of 31 March head lease of Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives. 2017. Except for Other including Plantation Considering its strong financial position, the Net cash used in financing activities was Services, all other industry groups recorded Group is confident of its ability to comfortably Rs.4.11 billion in 2016/17 compared against an increase in debt. meet its short and medium term funding the Rs.7.72 billion in the previous financial and debt repayment obligations, pursue year. The decrease was primarily due to The debt to equity ratio of the Group reduced organic and acquisitive growth opportunities the increase in proceeds from short term to 11.7 per cent in the current year from 12.3 and to meet other obligations. In terms of borrowings coupled with an increase in debt per cent in the previous year. The net debt the composition of the liquid assets of the drawdown for the “Cinnamon Life” project and (cash) cash to equity ratio was a negative Group, Other including Plantation Services cash infusion from the 2016 Warrant Issue. 28.5 per cent as against a negative 30.8 per accounted for more than half of the cash cent in the previous year. The debt to EBITDA and cash equivalents, of which a majority of Leverage and Capital Structure cover of the Group stood largely unchanged assets are in the Holding Company, followed Capital Structure at 0.8 times compared to the 0.8 times in by the Financial Services and Leisure A higher proportion of the Group’s total the previous year. This underscores the industry groups. assets at Rs.277.27 billion were funded by Group’s ability to increase its leverage, as and shareholder’s funds (64 per cent) whilst the when required, to fund its future investment Cash Flow remainder was funded by a combination of pipeline. Notwithstanding the significant cash Cash and cash equivalents decreased by non-controlling interests (6 per cent), long reserves of the Group, which is earmarked for Rs.755 million to Rs.47.64 billion by the end of term creditors (20 per cent) and short term equity commitments of the Cinnamon Life the current financial year [2015/16: Rs.48.40 creditors (10 per cent). The long term funding project and other investments in the pipeline, billion] due to a change in the maturity profile of assets at Rs.249.22 billion contributed to the Group is cognizant of the ability to increase of investments. Cash and cash equivalents 90 per cent of total assets. its leverage and optimise equity returns. The in the Statement of Cash Flows comprise capital structure of recent investments have of cash, short-term investments with a Debt been on the basis of increased leverage maturity of three months or less and net of The consolidated debt of the Group increased at a project company level, although these outstanding bank overdrafts. to Rs.22.77 billion from Rs.20.75 billion in investments have been relatively lower in the the previous year. The Property and Leisure context of the assets of the Group. 70 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW 2016/17 2015/16 the Group established sustainability goals aimed at conserving energy and optimisation Current ratio (times) 3.7 4.0 of water usage both of which are material Quick ratio (times) 3.5 3.8 areas. The Group liaised with external Net working capital (Rs. mn) 76,914 70,927 consultants who conducted in-depth studies Asset turnover (times) 0.5 0.5 to ascertain optimisation strategies and Capital employed (Rs. mn) 217,096 189,230 technologies for the setting of environmental Total debt (Rs. mn) 22,766 20,750 goals for the Group to be achieved by the end of the financial year 2020. The year Net debt (cash) (Rs. mn) (55,309) (51,849) 2015/16 was established as the baseline Debt/equity ratio (%) 11.7 12.3 for the goal setting process. The goal setting Net debt (cash)/equity ratio (%) (28.5) (30.8) process commenced with the Leisure and Long-term debt to total debt (%) 62.4 66.1 CF&R industry groups as they account for a Debt/total assets (%) 8.2 8.6 majority of resource utilisation in the areas Liabilities to tangible net worth 0.4 0.4 of energy and water. The feasibility of the Debt/EBITDA (times) 0.8 0.8 proposed strategies was analysed, followed Net debt/EBITDA (2.0) (2.1) by a commitment by the business units and sectors to deliver on the actions agreed upon, after which the Group arrived at the goal for The Group long term debt to total debt During the year under review, and in the financial year 2020. The monitoring of decreased to 62.4 per cent from 66.1 per furtherance of its commitment to managing progress on achievement of goals will be as cent primarily due to a 22 per cent increase its Natural Capital with increasing productivity, follows. in short term debt in the year under review. Statement of Changes in Equity Monitoring of Monitoring of annual Sustainability goal for 2019/20 Total equity of the Group increased by Rs.25.90 quarterly progression progression billion to Rs.194.33 billion [2015/16: 168.48 Achieve 12 per cent reduction in energy Monitor and update Disclose progression of billion]. The main increases were on account consumption by March 2020 progression of committed initiatives of the profit after tax of Rs.18.12 billion, other Achieve 6 per cent reduction in water usage committed initiatives in the Annual Report to comprehensive income of Rs.11.69 billion and by March 2020 internally stakeholders each year the funds generated from the exercise of the 2016 Warrant amounting to Rs.3.18 billion, which were partially offset by the dividends paid during the year amounting to Rs.7.28 The Group liaised with external consultants who conducted in-depth billion. studies to ascertain optimisation strategies and technologies for the setting of environmental goals for the Group to be achieved by the end of Concluding on the Group’s Financial and the ﬁnancial year 2020. Manufactured Capital Review, the section which follows discusses the third aspect of Capital Management, this being the Natural Capital. This section will discuss the Group’s management Energy and Carbon Footprint of its environmental impacts as well as the During the year under review, the total energy consumption within the Group was 672,508 GJ outcomes and value creation processes [2015/16: 657,770 GJ] which was derived from non-renewable and renewable energy sources through its sustainability and corporate social and the national grid. responsibility agenda, respectively. Total power consumed in GJ 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Natural Capital Review The management strategy of Natural Capital 1 Energy consumption from nonis of vital importance for the long term and renewable sources 220,911 213,747 223,321 sustainable value creation to the Group. The Fossil fuel Group is committed to establishing policies Diesel 135,227 135,288 138,740 and procedures that enable sustainable and Petrol 16,861 15,009 21,361 efficient business operations whilst also Furnace oil 40,405 37,057 38,638 growing the bottom line. The Group has a LPG 28,418 26,393 24,717 comprehensive environmental management 2 Energy consumption from renewable system in place through which its efforts sources 101,112 111,061 130,067 in efficient energy and water usage, waste 3 Purchased energy national grid 350,486 332,961 311,263 management and conservation of biodiversity Total energy consumption 672,509 657,769 664,651 and wildlife continued throughout the year, as discussed in detail in the ensuing sections. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 71 The Leisure and CF&R industry groups were the largest consumers of energy, accounting Carbon footprint by for over 75 per cent of the energy consumed The Group generated 6.6 million industry group/sector and 89 per cent of the carbon footprint of the CO2 MT '000 kWh of power from renewable Group. 50 energy sources 40 Energy consumption by industry group/sector 30 MT [2015/16: 78,661 MT]. The scope 1, GJ '000 direct energy carbon footprint amounted to 350 20 16,134 MT, while scope 2, indirect energy carbon footprint amounted to 66,359 MT. The 300 10 movement over the past five years’ carbon 250 footprint in metric tons per million rupees of 0 revenue illustrates an overall declining trend 200 Leisure Consumer Foods & Retail Other/Plantation Services Transportation Financial Services Property Information Technology as depicted in the chart below. 150 100 Carbon footprint per Rupees 50 million of revenue 0 MT CO2 eq Leisure Consumer Foods & Retail Transportation Financial Services Property Other/Plantation Services Information Technology 1.0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 0.8 The main contributor to the Group’s carbon footprint was electricity from the national 0.6 grid followed by diesel and furnace oil. Given that Sri Lanka’s national grid is hydro power 0.4 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 based, the resultant carbon footprint is lower in comparison to countries producing power 0.2 The Plantation Services sector accounted solely through fossil fuels. for 18 per cent of the Group’s total energy 0.0 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 consumption. However, the sector contributed only 3 per cent to the Group’s carbon Carbon footprint by energy type footprint, primarily due to its continued usage Water Management 2% 1% of renewable energy generated through 4% As part of its Natural Capital management biomass. Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF strategy, the Group monitors and measures 12% PLC) was the largest consumer of power in the water from all sources, which include ground Plantation Services sector, obtaining 64 per water, inland surface water bodies, oceans, cent of its energy through renewable energy. pipe-borne water from the National Water In addition, during the year under review, 81% Supply and Drainage Board and rainwater Group companies saved approximately 5,855 harvesting. GJ, with a resultant estimated saving of 1,108 MT of carbon, through various energy conservation initiatives, details of which LPG Diesel Petrol Electricity Water withdrawal by source can be found in the Industry Group Review Furnace oil section of the Report. 10% 42% Overall, the Group generated 6.6 million Notwithstanding the increased operational kWh of power from renewable energy activity of the Group due to a full year’s sources such as firewood purchased from operations at Rajawella Holdings Limited the surrounding communities and solar (RHL), the opening of 15 new Keells Super 48% power, constituting 6 per cent of its total outlets resulting in a significant increase energy requirement. Whilst such practices in the square footage and increased have enabled the Group to reduce its production volumes in the Consumer Foods environmental impact and cost of operations, sector, the Group demonstrated continuous Surface water wetlands, rivers, lakes, oceans etc it has also provided a means of livelihood for improvement in carbon efficiency as it Ground water the surrounding communities. recorded an increase of only 5 per cent in Municipality/authority water sources its carbon footprint amounting to 82,492 72 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW The Group withdrew a total of 2,021,739 cubic any event the Group ensures compliance treatment systems, whilst 16 per cent of meters of water, resulting in a 1 per cent with regulatory standards, mentioned in water was completely recycled by operations, increase of consumption from the previous relevant Environmental Protection Licences which as a percentage of water withdrawn year. This was mainly due to the increase (EPL) when returning such water to the was 11 per cent. Such water was utilised in operational activity across all sectors of environment. for general cleaning, gardening and flushing the Group. Where feasible, the Group seeks mechanisms. to fulfil part of its requirement from green water sources through rainwater harvesting. Water discharge by method Business units also carry out a range of Given the nature of its operations, the Leisure 2% initiatives such as awareness campaigns and CF&R industry groups account for the 12% and installation of water saving fixtures and highest proportion of water consumed, with 4% 36% equipment. A detailed discussion of water approximately 92 per cent of the Group’s withdrawal and discharge by industry group, as water consumed by these industry groups. well as water saving initiatives, can be found in the industry group review section of the Report. 30% Water withdrawn by 16% Waste Management industry group/sector Due to increased operational activity across the Group, waste generated increased to m '000 3 To municipality sewerage/NWSDB drainage lines 1,200 8,846 MT from 8,251 MT in the previous year. Treated and recycled/reused Treated and discharged Of this, 328 MT was classified as hazardous 1,000 Direct discharge as per guidelines waste and disposed of through specialised Through soakage pits third party contractors. Of the total waste 800 Provided to another organisation outside the Group produced, 42 per cent was recycled or reused 600 by the Group’s business units or through During the reporting period, the Group selected third party contractors. The Leisure 400 discharged 1,460,799 cubic meters of and CF&R industry groups contributed to effluent. Of all water discharged to the over 94 per cent of the waste generated by 200 environment, 46 per cent was treated the Group. Further details of how such waste 0 through on-site sewerage treatment plants was generated, reused and recycled are Leisure Consumer Foods & Retail Other/Plantation Services Transportation Financial Services Property Information Technology at the various operational locations, 36 per available in the industry group review section cent was discharged to municipal sewerage of the Report. 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Water usage per Rupees million of revenue m3 25 20 15 10 Composting yard at Cinnamon Citadel Kandy 5 Progress Review on Sustainability Commitments 0 Targets for 2016/17 Comment on Progress 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 The Group will strive to outperform selected The Group outperformed both the selected international benchmarks for carbon international benchmarks as well as its own Where feasible the Group makes best footprint, energy consumption and water performance of the previous year. efforts to reduce its water requirement usage whilst also seeking to better its own through the recycling of treated effluent performance on said aspects and be brought to an acceptable quality. In Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 73 Corporate Social Responsibility Projects Rumassala in 2008 to facilitate experiential Waste generated by Recognising the importance of conserving our learning on the environment and bio-diversity industry group/sector environment for future generations, the John conservation, particularly among school MT Keells Group makes a conscious and collective children. As per the CEA’s report, a total of 5,000 effort to protect and enhance the environment 2,625 visitors, of which 2,469 were school via its social responsibility arm, John Keells children, participated in the CEA’s awareness 4,000 Foundation (“Foundation”). Following are programmes during the year in review. The a few of the key initiatives undertaken by Foundation also initiated discussions with 3,000 the Foundation. Other key environmental the CEA on means of making the Centre selfprojects such as Project Leopard, elephant sufficient and sustainable. 2,000 data gathering and forestry project can also be found in the industry group review section Paper Conservation 1,000 of the report. During the year in review, waste paper continued to be collected from each of 0 Nature Field Centre, Rumassala the business locations for shredding and Leisure Consumer Foods & Retail Other/Plantation Services Transportation Financial Services Property Information Technology The Central Environmental Authority recycling. The impact of this initiative during (CEA), in collaboration with the Foundation, the reporting period is summarised as follows: established the Nature Field Centre in Waste paper Payment Savings (indirect impact) 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 collected (Rs.) Trees Water Electricity Oil (Litres) Landfill (m3) (kg) (Nos) (Litres) (kWh) 48,942 342,594 834 1,555,378 195,768 85,891 147 Waste disposal by method Concluding the Group’s Natural Capital Review, the following section discusses Human Capital 27% Review the fourth aspect of Capital Management. 37% 14% 21% 1% Reuse Recovery Recycling Incineration Landﬁll Waste generated per Rupees million of revenue MT 0.14 0.12 0.10 Sewerage treatment plant at Cinnamon Bey Beruwala 0.08 Human Capital Review Employee Diversity 0.06 The Group’s Human Capital is the primary As an equal opportunity employer the Group component of its earning potential, encourages workplace diversity in all its 0.04 productivity and long term sustainability. The forms; it promotes and celebrates innovative 0.02 Group’s holistic approach to the management thinking whilst raising the bar in everything 0.00 of its Human Capital founded on the core they do, as individuals or in teams. The Group 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 building blocks of inspiring people, caring prides it self in continuously updating and for people and leadership, encompasses upgrading what it does to create an enabling ensuring diversity, encouraging and environment which promotes a content and facilitating innovation and excellence whilst productive workforce. always maintaining the integrity of the Group Values. 74 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW The workforce as at 31 March 2017 was The Group monitors the diversity of its workforce seen an increase in the female population of the 20,100 of which 12,835 were employees and based on age and gender as illustrated by Group during the reporting period which will no 7,265 were outsourced personnel (neither the following diagrams. The Group has seen doubt augur well for the Group. staff employees or seasonal workers). Of the the demographics of the workforce changing Group’s total employees, 495 are placed in the with 50 per cent of its employees being less Maldives and 484 in India, with the remainder than 30 years, bringing with it the opportunity, stationed in Sri Lanka. dynamism and challenges. The Group has also Total employees by age Workforce by type of employment Total employees by gender 8% 26% 36% 42% 36% 50% 74% 28% Below 30 Above 50 Employees permanent Male Female Between 30-50 Employees contract Contractor's personnel As an equal opportunity employer, the Workforce by gender Contractor's personnel by gender overall Non-Discrimination Policy, which commits to maintaining a workplace that is free from physical and verbal harassment 29% 35% and discrimination on the basis of race, religion, gender, age, nationality, social origin, disability, political affiliation or opinion, was expanded in the previous year to include 71% 65% sexual orientation and gender identity. The Group completed its Group wide awareness campaign to sensitise its employees on the Male Female Male Female areas of non-discrimination, with special emphasis on non-discrimination based on Of the ten Board Directors of JKH as at 31 March 2017, three members are between the ages sexual orientation and gender identity. of 30-50 and seven members are over the age of 50, with one female Director. Of the 9 Group Executive Committee (GEC) members, one GEC member is female, whilst seven members are Talent Management over 50 years of age and two members are between the ages of 30-50 years. Excluding the GEC The Group continuously monitors its members, of the thirteen members of the Group Operating Committee (GOC), four are between employee retention and, in particular, seeks the ages of 30-50, and nine are over the age of 50, with three GOC members being female. to address staff attrition in typically high attrition industry groups through proactive initiatives that engage employees. During the year under review, the Great Place to Work (GPTW) survey was conducted for all Group employees which provided insights to identify, create and sustain the Group as a great workplace. The results from the survey were presented to the GEC in January 2017. Subsequently, action plans were drawn up and incorporated into business plans at a Group level and business unit level. The Group’s total attrition (for executives and non-executives) and new hire attrition rate, excluding the IT Enabled and Retail sectors, where staff turnover is expected to be high and is an industry norm, was 24 Diversity at the work place Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 75 Attrition by gender Attrition by region Attrition by age breakdown 2% 1% 17% 35% 65% 98% 82% Male Female Local Foreign Below 30 Above 50 Between 30-50 New hires by gender New hires by region New hires by age group 6% 1% 13% 37% 63% 94% 86% Male Female Local Foreign Below 30 Above 50 Between 30-50 per cent and 6 per cent respectively. With recognition schemes are in place at a Group competitive advantage, with a total of 529,468 increased supply of hotel rooms, some level and at business unit level, reflecting training hours [2015/16: 418,726 hours] pressure on staff retention was faced by business specific requirements. During the provided to Group employees. Each year, the Sri Lankan Resorts and City Hotels year under review, the “Disruptive Innovation training for employees are determined on a contributing to a higher attrition rate. Multi Award” was introduced and awarded at the needs basis, aligning the business specific pronged approaches have been put in place presentation of Chairman’s Award held requirements. Through the performance to manage this and the Group is confident of annually to support the Group’s thrust in the management system, employees can achieving the desired results. With respect to digital business space. request for training when conducting selfstaff identified as “Talent”, the attrition has appraisals while supervisors also can been negligible with senior management Learning and Development nominate employees for training based on continuing to place extra emphasis on The Group’s learning and development the needs taking advantage of the Group’s developing and nurturing them. The executive programmes are key policy components of extensive training calendar. The learning is level attrition continues to be relatively lower talent retention and ensuring a sustainable also facilitated via digital platforms such as than attrition at non-executive levels. Further, recruitment based on profile mapping was continued in certain businesses to ensure a better fit with the needs of the organisation and thereby ensuring longer retention. This has paid dividends as reflected in the new hire attrition rate. Performance Appraisals The Group’s performance management cycle ensures that all employees of the Group undergo regular appraisals. Formal feedback is provided on a bi-annual basis to the executive cadre and once a year to all others, whilst continuous feedback is encouraged. Recognition of employees is actively encouraged and special budgetary allocations are made for this purpose. Several employee Employees participating in a Development Centre 76 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Yammer, the Group Intranet, and experience Health and Safety sharing sessions. On average, 41 hours of The Group places the highest importance on ensuring a safe working environment for all its training were provided per employee, with employees, taking steps to ensure that health and safety concerns are prioritised and addressed average training hours per annum amounting across the Group. All business units within the Group have been empowered to undertake any to 41 hours for males and 42 hours for measure it may deem necessary to ensure that it is a “Safe Place to Work”. As part of its Human females. Capital management strategy, incidents are logged, recorded and tracked on a continuous basis. There were no fatalities reported during the year under review. In the year under review, the Group undertook initiatives to create a “coaching 2016/17 2015/16 culture” by identifying individuals at sector Number of staff affected by occupational injuries and diseases 213 217 level and business unit level to be trained and Gender wise occupational injuries (male: female) 158:55 166:51 developed as “People Coaches”. This was the Gender wise occupational diseases (male: female) fourth phase of the Team Leader Workshop Region-wise occupational injuries (in Sri Lanka: outside Sri Lanka) 211:02 206:11 series, which was introduced in the year 2015/16 for all team leaders in the executive Region-wise occupational diseases (in Sri Lanka: outside Sri Lanka) cadre. Occupational injuries per 100 workforce 1.06 1.11 Total man days lost per 100 workforce days 0.035 0.050 Total absentee days per 100 workforce days 0.0011 0.0022 Total training hours ('000) Employee Benefit Plans Corporate Social Responsibility Projects 0 100 200 300 400 500 In Sri Lanka, employees are eligible for the Staff Volunteerism Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) and the Staff volunteerism is at the heart of the Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) contributions. Group’s community engagement strategy. Non executives Employees who are Maldivian nationals or Most projects carried out by the Foundation employed in the Maldives are eligible for are supported by the Group’s staff volunteers. Executives the Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme This volunteer network enables employees (MRPS) contributions, whilst employees to reach beyond their day-to-day work Assistant managers based in India are eligible for Employees’ to contribute to the community and the Provident Fund (EPF) contributions according environment, while the Group’s volunteer Managers to the terms of the Employees’ Provident leave policy enables staff to be released for Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act in CSR activities with minimum restraint. AVP & above India. The total contribution made to the trust funds for the reporting year was Rs.142 During the year, over 1,008 staff volunteers million (3 per cent of salary contributed by engaged in projects undertaken by the As part of its career development strategy, the Foundation, recording over 1,954 volunteer Group carried out leadership development employer) while the total contribution made to the provident fund was Rs.643 million (12instances and clocking over 7,649 hours, programmes, management development excluding CSR initiatives that occur at a programmes, and Development Centres in 20 per cent of salary contributed by employer and 8-15 per cent of salary contributed by sector/business level. collaboration with reputed international and local institutes. In addition, “Young Fora” are employee). In Sri Lanka and India, employees Concluding the Human Capital Review, the continued with the intention of developing are also entitled to retirement gratuity, The following section discusses the Social and management skills in executive and above employee benefit liability as at 31 March Relationship Capital, the fifth aspect of Capital levels through interactions with the business 2017 was Rs.1.88 billion. Management. leaders of the Group. The Group continues its career support initiatives to ensure that its employees achieve their full potential. Collective Bargaining The Group engages with trade unions on an ongoing basis through Joint Consultative Committees and other mechanisms. Formal agreements are found in the CF&R industry group, covering over 706 employees amounting to 6 per cent of the Group’s total employee count. TSFL follows the wage structures of the plantation industry of the country and the Resort Hotels have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with staff representatives from one trade union. JKH volunteers participating in a tree planting initiative in Cinnamon Wild Yala Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 77 Social and Relationship Capital Review Product Responsibility The Group strives to ensure and maintain the highest standards for its products and services by adhering to all statutory and regulatory requirements, local and international, as well as global best practices. Group companies ensure the highest quality in processes, responsible marketing and communications, as well as consumer and employee health and safety through robust quality management processes and quality assurance. The ongoing ISO 9001, ISO 22000, ISO 14000 and OHSAS 18001 certifications by the relevant Group companies are testimony to the Group’s commitment in this regard. Diabetes screening programme conducted by UA Social Responsibility The Group understands the value of building Social and Relationship Capital for the long As a testament to its commitment to prior to being contracted as a pre-requisite to term sustainability of any business and responsible business, the Group had no carrying out business. thus strives to create and uphold trust and environmental, product related or any other reciprocity among its key stakeholders, significant fines during the reporting year The Group Initiatives process also ensures whilst creating long term value. and did not have any non-compliance with further integration of sustainability within the regard to marketing communications. value chain. Tenders and bids received for 83 per cent of the Group’s economic value high value items sourced by the Group are distributed was spent on goods, services and Supply Chain Management assessed not only for quality and price but utilities locally, with Sri Lanka being defined as The Group believes that striving to entrench also for social and environmental aspects local based on the number of operations and sustainability along its supply chain helps and impacts. revenue and being the significant location of create long term value and business operations. Mutually beneficial relationships sustainability for all parties. The Group During the year under review, a new are sought in relevant industries through works closely with its key suppliers to create procurement platform was implemented to sustainable sourcing, with Rs.3.35 billion awareness and disseminate knowledge on streamline the Group’s sourcing initiatives. spent on purchases, mainly fresh produce, sustainability best practices, with supplier Supplier identification, request for proposals, by the Consumer Foods and Retail industry fora being carried out for over 80 Group submission of proposals, evaluation, group and the Sri Lankan Resorts segment, sourced suppliers in Sri Lanka as well as contracting and supplier management for stimulating local economies and encouraging significant suppliers in the Maldives. products and services sourced from the central small businesses to help fulfil the supply sourcing division will now be performed on chain requirements of the Group. The Group’s significant suppliers are reviewed the platform. This will enable the Group to in terms of labour practices, upholding of have clear visibility of the sourcing process Group companies also undertake corporate human rights and environmental impacts in real time, shorten contracting life cycles social responsibility initiatives in locations and assessed for key sustainability impacts, and have the ability to make better supplier of operations, across six key areas of based on the Group's supply code of conduct, related decisions based on more accurate national focus. During the year, through legal and other requirements. Approximately analytics. In addition, the potential sourcing of these initiatives, 1,010,200 people were 90 existing suppliers were assessed during business needs too will be carried out through impacted, while Rs.150 million was the year, while all new suppliers are assessed, this platform in the near future. expended in carrying out community service and infrastructure projects. Training and Progress Review on Sustainability Commitments awareness on serious diseases such as HIV and AIDS, dengue, thalassemia and diabetes Targets for 2016/17 Comment on progress was also carried out, with a total of 199,802 persons educated during the year. There Seek to entrench sustainability and risk During the year, the Group carried out has been a significant increase in persons management practices across its significant reviews of over 90 signiﬁcant value chain educated due to a increasing number of value chain partners in an effort to promote partners on all areas of the triple bottom awareness programmes conducted. responsible corporate citizenship in its line, whilst also carrying out sustainability supply chain whilst reducing the risk of awareness through supplier fora for 80 operations for the John Keells Group group suppliers 78 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Corporate Social Responsibility Projects During the year in review, the focus area At the Foundation, CSR initiatives are aligned The Group’s CSR initiatives represent how entitled “Community and Livelihood to national priorities and Sustainable the Group’s values, corporate culture and Development” was renamed as “Livelihood Development Goals (SDGs) to ensure a collective operations are intrinsically intertwined and Development”. In addition, “Promises” in and targeted focus towards addressing key connected to social, economic and environment respect of each of the Group’s CSR focus universal needs for the development of all concerns. All initiatives carried out by the areas were developed, towards enabling people, focusing on the three dimensions of John Keells Foundation (“Foundation”) are strategic focus and alignment across the sustainable development: economic growth, medium to long term strategic and sustainable Group. All industry groups of the John Keells social inclusion and environmental protection. projects that fall into one of six focus areas; Group also commenced review of their CSR Education, Health, Environment, Livelihood strategies towards aligning them to the The diagram below indicates our CSR vision, Development, Arts and Culture and Disaster Foundation’s “Promises” and incorporating focus areas and respective promises, aligned Relief and is inspired by the Group’s CSR vision them in their long-term business plans. to the SDGs along with the impact and total “Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow”. investment of the Foundation during the financial year. Empowering the Nation for Tomorrow Education Health Livelihood Development To provide better access to educational To foster healthy communities towards To foster sustainable livelihoods through opportunities for those in need towards enhancing wellbeing and productivity of relevant skills, capacity and infrastructure enhancing their employability and Sri Lanka and Sri Lankans enhancement towards building empowered entrepreneurship and sustainable communities Arts and Culture Disaster Relief Environment To nurture the livelihoods of artists and To come to the aid of Sri Lankans and global To minimise the impact of our operations preserve our cultural heritage towards communities in times of adversity and and promote conservation and sustainability safeguarding and promoting Sri Lankan disaster towards enabling them to rebuild towards enhancing environmental and arts and culture their lives and livelihoods natural capital Impacting more than 1 million persons per annum Investment of approximately Rs.150 million per annum English Language Scholarship Programme This project is aimed at enhancing English language skills of school children and youth from socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds throughout the country in order to improve their opportunities for higher learning and sustainable employment. The main focus is “English for Teens”with over 1,000 scholarships on offer each year to students aged 12-14 years from disadvantaged Government schools throughout the Island, while high-performing students have the opportunity to progress to the next level of the scholarship scheme. In the reporting year, a total of 1,296 youth registered under the English Language Scholarship programme in 24 locations covering 7 provinces while a Performance by English scholars of Kurunegala at English Day 2016 Further details of the Corporate Social Responsibility projects are available on http://www.johnkeellsfoundation.com/ Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 79 I have gained better skills in writing and speaking after the completion of this course. I believe that this programme has improved my knowledge more than enough to get through my examinations easily Thaksila Dilhara, scholar from Welimada total of 1,148 scholars completed the course in keeping with attendance requirements. A speech and drama course for Grades 1-4 students of the School for the Blind in Teacher training workshop organised by JKF Ratmalana was introduced during the year in review. A cumulative total exceeding 13,000 Promoting Science Education Amongst • Funding and volunteer support for a scholarships have been awarded since School Children total of 133 eye camps in all 9 provinces, project inception in 2005. The Foundation continued its collaboration resulting in the screening of 1,770 with Sri Lanka Association for the patients and completion of 1,185 cataract Neighbourhood Schools Development Advancement of Science in conducting surgeries. The cumulative number of Programme Science Day Programmes (SDPs), aimed cataract surgeries since the launch of the This project, in collaboration with Cinnamon at promoting an interest among school project in 2004 is 12,144. Grand and Cinnamon Lakeside, aims to uplift children in pursuing higher education and • Funding and volunteer support for the the quality of education of five disadvantaged career aspirations in science contributing School children’s Vision Screening and Government schools in Colombo 2. The to the national development. 7 SDPs were Spectacles Programme in the Colombo following initiatives were conducted in the conducted, benefitting 1,536 students District conducted in collaboration with the reporting year: and 101 teachers from 94 schools in six Department of Health Services and Ceylon disadvantaged districts. Cold Stores PLC. During the reporting • Infrastructure and facility development year, vision screening was conducted in amounting to Rs.1.2 million. The John Keells Vision Project 103 schools, testing over 54,670 school This is an island-wide cataract project • 1,521 students benefited from children and donating 3,465 eye glasses aimed at addressing Sri Lanka’s biggest English Language and IT scholarship free of charge, resulting in a cumulative cause of preventable blindness. During the programmes and revision classes in project total of 8,528 eye glasses. year in review, the Foundation continued its preparation for public examinations. collaboration with the Ministry of Health and • Donation of Rs.2 million towards the other partner organisations in relation to the purchase of a phaco-emulsifier machine • 34 post-Ordinary Level students following initiatives: for the use of a mobile eye unit planned benefitted from a personal effectiveness to be operated by the Vision 2020 and career guidance workshop, including Secretariat of the Ministry of Health. an overview on career prospects available within the John Keells Group. • Youth who were not eligible to pursue Advanced Level studies were offered vocational training in either the hospitality or retail industry. • A teacher training workshop was organised in collaboration with the Zonal Education Office towards enhancing soft skills and interaction with students. Soft Skills for University Undergraduates Although workshops were planned to be held during the reporting year in the Universities of Ruhuna and Sri Jayewardenepura, the events could not be conducted due to union activities and student unrest affecting the Universities. JKH volunteers assisting in a school eye screening programme 80 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW John Keells HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign The Foundation continued its long-term drive against the spread of HIV and AIDS as well as the stigma and discrimination associated with the disease. During the year in review, a total of 23,758 persons were sensitised on HIV and AIDS, resulting in a cumulative total of 117,268 persons since project inception in 2005. The awareness sessions are conducted by John Keells volunteer trainers, with some of the sessions featuring testimonies by HIV positive persons as a means of effectively addressing aspects of stigma and discrimination, while enabling such persons to develop economic independence. World AIDS Day was commemorated through a variety of Group HIV and AIDS awareness session conducted at the Kurunegala Army camp wide activities including inter-business poster and quiz competitions and various awareness • A five year plan for Project WAVE was programmes. developed incorporating planned and potential key activities under 4 pillars The Foundation continued to host its Many of the bus drivers and conductors comprising of Prevention, Capacity e-learning platform on its website which is were very supportive towards our building, Interventions and Campaigning. a comprehensive and interactive learning campaign. They said harassment on tool that covers critical information on HIV buses is very common. I believe this is Village Adoption and AIDS. It is accessible free of charge by This flagship initiative of John Keells a very valuable awareness campaign any member of the public over the age of 18 Foundation is aimed at poverty alleviation that was not only meaningful but years. During the reporting year, 125 persons at grass root level through an integrated fun to be a part of Husnun Nazeeyl, completed the e-module while a total of 622 and sustainable development programme. persons visited the platform. Management Trainee, John Keells Initiatives are decided upon through Holdings constructive dialogue with all the relevant Project WAVE (Working Against Violence through Education) stakeholders, translating into a range of This project is aimed at combating gender development activities generally spanning based violence (GBV) and child abuse through 5-10 years towards fostering the spirit over 100,000 persons. 150 stickers were education and awareness creation in the of independence, self-reliance and also provided to trishaw drivers for display. context of increasing numbers of reported entrepreneurship. Currently, 3 villages are The campaign received encouraging incidents in this regard. Since project launch in development including Iranaipalai and support of the Sri Lanka Transport Board, in 2014, awareness sessions have been Puthumathalan in Mullaitivu District and the Western Province Provincial Road conducted across all sectors of the John Keells Morawewa North in Trincomalee District. Passenger Transport Authority as well as Group, covering almost all staff as at 31 March Below are some of the key activities carried bus drivers, conductors and commuters. 2017 (11,456 persons). External awareness out during the reporting year: Parallel to the public campaign, an internal sessions were conducted sensitising 225 campaign involving awareness posters, a lawyers and 793 police officers in the reporting • Livelihood Development: Three workshops staff pledge board and pinning of the white year. on cattle rearing, family empowerment ribbon was undertaken across the Group and youth empowerment were conducted as a demonstration of staff commitment to In addition, the following initiatives were towards enhancing skills for diversified building a workplace free of harassment. introduced during the year: livelihood and income generation • A two day workshop on gender opportunities. • A public awareness campaign against sensitisation and communication skills sexual harassment targeting commuters • Education: Construction of a new school was conducted in collaboration with The of public transport, in commemoration of building in Iranaipalai and revision classes Asia Foundation for police officers in the International Day for the Elimination of for public examinations, benefiting an Mullaitivu SSP Division towards enhancing Violence Against Women. 124 John Keells estimated 844 students. their response towards sensitive issues volunteers actively participated in the concerning women and children. Police • Infrastructure Development: Rehabilitation campaign carried out at four of the busiest officers who participated in the programme work on ‘D8’ Tank in Morawewa was bus depots in Colombo. 2,300 stickers (in will be guided towards conducting completed while the construction Sinhala and Tamil) were pasted inside 1,150 community outreach programmes on of a fisheries community centre in buses as well as depot precincts while gender sensitivity towards building Puthumathalan was initiated for the benefit 30,000 information cards were distributed rapport, confidence and trust between the of approximately 1,300 persons. throughout the day, estimated to impact community and the police. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 81 conducted for the 24th year, with the participation of 327 registered artists and an estimated 22,115 visitors, generating over Rs.12 million in estimated sales revenue. 145 child artists participated in the Children’s Art Corner at the event. The Foundation continued to maintain and enhance the “Sri Lankan Art Gallery”, a free digital online gallery established as a means for visual artists to showcase and market their creations throughout the year. Currently the website has registered over 813 artists with over 1,300 artwork pieces on display. During the reporting year, approximately 24,000 visitors visited the site. Visitors purchasing a painting at Kala Pola Flood Relief In the wake of the severe floods and landslides • Gender Empowerment: A leadership and two more RO filtration systems in the in several parts of the country in May 2016, team building workshop was conducted for Anuradhapura district. destroying homes and displacing thousands, women in Morawewa towards promoting the John Keells Group provided immediate • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)’s peace, unity and entrepreneurial skills relief by funding 8,000 relief packs through Water Stewardship The pilot project within the community. the Sirasa Shakthi John Keells Sahana to provide equitable access to safe • Further interventions will be decided drinking water in the Badulla District Yathra. Over 250 John Keells volunteers following a needs assessment was completed during the reporting year, were mobilised throughout a 24-hour period commissioned via World Vision. which is estimated to directly benefit to sort and pack relief items, while staff of approximately 1,100 persons, including 4 Group businesses located in affected areas Meanwhile, an impact assessment was schools. were involved in distribution of relief items commissioned via the Centre for Poverty estimated to benefit over 86,000 persons. Analysis (CEPA), following the closure of Kala Pola and Digital Art Gallery the Foundation’s development activities in John Keells believes in safeguarding and The Group also undertook a mass wellHalmillewa, its first adopted village, in the promoting the cultural heritage of Sri Lanka cleaning programme towards facilitating Anuradhapura District, after more than a through increased engagement in, and the resettlement of affected persons in decade’s engagement with the transfer exposure to the arts, whilst also boosting the Colombo and Gampaha districts in of total responsibility for the village to the livelihood opportunities of artists. collaboration with Sri Lanka Red Cross villagers. CEPA commended the Foundation’s Society, Jinasena Private Limited and Ceylon vision, courage and efforts in undertaking this Kala Pola, an open air art fair, enabling artists Cold Stores PLC. 1,252 wells were cleaned very ambitious project amidst a challenging and sculptors from across the country to under this initiative. environment, where JKF used a bottom-up showcase and sell their art, was successfully approach and was able to develop rapport and trust with the villagers which made this intervention a very successful initiative. Safe Drinking Water Initiatives The following two key projects aimed at providing access to safe drinking water were undertaken in the reporting year: • Collaboration with the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) to address Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) Continuing the success of the pilot project in Trincomalee District to provide two Reverse Osmosis (RO) filtration systems enabling access to good quality water for drinking and cooking purposes in areas known to be at risk of CKD, the Foundation released funding for Community members gather round for their ﬁrst collection of water from the Reverse Osmosis Plant donated by JKF 82 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Intellectual Capital Review The Group strongly believes that Intellectual Capital is a vital source of competitive advantage, which, in the long term, will result in a value premium for JKH through innovation and disruption of business models, ultimately serving the needs of an evolving and emerging consumer. Where possible and relevant, the Group strives to dynamically manage its Intellectual Capital, interweaving it to the Group’s strategic management process. Following are the key components of the Group’s Intellectual Capital. Refer to the Industry Group Analysis section of the Report for further details. Whilst the Group undertakes research and The newly established laboratory of John Keells Research development at the business unit level, John Keells Research (JKR), the research development initiatives were pioneered in and development arm of the Group, The year under review marked the operational year to create and enhance was established in an attempt to create opportunities and offerings to our diverse sustainable value through innovation to a signiﬁcant milestone for JKR stake holders, in keeping with the changing enhance the Intellectual Capital base of the as it ﬁled for its ﬁrst patent for dynamics and ever evolving trends of the Group. JKR's collaborative research project a novel energy source material travel and leisure industry. with the Human Genetics Unit of the University that was developed through a of Colombo is in its final phase. Further, the During the year under review, the Group article titled Whole genome sequencing and research project undertaken in continued to identify emerging or current analysis of Godawee, a salt tolerant indica rice collaboration with the National disruptive business innovations, focused variety , which was reported in the previous Metallurgical Lab of the Council for on developing the digital quotient (DQ) of Annual Report, was accepted and published individuals and businesses. This is believed Scientiﬁc and Industrial Research in the Journal of Rice Research. to increase the productivity and efficiency of (CSIR-NML) in India. businesses through the employment of digital The year under review marked a significant technologies and disruptive business models, milestone for JKR as it filed for its first which in turn would create sustainable value patent for a novel energy source material JKH. The relocation to the Science Park is to stakeholders. To this end, an award on that was developed through a research expected to provide greater opportunities for Disruptive Innovation was introduced at the project undertaken in collaboration with the technical collaboration, while contributing JKH Chairman’s Awards 2016, to recognise National Metallurgical Lab of the Council for towards creating and nurturing an ecosystem businesses that have made disruptive Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR-NML) of innovation. JKR currently collaborates with innovation an integral part of the organisation in India. The patent application which was leading universities and research institutes in and formulated successful responses to filed at the Indian patent office in December Sri Lanka and also has projects with a leading emerging or current business disruption. In 2016 is related to a composite nanomaterial research institute in India and a university in addition, the Group launched “John Keells X which could be used in energy storage. the United States. Open Innovation Challenge 2016” to create a Biocompatibility and low cost per unit of power conducive ecosystem for young entrepreneurs stored are the advantages of the material. The Group is home to many brands which to thrive and encourage businesses at JKH to JKR is currently in the process of building have gained recognition in their respective engage in open innovation. The inaugural JKX prototypes of energy storage devices which spheres over many years. The range of challenge was well received where a total of utilises the patented technology to enhance brands under each of the industry groups are 148 applications were received with ten of the Technology Readiness Level (TRL) of depicted in the Organisational Structure of these applicants being shortlisted for the final the intellectual property and to examine the this Report. In addition to routine strategies pitch. Considering the success of the inaugural commercial viability of a prototype product. executed by each of the businesses to challenge, the second open innovation strengthen their respective brands, the challenge will be launched in May 2017. During the year under review, JKR relocated Leisure industry group has placed significant to the Technology Incubation Centre at the emphasis on systematically executing the While concluding the Group Capital Nanotechnology and Science Park in Pitipana, “Cinnamon” brand strategy. The “Cinnamon” Management Review, the ensuing sections Homagama, comprising of an in-house brand development initiative was continued will discuss the overall strategy and outlook laboratory providing access to sophisticated in the year under review as an ongoing effort for the Group, followed by a materiality and equipment and analytical services to ensure to create value and brand equity through the risk management discussion. sole ownership of intellectual property by hosting of signature events. Several brand Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 83 Group Consolidated Review OUTLOOK Following is a discussion on the economic the Western Region Megapolis Planning expected to ease through the Government’s outlook for Sri Lanka in the short to Project and development of industrial zones proposed fiscal framework which is medium term, the high level impacts to our in Hambantota, Trincomalee and the North embedded in the IMF-EFF arrangement, businesses and the overall business strategy Western Province will provide fresh impetus aimed at strengthening fiscal sustainability of the Group. For a detailed discussion on the to the private sector. in the medium term. Further, the conclusion strategy and outlook for each industry group, of a 10 year sovereign bond in April 2017, refer the Industry Group Review section of The Government has stated an interest in raising USD 1.50 billion, underscores investor this Report. exiting non-core public owned interests to confidence in Sri Lanka and their positive enable private sector driven investments, outlook on overall growth prospects for the The acceleration in global growth and the both directly and through public-private country. Whilst, the depreciation of the Rupee resultant increase in global interest rates partnerships. Although no firm steps have negatively impacted businesses with higher could have diverse effects on the Sri Lankan been taken in this regard, this should augur reliance on imported inputs, the Group also economy. The increase in oil prices, as well well for the private sector, in general, and for benefitted through its individual subsidiaries as prices of other commodities, will weigh our Group, in particular. which have direct and indirect Dollar negatively in aggregate on the Balance of denominated income streams, in addition to Payments (BOP) and domestic price indices, Sri Lanka entered into an Extended Fund the positive impact due to its foreign currency while stagnant growth in the Middle East Facility with the International Monetary denominated cash holdings. The Group’s risk could reduce income from tea exports and Fund (IMF-EFF) in order to support the strategy of maintaining “natural hedges”, remittances by migrant workers. BOP and the Government’s reform agenda. where relevant and feasible, will mitigate Further, the external current account deficit to a great extent, the volatility arising from The Sri Lankan economy is projected to is expected to improve steadily with the possible fluctuations in the exchange rate. continue its current growth momentum in projected developments in the external 2017, driven by expansion in the Industry and sector. An improvement in exports is The Consumer Foods sector will continue to Services sectors, with growth in sub sectors projected to emanate in the medium term focus on expanding its portfolio, remaining such as construction, utilities, wholesale and from higher export oriented domestic relevant to its consumers by understanding retail trade involving SMEs, financial services, production supported through improved evolving consumer trends and needs. Whilst accommodation and food and beverage trade linkages, including the reinstating of the moderation of consumer spending services and housing expected to spearhead GSP Plus concessions, and proposed free witnessed in the fourth quarter of 2016/17 economic expansion. The continuation of trade and economic partnership agreements. is likely to continue in the short term given the prevailing drought conditions in the Whilst the Government’s efforts, with the the Government’s fiscal consolidation country, delays and the lack of decisive policy support of the IMF, to formulate policy efforts and prevailing inflationary pressures, implementation, developments externally in frameworks to address the emerging the long term growth potential for the the global economy due to Brexit, volatility challenges are commendable, it is essential business remains strong considering the in oil prices and the after effects of the US that such policies are implemented swiftly low penetration levels in the country. Taking election are headwinds that the private and in consultation with key stakeholders. into account the strong growth in the sector will have to navigate in the short The higher dependency on imports of previous year, and the anticipated growth term. The higher value added tax (VAT) rate petroleum products for electricity generation in the ensuing years, the Consumer Foods introduced in November 2016, the increase in amid severe drought conditions and an sector has commissioned sizeable capacity interest rates and inflation, and the increased environment of volatile prices in oil can pose enhancements which are expected to come emphasis on improving tax collection for challenges in narrowing the trade deficit. into effect in due course. These expansions, 2017 is likely to result in a moderation in coupled with the enhancements in the dealer consumer discretionary spending compared The pressure on the exchange rate is management systems, are expected to create to the previous years. Whilst such short term expected to continue in the short term a platform for growth through the increase in moderations in growth and consumption are due to the substantial increase in import production capacity and widened portfolio expected, given the challenges in balancing expenditure, prevailing trade deficit and offering to consumers and, provide more real fiscal adjustments and growth oriented contracting earnings from merchandise time information which will result in increased policies, the long term benefits will establish exports with the drop in both international productivity and efficiency of operations. The a favourable and sustainable disposition for commodity prices and export volumes. Group’s Retail sector will capitalise on the low the overall economy. However, the pressure on the Rupee is penetration of modern retail in the country, The re-commencement of large scale infrastructure projects such as the Port City Colombo and continued investments Taking into account the strong growth in the previous year, and the in infrastructure including expansion of the anticipated growth in the ensuing years, the Consumer Foods sector has country’s network of expressways have spurred economic activity. The execution of commissioned sizeable capacity enhancements which are expected to proposed Free Trade Agreements as well come into effect in due course. as planned development activities such as the development of the Hambantota Port, 84 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review OUTLOOK by strategically expanding its retail footprint. Bunkering businesses are expected to benefit initiatives in relation to customer centricity, The business continues to seek opportunities from the increase in traffic with further and incorporate more technology platforms in strategically placed locations to go well infrastructure expected to support this traffic. and solutions for its customers. The Bank beyond the 15 stores opened in 2016/17, It is pertinent to note that the overall capacity will also focus on continuing to increase its with an even more aggressive roll out plan utilisation of the Port of Colombo is in excess market share in the SME sector. over the next few years. Towards this end, of 70 per cent within a relatively short the sector will be commissioning a statetime span since the commissioning of the In the year under review, the Group embarked of-the-art centralised distribution centre to South Container Terminal. Given the strong on a target setting process for key material maximise on operational efficiencies and to potential and need for capacity led growth impacts such as carbon and water, against further improve productivity of the business in the Port of Colombo, the Transportation baseline figures. The targets were based whilst also enhancing the offering to its industry group will continue to evaluate on systematic audits, assessments and customers. opportunities, particularly considering any benchmarking carried out for industry groups developments based on the Government’s such as Leisure and CF&R which contribute The Leisure industry group is well positioned interests in private-public partnerships, such significantly to the Group’s total energy and to capitalise on the growth momentum of as with the East Container Terminal of the water usage. The Group will continue to tourist arrivals to the country under the Port of Colombo and bunkering and related strive to outperform selected international umbrella of the “Cinnamon” brand. The services at Hambantota. benchmarks for carbon foot prints, energy encouraging growth momentum of arrivals is expected to continue given the favourable fundamentals of the tourism offering in Sri The Leisure industry group is well positioned to capitalise on the Lanka, such as diverse experiences within close proximity, increasing awareness of the growth momentum of tourist arrivals to the country under the umbrella destination, stability in the country, increasing of the “Cinnamon” brand. The encouraging growth momentum of flight connectivity and gradually improving arrivals is expected to continue given the favourable fundamentals of tourism infrastructure. The Leisure industry the tourism offering in Sri Lanka, such as diverse experiences within group will continue to evaluate expansion opportunities to complete the round trip close proximity, increasing awareness of the destination, stability in the offering of its portfolio of hotel. However, country, increasing ﬂight connectivity and gradually improving tourism the Group is mindful of the return profile of infrastructure. hospitality investments and the resultant impact to the overall returns of the Group portfolio. To this end, asset light expansion models will synergise well to manage the In line with Sri Lanka progressing towards an consumption and water usage, whilst also effective capital deployed in the industry upper middle income country with growing seeking to improve its own performance on group whilst increasing its room inventory urbanisation rates, the Property industry the said aspects. under management. The Leisure industry group will continue to identify unique product group will continue to harness the benefits of propositions within the residential and The Group will also continue to integrate the branding initiative which was undertaken commercial property market, leveraging its risk management process with its in the previous years for a more effective on the Group’s sizeable land bank and its sustainability strategy through consistent management of room inventory, yield reputation as a leading developer which tracking and reporting of key risk indicators management, enhanced guest experiences also creates opportunities in entering into on areas such as green-house gas emissions, and in deriving synergies on common costs partnerships with independent land owners. talent attrition, third party claims, nonwhich lend themselves to centralisation. The Group is cognizant of the fact that revenue compliance and stakeholder concerns Further, in the medium to long term, the recognition in the Property industry group with regards to the Group’s operations. opportunity of the Meetings, Incentives, has demonstrated a volatile trend based on While maintaining the robust sustainability Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) market, the projects completed, and as discussed performance management framework, particularly from India, will enable the Group in the Property industry group review, the the Group will also work to ensure that to attract the high spending segment of business is taking steps to develop a more sustainability and risk management tourists which Sri Lanka has hitherto been robust pipeline of projects. practices are further entrenched across its unable to satisfy. To this end, “Cinnamon Life” significant value chain partners through is uniquely placed to cater to the emerging The Insurance business will continue to the implementation of responsible sourcing requirements of the contemporary tourist capitalise on the opportunities made available practices, where practical and relevant. and the increasing MICE traffic, positioning by the significantly low life insurance Colombo as a hub for business and leisure penetration levels within the country, travel. leveraging on its strong brand presence, cost efficient processes and differentiated Given the strategic location of the country and offerings. Nations Trust Bank, although the inherent advantage Sri Lanka possesses facing challenges with the narrowing of net as a maritime hub, the Ports, Logistics and interest margins, will continue to focus on Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 85 Group Consolidated Review STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION, AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT The Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management section of this Annual The Group’s vision of “Building businesses that are leaders in the region” Report is aimed at providing the stakeholders is the cornerstone of all resource allocation, portfolio evaluation and of the Group with an insightful view of the manner in which decisions pertaining to operational decisions of the business units. In pursuing its vision, the investments of the Group are made. Group is mindful of the governing principles which form the foundation of all strategies and initiatives that have been planned, are being As such, the ensuing pages will explain in implemented, or have been implemented, towards achieving the medium detail, the following aspects: to long term objectives of the Group. • Strategy of the Group • Resource allocation and portfolio management approved by the Group Executive Committee This exercise entails the following key • Portfolio movements or Board of Directors, as applicable, aspects, among others. in ensuring speed of decision making, Strategy accountability and agility in responding to • Progress and deviation report of the The Group’s vision of “Building businesses that the needs of the market. Given the diversity strategies formed in the prior year and are leaders in the region” is the cornerstone and scale of the Group, and the multiple current year of all resource allocation, portfolio evaluation management layers within it, the agendas, • Competitor analysis and competitive and operational decisions of the business scope and role of these committees and their positioning units. In pursuing its vision, the Group is positions are carefully structured to ensure • Analysis of key risks and opportunities mindful of the governing principles which the efficient flow of information, ethical and form the foundation of all strategies and responsible implementation of strategic • Talent Management initiatives that have been planned, are being initiatives, minimisation of duplication of • Management of stakeholders such as implemented, or have been implemented, effort, and adherence to the Group’s values. suppliers and customers towards achieving the medium to long term • Key sustainability related initiatives objectives of the Group. These principles are The Group Executive Committee, which gets • Disruptive innovation and digitisation primarily: a stakeholder focused business its high level direction from the Board and initiatives model; a corporate governance philosophy has a macro focus of the overall direction which emphasises performance, in addition of the Group, is accountable for the overall • Value enhancement through initiatives to compliance and conformance; a risk performance of varied businesses/industry centred on the various forms of Capital identification process and management groups/sectors, and acts as an enabler of the under an integrated reporting framework philosophy based on a sound enterprise risk Operating Model of the Group. The support management framework, and a sustainability functions at the Centre complement and The strategies of the various business units development framework which are all in line assist the businesses through a common pool operating in diverse industries and markets with international best practices. of knowledge, if and when required. These will always revolve around the Group’s knowledge centres are able to complement strategy, while considering their domain As evident from the past, the Group strives the business units, as required from time to specific factors. The prime focus always is to to constantly align its portfolio of businesses time, and are an effective synergising force enhance value for all stakeholders. with the growth sectors of the economy, across the Group. Thus, the Operating Model both current and futuristic, and continuously of the Group is designed to create a value When allocating funds for various endeavours to ensure that capital resources premium, where the Group, as a whole, investments, the project evaluation model, are efficiently employed in a manner that creates more value to JKH stakeholders than discussed in detail in the ensuing sections, will expand the reach of the portfolio, ensure the sum of each business taken individually. strives to strike a balance between optimising relevance and give the ability to compete immediate portfolio returns and preserving at the relevant levels, both globally and Strategy mapping exercises concentrating on medium to long term growth objectives, internationally. The Consumer Foods and the short, medium and long term aspirations whilst ensuring investments will be EPS Retail, Financial Services, Leisure, Property of each business, are conducted annually accretive in the long term. and Transportation industry groups are all and are reviewed at a minimum, quarterly/ poised to grow in the medium to long term bi-annually, or as and when a situation so in a local economic environment which is demands. expected to be progressive, and, in the region, where we have accumulated competence in the relevant industry. The strategies of the various business units operating in diverse industries and markets will always revolve around the Group’s strategy, The Group’s ambitions are facilitated by an Operating Model where each business unit while considering their domain speciﬁc factors. The prime focus always is granted operational autonomy within a is to enhance value for all stakeholders. framework of delegated decision rights 86 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION, AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Similar to the previous year, the Group regulatory or technological factors that through the use of a project specific cost of continued to encourage all businesses to obstruct or restrict operations, entry or exit debt and a foreign currency denominated engage in “disruptive innovation” challenging of both the unit and competitors, et cetera. equity return benchmark commensurate the traditional ways of doing business by with the investment, which in turn, would be utilising current and emerging technology. As The capital structures for new ventures are comparatively analysed against projects with a result, several business units and functions stress tested under varied scenarios, which similar risk profiles. within the Group have conceptualised and often leads to taking proactive measures, implemented digitally enabled workflow particularly in managing potential risks, Conceptualising Portfolio Performance and process optimisation solutions into their especially those relating to foreign exchange The Group aims to strike a balance between key business processes, with the goals of and taxation during both the development optimising immediate portfolio returns enhancing the customer experience, internal and operating phases. Further, ongoing against returns in the future. As such, productivity and organisational efficiency. projects are regularly tested and evaluated emphasis is placed on both return generating in partnership with independent and capabilities of the business against its capital Further details on the strategy formulation recognised parties to ensure clear, impartial employed, and the earnings potential of the and decision making process can be judgement on matters relating to capital business or project. The Group is conscious found under the Corporate Governance structure, economic implications and other of the quantum of capital deployed to Commentary of this Report. Group-wide key operating risks. businesses, and to this end, places a strong strategies are discussed in detail under the emphasis on evaluating projects in such Strategy and Outlook section of each of the JKH’s Hurdle Rate/Required Rate of manner which optimises capital efficiency, industry group reviews. Return especially in capital intensive businesses The present hurdle rate of JKH is at 15 per such as Leisure. In order to manage the Resource Allocation and Portfolio cent, which is a function of the weighted effective quantum of capital deployed, the Management average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC is Group will continue to explore investment Resource allocation and portfolio derived from the Group’s cost of equity, cost structuring options such as asset-light management is an imperative action in of debt, target capital structure, tax rates, and investment models for future hotel projects. creating value to all stakeholders through the value creation premium required over an evaluation of the Group’s fundamentals, and above the WACC. Whilst the cost of debt Being a portfolio of businesses, the Group has which are centred on the forms of Capital. has increased towards the end of the period benefitted from contributions from different Whilst the Group is frequently presented under review, the hurdle rate has not been businesses at varying points of time based with opportunities in diverse industries, it revised on the basis that it is a long term on their growth cycle and correlation with continues to follow its structured four-step target, and any revision would be warranted overall economic growth in the country. Over methodology indicated below in evaluating, only if the above factors are expected to the last few years the Group has witnessed a and managing its portfolio. sustain over the long term. shift in the composition of its earnings with a greater contribution from higher ROCE Regular Assessment of Risk and Reward Even though this hurdle rate is utilised as the earning industry groups such as Consumer All verticals and businesses within each initial benchmark rate in evaluating feasibility Foods and Retail, and Financial Services. industry group are regularly assessed on key and opportunity in all projects of the Group, The conscious and planned strategies of dimensions such as customer orientation project specific modifiers are also used in driving growth in these industry groups will, and bargaining power, supplier concentration order to get a holistic view of the project under all things being equal, contribute towards and power, JV partner affiliations and consideration. As such, a country specific risk an improvement in the ROCE for the Group, dependence, cyclicality, regulatory structure, modifier would be applied for investments whilst concurrently driving absolute earnings performance against the industry and the Sri with a high proportion of foreign currency growth. Lankan economy, and economic, procedural, investment costs and operational cash flows, Cornerstone of the Evaluates the industry Evaluates the long term Considers factors such decision criteria based attractiveness and competitive advantage as senior management on the JKH hurdle rate growth potential based of a business/industry time and the risk to Financial filter Complexity filter on the industry lifecycle by closely evaluating brand image and Growth filter Strategic fit the competitive forces, reputation in conjunction speciﬁc industry/ with the anticipated business risks, ability to returns control value drivers and the competencies and critical success factors inherent to the Group Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 87 Further to the discussion in the Group group along with the corresponding income. Modifier II Adjustment for investment Consolidated Review section of this Report, However, it is noted that real estate belonging property and revaluations the ensuing section discusses the return to the Sri Lankan Resorts segment is excluded Properties which have been re-rated in on capital employed (ROCE) under two key as such properties constitute the land bank of keeping with the principle of fair value modifiers. the segment for future hotel developments. accounting have been adjusted for the The properties re-allocated will be a part of preceding three years in order to obtain a Modifier I Adjustment for land re-allocations a “property play” and plans for development clear and un-skewed view of the ROCE. The Properties that are not under the operational and operation are the responsibility of the need for such a modifier is exacerbated as banner of the non-property related business Property industry group. “Cinnamon Life” is a result of the significant increase in the units, and are excess to their current and recognised as a stand-alone play. value of land in the recent few years, where foreseeable operational requirements, have monetisation of such properties would have been allocated to the Property industry a time lag. 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Unadjusted ROCE ROCE after modifier ROCE after modifier ROCE after modifier ROCE after modifier (%) I (%) I and II (%) I and II (%) I and II (%) Hotel Management 129.4 129.4 129.4 91.0 76.6 City Hotels 8.5 8.9 11.5 10.2 11.6 Sri Lankan Resorts 8.6 8.6 9.3 8.1 8.5 Destination Management 25.0 25.0 25.0 46.2 46.2 Maldivian Resorts 8.8 8.8 8.8 9.6 9.6 Transportation 19.2 19.2 19.3 16.3 16.4 Consumer Foods 59.2 60.6 61.7 65.0 77.5 Retail 63.5 63.5 64.2 61.8 61.9 Financial Services 28.0 28.0 28.2 24.5 24.5 Property (Excl. Cinnamon Life) 12.5 10.3 7.5 19.4 13.1 Cinnamon Life (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.2) Information Technology 26.9 26.9 26.9 6.8 6.8 Plantation Services 14.3 15.4 13.7 0.8 1.5 The adjusted ROCE following the two modifiers is graphically depicted below. Key highlights of the graph are discussed in the ensuing section. Adjusted ROCE (%) 140 Hotel Management 129.4 120 100 Retail 64.2 80 Consumer Foods 61.7 Financial Services 28.2 60 Information Technology 26.9 Destination Transportation 19.3 40 Management 25.0 Plantation Services 13.7 City Hotels 11.5 SL Resorts 9.3 Maldivian Property Resorts 8.8 (Excl. Cinnamon Life) 7.5 20 Hurdle rate 15.0 Cinnamon Life (0.1) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Adjusted effective average capital employed (20) (Rs. Bn) 88 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION, AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT During the year under review, the adjusted properties that are not under the operational ROCE of the City Hotels increased to 11.5 The Group is cognizant of the banner of the non-property related business per cent, compared to 10.2 per cent for the fact that revenue recognition in units, and are excess to its current and previous year. The sector’s performance foreseeable operational needs, have been was driven by higher Average Room Rates the Property industry group has included under this segment. Despite the re(ARR) and improved occupancy levels. The demonstrated a volatile trend rating of the properties under this segment, previous year’s profitability was impacted by based on the projects completed, the Group is of the view that there is a lag the partial closure of Cinnamon Lakeside. The effect in returns adjusting for the increased and as discussed in the Property Sri Lankan resorts segment also recorded capital base of such properties and thus, a growth in ARRs, and thus recorded an industry group review, the warrants it impossible to employ such improvement in adjusted ROCE at 9.3 business is taking steps to develop properties in immediate return generating per cent compared to 8.1 per cent for the a more robust pipeline of projects. projects. Hence such revaluations, as defined previous year. under “modifier 2”, have been adjusted for in calculating the adjusted ROCE. The It is pertinent that, as part of its future Group is cognizant of the fact that revenue expansion plans, the asset base of the Sri be noted that the return generated from recognition in the Property industry group Lankan Resorts segment includes a large the Maldivian Resorts segment should be has demonstrated a volatile trend based on land bank earmarked for development of appraised against a return of a comparable the projects completed, and as discussed hotel properties. While monetisation of dollar financed asset as opposed to the in the Property industry group review, the these properties in the future will be based Group rupee hurdle rate of 15 per cent which business is taking steps to develop a more on development potential, their effects on is based on the rupee risk free rate. As shown robust pipeline of projects. the capital base due to re-rating have been above, the return of the segment declined to adjusted for, as mentioned above under the 8.8 per cent [2015/16: 9.6 per cent], which Unlike the analysis done on adjusted ROCE “Modifier II” section. For further details on can be attributed to an increase in the capital under the Group Consolidated Review section the land bank refer the Group Real Estate base due to the extension of the head lease of of the Report, debt and equity infused in to Portfolio section of this Report. Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives. “Cinnamon Life” have not been adjusted, as the project is separately evaluated in the Given its service oriented disposition, the The adjusted ROCE of the Transportation ensuing section. Hotel Management sector and the Destination segment increased to 19.3 per cent from 16.3 Management sector continued to record per cent in the previous year. This increase During the year, Rs.4.34 billion of cash equity ROCEs well above the hurdle rate. The Hotel stemmed from a growth in EBIT, which and Rs.1.22 billion of debt was infused to Management sector witnessed an increase in outstripped growth in capital employed, Cinnamon Life to finance the development its adjusted ROCE to 129.4 per cent [2015/16: primarily due to improved operational costs of the project. As at 31 March 2017, the 91.0 per cent], primarily due to a decline in performances of the businesses, as cumulative figures stood at Rs.15.00 billion the capital base. discussed under the Transportation industry and Rs.12.37 billion for cash equity and debt group review. respectively. The aforementioned cash equity The strong long term growth prospects for investment at “Cinnamon Life” excludes the tourism in the country present the Leisure The Property industry group, excluding land transferred by JKH and its subsidiaries. industry group with expansion opportunities, “Cinnamon Life”, witnessed a decline in Note that all project related costs, unless which the Group intends to capitalise on adjusted ROCE to 7.5 per cent [2015/16: explicitly mentioned as above, are capitalised through an asset light expansion model. It is 19.4 per cent], mainly attributable to the in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting envisaged that this would result in an optimal revenue recognition cycle of its residential Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). Additionally, it deployment of capital that is accretive to apartments. During the year under review, is highlighted that the revenue from the Group portfolio returns. the Property industry group’s revenue “Cinnamon Life” project will only be recognised primarily comprised of rental income from its post the commencement of operations. The Destination Management sector on the shopping malls. This is in contrast to previous other hand, witnessed a decline in its ROCE years where a significant portion of revenue The Consumer Foods sector recorded a to 25.0 per cent [2015/16: 46.2 per cent], comprised of income from apartment decrease in the adjusted ROCE to 61.7 per which is attributable to a reduction in its sales. As defined above under “modifier 1”, cent from 65.0 per cent in the previous year. EBIT due to increasing competition in the industry. Consequently, EBIT margins came under pressure, and declined to 6.0 per cent compared to 9.0 per cent for the previous The strong long term growth prospects for tourism in the country year. present the Leisure industry group with expansion opportunities, which the Group intends to capitalise on through an asset light expansion The Maldivian Resorts segment has been included in the aforementioned graph and model. It is envisaged that this would result in an optimal deployment of the ROCE analysis, to ensure capturing of all capital that is accretive to Group portfolio returns. sectors/industry groups. However, it should Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 89 This decrease is attributable to an expansion employed resulting from the opening of a significant increase in sales volumes of in the capital base as a result of borrowings fifteen new outlets during the year. mobile phones. Operational efficiencies in the undertaken to fund new investments, such BPO business also contributed towards the as the new ice cream manufacturing facility. The Financial Services sector recorded an improved profitability of the industry group. The growth in the capital base was partially adjusted ROCE of 28.2 per cent compared off-set by the increase in profitability driven to 24.5 per cent recorded in the previous The adjusted ROCE of the Plantations by double digit volume growth and changes financial year. The increase in the ratio is Services sector increased to 13.7 per cent made to the sales mix which positively partly stemming from the decline in the compared to 0.8 per cent recorded in the impacted profit margins. average capital base of the industry group previous financial year. This marked increase attributable to the UA share repurchase is attributed to an increase in EBIT on account The Retail sector continued its strong growth which took place in September 2015. of higher prices due to a tighter supply of trajectory with a significant increase in leaf tea, as crop yields declined due to the profitability owing to higher overall footfall, The adjusted ROCE of the Information unfavourable weather conditions prevailing coupled with incremental turnover from Technology industry group increased to 26.9 in the country. newly opened outlets. As such, the adjusted per cent [2015/16: 6.8 per cent] primarily ROCE increased to 64.2 per cent [2015/16: stemming from the performance of the 61.8 per cent] despite an increase in capital Office Automation business, which witnessed Portfolio Movements Portfolio movements over the past five years are illustrated in the graph below. Capital employed (Rs. Bn) 250 200 150 100 50 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Foods Financial Information Other including and Retail Services Technology Plantation Services 90 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION, AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Significant Movements of the Portfolio and in Capital Employed 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 JKH raised Rs.23.10 billion through Invested Rs.113 million in Saffron Invested Rs.4.73 billion in Invested Rs.4.34 billion in a Rights issue to fund the equity Aviation (Private) Limited, the Waterfront Properties (Private) Waterfront Properties (Private) contribution of the Cinnamon Life operating company of the domestic Limited Limited Project aviation operation Cinnamon Air KHL invested Rs.899 million in the Invested Rs.100 million in John Invested Rs.243 million in Invested Rs.12.06 million in ITHL Rights Issue to infuse equity Keells Properties Ja-ela (Private) Saffron Aviation (Private) Limited, John Keells Stock Brokers to Cinnamon Bey Limited the operating company of the (Private) Limited domestic aviation operation Cinnamon Air JKH infused Rs.32 million equity Invested Rs.585 million in Waterfront JKH, together with its subsidiaries, Invested Rs.43.17 million to Saffron Aviation (Private) Properties (Private) Limited increased its shareholding in in Saffron Aviation (Private) Limited, the operating company Rajawella Holdings Limited (RHL) Limited, the operating company Investments of the domestic aviation operation from 16.9 per cent to 51.0 per of the domestic aviation Cinnamon Air cent. The total investment in RHL operation Cinnamon Air of Rs.1.04 billion comprised of a release of an existing sublease of land held by the JKH Group in exchange for shares, a partial buyout from existing shareholders and cash infusions into RHL on a staggered basis KHL invested Rs.199 million for the acquisition of a 426 perch land in Nuwara Eliya Entered into a lease agreement with MOT to acquire Kekuraalhuveli Island next to Hakuraa, in the Maldives JKH disposed its 24.6 per cent JKH disposed its 4.3 per cent stake stake in Central Hospital (Private) in Expolanka Holdings PLC which Limited for a consideration of resulted in a capital gain of Rs.389 Rs.1.59 billion million JKH divested its 49 per cent stake JKH disposed its 4.0 per cent stake Divestments in Information Systems Associates in Access Engineering PLC which (ISA) for a consideration of Rs.384 resulted in a capital gain of Rs.593 million million Union Assurance PLC (UA) sold a 78 per cent stake of Union Assurance General Limited for a consideration of Rs.3.66 billion which resulted in a capital gain of Rs.1.22 billion JKH’s 100 per cent stake in Nexus Share repurchase by Asia Power Networks (Private) Limited was (Private) Limited resulted in a Mergers and restructuring/other divested to JayKay Marketing capital gain of Rs.82 million Services (Private) Limited, resulting in an amalgamation, with the surviving entity being JayKay Marketing Services (Private) Limited. 90.44 million shares held by JKH were repurchased by John Keells Residential Properties (JKRP) at a value of Rs.1.60 billion 24.66 million shares held by JKH were repurchased by UA at a value of Rs.4.14 billion Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 91 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Sustainability Integration the Group, and includes Standard Operating Procedures, common IT platforms for tracking key sustainability indicators and Over the years, the John Keells Group which operates in seven industry key risk indicators, internal sustainability groups, has placed great importance on sustainable development. The assurance in addition to internal audit and Group has an integrated approach to ensuring the interlinks between its external assurance processes. ﬁnancial performance and brand image, its sound corporate governance, The Group’s sustainability performance product and service excellence, productive workforce, environmental is tracked on a quarterly basis, compared stewardship and social responsibility. against local and international benchmarks and then reported internally and externally. This has become a proactive process in The following section provides an overview of the Group’s strategy of entrenching sustainability assessing a group company’s sustainability within its business operations, the policies and methodologies in place for sustainability performance, identification of areas of risk reporting and defining material sustainability aspects and the scope and boundary of the and providing management with timely sustainability content. information for corrective action. Sustainability Management The Group’s Sustainability Management Group Sustainability Policy Framework framework is also synchronised with the • The Group will strive to conduct its The Group’s Sustainability Management various management systems including activities in accordance with the highest framework includes strategies for environmental management, human standards of corporate best practice and entrenchment of sustainability, facilitated resources, health and safety and product in compliance with all applicable local and by a sustainability organisational structure, quality as well as business processes such international regulatory requirements and management information processes for as risk management, internal audit, legal and conventions benchmarking, gap analysis and reporting as statutory compliance and corporate social well as awareness creation and sustainability responsibility initiatives. • The Group monitors and assesses the assurance. quality and environmental impact of Sustainability Organisational Structure its operations, services and products This comprehensive management framework The Sustainability, Enterprise Risk whilst striving to include its supply chain is constantly updated and improved to Management and Group Initiatives Division, partners and customers, where relevant take into consideration the operational along with the Group Executive Committee and to the extent possible requirements of the various companies of and the Group Sustainability Committee • The Group is committed to transparency and open communication about its environmental and social practices in addition to its economic performance. It Sustainability Integration Process seeks dialogue with its stakeholders in e Identifica order to contribute to the development of anag tion o global best practice, while promoting the s to m ernal and s f risk e x t tak s tiv and e eh , op same commitment to transparency and tia ss old p ni ern rene er o open communication from its partners Sus c awa c tai on d ies and customers na are bili an nit s as ty g rtu cern • The Group strives to be an employer of rep of c i on ortin choice by providing a safe, secure and non-discriminatory working environment for its employees whose rights are fully safeguarded and who can have equal Sustainability Su opportunity to realise their full potential. l na Integration st ter ce ma ainab All Group companies will abide by national d ex laws and wherever possible will strive to ili ran na Internal an gem ty policy and emulate global best practice governing the respective industry groups, seeking ssu ent f ity a sustainabil continuous improvement of health and ramework safety in the workplace IT p ing • The Group will promote good relationships latform for provid ma d with all communities of which we are a nage n an ment informatio part and enhance their quality of life and variance control opportunities while respecting people’s culture, ways of life and heritage 92 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS formulates the Group sustainability Group's significant supply chain partners is strategy. The Division is responsible for The Group will strive to achieve a also carried out and a Code of Conduct for all the operationalisation of the Group’s 12 per cent reduction in its energy significant suppliers bidding for the Group’s Sustainability Management Framework centrally sourced goods and services has under which business units carry out usage and a 6 per cent reduction been introduced. their specific sustainability strategies and in its water usage by the year initiatives. 2020, against its 2015/16 baseline Sustainability Goal Setting Process ﬁgures. During the year under review, the Group, for The Division is also responsible for the the very first time, established energy and process by which the Group identifies its water reduction goals for the year 2020, significant stakeholders, the identification as an innovative stride in its sustainability of materiality issues and sharing of best integrated strategy of considering all aspects journey. The Group engaged expert practices, carrying out risk reviews and of the triple bottom line whilst striving for international consultants to conduct in-depth the overall review and monitoring of the optimised financial performance. Business energy and water audits which were carried sustainability drive. Awareness campaigns units identify their material impacts and out effectively covering approximately 90 are carried out on a regular basis, with one commit to medium-term strategies to operational sites over a span of nine months, annual Group-wide awareness campaign minimise such impacts. This has enabled the in order to ascertain reduction strategies being carried out to broadbase knowledge Group to further integrate their sustainability and technologies for the setting of the 2020 and to inculcate a culture of sustainability. strategies with their business strategies and environmental goals for the Group. The year has created the need for business units to 2015/16 was established as the baseline for The Group has in place a robust sustainability assess the hidden costs of operations and the goal setting process, with the Leisure, structure with oversight from the Group include sustainability initiatives and other Consumer Foods and Retail sectors being Executive Committee and the Group green projects in to their annual objectives. identified as the sectors which account for a Sustainability Committee, while task groups With business unit strategies and goals majority of resource utilisation in the areas for each sustainability aspect are headed aligned to triple bottom line results, this has of energy and water, and as a result aptly by a member of the Group Operating in turn resulted in employee objectives being represent the Group’s resource utilisation. Committee. Additionally, each business unit aligned to such results, which has enabled The feasibility of the proposed strategies has a dedicated Sustainability Champion the Group to truly entrench sustainability into were then analysed, with over 300 initiatives responsible for sustainability initiatives and the organisational culture of the Group. being committed by business units and the overall sustainability performance, under industry groups in delivering internal targets, the supervision of their respective Sector The Group has commenced a focused after which the Group arrived at the final goal Heads and Heads of Business Units. This strategy of encouraging its significant for 2020. structure is used in integrating sustainability suppliers to embrace sustainability as within the business operations as well as part of their operations. As such, the Group As such, the Group will strive to achieve a 12 assessing and developing the value chain in currently has in place processes to assess per cent reduction in its energy usage and sustainable practices. risks of environmental, labour and social a 6 per cent reduction in its water usage by impacts emanating from its value chain and the year 2020, against its 2015/16 baseline The strategic planning process and annual to carry out internal assessments of supply figures. These goals represent 15.8 Mn kWh plan cycle of Group companies are now chain partners. An annual drive to create of energy reduction and 188,000 m3 of water based on a holistic approach and include an awareness through supplier fora for the reduction respectively. John Keells Group Sustainability Goals for 2020 12% reduction = 15.8 Mn kWh Implementing over 300 Energy initiatives for reduction / Performance Management System efficiencies / renewables / re-use Water In-depth Energy / Water Establishing Audits carried out at over 6% 2015/2016 90 operations sites reduction = 188,000 m3 Baseline Goal Setting Journey Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 93 G4 18 G4 22 Report Content The annual report is one of the primary The John Keells Group has been a part of the United Nations Global methods used by the Group to respond to Compact (UNGC) since 2002 and this report serves as a communication stakeholder concerns during the ﬁnancial year. The process of recognising key on progress. It also reinforces the commitment to implement the 10 sustainability related risks, significant principles of the UNGC initiative. Further enhancing its disclosures to stakeholders, assessment of the material stakeholders, the group has mapped all of its projects carried out by the aspects based on relative importance to both John Keells Foundation, Group Sustainability, Human Resources division the Group and stakeholders, and to formulate policies and management approaches to as well as individual businesses, to the Sustainable Development Goals, manage and mitigate these aspects have in turn aligning these with the six Capitals of Integrated Reporting. become an integral part of defining this report. Engagement of Significant Stakeholders This year, each industry group section and the compilation of the sustainability indicators section of this Report explains the process Group Financial and Sustainability Review contained in this Report, are in accordance adopted by the Group in determining also strives to capture the interrelationships with standard industry practices and the information requirements of its between identified material aspects and the indicator protocols provided under the GRI stakeholders, prioritisation of issues and significance of these aspects in areas such G4 Guidelines included in the Reporting establishing materiality. The section titled as financial performance, human capital Principles and Standard Disclosures and ‘Key Sustainability Concerns’ explain the and relationships with community and the Implementation Manual. Such data outcomes of the stakeholder engagement the environment with a view to providing measurement techniques, methodologies, process and establishes the relevance of information with regard to risks and assumptions and estimations are detailed the material aspects and key sustainability opportunities and strategy going forward. in the relevant Disclosures of Management indicators that the Group has reported on. Approach section and can be found online at This annual report strives to provide a www.keells.com/sustainability-and-csr. This Report is the Group’s second Integrated clear, concise and balanced overview to all Annual Report, and has been structured as significant stakeholders identified in the The GRI content index has been utilised to per the Integrated Reporting framework Engagement of Significant Stakeholder refer to specific information and disclosures of the International Integrated Reporting section of this Report, providing year on required by the GRI framework. The John Council, and strives to discuss the inter year comparisons for both financial and Keells Group has been a part of the United connections between the six capitals, the non-financial information relevant to such Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2002 Group’s business model and the creation identified stakeholders. In keeping with and this Report serves as a Communication on of value. Every year, this report provides the reporting principles for defining report Progress. It also reinforces our commitment a holistic overview including the Group’s content, and in addition to aspects such as to implement the 10 principles of the UNGC overall strategy, corporate governance stakeholder inclusiveness and materiality initiative. Further enhancing its disclosures framework, risk management processes which are further explained in this Report, to stakeholders, the Group has mapped all and financial and non-financial performance the disclosures also ensure completeness of its projects carried out by the John Keells covering all aspects of the triple bottom line. and contextual information, not only with Foundation, Group Sustainability, Human Prior to this, the Group published stand-alone regards to the Group’s performance, but also Resources division as well as individual sustainability reports, which has gradually on sectorial performance of the material businesses, to the Sustainable Development evolved over the past four years to reports aspects identified for each industry group Goals, in turn aligning these with the six that strive to disclose relevant information as disclosed in the Industry Group Analysis Capitals of Integrated Reporting. to all stakeholders. During the last four section of this Report. The Group’s material years, the integrated report evolved from aspects and its aspect boundaries are also A year on year comparison is possible a group-centric approach to an approach covered in the Identification of Sustainability subject to the explanations provided with which provided a sectorial analysis and Aspects section of the Report. respect to the divestments mentioned presentation of relevant material aspects previously as well as changes in operational for each industry group. The report which The Report, which is published annually, activity as mentioned in the Industry Group provided the highlights of the triple bottom has been externally veriﬁed and assured Review sections in this Report. In terms of line performance of each industry group, also through an independent assurance process restatements in comparison to the previous provided similar information from a Groupundertaken by DNV GL represented in Sri year 2015/16, the numbers and statements wide perspective. This year, as was the case Lanka by DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka have been re-arranged wherever necessary the previous year, the Report was prepared (Private) Limited. The data measurement to conform to the present year’s presentation. 'in accordance' -core option of the Global techniques, calculation methodologies, Reporting Initiative GRI G4 Guidelines. assumptions and estimations applied in the 94 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 G4 23 G4 24 G4 25 G4 26 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Scope and Boundary Engagement of Significant 84 legal entities of the John Keells Group Stakeholders The Report has been externally create the financial reporting boundary of this The Group conducts its commercial veriﬁed and assured through report of which, 75 companies are directly operations in several industry sectors of controlled by the Group. The remaining 9 the economy across different geographical an independent assurance have not been included for sustainability markets. This diversity necessitates process undertaken by DNV GL reporting, as they do not fall within direct developing and sustaining relationships with represented in Sri Lanka by control of the Group. Of the 75 companies, 27 various stakeholder groups. Stakeholder DNV Business Assurance Lanka have been excluded for reporting purposes expectations of the Group would be diverse as they do not carry out any operations that and numerous considering the large number (Pvt) Ltd. significantly interact with the environment or of stakeholders that the Group engages with. society at large. Such companies are either The Group has therefore considered only the non-operational entities, investment entities, stakeholders who have a significant influence land-only holding companies, managing over the Group, or who would be significantly companies or companies that rent out office impacted by the Group’s operations. These spaces. The other 48 companies have been groups are identified in the diagrams in the listed in the Group Directory and any other ensuing sections. exclusions made have been clearly explained under the relevant sustainability aspects. The Group engages with its significant Apart from Rajawella Holdings Limited stakeholders through formal and informal (RHL) and 15 new Keells Super outlets being consultations, participation, negotiations, included in the reporting scope during the communication, mandatory and voluntary reporting period, no other significant changes disclosures, certification, and accreditation. were made to the reporting scope regarding The various methods of engagement and the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, frequency of engagement with significant or its supply chain, during the year under suppliers have been shown below: review. Customers individual, corporate B2B Institutional investors, fund managers, analysts, leaders, multilateral Expectations Meeting customer expectations on product and lenders service features, ensuring high quality and safe products and services Expectations Consistent economic performance leading to greater delivered in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. economic value generation Frequency Methods of engagement Frequency Methods of engagement Annually Road shows, trade fairs and field visits Annually Annual reports, disclosures and reviews Bi-annually One-on-one meetings, discussion forums, progress Quarterly Quarterly reports reviews Regularly Investor road shows Quarterly Customer satisfaction surveys On-going Phone calls, e-mail, written communication, websites, On-going Through information dissemination through printed one-on-one meetings reports, telephone, SMS, e-mail, corporate website, workshops and business development activities Community neighbours, community, community leaders, society Expectations Stimulating local economy through procurement Society, media, pressure groups, NGOs, environmental groups and providing direct and indirect employment whilst carrying out Expectations Carrying out operations in accordance with social operations with minimal impact on shared natural resources. norms, prevailing culture, with minimal impact on society and Frequency Methods of engagement environment, whilst adhering to all relevant laws and regulations One-off Engagement with the community is carried out prior to and operating as a responsible corporate citizen adopting sound entry into the community area and on exit via one-oncorporate governance practices one meetings, workshops, forums Frequency Methods of engagement Monthly Engagement is then carried out on a monthly basis On-going Website, press releases, media briefings, correspondence, while operating via one-on-one meetings, workshops, disclosures, media coverage, participation in NGO forums forums, certification and accreditation On-going Corporate Social Responsibility programmes, creating awareness and education Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 95 G4 24 G4 26 Employees Directors, executives, non-executives Business partners, principals, suppliers Expectations Providing a safe and enabling environment, equal Expectations Fostering long term business relations and benefitting opportunity and a culture of meritocracy, enhancement of skills from the growth of the Group, adherence to contractual obligations, and knowledge, continuous engagement, providing feedback and knowledge sharing and active representation in business councils encouraging work-life balance and committees in the relevant industry sectors Frequency Methods of engagement Frequency Methods of engagement Annually Employee satisfaction surveys and dip stick surveys Annually Distributor conferences, contract renegotiations and such as Great Place To Work (GPTW), VOE (Voice of reviews, road shows, supplier assessments, supplier Employee), Group-wide year end get-together. fora Bi-annually Formal performance reviews, skip level meetings Quarterly Supplier review meetings, one-on-one meetings Regularly Intranet communications through JK Connect and My Regularly Market reports Portal On-going Conference calls, e-mails, circulars, corporate website On-going Professional training, development activities and team and sourcing, contracting and supplier management building through internal and external programmes, platform joint consultative committees, open door policy at all management levels, sports events, Corporate Social Legal and regulatory bodies Responsibility programmes Expectations Carrying out operations in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations and operating as a responsible corporate citizen Government, government institutions and departments adhering to sound corporate governance practices Expectations Contribution to the country’s economy through Frequency Methods of engagement strategic investments, creating direct and indirect employment, Quarterly The senior management are members of chambers timely payment of taxes and levies and stimulating local economies and industry associations who meet at least on a Frequency Methods of engagement quarterly basis Quarterly The senior management are members of chambers On-going Engagement with the legal and regulatory bodies is and industry associations who meet at least on a carried out on an on-going basis through meetings, quarterly basis periodic disclosures, correspondence with bodies On-going Engagement with the government is carried out on an such as local authorities, municipal councils and on-going basis through meetings, business forums, other institutions such as Consumer Affairs Authority, newsletters, circulars, presentations and briefings, Department of Inland Revenue, Customs Department, advisory meetings of industry associates Securities and Exchange Commission, Colombo Stock Exchange and the Tourist Board of Sri Lanka Industry peers and competition Expectations Carrying out operations in a fair and ethical manner, active participation in business councils and committees and discouraging anti-competitive behaviour Frequency Methods of engagement Quarterly The senior management are members of chambers and industry associations who meet at least on a quarterly basis Regularly Communication through membership of trade associations, conferences, discussion forums 96 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 G4 20 G4 21 G4 27 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Key Sustainability Concerns There is a strong confidence among The supplier assessments carried out during this year helped us identify stakeholders on the Group’s corporate and material environmental and social concerns emanating from our value sustainability strategies and performance based on the fact that no adverse reports chain partners, effectively taking the Group’s sustainability focus to relating to environmental and social concerns our value chain partners as well. In addition, supplier performance pertaining to the operations of the Group or management aspects such as quality checks in ensuring that suppliers its companies have been highlighted during adhere to regulations and best practices is carried out. the reporting year. This conclusion has been reached by the Group through continuously monitoring print and electronic media throughout the period, which also now forms part of the Group’s process of tracking key During the year, the Group has responded Identification of Sustainability Aspects risk indicators. to customer feedback in a structured and Taking into consideration the key sustainability consistent manner, driven by the centrally concerns of significant stakeholder groups, Once in every two years, a group-wide developed Corporate Communications the Group assesses its material aspect comprehensive “Great Place to Work” survey policies, especially with regards to social boundary as follows. The Group considers is carried out to obtain timely feedback from media platforms. its business units and employees as internal employees, while the Group conducts a ‘Voice stakeholders whilst its external stakeholder of Employee” survey which is an in-house The primary concern of shareholders is to consist of shareholders, investors, lenders, dip stick study, administered online by an ensure not only return on their investment customers, suppliers, business partners, external party to ensure transparency and but consistent returns for the long run. government and regulatory authorities, confidentiality. The findings of the survey However in addition to the overall economic peers, pressure groups media and the are incorporated into an action plan and are performance of the company, such investors community. Continuing from the previous used in evaluating manager effectiveness, would also consider the sustainability of the year, this year too, the Group provided greater influencing policy and process changes, organisation with regards to its environmental focus to suppliers and distribution networks employee motivation and morale. In 2016 performance, social performance and in an attempt to assess the risks faced by the a VOE survey was conducted to ensure the corporate governance. Through its annual Group through its value chain. employee satisfaction status post the GPTW reports the Group has responded to concerns held in 2014. The survey was based on four raised by stakeholders during the year. key drivers namely Caring, Credibility, During the financial year the Group has Equality and Pride which are accessed strengthened its policy frameworks and through 16 statements. The Group also management approach, where it has become constantly engages with its employees, vital to address its material aspects and identifying areas such as employee welfare, identify potential frontier risks. training and retention of talent as focus areas. Stakeholders such as society, pressure The supplier assessments carried out groups and regulatory authorities constantly during this year helped us identify material assess the operations of corporate with environmental and social concerns regard to the responsible utilisation of emanating from our value chain partners, resources, conservation of bio diversity and effectively taking the Group’s sustainability environmental protection and these will focus to our value chain partners as well. In continue to be high priority areas for the addition, supplier performance management Group. aspects such as quality checks in ensuring that suppliers adhere to regulations and The John Keells Group has always placed best practices are carried out. In instances great importance in developing the where anomalies were found, stakeholder communities within which it operates. The engagements were carried out to ensure the Group's corporate philosophy has always development of such suppliers processes to been to be a responsible corporate citizen; and minimise repetition. will continue to do so as done over the years. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 97 G4 20 G4 21 rs, Investor upplie s, com estors, s nt suppl mun Inv rnme iers ity, Gove External pe Inve s, All Group ers st tor ciety onsum er comp ,c o In so u re, C Retail anie us cus vest is Le oods , y, s nit s F r tom ors mu plie ers , re om , sup , m gul er ,c rs ers C ed a m Re onsu L ia,Lei ail tom e, ds, su tai Foo re, C l, ur oo s ds ons ,R u eis er F ation et m nt Pla ressure groups, Investors, suppl tors, p re, Consumer Inves iers, ity, media Leisu ds, Retail , commun All Group lators customers, me companies dia Foo regu Internal Lei sur In pre comvestor rou p All G nies, pa e, C Foo onsumer com loyees emp ssu mu s, regu ds re n l gro ity, cus ators, iers, , su ppl rs, tors me sto a ups tome Inves s, cu Co lator ity, me di Le nsu , su rs, regu mun isu me ies pplie n com re, r Fo pa rs, m Pla o nta ds, com edia tion All Group companies, up s All Gro e r su res mer s, employees p Inv , rs st ia o es tor pee cu d nt, nity, s, me com s, sup rn e m mu or e mu plier s, Gov s, com gulat nity p e Regulators, customers, grou tors, r ity s investors , suppliers, commun inve Aspect Grouping Internal External Economic Performance Procurement Practices, Indirect Economic Impact Energy and Emissions Water, Effluents and Waste Biodiversity and Environmental Compliance Employment, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Labour Relations, Freedom of Association, Training, Occupational Health and Safety Non-discrimination, Prevention of Child Labour, Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labour Local Communities Anti-corruption and Regulatory Compliance Supplier Assessment (Environmental and Labour) Product Quality and Compliance, Labelling, Marketing Communications 98 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 G4 19 G4 23 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS In defining report content, the Group sought to prioritise the material impacts based on their relative importance to internal and external stakeholders. This prioritisation and identification of material aspects for reporting is shown below. Material Aspects High Waste Emissions Local Purchasing Indirect Economic Impact Economic Performance Child Labour Forced Labour Product Compliance Labelling Energy Biodiversity Anti Corruption Diversity & Equal Opportunity Effluents Employment Occupational Health & Safety Non-Discrimination Env Compliance Responsible Advertising Impact to external stakeholders Supplier Assessment Labour Local Community Customer Health & Safety Investments Supplier Assessment Environment Supplier Assessment Human Rights Anti Competitive Behaviour Water Public Policy Overall Compliance Market Presence Env Grievances Freedom of Association Training Materials Env Conservation Transportation Impacts Human Rights Grievances Labour Grievances Supplier Assessment Social Human Rights Assessment Customer Privacy Product & Services Impacts Labour Relations Indigenous Rights Equal Pay Security Practices Low High Low Impact to internal stakeholders Colour Code of Category Material Aspects Management Approach Economic Economic performance, procurement practices, indirect economic impacts Our Investors Environment Energy, water, biodiversity, emissions, effluents, waste, compliance Our Environment Employees Employment, training and development, diversity and equal opportunity, Our People occupational health and safety Ethical business and human Anti-corruption, compliance, prevention of child labour, prevention of forced Our Ethics rights and compulsory labour, freedom of association Product responsibility Product labelling, responsible advertising, product compliance, customer health Our Products and safety Supplier assessment Assessment of suppliers for environment stewardship, labour practices and Our Supply Chain human rights Social responsibility Local community Our Community Any clarifications regarding this Report may be obtained from the: Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management and Group Initiatives Division, John Keells Holdings PLC Disclosures of Management 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Approach can be found on the Email : sustainability@keells.com corporate website at www.keells.com/ Website : www.keells.com/sustainability-and-csr sustainability-and-csr. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 99 Management Approach of Identified Material Aspects A detailed description of the strategies and approach adopted by the Group in managing its material aspects are contained in the Disclosure of Management Approach section hosted on the Group website www.keells.com/sustainability-and-csr. A summary of this management approach to the Group’s economic performance, ethics and human capital, environmental responsibility, product stewardship, supply chain management and social responsibility is contained below. Our People Our Environment Human resources is an appreciating asset bringing continuous The Group has significant operations in various sectors which have returns and constitutes the catalyst for world class performance. high environmental impacts such as energy, water consumption, Being in predominantly service based industries, productivity, emissions, waste and effluents and bio diversity. The Group is aware efficiency, customer focus, and skills are of vital importance in that it is a custodian of the environment for future generations and as obtaining a competitive advantage. such take best efforts to minimise negative environmental impacts and comply with all applicable laws and regulations. The Group is The Group is committed to being “More than just a Workplace” while also aware of the importance of preserving the country’s natural the foundation of its HR philosophy is to be an equal opportunity resources which in turn would enhance the unique value proposition employer. of the Group’s products and services. The Group has in place policies with regard to human resources The John Keells Group is committed to promoting sound covering all aspects of employment. environmental practices within our key businesses, through the • All Group companies adhere to all relevant local labour laws and establishment of policies and practices that enable us to conduct our regulations. operations in a sustainable and environmentally sound manner. • The John Keells Group places great importance on the • The Group does not discriminate its employees on the basis of management and reduction of energy, water consumption, gender, race, nationality, age, social origin, disability, religion, or carbon emissions, waste generation and effluent discharge in any other basis. the areas of operations. • The Group recognises the rights of employees and provides • Complementing the overall Environment Policy, the Group has forums, support groups and policies to address their concerns in place several other policies such as its Energy Management and resolve issues and conflicts in a fair and transparent manner. Policy, Water Management Policy as well as policies such as the Hazardous Waste Management Policy covering waste management. Details of the Group’s human capital can be found in the The Group’s environmental performance can be found in Capital Management Review section. the Capital Management Review section. Our Investors Our Ethics The Group’s continued success is dependent on its triple bottom The Group is committed to upholding the universal human rights of line performance, by providing economic value addition, financial all its stakeholders whilst maintaining the highest ethical standards value through to its shareholders, pay back on investment to its in all its business operations. investors, payment of debt financing to its financiers and benefits to its employees, whilst also maintaining its social license to operate. The John Keells Group places the highest value on ethical practices and has promulgated a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and The John Keells Group is committed to delivering sustainable bribery in all its transactions. economic performance and growth to all its diverse stakeholders. • All business units and functions of the Group are required to include and analyse the risk of corruption as a part of their risk The Group’s sound financial management is based on a diversified management process. approach aiming to increase economic value whilst ensuring stringent internal controls and robust Enterprise Risk Management • The Group employs stringent checks during its recruitment processes. process to ensure the minimum age requirements are met. • Employees are targeted through a performance centric • The Group ensures that all companies are educated on the compensation culture which results in high levels of efficiency possible sources of forced and compulsory labour. and productivity. • The Group has zero tolerance for physical or verbal harassment • The Group seeks to stimulate the economies through its based on gender, race, religion, nationality, age, social origin, commitment to developing and working with local suppliers. disability, political affiliations or opinion. The Group’s economic performance can be found in the The Group’s governance mechanism and internal control Capital Management Review section. procedures can be found in the Governance section. 100 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Our Products Our Community The delivering of optimal levels of quality and ensuring maximum The Group aims to be good neighbours and proactively contributes satisfaction to all its customers and clients has always been to the development of the nation through aligning its focus areas to imperative and material to the Group. the Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by Sri Lanka. The John Keells Group strives to maintain products and services at The Group abides by the values of caring, trust and integrity through the highest standards in line with all relevant local and international demonstrating our commitment to the community and environment statutory and regulatory requirements in the markets we serve. we operate in staying in line with our CSR Vision “empowering the • The Group develops and markets products and services that nation for tomorrow”. meet customer requirements and meet the highest product • The Group focuses on education, health, environment, community quality standards which ensure customer health and safety. and livelihood development, arts and culture and disaster relief. • The Group follows the ICC Code of Advertising and Marketing • The Group has contributed towards the development of society Communication for all its products and services through infrastructure, public services and local community engagement initiatives. • The Group adheres to all product labelling requirements specified in all relevant laws and regulations in the countries it operates. The Group’s product related information can be found in The Group’s social responsibility initiatives can be found in the relevant Industry Group Review section. the Capital Management Review and the Industry Group Review section. Our Supply Chain Engaging with a vast number of business partners across its various industry groups, the Group recognises the importance of entrenching sustainability across its value chain towards promoting responsible businesses whilst reducing risk. The Group engages with its significant suppliers in ensuring that their working conditions are safe, workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that operations are carried out in an environmentally responsible manner. • The Group has introduced a comprehensive Supplier Management Framework including a Supplier Code of Conduct. • Awareness creation and engagement of suppliers are carried out through supplier fora. • Significant suppliers are assessed annually on labour practices, human rights and environmental impacts through an internally developed supplier checklist. Details of the Group’s supplier engagements can be found in the Capital Management Review and the Disclosures of Management Approach found on the corporate website at www.keells.com/sustainability-and-csr. Disclosures of Management Approach can be found on the corporate website at www.keells.com/sustainability-and-csr Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 101 Group Consolidated Review RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Enterprise Risk Management Process Overview All business unit risks, once validated and reviewed at the industry group Business Unit/ Sector/ Industry Group level Group Management Committees, are then presented to the Audit Risks Committees of all listed companies and to the Boards of the unlisted Each group company carries out its respective enterprise risk identiﬁcation and companies, together with risk mitigation plans, at least once a quarter. review process quarterly, bi-annually and annually, based on a pre-agreed structure. The Group’s robust corporate governance measures are often subject to audit by the As such, company specific related risks as structure which encompasses the selfinternal audit team which reports to the well as sector and industry group common linking of risk management, sustainability, respective Audit Committee of the listed risks are analysed and reviewed at various corporate social responsibility and internal companies and to the Audit Committee of fora such as the monthly Group Management audit processes ensures that the impacts John Keells Holdings PLC with respect to all Committees, the quarterly Board Meetings, of all risks identiﬁed for both the business Group companies. and finally at the bi-annual comprehensive unit and the Group are proactively managed. risk identiﬁcation and review carried out Continuous horizon scanning helps the Group Group Risks centrally by the Sustainability, Enterprise identify both risks and opportunities with Risks pertaining to the Group, and the Risk Management and Group Initiatives regard to global and regional trends. identiﬁed critical operating risks at business unit and by the Group Executive Committee. unit level, are reviewed bi-annually by Risks covered at these various levels, include All business unit risks, once validated the Group Executive Committee. The risk operational risks, cyber risks, hazard risks, and reviewed at the industry group level management cycle is concluded with an ﬁnancial risks, fraud and corruption, labour Group Management Committees, are then annual Group Risk Report containing a Group related risks, natural disasters, environmental presented to the Audit Committees of all wide risk status, analysis and proﬁle which is pollution and supply chain risks. Each Group listed companies and to the Boards of the presented to the Group Audit Committee and company also identiﬁes its core sustainability unlisted companies, together with risk any policy level decisions stemming from risks, which, though having a relatively mitigation plans, at least once a quarter. this review are incorporated in the next risk low probability of occurrence could have a Business units are the ultimate owners of the review cycle. signiﬁcant impact on the sustainability of its risks of that business and are responsible operations. for reviewing and monitoring the agreed Risk Management Process risk control measures on an ongoing basis. The risk management process and Some components of the agreed risk control information ﬂow is depicted below. John Keells Risk Management Process Flow Business External Business Organisation Analysis Technology Sustainability Headline Risks Strategies Environment Process and People and Reporting and Data & CSR and Policies Risk Presentation John Keells Group JKH PLC Audit Committee Review Risk Report and Action Risk and Control Review Team Risk Group Executive Committee (GEC) Validation Risk Management Team Sustainability Integration BU Review and Sector Risk Listed Company Audit Committee Report and Action Integrated Risk Management Group Management Committee (GMC) BU Risk Report and Action Risk Business Unit Identiﬁcation Operational Units Report Content 102 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS During the reporting year, the Group also enhanced its risk management process The Group’s operational decisions are also inﬂuenced by the by introducing an IT solution to manage “Precautionary Principle” and accordingly from an environmental its Enterprise Risk, Audit, and Incident Management processes. The IT solution perspective, the Group considers resource consumption, environmental makes the Group’s Risk Management pollution, environmental degradation and its impacts on the local functions live and virtual, by enabling the community, as areas of high priority. maintenance of live, dynamic risk registers which are linked to business goals and responsible personnel along with the provision of timely alerts on action plans, As such, the Group focused its attention on committed to supporting the Government in and escalation processes for risks where key areas such as attracting and retaining its efforts to create sustainable and equitable action plans are over-due. Key management necessary skills, maintaining good labour economic growth. The conditions in the personnel at all levels (CEOs, Sector Heads, relations, enhancing its product responsibility, Maldives improved, with the Group working and Presidents) will have virtual visibility of contribution to the community through closely with the authorities to support its the risks relevant to them. The platform will infrastructure projects and the overall economic growth. For the aforesaid reasons, also facilitate the sharing of best practices creation of value for all internal and external this risk remains a Low. across the group. The Risk Universe, which stakeholders, during the year. frames the categorisation of risks, has also Regulatory Environment been updated for relevance during the year to The Group’s operational decisions are also 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 reflect topical and emerging risks. influenced by the “Precautionary Principle”, Risk rating High High Ultra High particularly, from an environmental Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities perspective. As such, the Group considers Risk management is a firmly entrenched A degree of uncertainty and volatility still resource consumption, environmental component of the corporate governance prevails as a result of transitioning legal, pollution, environmental degradation and its process of the John Keells Group and has regulatory and tax structures. The prolonged impacts on the local community, as areas of been instrumental in successful corporate prevalence of this uncertainty and impact high priority. As a part of this process, the craftsmanship and the long term sustenance of the same on our businesses result in the Group tracks Key Risk Indicators such as of the Group. The structured process for risk risk rating remaining at a High. The Group’s natural disasters, emissions, climate change management further enhances the Group’s operating model, together with its internal and impacts to biodiversity, ensuring a value creation process for all its significant processes, aims to ensure ﬂexibility with, minimum impact on the environment within stakeholders by ensuring that Group and adaptability to, any unexpected changes which it operates. companies effectively identify and mitigate a in the legal framework. Participation of the range of operational, structural, ﬁnancial and Group’s senior executives in various industry Given the pervasive nature of risks, discussion strategic risks. The Group’s risk management associations and industry chambers helps to of the same, at a Group Level, are contained process also identiﬁes aspects from a triple bring clarity and consistency to Government inter alia, in the Capital Management section bottom line perspective, covering risks and policies and regulations. of the Group Consolidated Review section, impacts to the Group arising from the sociothe Industry Group Review section and the economic environment it operates in, as well Financial Exposure Financial Statements of this Report. Details as the risks and impacts emanating from its on risks, opportunities and internal controls 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 own operations as well as that of its value speciﬁc to business units, sectors and Risk rating Low Low Low chain. Good risk management has enabled industry groups are discussed in the Industry the Group to undertake new projects where Group Review section of this Report. The central Treasury Division, supported the reward to risks factor is optimal. by the Executive and Finance functions Headline Risks of the businesses, is responsible for the Macro-economic and Political Environment management of financial risks through 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 ongoing monitoring. Hedging mechanisms, The Group remains positive about liquidity management strategies, capital the future of Sri Lanka’s economy, Risk rating Low Low Moderate structuring, and other Board approved and members of its senior Policy uncertainty and the volatility of the strategies, where relevant, are applied across the Group. Given the volatility and management actively participate economic environment both locally and uncertainty in the global and local macroin key policy making bodies, globally continued during the year. Despite economic environment as witnessed in the the current lack of clarity, and definition on committed to supporting the previous financial year, the ensuing subsome of the economic policies, the Group Government in its efforts towards section elaborates on the key elements of and the Business Community remain positive financial exposure, the state of the Group’s creating sustainable and equitable about the future of Sri Lanka’s economy. readiness and the general outlook relating to economic growth. Several senior management staff actively such elements. participate in key policy making bodies, Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 103 Currency / Exchange Rate into a partial hedge during the previous most servers have now been consolidated Risk rating Medium year, as a measure to mitigate the interest into the Group's central data centre, as After a volatile move in the first half of the rate exposure of the Group. The Group will such increasing utilisation and reduces unit financial year, the USD/LKR exchange rate continue to monitor its LIBOR exposure in costs, this however also increases the risk depreciated at a steady pace in the latter relation to the syndicated loan facility, make of concentration. Such risks are mitigated half. The Group adopted prudent measures periodic updates and recommendation to the via strict IT protocols, ﬁrewalls, business to manage the financial impacts arising Board as necessary, and take required action continuity plans and disaster recovery from currency fluctuations, underscoring to mitigate exposure and potential risks. sites and processes. While the Group is the importance of matching liabilities with comfortable with the risk management of the corresponding inflows and constantly Credit and Counterparty aforesaid area, the overall score of the risk evaluating such positions. Some of the Risk rating Low remains at a High due to the implications initiatives for managing the currency risk The Group continued to liaise with only of contextual and potential risks such as included matching routine foreign currency reputed creditworthy counterparties. All cyber security. As a preliminary step, the conversions with import bill settlements; clients are subject to credit verification Group has engaged a reputed third party matching of Dollar revenue streams with procedures. They are required to submit bank service provider to establish and manage an Dollar denominated debt to architect “natural guarantees/performance bonds/counter “Intelligence Managed Security Operations hedges”; accumulation of foreign currency guarantees, where applicable. These clients Center.” While the initial commissioning funds, where allowed, and the deferral of are regularly appraised and the subject is due in the first quarter of 2017/18, the conversions; premature settlement of forex arrangements are frequently reviewed. completion will take place in the second denominated trade liabilities; and the regular Internally set up exposure limits mitigate the quarter. The Group recognizes that it has review of rates and related contractual concentration risk in any single counterparty to employ new technologies in gaining pricing in the context of competitiveness. is mitigated due to internally set exposure productive improvements and marketing limits. sales advancements. However this increases Interest Rate the risk element. Given the same, the risk Risk rating Low Liquidity rating remains a High. The Rupee interest rates saw a steady upward Risk rating Low movement throughout the year as a result of The Group strived to ensure that a productGlobal Competition the Central Bank’s revision of policy rates mix of short-term investments and undrawn 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 twice during this period. However, this did not committed facilities are sufficient to meet have a material impact on the Group since the the short, medium and long term capital and Risk rating Low Low Low Rupee share of debt declined for most part of funding requirements, unforeseen obligations the year. Interest cost did however increase as well as unanticipated opportunities. The In the face of the numerous foreign in the last quarter which was commensurate daily cash management processes including investments taking place in Sri Lanka, with the increase in short-term debt for active cash flow forecasts, matches the especially by international players, the premature settlement of USD trade liabilities. duration and profiles of assets and liabilities, Group remains alert with regard to ensuring This was a more economical alternative thereby ensuring a prudent balance between its competitiveness. The Group has to currency hedges. The Group continued liquidity and earnings. sought to match global standards through its strategy of maintaining floating Dollar benchmarking its businesses to global best denominated debt facilities for a majority Note For further details and quantification practices and maintaining the highest quality of the currency debt where the operations of the aforementioned risks, refer the Notes levels in terms of both products and services. of the subject business unit produced forex to the Financial Statements Further, in an effort to keep abreast of digital denominated revenues. Even so, it continued advancements, the Group is proactively to evaluate and enter into hedge instruments, Information Technology relooking at disruptive and innovative where feasible, including the creation of a business models, customer engagement 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 natural hedge against Dollar denominated and business processes and has put in Risk rating High High Low place a Digitisation Steering Committee short-term deposits on variable rates of return. to further study emerging practices. In The majority of the Group’s IT systems addition, 2016/17 saw the introduction of a are centralised to ensure uniformity and Chairman’s Award for Disruptive Innovation, Given the current outlook for interest rates standardisation across the Group. Whilst for which one of the major criteria was the in relation to the USD 395 million syndicated loan facility, obtained by Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited for the development of “Cinnamon Life” project, the Group entered Given the current outlook for interest rates in relation to the USD 395 million syndicated loan facility, obtained by Waterfront Properties Refer Note 10 of the (Private) Limited for the development of “Cinnamon Life” project, Note to the Financial Statements the Group entered into a partial hedge during the previous year, as a for further details and quantification of the measure to mitigate the interest rate exposure of the Group. aforementioned risks under Financial Exposure 104 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Reputation and Brand Image The Group, over the years, has placed a strong emphasis on retaining key 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 talent through performance recognition and reward schemes, succession Risk rating Low Low Low planning, leadership and career development programmes, ensuring that high quality employees are retained, despite the highly competitive The Group’s Code of Conduct is the foundation of its uncompromising approach labour environment. to ethical and transparent business conduct with a “zero tolerance” attitude to any Code of Conduct violations. This is further supplemented and strengthened, through the benchmarking of practices against the best Environment and Health and Safety presence of an independent Ombudsperson, in class, both internationally and locally. The 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Whistleblower mechanisms and Chairman risk rating remains at a Low. Direct conduits amongst other measures, Risk rating Low Low Low supporting the governance structure of the Human Resources and Talent Management Group. The Group has in place a robust 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Environmental Management System with The Group also identiﬁes and mitigates Risk rating Low Low Low emphasis on socio environmental policies potential brand reputation risks through with respect to energy, emissions, water, the tracking and monitoring of such under The Group, over the years, has placed a discharge, waste and bio diversity. All a sustainability development framework. strong emphasis on retaining key talent companies are required to ensure zero The numerous strategic infrastructure and through performance recognition and reward violations of the country’s environmental community development projects carried out schemes, succession planning, leadership laws and regulations and are encouraged to by the John Keells Foundation contributes and career development programmes, go beyond compliance, where practicable, to further strengthening its stakeholder ensuring that high quality employees are in keeping with global best practices such engagement process. In addition, stringent retained, despite the highly competitive as ISO 14000 Environmental Management quality assurance and product standards are labour environment. Additionally, talent certiﬁcation. The Group continuously strives maintained and product quality is continually attrition is also tracked as a Key Risk to reduce its energy consumption, carbon monitored and tracked. In the few instances Indicator on a quarterly basis and reported footprint and water consumption and as where public discontent has been identified, to the Group Executive Committee. The such, Group companies are encouraged to the Group took immediate steps to explain Group conducts many surveys internally to constantly seek out renewable sources of the circumstances. All marketing, and public better understand its employee needs and energy and install energy and water efficient communications, are vetted in ensuring aspirations. Whilst the Group has a robust equipment. Responsible waste disposal is a conformance with the Group Marketing and non-discrimination policy and an effective key aspect under management focus, and is Communications Policy, based on the ICC grievance handling mechanism, it maintains carried out through training and awareness, Code of Advertising and similar. In this light, a culture of continuous engagement and converting of waste to energy and the the Group is conﬁdent that the rating of this dialogue with employees. In addition, the continuous incremental evolvement of risk remains a Low. Group’s engagement with unions is on a processes and systems in reducing/reusing/ partner basis and this has resulted in better recycling waste. performance oriented outcomes. The Group significantly improved its scores on the GPTW The Group makes every effort to ensure a Survey. safe working environment for its employees, The Group makes every effort consumers, customers and third parties, to ensure a safe working Improving competencies and skills is in keeping with its commitment to be a recognised as a vital factor in maintaining responsible corporate, contributing to the environment for its employees, current standards and matching global best improvement of morale, productivity and consumers, customers and practice levels. The Group achieves this efficiency. Whilst the provision of safe and third parties, in keeping with its through targeted, business focused training healthy products/services for its customers and development programmes available to is a top priority for the Group, where relevant, commitment to be a responsible all employees across the Group on a needs Group companies have obtained OHSAS 8001 corporate, contributing to basis, allowing the Group to retain its ability Occupational Health and Safety, HACCAP the improvement of morale, to position itself as a preferred employer. As certiﬁcation and ISO 22000 certiﬁcation on productivity and efficiency. a result of these measures, and based on the food safety management systems. Against empirical evidence of past year, the rating for this background, the risk of Environment and this risk remains a Low. Health and Safety remains a Low. Refer Section 5.5 of the Corporate Governance Commentary for further details on Internal Controls Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 105 Supply Chain Risk reinforced through the Group’s corporate 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 governance framework, which in turn ensures a strong focus on compliance to Risk rating Low Low Low regulatory and ethical guidelines, helping the Group operate in line with the principles of With a strong focus on integrating best sustainable development continued to focus practices within its value chain, the Group its efforts on supporting local economies believes a comprehensive risk management in the geographical areas of its operations. process must also extend to its value chain Its sustainable sourcing initiatives ensure, partners, through regularly assessing risks whenever possible and practical, that raw associated with its supply chain. As such, materials for the Group’s Consumer Foods supplier performance is reviewed on an sector and goods for the Retail sector are annual basis with regard to compliance procured locally. This has resulted in the with labour, environmental and other Group contributing to uplifting livelihoods and relevant operating regulations of the country. promoting industry in its areas of operation. Concurrently, the Group also provides training and knowledge transfer through supplier fora held annually both in Sri Lanka and the Maldives, for its signiﬁcant value chain partners, assisting to further entrench Concurrently, the Group also sustainability within their own business operations, resulting in cost beneﬁts as well provides training and knowledge as enhancement of their own brand image. transfer through supplier fora held The Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct also annually both in Sri Lanka and the educates suppliers on the expectations of the Maldives, for its signiﬁcant value Group with regards to sustainable and ethical business practices. As a result of these chain partners, assisting to further proactive steps taken by the Group, the risk entrench sustainability within rating remains at a Low. their own business operations, resulting in cost beneﬁts as well Risks the interlinkages Given the interrelationships between risk as enhancement of their own management and sustainability, the Capital brand image. Management Review of the Consolidated Review section of this Report details the Group’s performance with regard to all pillars of the triple bottom line. This is further 106 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review SHARE AND WARRANT INFORMATION The following is an overview of the market Total number of shares in issue as at 31/03/2017 1,387,467,137 conditions which prevailed during the year under review, both globally and locally. The Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) as at 31/03/2017 1,320,942 section concludes with a discussion on JKH Public shareholding as at 31/03/2017 97.53% share related information. Stock symbol JKH.N0000 Newswire codes of the JKH Share Global Review Bloomberg JKH.SL The year under review was characterised by Dow Jones P.JKH significant market volatility and uncertainty, mainly ascribed to global political Reuters JKH.CM developments such as Brexit and the US Presidential election. The first quarter of the financial year saw a gradual recovery of The year under review was characterised global stock markets from a depressed start in 2016, mainly fuelled by China’s slowing Rs. 191.33Bn by unfavourable macro-economic variables for the local equities market. In the first half economic growth and the depreciating JKH market capitalisation of the financial year, the Central Bank of Renminbi. Furthermore, the commodities A growth of 9 per cent Sri Lanka raised both the Standing Deposit market had a challenging start to the year, Facility Rate (SDFR) and Standing Lending as oil prices fell due to worldwide oversupply, challenging year for global IPOs since 2003, Facility Rate (SLFR) by 50 basis point each, to which was subsequently resolved by with new issues marking a decrease of 40 7.00 per cent and 8.50 per cent, respectively, the agreement between OPEC nations in per cent compared to the previous year. to curb excessive demand to pre-empt the November 2016 to curtail output in 2017. escalation of inflationary pressures and Despite the aforementioned challenges, support the balance of payments. This rise in The UK’s decision to exit the European Union regional peer equity markets enjoyed base interest rates made local equities a less (EU) in a landmark referendum in June 2016 promising results during the financial year lucrative proposition. Alongside the balance marked the first of the unexpected political as valuations tended to be comparatively of payment pressures, investor concerns developments during the year. Global financial attractive. India’s S&P BSE SENSEX Index over the outlook of the Sri Lankan Rupee and markets reacted to the decision through a (SENSEX) witnessed a strong year posting diminishing foreign reserves also contributed rapid sell down of its GBP holdings, fueled a growth of 17.2 per cent over the financial to subdued investor participation. by concern over the future of British trade, year. Furthermore, the Jakarta Composite the City of London’s position as the main Index (JKSE) and Singapore’s Strait Times The latter part of the financial year saw yet financial services centre in Europe, and the Index (STI) both had a positive year, enjoying another interest rate hike with both base British economy, as a whole. As a result, the double digit growth of 15.0 and 12.7 per cent, rates being raised by a further 25 basis GBP depreciated by 10 per cent against the respectively. Malaysia’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia points in March 2017. Government measures US dollar in a single day’s trading post Brexit, KLCI (KLSE) exhibited slower growth for the to increase revenue collection, which are marking a 31-year low for the currency. year and expanded by 1.7 per cent. required for the long-term sustenance of the economy, such as the increase in the The outcome of the US Presidential election Local Stock Market Review value added tax (VAT) from 11 to 15 per in November 2016 where President Donald During the period under review, the All Share cent, and further uncertainty on proposed J. Trump Jr. emerged victorious resulted in Price Index (ASPI) of the Colombo Stock taxation as part of the Government’s fiscal highly volatile markets given the anticipation Exchange (CSE) fell marginally by 0.2 per cent consolidation programme impacted market of a fundamentally different policy approach to 6,061.94 points [2015/2016: 6,071.88]. The sentiment. Consequently, the average daily as markets priced in rapid execution of Standard and Poor’s Sri Lanka 20 Index (S&P turnover levels declined by 31 per cent over deregulation, a stronger US dollar, lowering of SL 20), which is the weighted average index of the corresponding period last year to Rs.728 corporate taxes and increased infrastructure selected counters of the CSE based on market million for the financial year under review. spending, among others. This momentum capitalisation, liquidity and financial thresholds, carried on into 2017 with the Dow Jones stood at 3,438.88 points as at 31 March 2017, The CSE recorded 12 corporate debenture Industrial Average crossing and closing recording an increase of 7 per cent against the issues through which a total of Rs.68.50 billion above 20,000 points for the first time in its previous financial year [2015/16: 3,204.44]. The rupees was raised compared to Rs.83.41 history. However, the strong performance overall market capitalisation of the CSE was billion raised in the previous financial year. was not limited to industries, with all major Rs.2,662.86 billion as at the end of the financial Furthermore, primary activities on the CSE US equity categories making gains in the year compared to Rs.2,586.16 billion in the continued to be bleak, with only 1 IPO during 4th quarter, with the S&P 500 and NASDAQ previous year, recording an overall increase the year, raising Rs.75 million [2015/16: Composite cruising to records off the back of of 3 per cent. The subdued performance of Rs.329 million]. upbeat earnings releases from heavyweights. the CSE, in comparison to regional peers, was a result of dampened investor sentiment due Heightened volatility and uncertainty in equity to domestic economic conditions and tax and markets influenced IPOs in the year under policy uncertainty, which was exacerbated by review. The calendar year 2016 saw the most global market volatility. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 107 JKH Share JKH share performance vs ASPI (indexed) The JKH share appreciated by 6 per cent to Index No. of shares (Mn) Rs.137.90 as at 31 March 2017 from Rs.129.50 140 7 on 31 March 2016 (adjusted for the share sub division in June 2016). Furthermore, JKH 120 6 traded with a strong correlation to the ASPI 100 5 in the period under review, as illustrated in 80 4 the adjacent graph. The beta of the JKH share as of 31 March 2017, stood at 1.27 (the beta 60 3 is calculated on daily JKH share and market 40 2 movements measured by the ASPI for the five-year period commencing 1 April 2012 20 1 to 31 March 2017). On an adjusted basis, the 0 0 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 share traded between the range of Rs.128.00 (in April 2016) and Rs.159.00 (in August JKH Shares Traded ASPI (Indexed) JKH (Indexed) 2016). Despite the subdued local market, the JKH JKH vs key regional indices share contributed 16 per cent to total market Index turnover [2015/16: 14 per cent], emphasising 140 its consistency as a preferred instrument with liquidity and as a proxy to the local 130 economy. 120 110 Foreign ownership of the JKH share remained relatively constant during the period under 100 review, as foreign holdings were 52 per cent 90 as at the end of the financial year as against 51 per cent at the commencement of the 80 year. The compounded annual growth rate 70 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 (CAGR) of the JKH share on a capital basis over the 5 year period stood at 0.4 per cent, KLSE (Index) JKCI index Sensex Index STI Index JKH Index compared to that of the market which stood at 2 per cent for the same period. JKH high and low share prices per month 2016 Warrant Rs. The 2016 Warrant (ticker: W0023) ceased 165 trading on the CSE on 27 September 2016, 160 and was exercisable till 11 November 2016. 155 A total of 57,464,155 2016 Warrants were 150 due to expire in November 2016, of which 145 21,279,672 Warrants were exercised and 140 accepted at a purchase price of Rs.149.29 135 per ordinary share (adjusted for the ordinary 130 share subdivision of the Company on 24 125 June 2016). The Company received a sum of 120 Rs.3.18 billion through the conversion of the Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 2016 Warrants. 0 The allotment of the 21,279,672 Ordinary High Low 30 day moving share average * 30 day moving averages have been calculated using 15 days trailing and forward closing prices from the mid point of each month Shares of the Company, and the uploads to the CDS, were completed within the time frames stipulated in the Notice of Exercise Issued Share Capital the conversion of the 2016 Warrant and the and the Shareholder circular dated 5 The number of shares in issue by the exercise of employee share options (ESOPs). September 2013. Company increased to 1,387,467,137 as at 31 March 2017 from 1,189,403,549 as at 31 ESOPs of 7 million equivalent shares were March 2016. The increase in the share capital exercised during the financial year. Moreover, was an outcome of the share subdivision, out of the 35 million shares equivalent of as discussed later in the ensuing section, unexercised ESOPs as at 31 March 2017, 108 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review SHARE AND WARRANT INFORMATION Unexpired Employee Share Options Earnings Per Share The fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) Expiring year Granted Shares Outstanding End/current for the financial year, adjusted for the share (adjusted) Vested To be vested price subdivision in June 2016, increased by 13 per cent to Rs.11.84 per share [2015/16: Rs.10.52 2018/19 9,959,017 6,948,058 1,818,312 191.65 per share] due to an increase in total profit 2019/20 9,573,018 4,967,439 3,662,626 176.04 attributable to equity holders. On a recurring 2020/21 8,819,207 2,747,662 5,474,817 149.84 earnings basis, the diluted EPS after adjusting 2021/22 9,948,581 381,833 9,415,197 142.83 for changes in fair value of investment property, Total 38,299,823 15,044,992 20,370,952 has decreased marginally to Rs.10.31 in the period under review from Rs.10.94 (after adjusting for the share subdivision) recorded 15 million unexercised ESOPs were eligible in the previous financial year. The items for immediate exercise whilst the balance Distributions to shareholders affecting the rise in profitability are discussed 20 million unexercised ESOPs will be vested and payout ratio in depth in the Group Consolidated Review and based on performance based conditions Pay-out ratio % Rs. Bn Industry Group Review sections of this Report. in accordance with the terms of the Award. 80 9 The year also marked the conclusion of 70 8 Total Shareholder Return ESOP Plan 7 which was initiated in 2011 at 60 7 As discussed previously, the ASPI fell marginally a grant price of Rs.172.10. Further details 49 46 6 by 0.2 per cent and the JKH share increased by 50 47 of the Company’s ESOP plans are found in 41 42 5 6 per cent. The total shareholder return (TSR) 40 34 the ensuing section of this discussion. The 4 of the JKH share stood at 10.7 per cent for the Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) balance 30 3 period under review, which outperformed the in ordinary share equivalents increased to 20 market with the total return index of the ASPI 2 1,320,942 as at the end of the financial year 10 recording a return of 0.1 per cent. 1 [2015/16: 1,282,364]. 0 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Total shareholder return (%) Subdivision of Shares The Company received approval to subdivide 21.7 Dividend paid Dividend pay-out ratio 7 ordinary shares in existence into 8 ordinary 19.2 18.8 shares at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 24 June 2016. On this basis, the To this end, the Company increased its 10.0 6.8 1,189,403,549 shares in issue as at 24 May 2016 dividend per share, paid out of profits for 4.6 were subdivided into 1,359,318,342 shares. the financial year 2016/17, to Rs.6.00 from (0.4) Consequently, the ESOP awards granted, and Rs.3.50 per share (excluding the special the number of Warrants accruing to the holders dividend of Rs.3.50 per share which was paid (2.5) (5.4) of the 2016 Warrant, and their respective on account of the cash inflow of Rs.4.14 billion exercise prices, were adjusted to reflect the to the Company from the share repurchase of (12) (12.2) aforementioned subdivision of shares. Union Assurance PLC) paid out of profits in the 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 * 2015/16 * 2016/17 * previous year. Excluding the special dividend Dividend paid in the financial year 2015/16 (Rs.3.50 per The Company’s dividend policy seeks to share), from a cash flow perspective, the total Annual TSR Cumulative TSR ensure a dividend payout that corresponds dividend paid in the financial year 2016/17 * Includes the proportionate impact arising from the with growth in profits, whilst ensuring that (Rs.5.50 per share) increased significantly by ownership of Warrants the Company maintains adequate funds to 88 per cent to Rs.7.28 billion from Rs.3.88 support its investment pipeline and optimise billion in the previous year. TSR for a holder of a single share after its capital structure, thus ensuring the the rights issue in 2013 with proportionate creation of sustainable shareholder wealth in It should be noted that the Company profits ownership over the 2015 and 2016 Warrant, the short, medium and long term. in 2016/17 included a one-off gain of Rs.2.58 assuming full conversion of the 2015 and 2016 billion pertaining to the exercise undertaken warrants, improved to 10.0 per cent [2015/16: At this juncture, the Group believes that a to rationalise the Group’s shareholding negative 12.2 per cent]. This was caused by higher dividend per share is warranted given structure, which is discussed in detail in the the aforementioned rise in the JKH share price the current, and anticipated, robust cash Other including Plantation Services Industry on an adjusted basis along with the increase in flows of the businesses. It is pertinent to note Group Review section of the Report. Excluding the standard dividend per share. that the Group has a sufficient cash balance this gain, the dividend payout ratio for 2016/17 available to deploy in the funding of new stands at 55.8 per cent. On a cumulative basis, over a five-year holding projects, combined with its ability to leverage, period, the share inclusive of dividends and if required, even after taking into account the warrants issued posted an annualised total equity commitments of the Cinnamon Life return of 1.4 per cent. project and other investments in the pipeline. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 109 Market Capitalisation and Enterprise Price to Book Value The price to book value of the Group as at the financial year end was 1.0 times [2015/16: 1.1 times]. The market capitalisation of the Company increased by 9 per cent to Rs.191.33 billion as The ratio decreased on account of the increase in the net asset per share to Rs.140.06 at 31 March 2017 [2015/16: Rs.176.03 billion]. [2015/2016: Rs.130.30], which was only partially offset by the increase in share price. At the financial year end, JKH represented 7.2 Liquidity per cent of the total market capitalisation of During the financial year, 191 million shares changed hands over 30,106 transactions as against the CSE [2015/16: 6.8 per cent]. 177 million shares over 37,000 transactions in the previous financial year. The average daily turnover of the JKH share was Rs.115 million, in comparison to the Rs.132 million recorded in The enterprise value of the Group increased the previous financial year. by 10 per cent to Rs.136.02 billion [2015/16: Rs.124.18 billion] as at 31 March 2017. The average daily turnover of the JKH share represented 16 per cent of the average daily This increase was caused by the previously turnover at the CSE during the financial year. The share turnover ratio for the financial year discussed increase in market capitalisation decreased to 0.14 from 0.16 because of market conditions. that outweighed the effects of the Company’s strengthened cash position consequent to the 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2016 warrant conversion. Market cap (Rs. bn) 191.3 176.0 198.9 Enterprise value (Rs. bn) 136.0 124.2 155.7 Market capitalisation Market value added (Rs. bn) 12.7 21.1 61.1 and enterprise value EV/EBITDA (times) 5.0 5.0 6.6 Rs. Bn Diluted EPS (Rs.) 11.8 10.5 12.4 250 PER (diluted) 11.6 12.3 12.3 Price to book (times) 1.0 1.1 1.4 200 Price/cash earnings (times) 9.9 10.6 13.3 150 Dividend yield (%) 4.0 5.4 2.3 Dividend payout ratio (per cent) 45.9 46.7 33.5 100 TSR (%) 10.0 (12.2) (12.0) 50 Distribution and Composition of Shareholders The total number of shareholders of JKH as at 31 March 2017 increased to 11,988 from 11,515 0 recorded at the end of the previous financial year. Out of the total number of shares, 98 per cent 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 of the shares were held by the public whilst the remaining 2 per cent were held by Directors, spouses and other connected parties. Market Cap Enterprise Value In terms of residency of the shareholders, 46 per cent of the free float was held by 11,574 Price to Earnings Ratio resident shareholders whilst the remainder was held by 406 non-resident shareholders, of The price to earnings ratio (PER) of the which most shares were owned by institutional shareholders. JKH share was 11.6 times as at the end of the current financial year compared to 12.3 Trend in composition of shareholders times recorded in the previous financial year. The decrease in PER was attributable % 28 32 29 29 29 to the 13 per cent increase in earnings per share that was only partially offset by the increase in share price. The JKH share, which has historically traded at a premium, was 1 1 1 1 1 at a discount compared to the market PER of the CSE of 11.9 times as at the end of the financial year [2015/16: 15.3 times]. 16 15 18 21 19 Given the domestic economic conditions that prevailed during the year, the CSE traded at 56 52 52 50 51 a PER that was significantly lower than its regional peers. At the end of the financial year, the SENSEX Mumbai traded at 17.9 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 times, Kuala Lumpur’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia Institutions: Individuals: KLCI was 16.6 times, Jakarta’s Composite Non-Resident Non-Resident Index was 16.2 times and Singapore’s STI Resident Resident* was 14.8 times. * Includes Directors, spouses and connected parties 110 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Consolidated Review SHARE AND WARRANT INFORMATION Composition of Shareholders 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Shareholders No. of shares (%) Shareholders No. of shares (%) Institutions: Non-Resident 147 714,471,877 51 137 592,427,458 50 Resident 710 265,969,422 19 681 247,554,155 21 Individuals: Non-Resident 259 9,246,781 1 272 8,551,053 0 Resident* 10,872 397,779,057 29 10,425 340,870,883 29 Total 11,988 1,387,467,137 11,515 1,189,403,549 * Includes Directors, spouses and connected parties Distribution of Shareholders 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Number of Number of Number of Number of (%) (%) (%) (%) Shareholders shares held Shareholders shares held Less than or equal to 1,000 6,801 57 1,591,711 0 6,692 58 1,635,940 0 1,001 to 10,000 3,373 28 11,918,429 1 3,191 28 11,329,474 1 10,001 to 100,000 1,395 12 41,300,569 3 1,258 11 36,392,126 3 100,001 to 1,000,000 281 2 87,123,469 6 242 2 73,799,873 6 1,000,001 and over 138 1 1,245,532,959 90 132 1 1,066,246,136 90 Total 11,988 100 1,387,467,137 100 11,515 100 1,189,403,549 100 Market Information of the Ordinary Shares of the Company 2016/17 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2015/16 Share information High 165.00 150.00 158.00 159.00 165.00 170.80* Low 133.90 133.90 143.00 135.00 135.00 122.50* Close 137.90 137.90 145.00 154.00 135.00 129.50* Dividends paid (per share) 5.50 2.00 2.00 0.00 1.50 7.00 Trading statistics of the JKH share Number of transactions 30,106 8,290 6,896 8,618 6,302 37,287 Number of shares traded ('000) 191,372 86,828 35,606 32,560 36,378 177,182 Value of all shares traded (Rs. mn) 27,955 12,157 5,341 4,804 5,653 31,391 Average daily turnover (Rs. mn) 115 196 88 79 94 132 Total market turnover (%) 15.7 26.7 12.9 10.0 13.3 13.8 Market capitalisation (Rs. mn) 191,332 191,332 200,970 209,155 183,310 176,032 Total market capitalisation (%) 7.2 7.2 7.3 7.5 6.8 6.8 * Adjusted for the 2016 share subdivision Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 111 Director's Shareholding Director's Share Dealings No. of 2016 Warrants No. of ESOPs 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 converted to shares converted to shares S. Ratnayake 9,241,144 7,177,893 S. Ratnayake 366,101 671,737 A. Gunewardene* 10,989,350 8,721,491 A. Gunewardene* 434,166 587,768 R. Peiris 2,966,800 2,074,755 R. Peiris 91,858 503,794 K. Balendra* 10,914,400 8,019,934 K. Balendra 364,139 377,851 G. Cooray 207,105 121,654 G. Cooray 4,162 63,910 H. Wijayasuriya H. Wijayasuriya A. Omar A. Omar N. Fonseka N. Fonseka A. Cabraal 137 120 A. Cabraal P. Perera P. Perera * Includes shares owned by related parties * Includes Warrants converted by related parties Executive Director's Shareholding in Group Companies Number of shares as at 31 March 2017 S. Ratnayake A. Gunewardene R. Peiris K. Balendra G. Cooray Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 3,344 30,800 668 80,232 Trans Asia Hotels PLC 400 400 400 1,200 John Keells Hotels PLC 142,877 Asian Hotels and Properties PLC 20,000 10,600 Keells Foods Products PLC Union Assurance PLC 8,562 Top Twenty Shareholders of the Company 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Number of shares (%) Number of shares (%) Mr. S.E Captain 149,425,524 10.77 119,937,442 10.08 Broga Hill Investments Limited 141,854,717 10.22 124,122,878 10.44 Paints & General Industries Limited 96,064,501 6.92 92,726,824 7.80 Schroder International Selection Fund 53,706,223 3.87 38,491,960 3.24 Melstacorp PLC 52,023,842 3.75 43,616,626 3.67 Lux-Aberdeen Global Asia Pacific Equity Fund 31,257,908 2.25 26,234,282 2.21 Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds, LLC 29,706,813 2.14 23,772,318 2.00 HWIC Asia Fund 29,164,753 2.10 25,519,159 2.15 Lux-Aberdeen Global-Asian Smaller Companies Fund 26,913,338 1.94 28,979,913 2.44 Lux-Aberdeen Global-Emerging Markets Smaller Companies Fund 25,263,481 1.82 19,932,286 1.68 Employees Trust Fund Board 23,366,748 1.68 16,438,392 1.38 Mr. K. Balendra 19,606,476 1.41 18,111,218 1.52 London-Edingburgh Dragon Trust PLC 17,947,390 1.29 15,062,970 1.27 Deutsche Bank AG-London 15,837,770 1.14 35,868,199 3.02 London-Aberdeen Asia Pacific Equity Fund 14,891,083 1.07 12,497,857 1.05 Edgbaston Asian Equity Trust 13,971,919 1.01 Norges Bank Account 2 13,746,333 0.99 Mrs. C. S. De Foneseka 12,894,788 0.93 11,282,940 0.95 Mrs. S.A.J. De Fonseka 12,825,666 0.92 11,069,333 0.93 Somerset Small Mid Cap Em All Country Fund LLC 11,591,877 0.84 10,558,280 0.89 Employee Share Option Plan as at 31 March 2017 112 Date of Employee Shares Expiry date Option grant Shares Vested Exercised Cancelled End/ grant category granted price (Rs.) adjusted2 Due to Due to Expired Outstanding current** resignations performance price (Rs.) PLAN 7 07.12.2011 6,306,182 06.12.2016 172.10 9,246,138 8,254,798 336,308 655,032 GEC1 2,602,482 4,075,093 4,075,093 Other Executives 3,703,700 5,171,045 4,179,705 336,308 655,032 PLAN 83 01.07.2013 6,426,719 30.06.2018 265.18 9,959,017 6,948,058 969,884 222,763 8,766,370 191.65 Award 1 GEC1 2,712,919 4,276,837 3,287,565 69,580 4,207,257 Other Executives 3,713,800 5,682,180 3,660,493 969,884 153,183 4,559,113 PLAN 84 01.07.2014 7,428,128 30.06.2019 229.93 9,573,018 4,967,439 854,868 88,085 8,630,065 176.04 1 Award 2 GEC 2,816,845 3,654,358 2,127,797 3,654,358 SHARE AND WARRANT INFORMATION Other Group Consolidated Review Executives 4,611,283 5,918,660 2,839,642 854,868 88,085 4,975,707 5 PLAN 8 25.06.2015 6,781,282 24.06.2020 195.71 8,819,207 2,747,662 3,224 542,198 51,306 8,222,479 149.84 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Award 3 GEC1 2,244,342 2,931,378 1,109,733 2,931,378 Other Executives 4,536,940 5,887,829 1,637,929 3,224 542,198 51,306 5,291,101 PLAN 96 15.08.2016 9,948,581 14.08.2021 142.83 9,948,581 381,833 151,551 9,797,030 142.83 Award 1 GEC1 2,625,000 2,625,000 250,000 2,625,000 Other Executives 7,323,581 7,323,581 131,833 151,551 7,172,030 Total 36,890,892 47,545,961 15,044,992 8,258,022 2,854,809 362,154 655,032 35,415,944 1 GEC comprises of the Executive Directors and Presidents 2 Adjusted for bonus issues/right issues/subdivisions 3 Plan 8 (Award 1) 75% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2017 with the exception of retirees 4 Plan 8 (Award 2) 50% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2017 with the exception of retirees 5 Plan 8 (Award 3) 25% of the options had vested as at 31 March 2017 with the exception of retirees 6 Plan 9 (Award 1) None of the options had vested as at 31 March 2017 with the exception of retirees Options Available to Executive Directors Under the Employee Share Option Plan S. Ratnayake A. Gunewardene R. Peiris K. Balendra G. Cooray Expiring year Granted Immediately To be vested Granted Immediately To be Granted Immediately To be Granted Immediately To be Granted Immediately To be shares1 vesting shares1 vesting vested shares1 vesting vested shares1 vesting vested shares1 vesting vested 2018/19 685,167 513,875 171,292 599,523 449,642 149,881 513,875 385,406 128,469 385,405 289,053 96,352 111,844 83,883 27,961 2019/20 606,377 303,188 303,189 530,580 265,290 265,290 454,784 227,392 227,392 341,086 170,543 170,543 105,710 52,855 52,855 2020/21 446,686 111,671 335,015 390,851 97,712 293,139 335,014 83,753 251,261 251,261 62,815 188,446 251,261 62,815 188,446 2021/22 350,000 350,000 325,000 325,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 Total 2,088,230 928,734 1,159,496 1,845,954 812,644 1,033,310 1,603,673 696,551 907,122 1,277,752 522,411 755,341 768,815 199,553 569,262 1 Adjusted for share subdivisions Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 113 Share Capital GDR History (in terms of ordinary shares, million) Year ended 31 March Number of shares in issue Year ended Opening Issued* Converted/ Closing (million) 31 March balance repurchased balance 2005 331.63 2005 0.65 0.06 0.71 2006 400.00 2006 0.71 0.14 0.85 2007 552.94 2007 0.85 0.12 0.97 2008 635.99 2008 0.97 0.14 1.11 2009 611.35 2009 1.11 0.12 0.99 2010 619.47 2010 0.99 0.01 0.98 2011 629.69 2011 0.98 0.03 0.95 2012 844.12 2012 0.95 0.32 0.08 1.19 2013 857.24 2013 1.19 0.06 1.13 2014 990.29 2014 1.13 0.01 1.12 2015 997.49 2015 1.12 1.12 2016 1,189.40 2016 1.12 0.16 1.28 2017 1,387.47 2017 1.28 0.18 0.14 1.32 1 GDR is equivalent to 2 ordinary shares * First issued in FY1994 and subsequently increased along with bonus issues and subdivision of shares Dividend History of Scrip Issues, Rights and Repurchases Year ended 31 March DPS* Dividends Year ended Issue Basis Number Ex-date (Rs.) (Rs. ’000) 31 March of shares 2005 3.00 1,027,497 (million) 2006 3.00 1,199,460 2005 Bonus 1:10 30 13 May 2004 2007 3.00 1,412,306 2006 Bonus 1:5 66 11 May 2005 2008 5.00 3,176,302 2007 Bonus 1:7 57 13 June 2006 2009 3.00 1,883,442 2007 Rights @ Rs.140* 1:5 92 23 January 2007 2010 3.00 1,843,642 2007 Bonus 1:7 79 13 March 2007 2011 3.00 1,868,707 2009 Repurchase 1:25 26 11 October 2008 2012 3.00 2,313,519 2012 Sub division 4:3 210 30 June 2011 2013 3.50 2,982,421 2013 Rights @ Rs.175* 2:13 132 3 October2013 2014 3.50 3,266,718 2015 Share subdivision 8:7 143 3 July 2015 2015 3.50 3,475,947 2016 Share subdivision 8:7 170 30 June 2016 2016 7.00 8,037,790 * Unadjusted prices 2017 5.50 7,280,497 * Includes special dividends where applicable 2016/17 Financial Calendar 2017/18 Financial Calendar Date Date Interim Financial Statements Interim Financial Statements Three months ended 30 June 2016 28 July 2016 Three months ended 30 June 2017 On or before 27 July 2017 Six months ended 30 September 2016 4 November 2016 Nine months ended 31 December 2016 26 January 2017 Six months ended 30 September 2017 On or before 2 November 2017 Nine months ended 31 December 2017 On or before 25 January 2018 First interim dividend paid on 24 October 2016 Second interim dividend paid on 16 February 2017 Final dividend proposed to be paid on 16 June 2017 Annual Report 2017/18 On or before 1 June 2018 Annual Report 2016/17 31 May 2017 38th Annual General Meeting 30 June 2017 39th Annual General Meeting On or before 29 June 2018 INDUSTRY GROUP REVIEW Designing Strategy 116 Transportation • 124 Leisure • 136 Property • 144 Consumer Foods and Retail • 154 Financial Services • 160 Information Technology • 166 Other including Plantation Services Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 115 Industry Group Review INDUSTRY GROUP FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS % Revenue* (Rs. billion) 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP Leisure Property CF&R Fin Ser Other IT 20 23 6 29 13 7 2 2014 / 15 16 23 4 35 11 8 3 2014/15 20.11 23.42 5.69 29.76 12.99 7.21 3.47 2015 / 16 2015/16 16.83 24.31 4.34 36.46 11.90 8.26 2.66 15 22 1 38 12 9 3 2016/17 18.44 26.14 1.12 45.81 14.06 11.11 2.95 2016 / 17 * Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of equity accounted investees revenue % EBIT (Rs. billion) 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP Leisure Property CF&R Fin Ser Other IT 13 30 9 13 16 2 17 2014 / 15 12 25 8 23 11 2 19 2014/15 2.41 5.74 1.64 2.57 3.08 0.38 3.41 2015 / 16 2015/16 2.52 5.13 1.68 4.50 2.30 0.16 3.91 13 25 3 24 9 3 23 2016/17 3.12 5.92 0.69 5.49 2.10 0.62 5.38 2016 / 17 % Capital Employed (Rs. billion) 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP Leisure Property CF&R Fin Ser Other IT 9 29 18 4 7 2 31 2014 / 15 8 28 20 5 4 1 34 2014/15 15.49 50.59 31.66 7.54 11.78 2.41 54.54 2015 / 16 2015/16 15.91 52.45 38.59 8.62 7.24 2.29 64.14 8 31 20 4 31 33 2016/17 16.59 66.56 42.54 9.54 7.73 2.33 71.81 2016 / 17 % Total Assets (Rs. billion) 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP Leisure Property CF&R Fin Ser Other IT 8 25 16 6 17 2 26 2014 / 15 7 24 18 7 15 2 27 2014/15 16.66 55.40 34.89 12.95 37.13 3.75 57.31 2015 / 16 2015/16 17.16 57.65 43.93 15.86 35.88 4.12 66.37 6 26 17 7 15 2 27 2016/17 18.06 72.00 48.33 18.28 41.72 4.78 74.10 2016 / 17 % Employees (number) 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP Leisure Property CF&R Fin Ser Other IT 3 43 1 29 6 10 8 2014 / 15 3 43 1 31 7 8 7 2014/15 326 5,147 107 3,427 718 1,224 941 2015 / 16 2015/16 349 5,073 102 3,692 803 985 882 3 39 2 35 6 8 7 2016/17 385 5,041 244 4,446 814 1,075 830 2016 / 17 % Carbon Footprint (MT) 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP Leisure Property CF&R Fin Ser Other IT 3 53 35 22 5 2014 / 15 3 52 37 22 4 2014/15 2,313 39,698 59 26,441 1,550 1,309 3,898 2015 / 16 2015/16 2,091 40,767 525 29,060 1,407 1,269 3,543 2 49 1 41 21 4 2016/17 1,690 40,670 924 33,407 1,391 1,076 3,334 2016 / 17 TRP Transportation CF&R Consumer Foods and Retail IT Information Technology Leisure Leisure Fin Ser Financial Services Other Other including Plantation Services Property Property 116 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review TRANSPORTATION Our Business Model markets. These operations comprise of a Vision and Scope container terminal in the Port of Colombo, The vision of the Transportation industry a marine bunkering business, joint venture/ group is to be recognised as a leading associations with leading shipping, logistics provider of transportation solutions and and air transportation multinationals, as well related services through a diversiﬁed as travel and airline services in Sri Lanka and portfolio of businesses in selected the Maldives. Contribution to JKH Group 15% 13% 8% 2% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint A wide array of transportation solutions including container handling at SAGT, logistics by JKLL, and air transportation services. SAGT was also recognised as the “Best Terminal in South Asia” by the Global Ports forum in Ports and Transportation CO2 Shipping 0.15 MT per February 2017. Rs.mn revenue Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 117 Sectors Ports and Shipping Transportation The business within • Operation of a container terminal in the Port of Colombo • Logistics services include the operation of DHL air the sector as a public-private partnership on a build, operate express in Sri Lanka, a joint venture with Deutsche and transfer (BOT) basis through South Asia Gateway Post, third party logistics (3PL), warehousing, trucking Terminals (SAGT) and freight forwarding solutions under the John Keells • Associate stake in Maersk Lanka, agents in Sri Lanka Logistics brand and a joint venture with XPO Logistics and the Maldives for Maersk Line and Safmarine (referred to as NDO), marine bunkering and related services under Lanka Marine Services (LMS) as well as airline, aviation, travel and related services through Saffron Aviation (owners and operators of Cinnamon Air), Mack Air and Mackinnons American Express Key external/ • The total volume through the Port of Colombo for • Prospects for further private sector participation in internal variables the financial year 2016 grew by 9 per cent, with the bunkering industry impacting the transshipment and domestic volumes growing by • Growth in demand for 3PL offerings on the back of business 9 per cent and 16 per cent respectively, although more local businesses aspiring to global benchmarks the performance of the regional shipping and ports and significant shifts to organised retail industry declined • Increase in capacity in the airline industry through the • Possibility of further consolidation of global shipping entry of new players and intensified competition from lines through mergers, acquisitions and alliances to existing players beneﬁt from greater operational efficiencies through • Continued strong occupancies on the East coast and cost pooling and strengthened purchasing power significant hotel developments on the Southern coast • Improved prospects in the ports and shipping industry of Sri Lanka increasing the opportunities for domestic in Colombo and Hambantota for private sector air transport participation Key developments • SAGT recognised as the Best Terminal in South Asia , • LMS maintained its market leadership position in the during the financial awarded by the Global Ports Forum in February 2017 bunkering industry year • JKLL launched “Store4u”, an online storage solution for individuals and SMEs Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Total assets 18,065 17,163 5 16,656 Turnover3 18,438 16,829 10 20,114 Total equity 14,841 15,028 (1) 14,232 EBIT 3,124 2,517 24 2,412 Total debt 1,754 878 100 1,255 PBT 3,098 2,495 24 2,359 Capital employed1 16,595 15,905 4 15,486 PAT 2,979 2,454 21 2,335 Employees (number)2 385 349 10 326 EBIT per employee4 8.1 7.2 13 7.4 2 Carbon footprint (MT) 1,690 2,091 (19) 2,313 1 For equity accounted investees the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 Excludes SAGT, DHL, Maersk Lanka, NDO and Cinnamon Air 3 Turnover is inclusive of the Group’s share of equity accounted investees 4 As per the sustainability reporting boundary 118 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review TRANSPORTATION External Environment and Operational John Keells Logistics Limited (JKLL) recorded Review an increase in total throughput managed, The Port of Colombo recorded a growth in driven by the growth in volumes handled for volumes of 9 per cent during the financial its existing customers and the rise in demand year under review [2015/16: 6 per cent], from domestic companies, increasingly despite the muted performance of the seeking to outsource components of their global ports and shipping industry and other supply chain. During the year under review, regional ports such as Singapore, Shanghai During the financial year, the Group’s JKLL’s focus on improving productivity across and Hong Kong; underscoring the strategic Port business, South Asia Gateway its facilities led to a 42 per cent increase in location and potential of the Port of Colombo. Terminals recorded a throughput total throughput managed. Leveraging on The overall growth was mainly driven by the growth of 22 per cent the cross sectoral opportunities within the existence of deep water terminal facilities Group, JKLL, together with Jay Kay Marketing which can cater to new generation container Services the operators of the Keells Super vessels, combined with its strategic link to The Port of Colombo recorded a chain of supermarkets, developed and key trade routes. finalised the feasibility for a state-of-the-art growth in volumes of 9 per cent distribution centre for its business. Further During the financial year, the Group’s Port during the ﬁnancial year under details on the distribution centre can be found business, South Asia Gateway Terminals review [2015/16: 6 per cent], in the Consumer Foods and Retail Industry (SAGT), recorded encouraging growth of 22 despite the muted performance Group Review section of this Report. per cent, handling 1.70 million twenty foot of the global ports and shipping equivalent units (TEUs) with transshipment volumes accounting for 80 per cent of total volumes, in comparison to the 1.40 million industry. Rs. 3.10Bn TEUs handled during the previous year, Transportation industry where transshipment volumes contributed to group PBT 77 per cent of total volumes. The increased an expression of interest in September 2016. A 24 per cent growth activity witnessed across the Port of Colombo However, a decision on the EOIs and the next enabled SAGT to increase its market share in steps regarding the development of ECT is DHL Keells witnessed promising growth in the 2016/17. still being awaited. year under review with inbound and outbound volumes experiencing a healthy growth of 9 During the year under review, SAGT Lanka Marine Services (LMS), the Group’s per cent over the previous year. During the continued to focus on improving the Bunkering business, maintained its position year under review, the company recorded an productivity of its operations through various as the market leader despite price competition increase in market share, stemming from a cost management initiatives and productivity from bunker suppliers operating in Colombo, number of new marketing initiatives which enhancing measures. SAGT’s continued effort and, to a lesser extent, India. The year under were rolled out during the year. As part of its to improve productivity and performance review witnessed a significant increase in the continuous efforts to maintain its position as proved fruitful with it being recognised as the base prices of bunker fuels compared to the the service provider of choice, and operate at Best Terminal in South Asia by the Global previous year, which resulted in an improved a higher level of productivity and efficiency, Ports Forum in February 2017. top line of the business. LMS recorded DHL Keells invested in a fleet of new vehicles. promising volume growth during the fourth The Port of Colombo operated at a capacity quarter, aided by the overall growth in the The Airline SBU witnessed significant growth in in excess of 70 per cent during the calendar Port of Colombo. the year, as expected, with double digit growth year, highlighting the need for an increase in both cargo and passenger segments of the in capacity to facilitate growth. Growth in LMS continued to leverage on its market business. KLM, Gulf Air and Mega Maldives deep draft handling capacity is a current leadership position and reputation to improve Airlines, represented by Mack Air (MAL) as and crucial requirement at the Port of its procurement strategy and supplier general sales agents, commenced on-line Colombo, especially considering its strategic relationships. During the year under review, operations with multiple weekly flights, during location along the East-West sea route, the company contracted to install flow meters the 2016/17 financial year. This translated and the growth opportunities Sri Lanka to its bunker barges to improve service and into significant volume increases in both the can capitalise on in the context of regional quality standards offered to its customers. passenger and cargo segments of the business growth led by India and the “Belt and Road” The meters are expected to be installed in the with total volumes increasing by 24 per cent initiative launched by China. In keeping with first quarter of 2017/18, which will provide and 36 per cent respectively in the year. addressing the need for growth, the Sri Lanka LMS a first mover advantage for higher Ports Authority (SLPA) called for Expressions service quality within the Sri Lankan market. Cinnamon Air witnessed double-digit growth of Interest (EOI) in developing and operating Furthermore, LMS will upgrade its delivery in passenger volumes from both scheduled the East Container Terminal (ECT) in June infrastructure in the ensuing year when “MT and charter flight operations, primarily on 2016. The Group, together with its consortium Lanka Marine Mahaweli”, a new 2,200 MT account of the 14 per cent increase in tourist partners, APM Terminals and CONCOR barge is commissioned in April 2017. arrivals to Sri Lanka during the calendar (Container Corporation of India), submitted year 2016. Despite facing a few challenges Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 119 as a result of the restriction in operations The travel business, Mackinnons American EBIT of the industry group increased by due to the resurfacing and expansion of the Express (MAET), invested in an online booking 24 per cent to Rs.3.12 billion compared to runway of the Bandaranaike International application in the year under review in order the Rs.2.52 billion recorded in 2015/16. Airport (BIA) from January to April 2017 and to compete in the online travel market space. The growth in volumes in the Bunkering the sporadic unavailability of its amphibious Further investments were undertaken in business, improved performance at DHL aircraft during peak season, Cinnamon Air order to increase staff productivity and Keells and full utilisation of the warehousing managed its operations successfully with enable scalability. facility in the Logistics business contributed minimal schedule disruptions. towards the improved performance. The PBT Capital Management Review of the Transportation industry group, which The Freight Forwarding business, NDO Lanka Further to the external environment and amounted to Rs.3.10 billion [2015/16: Rs.2.50 (NDO) continued to grow its project cargo operations review, this section outlines the billion], mirrored the growth of EBIT at 24 per vertical to target emerging infrastructure and forms of Capital available for the execution of cent. real estate projects. NDO was successful in the businesses’ near, medium and long term acquiring large scale opportunities in this strategies in creating value and discusses the Borrowings and Finance Expense vertical, including a project in Northern Sri performance of the sectors under each form Total debt as at 31 March 2017 stood at Lanka, among others. of Capital. Rs.1.75 billion [2015/16: Rs.878 million)]. The finance expense for the financial year increased by 17 per cent to Rs.25 million Key indicators under each form of Capital are as follows; [2015/16: Rs.22 million]. The marginal increase in the finance expense was mainly Sectors Ports and Shipping Transportation attributable to the increase in short term Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.5.42 billion, 10 per cent Rs.13.01 billion, 9 per cent debt facilities obtained by LMS as a result revenue and growth increase increase of increasing working capital finance Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.2.16 billion, 18 per cent Rs.965 million, 42 per cent requirements. The disproportionate increase EBIT and growth increase increase of the finance expense on a large debt base Natural Capital carbon footprint Not within the boundary of is also attributable to LMS being able to sustainability reporting 1,690 MT negotiate the cost of borrowing on several of Human Capital number of Not within the boundary of its loans. employees sustainability reporting 385 Return on Capital Employed Financial and Manufactured Capital • The ROCE of the industry group increased As at 1 April 2016, the Transportation industry Turnover to 19.2 per cent from the 16.0 per cent group had total assets amounting to Rs.17.16 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% recorded in the previous financial year, billion, debt amounting to Rs.878 million and driven by the aforementioned increase 75 25 in EBIT, partially offset by the increase in an opening equity capital of Rs.15.03 billion. 2014/15 the capital base of the industry group as Financial Performance 71 29 a result of the aforementioned increase Revenue of the Transportation industry group 2015/16 in the total debt level increased by 7 per cent to Rs.11.11 billion 71 29 • The EBIT margin of the industry group compared to the Rs.10.34 billion recorded 2016/17 was 16.9 per cent as at the end of the in the previous financial year, primarily due financial year [2015/16: 15.0 per cent] to the Bunkering business, Lanka Marine EBIT Services, arising from a significant increase 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% • The asset turnover stood at 1.05 times in the base price of bunker fuels in addition in comparison to 1.00 times in the to the double digit volume growth. Revenue, 17 83 previous financial year, as a result of the including equity accounted investees, 2014/15 aforementioned increase in turnover. increased by 10 per cent to Rs.18.44 billion 27 73 It should also be noted that the asset [2015/16: Rs.16.83 billion], attributable to the 2015/16 base of the industry group increased by growth in TEUs handled by the Group’s Ports 5 per cent to Rs.18.06 billion inclusive 31 69 business and the aforementioned revenue of revaluation gains amounting to Rs.62 2016/17 increase in the Bunkering business. million Transportation Ports and Shipping Return on Capital Employed ROCE 2016/17: 19.2% [2015/16: 16.0%] Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity 1.05 16.9% 1.08 120 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review TRANSPORTATION Natural Capital Performance Transportation infrastructure, connectivity The carbon footprint of the Transportation industry group (excluding SAGT, DHL, Maersk Lanka, and adherence to international standards NDO and Cinnamon Air, which are beyond the sustainability reporting boundaries) was 1,690 MT, are prerequisites for economic growth and a 19 per cent reduction from the previous year. No significant spillages were reported during value creation in the country, and therefore the year under review. it is necessary that the industry ensures it is environmentally responsible and actively 2016/17 2015/16 (%) seeks to minimise any negative impacts on the country’s Natural Capital. Within this Carbon footprint (MT) 1,690 2,091 (19) framework, the Transportation industry group Waste disposed (kg) 124,371 109,243 14 operates under the Group’s Environment and Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor Energy Management policy, as a means of managing its environmental footprint. 2016/17 2015/16 LMS CO2 (kg per MT of bunkers sold) 5.3 5.7 The material impacts for the industry group JKLL CO2 (kg per m2 of warehouse area managed) 2.4 4.5 are classified below: Waste generated per operational intensity factor Energy and Financial implications 2016/17 2015/16 emissions and environmental management responsibility LMS waste generated (kg per MT of bunkers sold) 0.3 0.3 JKLL waste generated (kg per m2 of warehouse area managed) 0.3 0.3 Waste Regulatory and management environmental responsibility Human Capital industry group encourages the growth of Energy and Emissions Management The Transportation industry group places the overall industry by investing in people, Targets: significant emphasis on health and safety, thereby producing qualified professionals in • Internal fuel efficiency targets for given the nature of some of its businesses the logistics and transportation fields. This vehicle and aircraft fleet to reduce fuel which have a greater propensity towards continuous investment has led to the industry consumption and emissions accidents at warehouses, other facilities and group’s higher inclination towards service road accidents among others. The Group’s quality and dependability from a purely costInitiatives: health and safety policy strives to create centric platform. To meet such demands, and • Daily monitoring of fuel consumption and awareness at an industry group level and to sustain and capitalise on the envisaged ongoing analysis of sales routes for route provide training on occupational safety to momentum in growth, investment in Human optimisation to increase efficiency ensure a safe and healthy work environment Capital is considered vital, alongside the to its employees. investment in infrastructure, processes and Waste Management systems. Targets: In keeping with the progressive changes in • Adherence to Marine Environmental demand by key players and customers, the Pollution Authority (MEPA) and other best practices Initiatives: • JKLL disposes FMCG waste, recycles stretch film and cardboard waste generated in its operations through certified third party contractors ensuring responsible disposal of waste • LMS conducts monthly drills on prevention of oil spillages for its employees to minimise the resulting impact in the event of an accidental spill • Waste on barges resulting from bunkering operations are disposed through a MEPA certified third party contractor to ensure responsible disposal of waste Health and safety practices at JKLL Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 121 The material impacts for the industry group are classified as follows: Talent The need to retain and management continuously upgrade skills of existing staff, while developing a resource base of professionals for the country’s transportation industry Health and Labour and productivity safety concerns as the Group places signiﬁcant emphasis on providing a safe working environment for its employees and University of Moratuwa undergraduates participating in an English immersion camp sponsored by stakeholders the Transportation industry group Talent Management Targets: The Moratuwa University Transport and Logistics degree programme • Continuous training and skill development aims to address the skills mismatch within the industry by developing • Build a resource base of qualified the knowledge and skills of undergraduates in the ﬁelds of aviation, transportation and logistics professionals shipping, logistics and supply chain management. Initiatives: • The Transportation industry group provided 2,490 hours of training to its year, on both a need and merit based scheme. Initiatives: employees, in line with its strategy of Additionally, the industry group continues to • JKLL and LMS continued to maintain increased focus on staff training and sponsor and support tailor-made English OHSAS 18001 certification on health development, to further the capacity and language training programmes through the and safety practices and conducts fire efficiency across operationally critical Gateway Language Centre to first year underand safety training for employees on a areas graduates and a mentoring programme run regular basis resulting in a safe work by the Transport and Logistics Management environment and maximising productivity • The Transportation industry group Department for 51 and 57 undergraduates continued to sponsor the scholarship • LMS organised a first aid training respectively. Six graduates from the degree programme for undergraduates reading programme conducted by Red Cross programme were offered employment for the Bachelor of Science in Transport certified trainers, with invitations opportunities within the Group from the and Logistics Management at the extended to businesses from the entire inception of the programme while 5 students University of Moratuwa Transportation industry group. At present, (currently studying in the programme) were the industry group has seventeen Red • Internship opportunities were provided offered internship opportunities and industry Cross certified first aiders for students in the aforesaid scholarship exposure during the financial year. programme to provide on-the-job Performance training and career development Health and Safety The industry group provided staff with 7 opportunities with the aim of identifying Target: hours of training per employee, while 2 and absorbing new talent into the Group • Ensuring no more than one warehouse injuries were recorded during the year under upon graduation injury and less than five major road review. accidents with impact to third parties, per Impact through CSR initiatives: month The Moratuwa University Transport and Logistics degree programme was continued in the year under review. The programme 2016/17 2015/16 (%) aims to address the skills mismatch within Injuries and diseases (number) 2 1 100 the industry by developing the knowledge Total hours of training 2,490 1,761 41 and skills of undergraduates in the fields of aviation, shipping, logistics and supply chain management among others. An aggregate of 23 scholarships were awarded during the 122 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review TRANSPORTATION Social and Relationship Capital The Bunkering business has continued to of the Port of Colombo is now in excess of The Transportation industry group, through enhance its mutually beneficial procurement 70 per cent within a relatively short time its numerous business offerings, connects contract with a leading petroleum company in span since the expansion of capacity with multiple entities across and within the India. In order to ensure healthy relationships the commissioning of the South Container borders of the country. The Port of Colombo, with stakeholders and to mitigate any Terminal, demonstrating the strong potential within which the Group’s Port business negative sustainability impacts, companies for capacity led growth in the Port of Colombo. SAGT operates, is strategically positioned assess all significant suppliers, including In this context, the development of the deepon the main global East-West shipping route suppliers providing janitorial and other draft East Container Terminal (ECT) is critical enabling better connectivity for the South outsourced services. to ensure volume led growth is sustained and East Asian markets with Africa, Europe, at the Port. Subsequent to the Expression and the East Coast of the US, providing ideal of Interest submitted in September 2016 in connections for trading in the Indian subthis regard, the Group will look to leverage on continent. this investment opportunity considering the overall prospects for the Port of Colombo. The ability for the ECT to cater to larger vessels Significant Suppliers will complement the operations of SAGT considering its back to back location. Maintenance, The Bunkering business will continue to invest Outsourced Warehouse Capital in strengthening its delivery infrastructure support services and vehicle fleet operations equipment outsourced employees and leverage on its strong brand and existing relationships, with both customers and suppliers alike, to maintain its position as the market leader in the face of increasing The expected growth in regional and international trade, combined with competition. The Group will explore avenues focused infrastructure development, is expected to transform Sri Lanka to capitalise on the opportunities within the beyond a container transshipment hub into a regional logistics hub in the Port of Hambantota, which are expected to materialise in the near term. medium term. Sri Lanka is uniquely positioned to capture this growth given the comparatively lower costs, skilled labour and ease of access to The expected growth in regional and the ever growing subcontinent markets. international trade, combined with focused infrastructure development, is expected to transform Sri Lanka beyond a container transshipment hub into a regional logistics Intellectual Capital The following initiatives were taken by Product and service quality standards are of the businesses within the industry group. significant importance to the Transportation Mackinnons Travels Limited invested industry group. The following initiatives were in an online booking application undertaken during the year under review, and towards becoming more competitive as a result, certain accolades were received. in the online travel market space • The businesses within the Transportation NDO developed a mobile application industry will continue to strive towards to provide shipment status updates developing a competitive advantage for import clearance customers over traditional logistics companies by focusing on innovative and technology • JKLL became the first logistics company led solutions for its customers in Sri Lanka to be awarded the ISO characteristics that would be vital in long 9001:2015 certification term operations. To this end, digitisation • DHL won the Stevie International initiatives were rolled out across the Business Award for Customer Service industry group in an effort to differentiate and keep pace with the dynamic demands Strategy and Outlook The Port of Colombo is strategically of the consumers and key stakeholders The Port of Colombo is expected to continue positioned on the main global East-West • Real time stock turn updates, integrated its growth trajectory, given its positioning shipping route, linking the Far East with SAP and warehouse management as a leading maritime hub in the region Africa, Europe, and the East Coast of software systems have enhanced the and the availability of some capacity. the US, providing ideal connections for service offering within the industry group However, the overall capacity utilisation trading in the Indian sub-continent Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 123 availability of world class storage spaces The Logistics business will in the SME owners’ vicinity for rent. The continue to engage with interface is expected to gain momentum, since affordable warehousing space is key clients and evaluate the currently a scarcity within this sector. potential for purpose built and anchored facilities. JKLL will Mack Air (MAL) will leverage on the online airlines represented by the company to focus on expanding its footprint improve overall market share in both and customer base to include passenger and cargo volumes. MAL will also long term integrated customer focus on strengthening its network of airlines, relationships. The business will to expand selling to long-haul sectors. The positive outlook in tourist arrivals provides also continue to engage with the opportunities for Sri Lanka to become a Group’s Retail sector with regard network destination for the Airline segment. to the development of a state-ofBased on the current trend in tourist arrivals, the-art distribution centre, which with greater emphasis on the South and East Asian markets to Sri Lanka, both MAL can handle a variety of dry, fresh and Cinnamon Air will focus on creating and chilled supplies to its growing industry and customer awareness through base of outlets. multiple channels. The convenience of faster connectivity between cities, Sri Lanka’s growing popularity as a destination for shorter stays and attracting more upscale hub in the medium term. Sri Lanka is leisure and corporate tourists are expected uniquely positioned to capture this growth to contribute towards improved performance given the comparatively lower costs, skilled of the Airline segment. labour and ease of access to the ever growing subcontinent markets. Mackinnons American Express Travels will focus on growing market share in the The Logistics business will continue to expanding outbound travel sector through engage with key clients and evaluate the increased on-line offerings while NDO potential for purpose built and anchored Lanka will focus on continually developing facilities. JKLL will focus on expanding its its core competencies in customs clearance footprint and customer base to include long and cargo management solutions towards term integrated customer relationships. The maintaining its position as one of the top business will also continue to engage with 5 customs brokerage and project cargo the Group’s Retail sector with regard to the management service providers in the country. development of a state-of-the-art distribution centre, which can handle a variety of dry, fresh and chilled supplies to its growing base of outlets. Additionally, the business will seek to leverage on opportunities that may arise from key development projects, such as the Port City Colombo (PCC) development. Furthering the digitisation drive within the industry group, JKLL is in the process of developing an online interface for small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The online interface, “store4u”, which is expected to be launched in the latter half of the ensuing financial year, is expected to gain momentum within the SME sector as a comparatively cheaper and safe alternative for the storage and transport components of their supply chains. The interface will showcase the 124 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review LEISURE Our Business Model eight resort hotels spread across prime Vision and Scope tourist locations in Sri Lanka and three resorts Representing JKH’s largest asset exposure, in the Maldives, offering beaches, mountains the Leisure industry group comprises of two and cultural splendour under the brand city hotels that offer approximately 39 per “Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts”. The Leisure cent of the current 5-star room capacity in industry group also operates a destination Colombo, a select service hotel, in Colombo, management business in Sri Lanka. Contribution to JKH Group 22% 25% 31% 49% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint The design and facilities of our hotels cater to the evolving lifestyles of our guests which exempliﬁes the vitality and vibrancy of the “Cinnamon” brand. City Hotels Resorts Destination Hotel CO2 Management Management 1.47 MT per Rs.mn revenue Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 125 Sectors City Hotels Resorts Destination Management Sri Lankan Maldivian The business within • Cinnamon Grand 501 • 8 resort hotels in Sri • 3 resort hotels in the • Walkers Tours and the sector rooms Lanka 1,000 rooms Maldives 340 rooms Whittall Boustead • Cinnamon Lakeside 346 Destination Management rooms operations in Sri Lanka • Cinnamon red 240 rooms Key external/ • Increased room inventory, • Increase in room • Recovery post the political • Signiﬁcant inﬂux of internal variables particularly in the 3-4 star inventory, particularly in instability seen last year tourists from China, India impacting the hotel segment in the prior the west and southern and the United Kingdom • Increased duty on tobacco business years coastal areas of the island and carbonated drinks • Arrivals from China grew • Encouraging growth in • Increase in competition and a new expatriate 26 per cent during the overall tourist arrivals to from the informal sector remittance tax calendar year 2016 the City Hotel sector Key developments • Cinnamon Grand • Ongoing roll-out of • Extension of the head • Witnessed a significant during the financial maintained its position as “Cinnamon” branding lease of Cinnamon growth in volumes from year the market leader initiatives Dhonveli Maldives by 15 web based sales years • Introduction of new web based portal Hotel Management Sector In addition to the sectors in the aforementioned table, Cinnamon Hotel Management Limited (CHML) functions as the hotel management arm of the Leisure industry group. Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Total assets 71,996 57,653 25 55,403 Turnover3 26,136 24,306 8 23,422 Total equity 60,690 47,782 27 45,764 EBIT 5,924 5,134 15 5,737 Total debt 5,874 4,664 26 4,826 PBT 5,721 4,968 15 5,505 Capital employed1 66,564 52,446 27 50,590 PAT 5,008 4,367 15 4,855 Employees (number)2 5,041 5,073 (1) 5,147 EBIT per employee 1.2 1.0 16 1.1 Carbon footprint (MT) 40,670 40,767 0 39,698 1 For equity accounted investees the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 As per the sustainability reporting boundary 3 Turnover is inclusive of the Group’s share of equity accounted investees 126 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review LEISURE External Environment and Operational recorded an increase in occupancy on account Review of an increase in the leisure segment arrivals Sri Lanka has become one of the more and due to the previous year’s occupancy sought after tourism destinations in the being lower as the hotel was partially closed South East Asian region as evidenced for refurbishment for six months during through the growth in arrivals and the 2015/16. Cinnamon red recorded increases recognition received through numerous well in both occupancy and average room rates, reputed travel sites and magazines. The 4 month partial closure of BIA till April despite the aforementioned increase in room diverse product offering, which is centered 2017 for resurfacing of the runway inventory and the growth in the informal on its pristine beaches, natural diversity sector. and cultural heritage, has driven growth in arrivals over the past few years. The tourism During the year under review, the Sri Lankan industry is thereby recognised as one of In the year under review, tourist Resorts segment recorded an improvement the key growth industries of the country in performance driven by an increase considering its impact on the economy, arrivals to Colombo recorded an in occupancy. The segment maintained employment generation and the multiplier encouraging increase, primarily moderately higher average room rates, effect it results in. driven by double digit growth despite the increased supply of rooms in the informal sector as well as the graded sector, in the leisure and Meetings, Sri Lanka recorded 2,050,832 tourist arrivals particularly during the latter half of the for the calendar year 2016, a growth of 14 Incentives, Conferences and financial year. per cent against the previous year [CY2015: Events (MICE) segments albeit 1,798,380 tourists]. The tourism industry off a relatively lower base. The Sri Lankan Resorts gave significant recorded receipts of USD 3.52 billion, an prominence to online led revenue generation noteworthy growth in the MICE increase of 18 per cent against the last year. and implemented various social media led segment demonstrates the volume strategies, to drive growth through its The two largest source markets for tourist signiﬁcant potential to position online platform, www.cinnamonhotels.com. In arrivals to Sri Lanka, Western Europe and Colombo as a MICE hub. keeping with the trends in tourist arrivals to South Asia, grew by 17 per cent and 12 Sri Lanka, the segment implemented focused per cent to 643,333 and 513,536 arrivals strategies to develop and retain the Indian respectively. India and China were the largest and Chinese markets. Further initiatives country-wise contributors to tourist arrivals, expand the runway which resulted in many were launched targeting the high arrivals recording a growth of 13 per cent (356,729 flights being cancelled during this period. The growth from the Scandinavian markets which arrivals) and 24 per cent (271,577 arrivals) operations of the airport resumed usual witnessed growth towards the latter part of respectively. The Chinese market continued to activities from 7 April 2017 onwards and it is the financial year. be a key thrust market, with many initiatives encouraging that arrivals for the month of being rolled out at a national policy level. April 2017 grew by 18 per cent against the The depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee These efforts, together with the continuing previous year. had a positive impact on the foreign increase in flight connectivity resulted in the currency denominated revenue streams aforesaid increase in arrivals from China, In the year under review, tourist arrivals to emanating within Sri Lanka, which was offwhich accounted for 13 per cent of total Colombo recorded an encouraging increase, set to an extent due to the negative impact arrivals to Sri Lanka in 2016. Arrivals for the primarily driven by double digit growth in the on the translation of its foreign currency year were particularly strengthened by the leisure and Meetings, Incentives, Conferences denominated debt during the year under growth in arrivals from Eastern and Western and Events (MICE) segments, albeit off a review. Europe, predominantly from the British and relatively lower base. The noteworthy growth German markets, which grew by 16 per cent in the MICE segment demonstrates the The brand exercises implemented in the and 15 per cent respectively. significant potential to position Colombo as a previous financial year had a resonating MICE hub. The corporate segment recorded a effect in enhancing the “Cinnamon” brand marginal growth but maintained its position voice, which aided the consolidation of the 2.05Mn as the largest contributor to overall arrivals into Colombo. brand and its physical infrastructure in all 11 properties across Sri Lanka and the Tourist arrivals Maldives. In working towards enhancing the A 14 per cent growth Cinnamon Grand (CG) maintained its market Cinnamon brand equity, Bentota Beach by leadership position amongst the city hotels Cinnamon will be closed for construction Arrivals in the first quarter of the calendar in 2016/17. CG maintained average room of a new hotel. Construction will take place year 2017 recorded a growth of only 6 per rates in line with the previous year, but while architecturally conserving the original cent largely due to the partial closure of the recorded a reduction in occupancy mainly structure and heritage elements of the main Bandaranaike International Airport (BIA) from on account of the increasingly competitive building, designed by the legendary architect January till April 2017 to resurface and operating environment, particularly within Geoffrey Bawa. The construction is expected the corporate segment. Cinnamon Lakeside to be completed by 2019/20. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 127 The performance of the Destination During the calendar year 2016, 1,286,135 tourists visited the Management sector was in line with expectations, despite the significant Rs. 26.14Bn competition from the informal sector and tour Leisure industry group Maldives, a growth of 4 per cent operators. However, strategies to differentiate revenue against the previous year [CY2015: through product offering and modern digital A 8 per cent increase 1,234,248 arrivals]. channels came to fruition in the year with the sector achieving recognition as Sri Lanka’s aided by the depreciation of the Rupee since leading Destination Management Company a majority of contracts are priced in US at the World Travel Awards held in Vietnam Dollars. The revenue of the Maldivian Resorts During the calendar year 2016, 1,286,135 in October 2016. segment increased by 5 per cent driven by tourists visited the Maldives, a growth of 4 higher occupancies which were above the per cent against the previous year [CY2015: Capital Management Review industry average. However, the revenue of the 1,234,248 arrivals]. Although China, the Concluding the external environment and Destination Management sector decreased largest source market to the Maldives, operational review of the Leisure industry by 5 per cent as a result of the challenging witnessed an overall decline of 10 per cent, group, the ensuing sections will discuss market conditions experienced during the the growth in arrivals from other traditional the different forms of Capital available and year. markets such as Central and Northern Europe elaborates on the manner in which each form negated the slowdown in Chinese arrivals. of Capital is managed to create value to all stakeholders concerned. Turnover The Indian and British markets grew 28 per 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% cent and 10 per cent respectively, albeit off a lower base showcasing the possibility of Financial and Manufactured Capital 32 20 27 21 further market development through focused As at 1 April 2016, the Leisure industry group 2014/15 marketing efforts. had total assets of Rs.57.65 billion, debt of 32 20 25 23 Rs.4.66 billion and an opening equity capital 2015/16 The Maldivian Resorts segment continued to of Rs.47.78 billion. 1 34 20 25 20 record encouraging occupancies, well above the industry average of 76 per cent. The Financial performance 2016/17 increasing number of guest houses being Revenue of the Leisure industry group increased by 8 per cent to Rs.26.14 billion EBIT offered for tourist accommodation, intensified competition from the informal sector and has [2016/17: Rs.24.31 billion]. The City Hotels 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% exerted pressure on average room rates. sector recorded a 14 per cent growth in 14 38 16 26 6 Continued focus on streamlining operational revenue in comparison to the previous 2014/15 efficiencies through lean management financial year as a result of a full year of operations at Cinnamon Lakeside, which 14 36 18 22 10 strategies and cost management initiatives was partially closed for refurbishment in 2015/16 such as the reduction of energy costs and procurement costs, among others, proved 2015/16, and an improvement in average 12 43 19 21 5 fruitful during the year. room rates across all three city hotels. The 2016/17 revenue of the Sri Lankan Resorts segment Hotel Management increased by 12 per cent on account of higher City Hotels During the year under review, the head lease Sri Lankan Resorts of the Dhonveli island was extended for a average room rates across a majority of the Maldivian Resorts further 15 years until 2045. resort properties and a modest improvement Destination Management in occupancies. Revenue growth was also Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors are summarised as follows: Sectors City Hotels Resorts Destination Hotel Management Sri Lankan Maldivian Management Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.8.84 billion, 14 Rs.5.40 billion, 12 Rs.6.49 billion, 5 Rs.5.24 billion, 5 Rs.157 million, 2701 revenue and growth per cent increase per cent increase per cent increase per cent decrease per cent increase Financial and Manufactured Capital EBIT Rs.2.55 billion, 36 Rs.1.14 billion, 23 Rs.1.21 billion, 8 Rs.313 million, 37 Rs.704 million, 0.24 and growth per cent increase per cent increase per cent increase per cent decrease per cent decrease Natural Capital carbon footprint 19,235 MT 13,741 MT 6,940 MT 515 MT 239 MT Human Capital number of employees 2,175 1,980 495 242 149 128 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review LEISURE The EBIT of the industry group grew by 15 Return on Capital Employed per cent to Rs.5.92 billion [2015/16: Rs.5.13 ROCE billion] primarily as a result of improved 2016/17: 10.0% performance in the City Hotel sector and the [2015/16: 10.0%] Sri Lankan Resort segment. The PBT of the industry group increased by 15 per cent to Rs.5.72 billion. Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity 0.40 22.7% 1.09 Borrowings and Finance Expense Total debt as at 31 March 2017, was Rs.5.87 billion. The finance expense of the industry Natural Capital Water and Financial implications group increased by 23 per cent to Rs.204 Sri Lanka’s rich bio diversity and natural effluent as well as regulatory million in comparison to Rs.166 million resources, amongst many other aspects, have management and brand reputation recorded in the previous financial year, mainly fast become the signature brand building implications attributable to the US Dollar denominated tools for the tourism industry in the country. debt obtained for the head lease extension of As the largest graded hotel operator in the Waste Regulatory and brand Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives. country, and given its reliance on natural management reputation implications resources to create value, the industry group Return on Capital Employed places a strong focus on operational and Bio diversity Regulatory and brand • ROCE of the industry group held constant environmental efficiencies to operate with reputation implications at 10.0 per cent from the previous minimal impact to the environment. financial year. Whilst EBIT recorded an The ensuing section discusses the key increase in 2016/17, the capital base of The Leisure industry group’s strategy with targets under the identiﬁed material aspects the industry group increased by Rs.14.12 regard to management of its Natural Capital and its corresponding impacts. The section billion to Rs.66.56 billion. The capital base is underscored through both the John also includes a summarised discussion on of the industry group increased as a result Keells Group’s sustainability policy and the the various initiatives undertaken with a view of a gain of Rs.9.84 billion arising from “Cinnamon” brand’s sustainability strategy. to achieving said targets. the revaluation of land, particularly from Asian Hotels and Properties PLC (AHPL), The industry group is conscious of the fact Energy and Emissions Management: and the extension of the head lease of the that long term value creation can only be Targets: Maldivian island amounting to Rs.2.51 achieved through responsible management of • Energy conservation and reduction of billion. As discussed under the Strategy, impacts and outputs, resulting in sustainable carbon footprint through energy efficient Resource Allocation and Portfolio outcomes. Business units operate within this equipment and practices to replace or Management section of this Report, the principle, with conservation and preservation upgrade equipment with energy efficient asset base is adjusted for the revaluation of the environment as business priorities, alternatives where required gains arising in the preceding three years achieved through environmentally friendly • Continuous monitoring of the carbon in order to calculate the adjusted ROCE. business practices with the intention of footprint and utilisation of renewable On this basis, the adjusted ROCE is 11.4 minimising any negative impact on natural energy sources to reduce the carbon per cent compared to 11.5 per cent in the resources. All operational units proactively footprint where feasible previous year monitor and seek to improve outcomes of key environmental indicators such as • Alignment with international benchmarks • The EBIT for the industry group for all hotel properties with respect energy consumption, water withdrawal and increased by 15 per cent as a result of to carbon emissions and energy discharge, waste generation and responsible the aforementioned improvement in consumption disposal. performance across all sectors except for the Destination Management sector • Ensure that quality of emissions are The material impacts for the industry group within the tolerance levels stipulated by • The asset turnover decreased marginally are classified as follows: the Environmental Protection License to 0.40 times compared to the 0.43 times (EPL) recorded in the previous financial year, as Energy, Financial implications, a result of the aforementioned increase emissions, stakeholder expectations Initiatives: in the asset base due to revaluation gains water and of sustainable tourism • As part of the continued initiatives and the head lease extension detailed waste practices, regulatory undertaken by all hotels to conserve above requirements, brand energy, the city and resort hotels replaced image and reputation existing lighting with LED lighting in guest of the industry group’s and staff areas, resulting in annualised businesses savings of over 195,000 kWh • All resort hotels continued the replacement of less efficient standard Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 129 air conditioners with energy efficient inverter type air conditioning units as a means of conserving energy • Cinnamon red installed variable frequency drive (VFD) panels, which regulate speed and torque of chill water primary pumps, resulting in annualised savings of 630,966 kWh, whilst the installation of a new condenser water line at Cinnamon Grand resulted in savings of 109,500 kWh during the year • Optimisation of energy usage through the continued use of its Building Management System (BMS) to control and time outdoor and indoor lighting and setting of automatic and efficient temperature Variable frequency drive (VFD) panels installed at Cinnamon red and laundry air-conditioning units running with variable frequency drives at Cinnamon Lakeside (CL) Resort hotels are currently in the process of installing a utility • Walkers Tours (WTL) increased the management system which will enable real time central monitoring of number of hybrid vehicles in its fleet in order to reduce fuel consumption. WTL utilities such as electricity and water consumption at all Resorts. This is certified as carbon neutral by Carbon will facilitate identiﬁcation of consumption ﬂuctuations in real time to Neutral UK as a result of investing in generate solutions in order to operate more efficiently and minimise foreign and local renewable energy wastage projects to offset its carbon footprint, keeping in line with their “Carbon Conscious” awareness campaign Initiatives: strategies including monitoring • Maintaining ISO 14001 environmental • Cinnamon Grand (CG) continued its classiﬁcation, segregation, recycling, management certification across all rainwater harvesting initiative whilst composting and initiatives such as bio hotel properties shower water was recycled for flushing gas recovery purposes in order to reduce the volume • Resort hotels are currently in the process of water withdrawn. CG also continued to Initiatives: of installing a utility management install sensor taps for wash rooms as a • All city hotels and resorts continued to system which will enable real time conservation initiative segregate waste prior to disposal as a central monitoring of utilities such as • Upgrading of steam traps (eliminates part of promoting the concept of “reduce, electricity and water consumption at all the continuous use of water to generate reuse and recycle” Resorts. This will facilitate identification of consumption fluctuations in real time steam) at CL and CG and installation of • Cinnamon Wild Yala, Cinnamon Citadel to generate solutions in order to operate water flow restrictors in guest rooms at Kandy and Habarana Village by Cinnamon more efficiently and minimise wastage selected Sri Lanka resorts was carried generated biogas using 96,101 kg of food out as an effort to reduce the overall waste generated during the year, thereby Water and Effluent Management water consumption reducing the usage of non-renewable Targets: energy • Cinnamon red also conducted • Reduce the Leisure industry group’s improvements in guest rooms to reduce • In order to minimise the environmental withdrawal of water wastage of water resulting in savings impact from the use of plastic, all Sri • Ensure that international benchmarks for of 576 cubic meters of water annually. Lankan and Maldivian resorts have taken all hotel properties on water consumption The automation of the cooling tower’s the initiative to provide plastic straws are met fan motor operation in accordance with with drinks only upon request and not as ambient temperature resulted in annual a part of the general service standard • Ensure all effluents meet the requisite savings of 1,800 cubic meters of water water quality standards • Cinnamon Grand substituted the use of • Install on-site effluent treatment Waste Management 500ml plastic water bottles with water plants for all hotels which are unable Targets: filters within staff areas. The initiative to discharge effluent into common • Strive to achieve zero waste to landﬁll eliminated the disposal of approximately municipal sewerage lines status as a long term goal through 75 PET bottles per day and 56kg of plastic comprehensive waste management disposals per month 130 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review LEISURE Name of resort hotel and Biodiversity value of Distance Subsurface Extent Protected through legislation/ Status of geographic location protected area in from site land at site of site IUCN/ UNESCO etc EPL being proximity to site (m2 (km2) obtained Bentota Beach by Cinnamon Marine ecosystems Adjacent Nil 0.0446 Yes Cinnamon Bey Beruwala Marine ecosystems Adjacent Nil 0.0450 Yes Trinco Blu by Cinnamon Marine ecosystems Adjacent Nil 0.0500 Flora and Fauna Protection Yes Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon Marine ecosystems Adjacent 3,600 0.0176 Ordinance 1937 IUCN Category Yes Habarana Village by Cinnamon Minneriya tank sanctuary 15 km Nil 0.0340 II National Park Yes Cinnamon Wild Yala Yala national park Adjacent Nil 0.0440 Yes Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Minneriya tank sanctuary 15 km Nil 0.1031 Yes Cinnamon Citadel Kandy Mahaweli river and Adjacent Nil 0.0234 Flora and Fauna Protection Yes freshwater ecosystems Ordinance 1937, IUCN Category IV Habitat / Species Management Area Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives Marine ecosystems Adjacent Nil 0.0670 The Environmental Protection Yes Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon Marine ecosystems Adjacent Nil 0.0556 and Preservation Act Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives Marine ecosystems Adjacent Nil 0.0543 Biodiversity Targets • Minimal impact to important biodiverse areas to ensure long term value creation, given the proximity of resorts to biologically diverse areas • Impact assessments are regularly conducted to ascertain any impacts on biodiversity and the environment resulting from operations Impact through CSR initiatives: • Project Leopard aims to minimise the human-leopard conflict while safeguarding and uplifting the livelihoods of cattle farmers. During the reporting year, a total of 5 stainless steel pens Installation of a cattle pen in Yala by Cinnamon Nature Trails team were donated to cattle farmers (74 pens since project inception). Zero calf deaths and zero retaliatory killings of leopards Performance have been reported after donation of the The Leisure industry group’s carbon footprint during the reporting year was 40,670 MT. pens, allowing farmers to experience a Additionally, 1,126,765 cubic meters of water was withdrawn while 3,952,477 kg of waste was significant increase in average monthly generated by the industry group. income; an estimated increase of 23.4 per cent for each year when the pen was in use Indicators • The Cinnamon Elephant data gathering 2016/17 2015/16 (%) project at Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Carbon footprint (MT) 40,670 40,767* (0.2) conducted in collaboration with John Keells Foundation and the Centre for Water withdrawn (m3) 1,126,765 1,143,664 (1) Conservation and Research, aims to study Waste disposed (kg) 3,952,477 4,280,841 (8) elephants for long term conservation whilst also enhancing tourists’ experience Carbon Footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor through greater exposure and access to 2016/17 2015/16 information regarding elephant viewing. Sri Lankan Resorts segment CO2 kg per guest night 22.77 23.07 72 adult males have been identified and Maldivian Resorts segment CO2 kg per guest night 31.15 31.22 photo IDs have been created. The Elephant Research Center at Cinnamon Lodge City Hotels sector CO2 kg per guest night 56.89 55.92 Habarana provides visitors with the photo Destination Management sector CO2 kg per client serviced 7.72 7.54 IDs of the elephants, while a Facebook * Restated group facilitates online tracking Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 131 Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor 2016/17 2015/16 All Group hotels continue Sri Lankan Resorts segment CO2 kg per guest night 937 968 to maintain OHSAS 18001 Maldivian Resorts segment CO2 kg per guest night 603 611 certiﬁcation in addition to City Hotels sector CO2 kg per guest night 1,226 1,217 maintaining ISO 22000 certiﬁcation for food safety. Hazard Analysis Waste generated per operational intensity factor and Critical Control Points (HACCP) 2016/17 2015/16 was carried out for relevant staff Sri Lankan Resorts segment CO2 kg per guest night 2.31 2.50 and ISO Internal auditor training Maldivian Resorts segment CO2 kg per guest night 4.44 5.86 was conducted by SGS Lanka for City Hotels sector CO2 kg per guest night 4.57 4.31 all City Hotels Human Capital Given the importance of service delivery the Talent Acceleration Programme for relevant staff and ISO Internal auditor and quality, the Leisure industry group (TAP), while 10 per cent of supervisor training was conducted by SGS Lanka for leverages on its Human Capital in creating level vacancies were filled through the all City Hotels an unparalleled service offering for its Management Acceleration Programme • Food hygiene, first aid, fire awareness customers and other key stakeholders. (MAP) and emergency evacuation training was A motivated and professionally trained • All resorts continue to offer classroom carried out within the businesses on staff cadre is managed through ongoing and on the job training to all employees a regular basis contributing to higher investments in its people, through training in to improve skills, productivity, service service levels industry speciﬁc and general management quality and value. Within the Group, the skills, thereby improving productivity and • WTL inducted the second batch of trained Leisure industry group offers the highest quality. The Group places importance in chauffeurs through a comprehensive number of training hours to its employees providing a safe working environment for its training programme with emphasis with 48 hours of training provided per employees through constant education and on environmentally friendly behaviour employee training on safe practices in the workplace. and safe driving habits. 16 selected individuals underwent the certification Health and Safety The material impacts for the industry group programme conducted by the Destination Targets: are identiﬁed as follows: Management sector of the Group • Minimal occupational health and safety incidents through safe working • WTL trained 210 chauffeurs on defensive Talent Retaining talent and conditions and practices driving skills. The training was conducted management upgrading skills of by a ROSPA certified trainer, whilst first existing staff towards Initiatives: aid training was conducted for 22 Safari delivering superior • All Group hotels continue to maintain jeep drivers in Udawalawe customer service and OHSAS 18001 certification in addition to quality levels • 450 WTL drivers obtained medical maintaining ISO 22000 certification for food safety. Hazard Analysis and Critical screening services to ensure the health Health and The businesses within Control Points (HACCP) was carried out and safety standards were met by tour safety the sector need to ensure drivers safe working conditions Talent Management Performance Targets: A total of 88 occupational health and safety incidents were recorded this year, while a total of • Maintenance of “Cinnamon” brand 289,431 hours of training was provided to employees within the industry group. standards through provision of a target number of training hours and on-going Indicators training, resulting in a skilled workforce 2016/17 2015/16 (%) • Retention of talent within a highly Injuries and diseases (number) 88 89 (1) competitive labour market Total hours of training 289,431 243,514 19 Initiatives: • 20 per cent of the executive vacancies in the Sri Lankan Resorts segment were filled with internal talent through 132 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review LEISURE Social and Relationship Capital The Leisure industry group recognises the Cinnamon Lodge Habarana fulﬁls 10 per cent of its monthly vegetable importance of building relationships and requirement from the organic farm operated by the hotel. This farm also fostering trust and cooperation with key stakeholders, such as the communities provides organic produce for the production of organic yogurt and milk within which it operates as well as its value which are served to guests chain partners. Ongoing corporate social responsibility Supply Chain and Community Engagement • WTL also conducted sustainability projects and activities carried out by the Targets: awareness programmes among the businesses further assist in improving the • Engagement with signiﬁcant supply chain supply chain targeting hoteliers and quality of life of local communities and partners to encourage environmentally accommodation providers island-wide groups to build a strong foundation for friendly and socially responsible activities in 5 phases through communication of the continuance of healthy relationships sustainable practices throughout the • Community engagement to stimulate and business operations. The Social and value chain and addressing key areas of local economies through sourcing of fresh Relationship Capital is further enhanced improvement produce and other outsourced services through mutually beneﬁcial relationships created through sustainable sourcing, Impact through CSR initiatives: Initiatives: training and dissemination of knowledge • Cinnamon Colomboscope 2016 a • Regular audits on food safety and supplier on sustainability and other best practices. contemporary and multidisciplinary arts awareness programmes were carried These practices stimulate local economies, festival was conducted by the Leisure out on the significant suppliers identiﬁed assist small time entrepreneurs and assist industry group in collaboration with John by the hotels’ central purchasing in creating value and improving the quality of Keells Foundation. 10 Sri Lankan artists office (CPO). This is in addition to the Sri Lanka’s tourism industry as a whole. were sponsored by John Keells Foundation supplier impact assessments carried as a means of creating a platform for out to ensure suppliers maintain the The material impacts for the industry group knowledge exchange between local and sustainable best practices and maintain are classiﬁed as follows: foreign artists. Further details on this overall food safety standards initiative can be found under the ensuing Supply Assessing and educating • Cinnamon Lodge Habarana fulfils 10 per Intellectual Capital discussion chain and signiﬁcant suppliers to cent of its monthly vegetable requirement sustainable ensure the mitigation from the organic farm operated by the Intellectual Capital sourcing of negative impacts in hotel. This farm also provides organic The “Cinnamon” brand development initiative environmental, labour produce for the production of organic of the Leisure industry group continued in and human rights aspects yogurt and milk which are served to the year under review as an ongoing effort guests to create value and brand equity through the Community Need to work closely with hosting of signature events. Several brand development surrounding communities • WTL conducted bi-annual inspections of all development initiatives were pioneered in and maintain good ancillary suppliers to ensure consistency the operational year to create and enhance relations in quality and signing of agreements to opportunities and offerings to our diverse ensure adherence of minimum quality stakeholders, in keeping with the changing standards and mitigation of risks dynamics and ever evolving trends of the travel and leisure industry. The significant suppliers within the industry group are illustrated below: Significant Suppliers Hotels Food and beverage Travel agents and Amenities Casual employees suppliers travel websites Significant Suppliers Destination Management Hotel and other Contracted retail Freelance national Jeep and boat Foreign travel agents Outsourced fleet accommodation stores guides suppliers and tour operators Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 133 A summary of the brand initiatives held, awards and accolades won in assuring service and quality standards in the year under review follows; Brand awareness initiative Brief description Cinnamon Colomboscope • The fourth edition of Colomboscope was held in September 2016, hosted by Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts in collaboration with the European Union National Institute for Culture (EUNIC) and John Keells Foundation • Conceptualised as a means of creating a premier platform for young and budding artists, the event was titled “Testing Grounds”: Art and Digital Cultures in South Asia and Europe, and was curated by Dr. Susanne Jaschko, a renowned expert in the field of media arts • Consisted of film screenings, audio-visual performances, the main exhibition and an online exhibition. This also included a series of workshops, artists’ talks and thematic conversations • 10 Sri Lankan artists sponsored by John Keells Foundation were commissioned to conceptualise and produce artwork which included the use of electronic and digital media for the festival Miss Intercontinental • Largest beauty and fashion pageant to be held in Sri Lanka with the participation of 72 countries • Held in collaboration with a local media platform in August 2016 Cinnamon TV Commercial • A lifestyle oriented brand Television commercial was launched in the financial year on all SriLankan Airlines flights to enhance the “Cinnamon” brand visibility Travel bloggers Conference and Awards • Conceptualised by “Cinnamon”, the first travel bloggers’ conference was held in June with the ceremony participation of over 60 bloggers from across 14 countries Awards/Accolades and measures undertaken for quality assurance Walkers Tours Limited • Adjudged the best performing TourCert check Company due to its commitment to practicing of responsible tourism Cinnamon Grand • Awarded the Bronze award at Sri Lanka National Energy Efficiency Awards 2016 • Received an “A *” food grading for Excellence in Food Safety and Hygiene issued by the CMC Cinnamon Lakeside • Received an “A food grading for Excellence in Food Safety and Hygiene Sri Lanka Resorts • Cinnamon Wild Yala awarded the Presidential Bronze Award at the National Occupational Health and Safety Awards (NIOSH) • Sector Award Tourism and Merit Award claimed by Cinnamon Bey and Cinnamon Lodge respectively • Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts was awarded the Gold Award at the 2016 Human Capital Management (HCM) Awards and the category award for Talent Acquisition Strategy and Outlook Tourists arrivals to the country are expected Tourists arrivals to the country are expected to continue its current to continue its current growth trajectory growth trajectory towards achieving the 4.5 million arrivals target set by towards achieving the 4.5 million arrivals the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA) for 2020. target set by the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority (SLTDA) for 2020. Although arrivals for the calendar year 2016 fell short of the set target of 2.2 million arrivals, the influx of room inventory into the from India and China. The proximity to India, Inbound arrivals will also be supported by industry during the last few years has been the increasing flight connectivity from China the addition of necessary infrastructure such steadily absorbed considering the robust and the value proposition offered by Sri Lanka as with the expansion of the Bandaranaike year on year growth in arrivals. Sri Lanka is as a destination, where diverse attractions International Airport with the expected well positioned to meet its long term growth catering to a multitude of tourist needs can development of a new terminal. While targets considering the increasing trend of be accessed within a short time horizon, will existing capacity will be stretched till such outbound travel in the region, in particular be key drivers in attracting arrivals. time the new terminal is operational, it is 134 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review LEISURE heartening to note that the operations of the airport were well managed by the authorities Considering the long term growth prospects for tourism in the country, during the partial closure of the airport with the Leisure industry group is currently evaluating several investments measures to improve efficiency. to expand its portfolio of hotels whilst being conscious of the impact Notwithstanding the considerable on the JKH Group portfolio considering the return proﬁle of hospitality improvement in the existing infrastructure investments. The model for expansion will primarily be on an asset in recent years, in keeping with the present light model where the Group will seek partners for select hotel growth opportunities within the sector, the need for better physical infrastructure such investments to manage its effective capital deployed in the industry as enhanced connectivity through road group whilst increasing its share of rooms under management and hotel networks and access to digital infrastructure, management income. amongst others, is more pronounced. Through such enhancements, the value proposition offered can be significantly improved to position Sri Lanka as a regionally sector will be imperative to ensure that growth trajectory, it is imperative that Sri competitive tourist destination. tourism services provided in the country are Lanka remains competitive regionally whilst of a minimum regulated standard. It will also also ensuring that investment in expanding The industry recorded a significant supply ensure that leisure operators are on an equal inventory is not discouraged due to higher of room inventory in the year under review, platform in terms of regulations and taxes taxes. The implementation of an amendment both in the city hotels and resort hotels. and other levies, which currently deprive the in the corporate tax rate is yet to be enacted Approximately 13,000 rooms in the 3 and Government of much needed tax revenue. (however, as at the time of publishing this 4-5 star categories are expected to enter Report, indications were that the corporate the market in the short term. Although a The tax framework in the Budget 2017 tax rate may change to 14 per cent). similar supply expansion of this magnitude proposed an increase in the corporate tax is not expected in the near term, Sri Lanka rates from 12 to 28 per cent on the registered Considering the long term growth prospects will require a further enhancement in room service providers of the leisure industry, for tourism in the country, the Leisure inventory, in the medium to long term, to which will have an impact on the profitability industry group is currently evaluating several support the targeted number of tourist of the hotels in Sri Lanka. The increases in investments to expand its portfolio of hotels arrivals. Although the supply in room the value added tax (VAT) rate to 15 per cent whilst being conscious of the impact on inventory was mainly driven by the graded and the increase in corporate tax rates, the JKH Group portfolio considering the category, competition is also increasing amongst other tax increases, will affect return profile of hospitality investments. The from the informal sector which is priced Sri Lanka’s competitiveness in the region, model for expansion will primarily be on an attractively considering the lower cost base where Sri Lanka is already priced on par asset light model where the Group will seek and different service offering. Provisions with several key tourism destinations. Being partners for select hotel investments to for a suitable regulatory framework for the identified as one of the key thrust areas of the manage its effective capital deployed in the registration and regulation of the informal Sri Lankan economy and given the industry’s industry group whilst increasing its share of rooms under management and hotel management income. In light of the above, the Group will explore options for the investment Annual tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka structure of the Nuwara Eliya and Maldivian Tourists (000's) hotel projects subject to feasibilities on 4,500 SLTDA target for 2020 the cost parameters and expected returns. The Leisure industry group will also look to improve its process efficiency and SLTDA target for 2017 productivity, and more importantly, its ability 2,500 to cater to evolving customer preferences and requirements for convenience by leveraging 2,000 on its newly implemented information technology platforms whilst embarking on 1,500 several digitisation initiatives. 1,000 The City Hotel sector is expected to witness continued growth in the corporate and 500 leisure segments. Business arrivals are expected to be strengthened further with the 0 recommencement of the Port City Colombo 1985 1987 1989 1991 1993 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2020 (PCC) project which is also expected to Source : SLTDA create transformational change within the Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 135 In keeping with current consumer trends and developments, it is vital that the industry works in collaboration with the regulatory authorities to create entertainment options in the city in order for the industry to remain a key growth area of the economy into the foreseeable future. Colombo city limits, converting the city into will continue to follow a tactical pricing a modern mini city in the South Asian region strategy whilst driving volume through direct with state-of-the-art facilities, entertainment bookings and online sales. The segment will and attractions in terms of a marina and also be targeting new source markets to a beach. Additionally, catering to a greater offset the negative impact of arrivals from influx of tourists in the future, the current Russia and Ukraine. strategies of the City Hotel sector focuses on the need for in-city based entertainment. In Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives and Ellaidhoo keeping with current consumer trends and Maldives by Cinnamon will be partially closed developments, it is vital that the industry for a planned refurbishment in FY2017/18 for works in collaboration with the regulatory a period of approximately six months. A total authorities to create entertainment options of 62 rooms will be refurbished at Ellaidhoo in the city in order for the industry to remain while the entire room inventory of Dhonveli a key growth area of the economy into the will undergo refurbishment in phases in the foreseeable future. ensuing year. The Sri Lankan Resorts segment will The Destination Management sector will continue to drive occupancy through volume leverage on its presence in the European driven strategies with added focus on web and Middle Eastern markets and continue to sales and local and foreign partnerships. focus on China and India as the main drivers The impending closure of “Bentota Beach by of growth. As with the other sectors across Cinnamon”, for the construction of the new the industry group, cost management and hotel is expected to have a non-cash impact productivity improvements will remain an because of the acceleration of depreciation important area of focus. The sector will further on assets of approximately Rs.200 million in consolidate its position in recently established 2017/18, subject to final verification by the markets which have demonstrated potential Auditors. whilst concentrating on new markets. The establishment of a digital platform from the The segment will continue to place emphasis second half of 2017/18 onwards is expected on cost management initiatives, staff to improve process efficiency, scalability of development programmes and productivity operations and enhance productivity which is enhancement strategies. a key medium to long term strategy for the business in catering to evolving customer The political stability in the Maldives has needs. improved, albeit at a slower rate than expected. The Maldivian Resorts segment 136 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review PROPERTY Our Business Model The Real Estate sector includes the property management of the 18 hole championship Vision and Scope division of Asian Hotels and Properties PLC standard golf course in Rajawella along with The property arm of the Group consists of the developers of “The Crescat Residencies”, its land bank. The sector has also successfully the Property Development and Real Estate “The Monarch”, “The Emperor”, and the updeveloped and sold properties such as the sectors. The Property Development sector market shopping mall “Crescat Boulevard”. “OnThree20” and the recently completed “7th is currently engaged in the development of The sector operations also includes “K-Zone” Sense” project on Gregory’s Road. the “Cinnamon Life” integrated resort project. malls in Moratuwa and Ja-Ela and the Contribution to JKH Group 1% 3% 20% 1% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint Construction of the “Cinnamon Life” project is progressing well whilst sales of the residential apartments and commercial space remain encouraging. Property has a land bank of over 500 acres in Digana, Kandy, where it operates a scenic Property Real Estate CO2 Development 2.60 MT per 18-hole Donald Steele designed golf course. Rs.mn revenue Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 137 Sectors Property Development Real Estate The business within • Development and sale of residential and commercial • Renting of commercial office spaces and the the sector properties management of the Group’s real estate within the city • Owning and operating the “Crescat Boulevard” mall and “K-Zone” malls in Moratuwa and Ja-Ela • Operating the 18 hole champion standard golf course and managing the land bank in Rajawella, Kandy Key external/ • Increasing supply of residential apartment units • Land (Restrictions on Alienation) Act, No. 38 of 2014, internal variables was amended to discontinue the levy of land lease • The recommencement of the Port City Colombo impacting the taxes from foreign individuals or companies with project and the ongoing Western Region Megapolis business effect from 8 January 2017 Planning project are expected to position the Western region as an urban economic base, thereby • The increase in the per capita income of households stimulating demand for residential and commercial enhanced consumer discretionary spending, thereby spaces increasing demand for retail spaces • Development of new shopping malls within the city and the suburbs will increase the supply of commercial space, and thereby, result in a more competitive market • The Government proposal to develop the Colombo Kandy expressway, thus improving connectivity to the Rajawella site in Digana, Kandy • Exchange rate pressures contributed towards an increase in the cost of construction • Acute shortage of skilled and unskilled manpower • Increase in value added tax (VAT) rate from 11 per cent to 15 per cent which will impact construction costs • Exemption of value added taxes on the sale of residential apartments • Subsequent to the Budget 2017, although yet to be legislated, it was proposed to reintroduce a 10 per cent capital gains tax on immovable property Key developments • All units were handed over to the buyers and 100 per • Course irrigation system and other machinery were during the financial cent of revenue of “7th Sense” on Gregory’s Road was upgraded at the golf course at Rajawella, Kandy year recognised • “Crescat Boulevard” continued to record near full occupancy during the year under review, whilst the occupancies at the two “K-Zone” malls exceeded 80 per cent Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Total assets 48,329 43,935 10 34,891 Turnover 1,121 4,342 (74) 5,689 Total equity 29,097 26,947 8 18,539 EBIT 690 1,675 (59) 1,638 Total debt 13,439 11,647 15 13,125 PBT 665 1,643 (60) 1,516 Capital employed 42,536 38,594 10 31,664 PAT 623 1,585 (61) 1,427 Employees (number) 244 102 139 107 EBIT per employee 2.8 16.4 (83) 15.3 Carbon footprint 924 525 76 59 All numbers above are inclusive of Rajawella Holdings Limited 138 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review PROPERTY External Environment and Operational During the year under review, revenue Review recognition of the recently concluded “7th In the year under review, the overall property Sense” on Gregory’s Road was completed in market witnessed strong growth in the the second half of the year. Further details construction of condominiums across all on the particulars of the revenue recognition market segments on the back of continuing cycle can be found in the Financial Capital urbanisation in peripheral Colombo and discussion of this industry group report. its suburbs. The lack of development of The Port City Colombo project public transportation infrastructure and The Property industry group’s mall operations recommenced in the financial year the increasing traffic congestion into the witnessed steady growth in the year under 2016/17 city of Colombo has created a need to live review, where all properties increased in proximity to the city which has resulted occupancies coupled with increased footfall in a spate of residential condominium during the year. The increase in footfall developments, in the upper-to-mid-end of The “Crescat Boulevard” mall in during the said period is mainly on account the market. This has resulted in a sharp of various events, promotional happenings Colombo maintained its position increase in the prices of land in the last year and other complementary activities which with prices in prime locations, among others, as a leading retail destination differentiated the product offering and increasing by 50 per cent or more. within Colombo. The 145,000 the overall experience for consumers square foot mall also maintained within all three properties. The “Crescat Despite the policy uncertainty which Boulevard” mall in Colombo maintained occupancy levels near full capacity its position as a leading retail destination prevailed, particularly with regard to taxation and the weakening of the Sri Lankan Rupee, throughout the ﬁnancial year. within Colombo. The 145,000 square foot demand in the overall property market mall also maintained occupancy levels near remained encouraging in the upper and mid full capacity throughout the financial year. end of the market. In light of the encouraging declared exempt from VAT, the proposed “K-Zone” Moratuwa maintained an average demand, the performance of the Property implementation of a capital gains tax occupancy of 85 per cent (2015/16: 84 per industry group which currently targets the (CGT) was announced in the Budget 2017. cent) while “KZone” Ja-Ela maintained an luxury segment of the market, where the Affordability of many developments will average occupancy of 80 per cent (2015/16: residential apartments of Cinnamon Life also be affected by the constant pressure 76 per cent) in the year under review. are positioned, was in line with expectations. on exchange rates, which affects the preexisting issue of high cost of construction, Rajawella Holdings Limited, which comprises As a predominantly supply led market, it is and the rise in interest rates. of over 500 acres of land in Digana and an important that the Government of Sri Lanka 18-hole Donald Steele designed golf course, incentivise and facilitate investment in real In spite of the policy uncertainties, an refurbished its existing chalets to incorporate estate for both local and foreign buyers. estimated 8,000 semi-luxury and luxury new kitchens, water tanks and facilities This particular need was addressed by the apartment units are expected to enter the for differently abled persons. The course Government Budget 2017 in November, market by 2019/20 backed by demand irrigation system and other machinery were where it was announced that the Government created through the lack of transportation also upgraded in the year for the up keep will relax restrictions on foreign borrowings infrastructure and the growth in migration and maintenance of the course. A total of 10 for the purpose of purchasing property and to the city as detailed above. Residential tournaments were held in the golf course proposed that residential permits be granted apartments from “Cinnamon Life”, “Altair”, during the financial year. for foreigners investing in the country. “Havelock City-Phase 3”, “Shangri-La”, “Twin Further, initiatives to ease the process of Peaks”, “Lunar Tower” and “Prime Grand” will The construction of “Cinnamon Life” is inward remittances of foreign currency to contribute to the envisaged increase. progressing with encouraging momentum. facilitate investments were proposed, which Much of the complex sub structural work of in turn is expected to create a conducive The Port City Colombo (PCC) project, the project was completed during the year. environment for the introduction of a spanning 269 hectares of reclaimed land The main structure of the hotel building is structure to establish real estate investment from the sea, recommenced during the year now at level 6 and the construction of the trusts (REITs), amongst others. Amendments under review with work progressing at a other buildings too are well underway. The were also made to the Land (Restrictions rapid pace. The PCC will be an extension to construction of the six lane bridge, which will on Alienation) Act to discontinue land lease the central business district of Colombo, with be the main access point to Cinnamon Life , taxes on foreign individuals or companies the development expected to comprise of was commissioned during the year and work with effect from January 2017. five different precincts including a financial is progressing well. district, central park living, island living, a Policy uncertainty in the country, especially marina and an international island. Once regarding the tax regime, impacted investor completed the PCC will be one of the prime sentiment during the year under review. locations in Colombo due to the facilities and Although all residential developments were planned infrastructure. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 139 The demand for the residential and Capital Management Review commercial buildings of the project remain encouraging, recording approximately 40 per cent of pre-sales for both segments, Following the review of the external environment and operations, the ensuing section entails a discussion on the different Rs. 48.33Bn Property industry group respectively. The second residential forms of Capital available within the industry asset base building; “The Suites at Cinnamon Life”, group in order to create value for our A 10 per cent growth comprising of 196 units was launched in stakeholders, and, above all, discusses the September 2016. performance of the sectors under each form of Capital. obtained for the construction of “7th Sense” on Gregory’s Road. It should be noted that interest Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors are summarised during construction on “Cinnamon Life” is below; capitalised in to the project cost in accordance with the accounting standards, and therefore, Sectors Property is not reflected under finance expenses. Real Estate Development Financial and Manufactured Capital revenue Rs.891 million, 78 Rs.230 million, 16 Return on Capital Employed and growth per cent decrease per cent increase • The ROCE of the industry group declined to Financial and Manufactured Capital EBIT and Rs.443 million, 71 Rs.248 million, 53 1.7 per cent from 4.8 per cent recorded in growth per cent decrease per cent increase the previous financial year. The asset base increased to Rs.48.33 billion on account of Natural Capital carbon footprint 59 MT 864 MT the infusion of cash equity to Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, in order to fund the ongoing project expenses Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.665 million [2015/16: Rs.1.64 billion] associated with the construction of As at 1 April 2016, the Property industry while the recurring PBT declined by 74 per “Cinnamon Life”, and the aforementioned group had total assets of Rs.43.93 billion, cent to Rs.374 million. gain on investment property debt of Rs.11.65 billion and an opening equity • In order to compute an adjusted ROCE capital of Rs.26.95 billion. which reﬂects the return on the current Turnover 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% portfolio of the Property industry group, Financial Performance the debt and equity infusions to the The Property industry group revenue 96 4 “Cinnamon Life project was eliminated declined by 74 per cent to Rs.1.12 billion 2014/15 considering the gestation period of [2015/16: Rs.4.34 billion] compared to the the project, in addition to adjusting the 95 5 previous year, mainly attributable to the investment property and revaluation 2015/16 revenue recognition cycle of its residential gains. The adjusted ROCE on this basis is apartments. Whilst the final revenue tranche 79 21 2.6 per cent [2015/16: 10.0 per cent]. The from “7th Sense” on Gregory’s Road, was 2016/17 lower adjusted ROCE is a reﬂection of the recognised in the year under review, the decline in EBIT as discussed previously previous year’s revenue included a relatively EBIT high proportion from the project. It should be 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% • The EBIT margin of the industry group noted that the revenue from the “Cinnamon was 61.6 per cent, in comparison to the 96 4 Life” project will only be recognised post 38.6 per cent recorded in the previous 2014/15 the commencement of operations, hence financial year 90 10 exacerbating the gap in revenue in Property. • The asset turnover decreased to 0.02 2015/16 times from the previously recorded 0.11 Correspondingly, the EBIT of the industry 64 36 times as a result of the increase in the group decreased by 59 per cent to Rs.690 2016/17 asset base. The asset turnover, adjusted million [2015/16: Rs.1.68 billion]. The EBIT Property Development Real Estate for the impacts from “Cinnamon Life”, under consideration includes investment and the aforementioned investment property gains from “Crescat Boulevard” property and revaluation gains is 0.05 Borrowings and Finance Expense and a few other properties under the times compared to the 0.23 times Total debt as at 31 March 2017 stood at industry group amounting to Rs.290 million. recorded in the previous financial year. Rs.13.44 billion, which primarily comprised The recurring EBIT of the industry group, Refer the Strategy, Resource Allocation of the borrowings relating to “Cinnamon Life”. excluding the impact of the investment and Portfolio Management section of The finance expenses of the industry group property gain, decreased to Rs.400 million this Report for details pertaining to declined by 20 per cent to Rs.26 million [2015/16: Rs.1.48 billion], compared to the aforementioned adjustments and compared to Rs.32 million recorded in the the previous financial year. The PBT of the calculations previous year, due to the repayment of loans industry group declined by 60 per cent to 140 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review PROPERTY Return on Capital Employed ROCE Installation of 125kVar power 2016/17: 1.7% [2015/16: 4.8%] factor correction capacitor bank at Cinnamon Lakeside Commercial Complex in order to reduce energy Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity usage 0.02 61.6% 1.14 Natural Capital In engaging in its core business of the • An active chiller management process consisting of efficient monitoring of temperature development and sale of real estate, while levels contributing to energy efficiencies contributing to the national infrastructure and utilities, the industry group places importance • Responsible waste segregation at source by providing colour coded bins to cafeterias and in minimising the impact on Natural Capital. garbage collection points in WBL, MKL and the Cinnamon Lakeside Commercial Complex This is achieved through the integration of • Providing training on waste disposal management to “K Zone” Ja-Ela and “Crescat best practices within its operations to reduce Boulevard” staff leading to streamlining of waste disposal energy consumption and waste while ensuring the continuous management and responsible • Training and awareness creation on water management has been provided to the caretakers discharge of effluents. and residents at RHL taking into consideration its materiality to the operations The material impacts for the industry group The industry group continuously strives to minimise the impact on the environment, as evident are classified as follows: in the following table. Energy and Financial implications Indicators emissions and environmental 2016/17 2015/16 (%) management responsibility Carbon footprint (MT) 924 525* 76 Waste • Compliance with Waste disposed (kg) 204,437 141,659 44 management Government * restated and effluent regulations, industry discharge regulations and prerequisites of Human Capital lending agencies The local construction industry has been its outsourced contractors’ personnel is a experiencing rapid growth in the recent past material aspect, and impacts the well-being • Implications on creating a higher demand for outsourced and the productivity of the workforce. brand image and the personnel of both skilled and unskilled environment labour categories. The shortage of labour The material aspect and impact relating to within the sector is a primary challenge Human Capital is identified in the ensuing Energy, Emissions, Waste and Water faced by the industry group. Given the nature table. Management of the industry, the health and safety of Targets: • Reduce energy consumption • Reduce solid waste below Environmental Protection License (EPL) limits • Re-use waste water Initiatives: • Annual energy savings of 39,900kWh was achieved throughout the sector by replacing existing fluorescent lamps with LED lamps and by isolation of light circuits to enable individual control of lamps at identified mall areas • Installation of a 125kVar power factor correction capacitor bank at Cinnamon Lakeside Commercial Complex in order to reduce energy usage Risk assessment training at Cinnamon Life project site Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 141 Occupational Business requirement health and to monitor occupational Given the rapid expansion of the Sri Lankan property market, the Property safety health and safety incidents industry group seeks to differentiate itself through greater emphasis and practices in the supply on its Social and Relationship Capital. The industry group maintains the chain while continuously quality standards of its products, its reputation as a responsible corporate assessing risks faced by the Property industry group citizen and positions itself as one of the foremost companies in the due to its business model property market as a means of achieving the said objective. of utilising third party construction contractors Targets: • Uphold health and safety standards provided to the staff within the industry group during the year, showing an increase due to the within the value chain inclusion of Rajawella Holdings Limited within the sustainability scope. • Maintain OHSAS 18001:2007 certification at all shopping malls 2016/17 2015/16 (%) Initiatives: Injuries and diseases (number) 1 0 • All regulatory requirements were Total hours of training 1,716 568 202 met ensuring there were minimal negative impacts on communities and the environment in the vicinity of the Social and Relationship Capital • Environmental and social impact “Cinnamon Life” construction site Given the rapid expansion of the Sri Lankan assessments prior to the commencement property market, the Property industry group of new projects • Supplier health and safety processes and seeks to differentiate itself through greater site safety were monitored through third • Effluent and waste management emphasis on its Social and Relationship party consultants and site safety officers • Requirement to engrain sustainability Capital. The industry group maintains quality on a bi-weekly and monthly basis to in its supply chain through supplier standards of its products, its reputation as a ensure a safe working environment for engagement and assessment, for both its responsible corporate citizen and positions contractor’s personnel existing operations and new projects, to itself as one of the foremost companies in • Continued the dengue prevention the property market as a means of achieving reduce the operational and reputational initiative through the identification of the said objective. The initiatives which risks to the business stagnant water areas and installation are carried out based on the JKH Group’s of drain lines uplifting the quality of overarching sustainability policies include; construction sites • All shopping malls obtained OHSAS 18001:2007 certificate and relevant surveillance audits and internal audits were carried out for maintenance, housekeeping and security, in addition to annual management reviews • Training programmes on first aid, fire safety, food hygiene and basic health and safety were carried out throughout the industry group in order to uplift service quality Indicators The Property industry group did not have any occupational health and safety incidents involving its own employees in 2016/17. However, there were incidents reported by its construction contractors and as such the industry group continues to engage with its contractors to minimise such instances. In addition, 1,716 hours of training were The Slave Island railway station was renovated and is maintained by the Property industry group 142 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review PROPERTY The significant suppliers within the industry group are illustrated below: For the calendar year 2016, the Significant Suppliers growth in GDP in Sri Lanka was 4.4 per cent while per capita income growth was 6.9 per cent. In Construction Architects and tandem with this, the growth in the contractors interior designers urban population and the inward migration to Colombo from other districts are expected to grow in The significant suppliers specific to Rajawella Holdings Limited are depicted below: the medium term, creating further demand for real estate in terms of Significant Suppliers affordable housing facilities and gated communities. Food and beverage Travel agents and Amenities Casual employees suppliers travel websites real estate in terms of affordable housing facilities and gated communities. The Property industry group will capitalise on All significant suppliers have been assessed for • The Property sector, in collaboration these opportunities through its unparalleled significant negative impacts in environmental, with John Keells Foundation, continued service standards where location, price and labour and human rights aspects. refurbishment and daily maintenance of product are considered key differentiators. the Slave Island railway station, enhancing Given the increased lifestyle preference Initiatives commuter experience and facilities towards convenience housing, the Group will • Regular meetings held on a monthly continue to identify properties in suitable basis with representation from Strategy and Outlook locations to address the growing demand Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited Property development and real estate have for residential apartments in the mid to (WPL), the contractor and the consultant, fast become the catalysts of economic higher end of the market. In light of this, to ensure collaboration in ensuring high development in frontier markets. Growing the Group has entered into a Memorandum quality service urbanisation, lifestyle changes and a of Understanding with a partner in relation rising middle class and affluent segment to a prospective property development • All companies within the industry group in the country, coupled with significant project in central Colombo. Subject to the reviewed and tested their business infrastructure investment in the Western finalisation of the project concept, cost continuity plans on a regular basis Province, provide scope for continued parameters and other approvals, the project throughout the year contributing to risk demand for residential, commercial and is expected to be launched in early 2018. management and adaptability retail spaces in the medium to long term. For The Group is in discussion for the acquisition • All suppliers are required to sign off the calendar year 2016, the growth in GDP in and development of other similar properties on a sustainability check-list, where Sri Lanka was 4.4 per cent while per capita which it expects to launch in the near the industry group maintains stringent income growth was 6.9 per cent. In tandem future subject to due diligence and meeting criteria for pre-qualification of suppliers/ with this, the growth in the urban population commercial considerations. contractors and the inward migration to Colombo from other districts are expected to grow in the The Group is cognizant of the fact that medium term, creating further demand for revenue recognition in the Property industry group has shown volatility in the past years. Currently, the institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka allows for the recognition of revenue from apartment sales Given the increased lifestyle preference towards convenience housing, on a percentage completion method, until the the Group will continue to identify properties in suitable locations to new revenue standard, “SLFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers”, comes into address the growing demand for residential apartments in the mid effect in 2018. The new standard is being to higher end of the market. In light of this, the Group has entered closely studied to explore the possibility into a Memorandum of Understanding with a partner in relation to a of continuing to recognise revenue on a percentage completion method, as practiced prospective property development project in central Colombo. in other regional jurisdictions such as Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 143 Malaysia and Singapore. If implemented this presents a signiﬁcant opportunity to Sri would enable recognition of revenue on future Lanka given its close proximity and improved projects provided they meet the necessary ﬂight connectivity. criteria, and help smoothen revenue of the Property industry group. The Retail penetration in Sri Lanka still remains below that of other regional peers The proposed Western Region Megapolis such as Malaysia, Thailand and India and Planning project within the Colombo, Kalutara thus presents a signiﬁcant opportunity to and Gampaha districts is expected to capitalise on in the long term, especially contribute towards better standards of living given the forecasted growth in tourism to for the growing middle income population. the country. The Group is conﬁdent that the The growth in living standards and incomes, unique selling proposition of “Cinnamon Life” coupled with the anticipated influx of tourists will continue to encourage residential and in the future is expected to drive demand for commercial space sales. “Cinnamon Life” real estate. is envisaged to be the epi-center of modern South Asia, taking into account the medium The PCC project, as discussed in the External to long term prospects for tourism in the Environment and Operational Review country. Against this backdrop “Cinnamon section above, is expected to be available Life” is uniquely positioned to bridge the for development projects within the next few current infrastructure and product offering years. The Group will explore prospects for gaps and capitalise on the aforementioned development in the PCC whilst also evaluating opportunities. opportunities for residential apartment developments considering the emerging The demand for commercial space is landscape of Colombo and the need for expected to increase in the near and medium housing in proximity to the city. In addition to term following the growing need for efficient the prospective project referred to above, the and convenient office space providing further Group will work towards building a stronger opportunities for the Group to leverage on pipeline of projects in the short to medium its expertise and synergies in developing term, catering to different customer segments properties at the right price and positioning in the mid to luxury end of the market. products to relevant client segments. The corporate, leisure and MICE segments Given the land expanse in Rajawella, a master grew at higher rates than expected in the plan is currently being finalised to ensure a last few years, which augurs well for the unique product proposition for its customers. absorption of the new hotel inventory entering The proposal by the Government to the market. “Cinnamon Life” is expected accelerate the construction of the Colomboto capitalise on the envisaged tourism Kandy highway will significantly improve growth trajectory given its unique product the utilisation of the golf course, and, more offering. Despite the growth momentum importantly, enhance the value of the land of the tourism industry witnessed over the bank. The Group will continue to operate the past years, the Group believes that there is championship golf course and will focus on signiﬁcant room to expand arrivals given improving the facilities with the goal of hosting the strong growth in outbound travel within international tournaments. To this end, there the region, especially in attracting a higher will be a drive for continuous improvement spend category of tourists. India and China, of the course and the facilities while also being the fastest growing markets for MICE focusing on branding and positioning. Given the increased lifestyle preference towards convenience housing, the Group will continue to identify properties in suitable locations to address the growing demand for residential apartments in the mid to higher end of the market. In light of this, the Group has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with a partner in relation to a prospective property development project in central Colombo. 144 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL Our Business Model range of processed meats; all leaders in their The Retail sector focuses on modern Vision and Scope respective categories and supported by a wellorganised retailing through the “Keells Super” The Consumer Foods sector is home to established island-wide distribution channel. chain of supermarkets and also operates a portfolio of leading consumer brands “Nexus”, the most successful coalition loyalty The Consumer Foods sector competes in including “Elephant House” soft drinks and programme in the country. three major categories namely beverages, ice creams, as well as the “Keells-Krest” frozen confectionery and convenience foods. Contribution to JKH Group 38% 24% 4% 40% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint The Consumer Foods sector continued reinventing its product portfolio with the relaunch of its premium frozen confectionery brand “Imorich”. JMSL also continued its expansion, adding 15 new stores during the Consumer Retail CO2 Foods 0.73 MT per period under review. Rs.mn revenue Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 145 Sectors Consumer Foods Retail The business within • Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS) produces and markets a • JayKay Marketing Services (JMSL) operates the the sector portfolio of soft drinks under the “Elephant House” “Keells Super” chain of modern retail outlets and the brand, an energy drink under the “Wild Elephant” brand, “Nexus” loyalty programme an isotonic sports drink, “F5”, a fruit based tea drink, “Twistee”, a fruit flavoured drink “Fit-o” and “Elephant House” (EH) and “Imorich” ice creams and related confectionery products • Keells Food Products (KFP) produces and markets a range of processed meat products under the “KeellsKrest” and “Elephant House” brand names Key external/ • Increase in excise duty and other levies on sugar and • Continued growth in the modern trade penetration of internal variables other raw materials the country impacting the • Industry characterised by high employee attrition business • Revision of value added tax (VAT) from 11 per cent to 15 per cent • Increases in VAT, interest rates and inflation impacted consumer discretionary spending, particularly during the fourth quarter of the financial year 2016/17 • Sri Lanka affected by the worst drought in 40 years impacting 16 districts in total Key developments • Relaunch of the premium range of ice creams as • 15 new stores were opened during the year under during the financial “Imorich” and the introduction of “Sword”, an impulse review, increasing the total retail footprint to 64 stores year product to bridge the gap in demand for extruded stick as at 31 March 2017 products • JMSL received a satisfaction rating of 4.2/5.0 in the • Introduction of “Lemoki”, a new flavour in the beverage “Voice of Supplier Survey” a survey conducted among portfolio and “Fit-o”, a flavoured fruit drink in orange all commercial suppliers of Keells Super and mango flavours • Launch of “Never Frozen” fresh chicken campaign, • Reduction of the calorific sugar content in Carbonated focusing on fresh food offering Soft Drinks (CSD) through the introduction of stevia • The Nexus Mobile loyalty programme reached a • Capacity expansion through construction of a new ice landmark of over 650,000 members cream factory in Seethawaka • Feasibility studies and conceptual designs for the • Expansion of the bottling plant in Ranala to cater to construction of a new distribution centre were finalised growing demand with JKLL, the Group’s logistics arm • EH Cream Soda won the People’s Beverage Brand of the year and People’s Youth Choice Beverage Brand of the year for the 11th consecutive year • KFP implemented a brand migration exercise in the year where several “Keells” branded products were rebranded as “Keells-Krest” Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Total assets 18,275 15,862 15 12,945 Revenue 45,812 36,458 26 29,757 Total equity 8,414 7,803 8 6,613 EBIT 5,486 4,497 22 2,566 Total debt 1,121 812 38 923 PBT 5,466 4,472 22 2,498 Capital employed 9,535 8,616 11 7,536 PAT 3,896 3,229 21 1,804 Employees (number) 4,446 3,692 20 3,427 EBIT per employee 1.2 1.2 1 0.7 Carbon footprint 33,407 29,060 15 26,441 146 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL External Environment and Operational The Beverage business witnessed a volume Review growth of 10 per cent compared to the The Consumer Foods sector maintained industry growth recorded at 15 per cent in the its growth momentum in the year under year under review. The segment experienced review, which augured well for the operations strong growth in the first half of the year of the industry group as it witnessed a which gradually tapered off in the second healthy growth in volumes in its core areas half of the year due to the aforementioned of operations. The first half of the financial macro-economic conditions. The growth in The Retail business added 15 new year saw double digit growth in volumes, the Beverage segment was primarily driven stores during the financial year particularly in the Consumer Foods sector by the growth in PET bottle volumes. Volume 2016/17 of the business while there was a relative growth in terms of the can line maintained a moderation in growth in the latter half of high growth momentum, as expected, while the financial year. The overall performance the glass line witnessed a marginal decline. of the Consumer Foods and Retail sector CCS continued to place emphasis demonstrated significant growth over the In keeping with the new trends in the market, previous year driven by the rapid growth in on the composition of its portfolio, the company introduced “Fit-o” in December the outlet footprint and customer footfall product mix, the numerous pack 2016; a fruit drink in mango and orange of the Retail business together with robust sizes and various other cost flavours which was later introduced in a 1 volume growth in Beverages and Frozen litre tetra pack. CCS also introduced “Lemoki”; management measures and Confectionery as a result of strong execution a lemon and kiwi hybrid carbonated drink in a and leveraging on CCS’s wide distribution productivity enhancing initiatives 350ml PET bottle in addition to “Lime Crush” network for both Beverages and Frozen to drive proﬁtability. which was introduced in two new pack sizes Confectionery segments of over 90,000 (400ml and 2 litres). and 70,000 retail outlets respectively (both general and modern trade outlets). In a proactive step towards reducing the calorific sugar content in beverages, However, the Consumer Foods sector did expanded its product portfolio during the and in keeping with the Governments witness some moderation in the growth in year with the introduction of “Sword”; an initiative to provide better guidelines on volumes in the second half of the year which impulse product to fill the market demand the daily consumable items in the market, was mainly attributable to a dampening gap for extruded sticks and a new coconut CCS commenced the use of stevia in its of consumer sentiment as a result of the flavoured impulse product. The business also manufacturing process. Currently, stevia increase in the value added tax (VAT) and relaunched the premium range “Imorich” and replaces 30 per cent of the total sugar content other tax policies; the effects of the drought, the “Elephant House Wonder” range in the of “Orange Crush”, “Cream Soda”, “Necto” and which affected 16 districts of the country; and second half of the year. The special limited “Lime Crush”. The initiative will be extended rising inflation with the National Consumer edition flavours of “Wattalappan” and “Winter to include other flavours in the near term. Price Index increasing to 6 per cent on an slice” ice creams were introduced, and well Currently, a majority of the beverages in the annual average basis as at the end of the received, in the year under review. product portfolio are classified as “Moderate” financial year 2016/17. (colour code: amber) in the regulated The Frozen Confectionery business classification of sugar content issued by the The Frozen Confectionery business witnessed continued to witness enhanced efficiencies Health Ministry of Sri Lanka. a double digit volume growth of 11 per cent from the pre-selling model implemented [2015/16: 21 per cent] in the year driven in the previous financial year, leading to a CCS continued to place emphasis on the mainly by the growth in bulk confectionery, 50 per cent increase in the daily bill count composition of its portfolio, product mix, the whilst the impulse segment maintained the which contributed towards its improved numerous pack sizes and various other cost expected level of growth in the year. The performance and higher penetration, management measures and productivity volume growth witnessed in the year was particularly in the general trade space. The enhancing initiatives to drive proﬁtability. In primarily driven through the general trade business continued to maintain its leadership recognition of the high quality standards and outlets and small and medium modern trade position in the ice cream market in the the unique taste profile, the operational and (SMMT) outlets across the country. Margins Maldives. brand efforts of CCS were recognised at the improved during the first half of the year as People’s Awards of 2016 where Elephant the segment benefitted from higher operating In keeping with the demand growth in both House Cream Soda won the People’s leverage as well as due to a revision of prices the export markets and the local market, beverage brand of the year and the People’s on account of the impending VAT rate hike in CCS commenced the construction of a new youth choice brand of the year for the 11th May 2016, which became fully operational ice cream factory in the Seethawaka Free consecutive time in March 2017. from November 2016. Trade Zone. The new factory is expected to be completed within a year with an investment The export market for beverages grew 12 per In keeping with its growth strategy, and of Rs.3.80 billion. cent in the year with CCS entering the UK and the need to cater to varying consumption the EU markets in October 2016. The formulae occasions, the Frozen Confectionery business of a selected portfolio of beverages were Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 147 reformulated to include stevia and approved ingredients in compliance with the health standards imposed by the EU. In keeping Rs. 5.47Bn with the company’s expansion plans for the Consumer Foods and Retail beverage portfolio, an investment of Rs.2.50 industry group PBT billion has been considered for a bottling line A 22 per cent growth extension within the Ranala manufacturing plant. The installation of the line is expected to have an approximate completion period of with the Logistics arm of the Group finalised 12 months. the feasibility study and concept designs for a centralised distribution center (DC) to cater to Keells Food Products (KFP) witnessed a the rapidly expanding network of stores. The volume decline of 4 per cent in the year as state-of-the-art distribution center will cater a result of continuing negative sentiments to both dry and fresh (for perishable goods) surrounding the processed meat market. products in addition to chilled produce. KFP implemented a brand migration exercise as a means of creating brand presence for The Nexus Mobile loyalty programme the “Keells-Krest” brand under the “Elephant continued to be a key tool in retaining and Retail footprint in Colombo House” brand umbrella. KFP also beneﬁtted attracting customers. The membership from a number of productivity improving JayKay Marketing Services Limited (JMSL) reached a landmark of 650,000 customers, measures implemented in the year under continued its emphasis on ensuring value, making it one of the most successful loyalty review, which included the introduction of availability and quality of the goods offered, programmes in the country. As a significant pre-selling to a majority of distributors and efficiency of check-out times and providing proportion of the Keells Super customers dealers which is expected to create further the “Keells Super” customer a differentiated are Nexus members, the sector continued growth momentum. The export market shopping experience. Further to the “Fresh to leverage on its data analytics to better performance was in line with expectations, Campaign” introduced in the previous understand consumption patterns and target barring several regulatory challenges in financial year, JMSL pioneered the launch of promotions and offers which will speciﬁcally entering particular markets. The Indian “Fresh Chicken” (never frozen chicken) in the beneﬁt its customer base. operations commenced through a licensed year under review. The pioneering initiative distributor in the first half of the financial by JMSL, included working closely with Capital Management Review year in Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry. the supplier base to develop the necessary Concluding the external environment and infrastructure and delivery mechanisms the operational review of the Consumer The strong performance of the Retail sector relating to the “Fresh Chicken” campaign, Foods and Retail industry group, the ensuing was on account of the double digit growth in and was launched as a means of ensuring section elaborates on the forms of Capital customer footfall witnessed during the year the consumer was offered the best quality deployed to meet the strategic priorities and and the notable contribution from the newly products. The initiative also resulted in the performance of the businesses during opened outlets which have all exceeded JMSL creating better relationships with its the year under review. expectations. The same store sales growth, suppliers and providing them with insights which was the primary driver of growth on consumer preferences and trends. JMSL The industry group adheres to the John Keells in the Retail sector, witnessed a slight also launched a convenience range of “Heat Group’s Environmental, Labour and Product moderation in the year under review. The and Eat” products in selected stores in policies and continues to monitor employee, moderation of growth in same store sales, anticipation of growing consumer demand environmental and social activities within which was anticipated, was a result of the for pre-prepared convenience food items. the Group, whilst marketing its products rapid store expansion plans of the sector and responsibly when ensuring that value is the corresponding “cannibalisation” effect it Leveraging on the cross functional relations created across all forms of Capital. entails, particularly in instances where new within the Group, the Retail business together stores are opened in proximity to existing stores. Data insights have proven that this impact on the existing store is temporary, Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors are summarised and it benefits from the attraction of new as follows: footfall in to the store. During the year under Sectors Consumer Foods Retail review, 15 new conforming large format stores were opened, with a further 3 stores Financial and Manufactured Capital revenue Rs.16.00 billion, 12 Rs.29.81 billion, 35 being opened in April 2017. The new stores and growth per cent increase per cent increase were predominantly centered in the Western Financial and Manufactured Capital EBIT and Rs.3.80 billion, 18 Rs.1.68 billion, 32 Province. The total store count stood at 64 as growth per cent increase per cent increase at 31 March 2017. Natural Capital carbon footprint 15,733 MT 17,674 MT Human Capital number of employees 1,326 3,120 148 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL Financial and Manufactured Capital by 20 per cent to Rs.5.39 billion. The PBT of costs in the Consumer Foods sector. As at 1 April 2016, the Consumer Foods and the industry group increased by 22 per cent to The recurring EBIT margin of the Retail industry group had total assets of Rs.5.47 billion [2015/16: Rs.4.47 billion] whilst industry group which is the operational Rs.15.86 billion, debt of Rs.812 million and an recurring PBT also increased by 21 per cent to EBIT, adjusted for the fair value gains, opening equity capital of Rs.7.80 billion. Rs.5.37 billion [2015/16: Rs.4.46 billion]. was 11.8 against 12.3 recorded in the previous year. The recurring EBIT margin Financial Performance Borrowings and Finance Expense of the Consumer Foods sector was 23 Revenue increased by 26 per cent to Rs.45.81 Total debt as at 31 March 2017 increased per cent [2015/16: 22 per cent] while the billion [2015/16: Rs.36.46 billion] in the financial by 38 per cent to Rs.1.12 billion attributed recurring Retail EBIT held steady within year. Revenue of the Consumer Foods sector to the construction of the new ice cream the two year period grew by 12 per cent driven by double digit manufacturing plant under Colombo Ice • The decrease in the industry group’s sales volume growth in both the Beverages and Company (Pvt.) Limited, a fully owned EBIT margin was expected since the Frozen Confectionery businesses. The revenue subsidiary of CCS. CCS repaid its existing EBIT contribution of the Retail sector has of the Retail sector increased by 35 per cent long term liabilities during the year, while the increased by 8 per cent during the year as a result of higher footfall and incremental increase in total debt occurred towards the end revenue generated from newly opened outlets, of the financial year, and as such, the finance • The industry group recorded an asset which have performed beyond expectations, in expense for the financial year of the industry turnover of 2.68 times during the year the year under review. group reduced by 23 per cent to Rs.19 million compared to the 2.53 times recorded [2015/16: Rs.25 million]. JMSL also increased in the previous financial year. It should its short term working capital facilities as a be noted that the expansion of the Turnover result of higher operational volumes. Retail sector will impact the ratio, since 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% the expansion will have a significant 39 61 Return on Capital Employed effect on the asset base of the industry 2014/15 • The ROCE of the industry group increased group whilst also having a more than to 60.4 per cent in the year under review, proportionate effect on turnover 39 61 in comparison to the 55.7 per cent 2015/16 recorded in the previous financial year. Natural Capital 35 65 The capital base of the industry group The Consumer Foods and Retail industry 2016/17 was marginally impacted by the aforegroup carries out its operations within mentioned fair value gains on investment the Group’s Environmental and Energy EBIT property and revaluation gains of Rs.199 Management policy, whilst adhering to, and 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% million [2015/16: Rs.79 million]. As going beyond, all required environmental discussed under the Strategy, Resource laws and regulations through regular 77 23 Allocation and Portfolio Management monitoring and testing. 2014/15 section of this Report, the capital base 72 28 has been adjusted for the fair value and The material impacts for the industry group 2015/16 revaluation gains arising in the preceding are classiﬁed as follows: 69 31 three years in order to calculate the 2016/17 adjusted capital base. On this basis, the Energy, Financial, regulatory Consumer Foods adjusted ROCE after eliminating the Retail emissions, water and brand reputation aforesaid impacts, stands at 61.4 per and waste implications cent compared to an adjusted ROCE of The EBIT of the industry group increased by 63.1 per cent in the prior year Energy and Emissions Management 22 per cent to Rs.5.49 billion [2015/16: Rs.4.50 • The EBIT margin was 12.0 per cent Targets: billion]. CCS, and JMSL, recorded EBIT growth compared to the 12.3 per cent recorded • Reduction of energy consumption of 23 per cent and 32 per cent, respectively, on in the previous year. The marginal and the resultant reduction in carbon account of the aforementioned revenue growth contraction in EBIT was due to related footprint through initiatives and better stemming from higher volumes, efficient increases in administration and sales management of infrastructure execution and management of distribution and dealer networks of CCS and higher foot fall at JMSL. KFP recorded a moderate revenue growth during the year, attributable to Return on Capital Employed the decline in volume growth discussed in the ROCE External Environment and Operational Review. 2016/17: 60.4% The EBIT of the industry group included fair [2015/16: 55.7%] value gains on investment property of Rs.92 million [2015/16: Rs.17 million] pertaining to CCS. The recurring EBIT, excluding the fair Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity value gain on investment property, increased 2.68 12.0% 1.88 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 149 Installation of a low capacity, high pressure compressor for the PET bottle blow moulding machine at the CCS factory premises to inﬂate smaller sized bottles using a lower amount of energy resulting in energy saving Blow moulding air compressor unit at CCS Initiatives: Indicators • Replacement of old fluorescent and metal The carbon footprint of the Consumer Foods and Retail industry group increased by 15 per cent halide lights with new LED lights within to 33,407 MT from 29,060 MT in the year under review. Various production efficiencies resulted the factory and administrative premises in a decrease of carbon, water and waste per operational factor at CCS and JMSL. of CCS and selected JMSL outlets Sustainability indicators • CCS continued its process of obtaining its carbon dioxide requirement from 2016/17 2015/16 (%) overseas, purified from a by-product of a Carbon footprint (MT) 33,407 29,060 15 fertilizer manufacturing plant, offsetting Water withdrawn (m3) 740,255 701,640 6 the need for the combustion of fossil fuel Waste disposed (kg) 4,352,611 3,498,450 24 • With the aim of reducing its carbon foot Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor print, CCS purchased higher capacity, fuel efficient trucks to reduce the number of 2016/17 2015/16 distribution runs CCS CO2 kg per litre produced 0.10 0.10 • Installation of a low capacity, high KFP CO2 kg per kg of processed meat produced 0.91 0.84 pressure compressor for the PET bottle JMSL CO2 kg per square foot of outlet area 32.39 32.44 blow moulding machine at the CCS factory premises to inflate smaller sized Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor bottles using a lower amount of energy 2016/17 2015/16 resulting in energy saving CCS water withdrawn litres per litre produced 4.51 4.72 KFP water withdrawn litres per kg of processed meat produced 14.20 12.13 Water Management Initiatives: JMSL water withdrawn litres per square foot of outlet area 271.38 287.19 • CCS, KFP and selected JMSL outlets Waste generated per operational intensity factor continue to treat and reuse waste water through the use of effluent treatment 2016/17 2015/16 plants for purposes such as gardening CCS waste generated kg per litres produced 0.02 0.02 and general cleaning in an effort to reduce KFP waste generated kg per kg of processed meat produced 0.17 0.15 the total volume of water withdrawn JMSL waste generated kg per square foot of outlet area 2.40 2.07 • CCS continues to use the membrane bioreactor (MBR) based sewerage Impacts through other initiatives: treatment plant (150 m3/day) resulting • JMSL continued its efforts aimed at reducing the use of polythene through the use of a “Red in better quality discharge, and, thereby, Bag”, a re-usable cloth bag, and corrugated cardboard boxes. The developments relating to improving quality parameters of its this initiative are summarised below effluent JMSL continued its efforts in providing affordable eco-friendly, re-usable bags to customers and promoting the re-use of the bags, leading to the number of re-used red bags doubling compared to the number being sold 150 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL Encouraging customers to bring their own eco-friendly re-usable bags by introducing a points system based on the Nexus loyalty programme. Currently, this is being piloted at 2 outlets with plans to expand the initiative, if successful • Responsible disposal of e-waste weighing 1,300 kg by JMSL through a third party supplier • Recycling of food waste weighing 13,529 kg by KFP from both the Pannala and Ja-Ela plants Human Capital Given its labour intensive nature, the Bring your own bag (BYOB) initiative carried out by JMSL Consumer Foods and Retail industry group places significant importance on its Human • Videos related to training on health and wellness tips were provided to JMSL Capital. While the industry group focuses on safety were provided to more than 2,600 head office employees performing deskareas such as health and safety, providing JMSL outlet employees, along with safety jobs continuous training to develop skills and gear. The employees were also provided • More than 560 training hours on first aid improve productivity of employees, it also with new guidelines on safe use of and fire safety were conducted for 187 strongly believes in respecting employee rights machinery JMSL supervisors to ensure a safe work and maintaining good working conditions • Health and Safety awareness campaigns environment at outlets were conducted for outlet employees The material impacts are identiﬁed as: • All companies of the industry group through the K-FM radio channel, reviewed and tested its business printed in-store material, distribution Health and The operations within continuity plans regularly throughout the of employee pocket calendars and insafety/ training the industry group are year store briefing sessions while health and and talent labour intensive, with retention over 4,400 employees in total Indicators From a labour perspective, 89 injuries were recorded during the reporting year, while 172,981 Targets: hours of training were provided to those employed within the industry group. It is pertinent • Provide regular feedback to employees to note that a majority of these injuries were minor in nature and no fatalities were recorded along with performance reviews, and pertaining to the job. necessary training and development throughout the year Labour indicators • Maintain a healthy working relationship 2016/17 2015/16 (%) with employee unions through constant Injuries and diseases (number) 89 91 (2) dialogue and joint consultative Total hours of training 172,981 91,402 89 committees • Minimise occupational health and safety Social and Relationship Capital the guaranteed volume and price scheme incidents Considering its dependence on sourcing observed by the ice cream and beverage high quality raw materials, the industry businesses. • Identify and meet the training needs of the staff and reduce employee attrition group places emphasis on its Social and Relationship Capital. Wherever possible, Companies in the industry group assess all • Encourage healthy labour relations businesses purchase raw materials locally. signiﬁcant suppliers, including suppliers within the industry group’s workforce The Group proactively engages with its providing janitorial and outsourced services, diverse farmer communities, recognising that for signiﬁcant negative sustainability impacts. Initiatives: increased awareness on weather patterns • CCS and KFP continued to maintain and sustainable agricultural practices are Supply chain Ensure a continuous OHSAS certiﬁcation and streamlined important to ensure sustained yield and and sustainable source of raw materials its organisational processes through efficient operations. Farmers are required sourcing which reduces risk, continuous monitoring and process to adhere to agricultural practices that enhances brand improvements to ensure a safe working are environmentally friendly and produce reputation and beneﬁts environment high yields. The farmers also benefit from local businesses Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 151 The significant suppliers within the industry group are illustrated below: Significant Suppliers Consumer Foods Plastic packaging Poultry and meat Sugar Glass bottles Dairy suppliers containers suppliers suppliers Significant Suppliers Retail Dry food product Frozen and Fresh meat Vegetable and Third party Household items tenants (within Janitors Security suppliers chilled products suppliers fruit farmers premises) Targets: • JMSL facilitated good manufacturing • Hundreds of farmer families benefit • Source all ingredients and produce practices (GMP) workshops for small from the Retail sector sourcing scheme required within Sri Lanka, with exceptions and medium scale suppliers and good which provides an assured market for only due to the shortage of raw materials agriculture practice programmes (GAP) quality produce, technical assistance for farmers in collaboration with the and exposure to practices adopted in • Assess all signiﬁcant suppliers for Department of Agriculture for farmers more developed markets. This has also environmental, social and labour risks in Thambuttegama, Sooriyawewa facilitated the business in ensuring • Adhere to the Group’s policies on Labour, and Nuwara Eliya, optimising the a sustainable business model while Child and Forced Labour with the aim of production and post-harvest process of creating value for the community. Key ensuring there are no such instances fresh produce. JMSL also improved its impacts from these initiatives are sustainable sourcing targets within the summarised below; Initiatives: “fresh” produce supply chain to ensure • CCS continued its ginger and vanilla higher quality produce for its customers outgrower programmes through the provision of ﬁnancial assistance and technical advice to farmers via local Number of Total annual Total annual authorities. Substantial quantities of Company farmers supply (Kg) payment (Rs.) ginger were purchased from its out KFP 5,060 3,284,502 980,561,242 grower programme for its flagship CCS 2,957 156,310 157,581,211 product “Elephant House Ginger Beer” while also extending technical support JMSL 1,978 8,876,040 747,396,576 by introducing compost filled polysack bags for ginger farming to enable better utilisation of land. CCS together with the Export Agriculture Department and Kandy Vanilla Growers Association (KVGA) also initiated a project to cultivate 100,000 vanilla plants in identified villages in the Central province. The company also continues its purchase of treacle and jaggery at a guaranteed quantity at a rate above the market, as a means of enhancing farmer livelihood. • KFP continued its assistance in the expansion of local, mechanised and de-boned meat suppliers while also providing local farmers with a guarantee for the purchase of pork and chicken. Newly introduced community bay at a Keells Super outlet 152 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL Number of Intellectual Capital • Internal short term goals, aligned towards Product The Consumer Foods and Retail industry group meeting international benchmarks, have farmers continuously strives to ensure high product also been established by the industry Spices 2,500 and service quality. While the Consumer group while JMSL continues a strategy Foods businesses focus on ensuring safe to entrench sustainable practices both at Pork 30 and high quality products, the objective of the store level and in the value chain Retail sector is to offer a superior customer • CCS and KFP will strive to meet Chicken 2,500 experience. The industry group’s businesses internationally recognised quality have obtained international quality standards standards, with both companies obtaining Vanilla 1,200 with assurance obtained annually through ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 certiﬁcations as third party veriﬁcations. Both CCS and KFP well as SLS 183 and SLS 223 Cashew Nuts 1,300 adhere to the standards stipulated by the Sri Lanka Standards Institute and are on par Initiatives: Ginger 382 with international standards with respect to • The calorific sugar content in beverages process excellence. was reduced through the use of stevia; a Vegetables 30 natural sweetener with zero calories. The As testimony to its product excellence, CCS initiative led to a 30 per cent reduction Kithul Jaggery 60 won many awards and accolades during in the total sugar content in selected the year such as the National Chamber of beverages Treacle 15 Exports awards, PEOPLES Awards 2016, Sri Lanka China Business Cooperation Council • Providing healthy product options to Awards 2016, National Business Excellence customers at all Keells Super stores Community Engagement: Awards, Institute of CA Sri Lanka Annual and also launching a special organic dry In addition to the sustainable sourcing Report Awards, amongst many others. range at selected stores initiatives carried out by the industry group, various other community engagement • Providing organic fresh produce to The material impacts relating to this Capital projects were initiated to build ongoing and customers. Rolled out in 36 Keells Super are identiﬁed as: permanent relationships in order to promote stores to date social responsibility and integration within the Product and Financial, regulatory, • Providing Nutri-tips from a senior community. To this end, the following were service quality brand reputation and dietician to customers via digital media carried out during the year under review; business continuity handles such as Facebook and in-store implications marketing material at JMSL. The tips • JMSL reiterated its commitment to focused on how different foods provide minimise fresh produce wastage by Responsible Financial, regulatory different health benefits, meal planning being the first supermarket in Sri Lanka labelling and and brand reputation for best nutrition and other freshness/ to donate unused vegetables and fruits marketing implications nutrition related tips to charities, alleviating hunger among communication the disadvantaged and minimising the • JMSL obtained SLS certification for over amount of food that gets discarded at Targets: 40 Keells Super stores and in-store landfills. The initiative titled “We Donate” • CCS and KFP look to ensure the quality of bakeries is currently being piloted in 13 stores, raw materials through quality assurance • KFP removed total added MSG and nitrite where approximately 1,847 kg of produce processes and continuous monitoring of from frozen categories such as sausages, has been donated. Plans are currently its suppliers meat balls, formed meat, chinese rolls, underway to expand the initiative to all ham and bacon. The removal of nitrite Keells Super outlets • Continuously ensure that all local resulted in the products carrying the line packaging and labelling requirements No added preservatives in its packaging • JMSL offers ‘Community bays’ for local are met and that marketing and medium scale suppliers to display • Of the 519 stock keeping units which are communications are in line with the and market their products. This initiative either manufactured by the Consumer Marketing Communication Guidelines of has benefitted organisations such as the Foods sector or obtained via private the John Keells Group, which is based on Chitra Lane School for Special Children and labelling arrangements at the Retail the Code of Advertising and Marketing Mother Sri Lanka, giving disadvantaged sector, 81 per cent carried information Communications by the International and marginalised communities the on the ingredients used, 1 per cent Chamber of Commerce opportunity to be productive members of carried information on raw material society and be economically independent • CCS and JMSL to assess its sustainability sourcing, whilst 31 per cent and 93 per performance against international cent carried information on the safe use, • As a means of promoting healthy living, benchmarks and carry out initiatives to and responsible disposal of products, Nutri-tips and a wider range of healthy address any gaps that are identiﬁed respectively consumption options including organic fresh produce are available for customers Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 153 Strategy and Outlook Philippines The penetration of consumer food products Thailand 28% 45% continues to be comparatively low with per capita consumption of carbonated soft drinks and ice creams in Sri Lanka currently standing at 10 liters and 2 litres respectively, Sri Lanka significantly below the regional average, 16% Malaysia 43% highlighting the potential for continued long term growth in these categories. Whilst the Singapore tapering of demand witnessed in the fourth 71% quarter of 2016/17 is likely to continue in the short term given the Government’s fiscal consolidation efforts and prevailing Indonesia 16% inflationary pressures, the changes in consumer lifestyles, consumption habits and The modern trade penetration in the region improving prosperity are expected to provide opportunities for volume growth in the medium to long term. Although off a relatively to cater to this segment of the market with will look to capitalise on this opportunity by lower base, the growth from the outskirts of its evolving product portfolio. In doing so, the strategically expanding its retail footprint the country is expected to be significantly company will leverage on its brand recognition in the near and medium term, subject to higher than the growth stemming from the and trusted reputation. CCS will continue to macro-economic conditions and feasibility. urban markets. invest in research and development initiatives The business continues to seek properties to facilitate the use of natural ingredients in strategically placed locations in line with With the ongoing investment in the when re-inventing existing products its expansion plans with a view to rolling out new manufacturing facility, the Frozen and developing new products. Given the conforming outlets primarily in the larger Confectionery businesses will place a greater increasing role of digitisation and its impacts format. While a majority of outlets will be emphasis on the impulse range to capture on businesses, CCS will place emphasis on concentrated within, and in close proximity an emerging consumer base to ensure a the introduction of digital initiatives aimed at to, the Western Province, other locations will holistic portfolio that can cater to evolving improving efficiencies and managing costs also be considered based on certain criteria. consumers and varying consumption within the company, particularly in relation to Securing land for new conforming stores, occasions. The company will also continue the supply chain and in enhancing customer particularly in the urban areas, remains the investments to facilitate growth in the bulk satisfaction. primary challenge. Considering the rapid and impulse ranges and to extend in to other growth of the store network, recruitment and verticals such as dairy based products. The The expansion of the portfolio in the retention of staff is a key challenge affecting business will continue to invest in optimising Convenience Foods business remains JMSL as well as the retail industry in general. its processes and procedures relating to a near term priority, with plans to add JMSL has implemented various initiatives its distribution network, expanding freezer products mainly in the vegetarian, fish to enhance the retention of staff in order to penetration and strengthening the mobile and pork ranges. In the medium to long ensure it maintains efficiency of operations distribution channel. term, KFP will look to diversify its portfolio and delivery of services standards to the through a greater emphasis on the “health expectations of its customers. Given the aforementioned low penetration conscious” consumer and capitalising on the of carbonated soft drinks in Sri Lanka, and growing need for “convenient” main meal In order to complement the growth plans as witnessed over the prior years, growth opportunities. Added focus will also be placed of the business, and to further improve the in volumes in the rural areas is expected in the ensuing year on KFP’s export strategy productivity and efficiency of the company, to exceed that of densely populated areas which is aimed at increasing volumes from JMSL will place added focus on constructing such as Colombo, Kandy and key suburban markets such as India and the Maldives. and commencing operations of the new cities. As stated in the previous year’s Annual distribution centre towards the first half of Report, the long term growth potential for The modern trade share of Sri Lanka’s calendar year 2019, in collaboration with the carbonated soft drinks industry may retail industry is approximately 16 per cent, John Keells Logistics, the Group’s logistics moderate, to an extent, due to the emergence well below that of countries in the region business. The Retail business will continue of a health conscious consumer. The (Singapore: 71 per cent; Malaysia: 43 per to focus on differentiating the shopping prospects for the beverage industry continue cent and Thailand: 45 per cent), indicating the experience to the customers through the to be encouraging nevertheless since these growth potential of Sri Lanka’s modern retail quality of its produce, particularly in the fresh health conscious consumers seek alternate sector. The population per store in Sri Lanka products ranges whilst also driving service beverage options. CCS will continue to explore is also significantly higher than that of other standards and customer care. Nexus Mobile, different possibilities in terms of flavours and comparable countries, although this statistic the loyalty programme of the Retail business, other product extensions to create a product should also be looked at in the context of will continue to add value, enabling the offering which has greater variety and store format, population density and other business to identify key trends in customers convenience to the consumer. CCS will look country specific factors. The Retail sector and shopping lifestyles using data analytics. 154 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review FINANCIAL SERVICES Our Business Model management, leasing and stock broking, with Vision and Scope a vision of becoming leaders in the respective The segment is engaged in a broad range segments through proactive customer of financial services across insurance, centricity and digital adoption. commercial banking, debt trading, fund Contribution to JKH Group 12% 9% 4% 2% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint The Financial Services industry group continued its commitment towards digitisation through the launch of “GOYO”, whilst continuing to develop a comprehensive range of ﬁnancial solutions through state-of-the-art Insurance Banking and Stock Broking CO2 Leasing 0.17 MT per digital platforms. Rs.mn revenue Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 155 Sectors Insurance Banking Stock Broking The business • Union Assurance (UA) offers • Nations Trust Bank (NTB) offers • John Keells Stock Brokers within the sector comprehensive insurance complete banking solutions (JKSB) is one of the leading solutions in the Life Insurance through its network of branches stock broking companies in Sri segment while General for corporate, retail and SME Lanka and has a number of trade Insurance solutions are offered clients, and is the sole acquirer execution relationships with through its equity accounted and the exclusive issuer of the leading foreign securities houses investee recently renamed flagship centurion product range Fairfirst Insurance Limited of American Express cards in Sri Lanka Key external/ • The insurance industry continued • The banking industry enjoyed • Implementation of mandatory internal variables its strong growth, recording a strong credit growth amid a Capital Adequacy Ratios impacting the growth of 18 per cent during the rising interest rate environment replacing net capital business financial year requirements for stock brokers • Increasing interest rates took effect on 1 March 2017 including policy rates, narrowing margins, declining CASA ratios, • The All Share Price Index (ASPI) increased VAT rates on financial declined by 0.2 per cent, while services and Intense competition average daily turnover levels at were key challenges during the the CSE declined by 23 per cent period in the year under review Key developments • Introduction of “GOYO”, a • Introduction of a cash • Implementation of cost during the personalised wellness solution management platform for midmanagement initiatives and a financial year that utilises a smart phone level corporates that provides new trade execution and back application, a wearable device supplier payment services, office IT platform and a network of partners. electronic banking and payroll “GOYO” includes an insurance services among others offering to reward users for engaging in an active lifestyle while acting as a “personal health advisor” Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Total assets 41,725 35,878 16 37,128 Turnover3 14,056 11,896 18 12,989 Total equity 7,592 7,135 6 11,698 EBIT 2,097 2,301 (9) 3,076 Total debt 138 106 30 80 PBT 2,097 1,699 23 3,076 Capital employed1 7,730 7,240 7 11,778 PAT 2,042 1,718 19 3,019 2 Employees (number) 814 803 1 718 EBIT per employee 2.6 2.9 (10) 4.3 Carbon footprint (MT) 1,391 1,407 (1) 1,550 1 For equity accounted investees the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 As per the sustainability reporting boundary 3 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of equity accounted investees 156 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review FINANCIAL SERVICES External Environment and Operational and savings account (CASA) mix however, Review decreased to 28 per cent of total deposits The financial year 2016/17 marked a from 32 per cent recorded against the prior successful year of operations for the Group’s year due to the increase in interest rates, Financial Services industry group, with both which resulted in a shift to term deposits. the Insurance and Banking sectors recording The bank launched a cash In line with NTB’s focus towards the corporate encouraging growth. management system for mid-tier and SME segments, the Bank launched corporates in June 2016. a cash management system for mid-tier The year under review marked the first year of operations for the Life Insurance business corporates in June 2016. The system offers post its adoption of the Risk Based Capital payroll services, supplier payment facilities framework, as directed by the Insurance The life insurance industry amongst others for corporates. Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL). continued to demonstrate NTB continued its focus on lean management encouraging growth in the year The life insurance industry continued to initiatives together with increased automation demonstrate encouraging growth in the year under review. The gross written and greater reliance on digital channels. under review. The gross written premiums premiums of the Life Insurance The lean initiative at NTB has gathered (GWP) of the Life Insurance business for the business for the calendar year momentum with significant improvements in calendar year 2016 stood at Rs.8.27 billion, key areas such as customer lean application 2016 stood at Rs.8.27 billion, an and turnaround time among others. The Bank an increase of 19 per cent over the Rs.6.96 billion recorded in the corresponding period increase of 19 per cent over the pursued opportunities in extracting value from in 2015. The growth was predominantly Rs.6.96 billion recorded in the already existent soft and hard infrastructure, driven by a 23 per cent increase in traditional focused on delivering customer centric corresponding period in 2015. policies whilst renewal premiums from unit products and encouraged cross selling to linked products were in line with expectations. enhance NTB’s value proposition during the period under review. The General Insurance business, which was Rs. 8.27Bn renamed “Fairfirst Insurance Limited” with effect from 28th February 2017, recorded an The uncertain external environment including expectations of economic Life insurance GWP growth increase in gross written premiums of 29 per interest rate hikes by the US Federal Reserve A 19 per cent growth cent in the calendar year ending 2016. resulted in an outflow of capital from many emerging and frontier markets, including The banking industry recorded healthy Sri Lanka. Policy uncertainty locally, as well As per the actuarial valuation carried out growth during the financial year against the as pressure on interest rates and exchange during the year, the life insurance business backdrop of strong credit demand stemming rates exacerbated the negative performance generated a surplus of Rs.1.10 billion, a from the private and public sectors. However, of the Colombo Stock Exchange affecting marked increase of 38 per cent against the performance was dampened to an extent due the Stock Broking business during the year prior calendar year [CY2015: Rs.800 million]. to increased pressure on net interest margins under review. Further details on the overall (NIMs) arising from rising cost of funds. stock market and its performance can be With its focus on providing continuously found in the Share and Warrant Information evolving and novel products, UA launched section of this Report. Despite a challenging operating environment, “GOYO”, a trendy fitness mobile app and Nations Trust Bank (NTB) recorded strong wearable fitness tracker, representing growth in loans, advances and deposits. The Operating within this environment, JKSB wellness and well-being. GOYO includes an growth in loans and advances and deposits focused on aligning its processes and eco-system of partners revolving around during the calendar year was 24 per cent and systems with client needs and introduced keeping fit, living healthy, cultivating healthy 17 per cent, above the industry averages of efficiency enhancing and cost management habits and looking good. Launched in early 18 per cent and 17 per cent, respectively. The initiatives, which included a trading platform 2017, GOYO acts as a “Personal Health growth in loans and advances was mainly and an order management system to improve Advisor” motivating its users towards attributable to growth from the small and and increase efficiency in front office and achieving targeted goals and rewarding medium sized enterprise (SME) segment back office operations. each milestone with exclusive offers from and corporate book, which also stems from its partner base. The app was launched in a conscious rebalancing of the loan portfolio. The Risk Based Capital Adequacy collaboration with the Group as well, including requirements were approved by the cross functional tie ups with Cinnamon Hotels Deposits recorded a growth of 17 per cent Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri and Resorts, Elephant House and Nations [CY2015: 16 per cent], mainly driven through Lanka (SEC) with effect from 1 March 2017. Trust Bank. the mobilisation of term deposits on account To this end, JK PLC and JKH infused equity in of the expectant rise in interest rates to JKSB to meet this requirement. during the first half of the year. The current Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 157 Capital Management Review Borrowings and Finance Expense Further to the review of the external environment and operations, this section reviews the forms Total debt pertaining to the Group’s of Capital available for the successful execution of the businesses strategies, the initiatives subsidiaries in the financial services cluster undertaken during the year to create value, and also discusses the performance of the sectors (UA and JKSB) as at 31 March 2017 stood at within the industry group under each form of Capital. Rs.138 million. Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors are summarised Return on Capital Employed below. • The industry group ROCE increased to 28.0 per cent against 24.2 per cent Sectors Insurance Banking and Leasing Stock Broking recorded in the previous year. The Financial and Rs.9.66 billion, Rs.4.28 billion, increase Rs.115 million, increase in ROCE is partly stemming Manufactured Capital increase of 22 per of 14 per cent decrease of 40 per from the decline in the average capital revenue and growth cent cent base of the industry group on account of the UA share repurchase which took Financial and Rs.1.23 billion, Rs.894 million, (Rs.25 million), place in September 2015 Manufactured Capital decrease of 16 per increase of 9 per cent decrease of 263 EBIT and growth cent per cent • Total assets at the Financial Services Natural Capital carbon 1,367 MT Not within the 24 MT industry group increased by 16 per cent footprint boundary of to Rs.41.72 billion sustainability reporting • Asset turnover increased marginally Human Capital number 785 Not within the 29 to 0.36 times compared to 0.33 times of employees boundary of witnessed in the prior financial year sustainability reporting Natural Capital Financial and Manufactured Capital The performance of NTB, which is an equity The Financial Services industry group As at 1 April 2016, the Financial Services accounted investee, is reflected in the Group aimed to reduce its environmental impact industry group had total assets of Rs.35.88 financial statements on an attributable PAT by aligning itself with global best practices. billion, debt of Rs.106 million and opening basis as required under the accounting The key initiatives that were successfully equity capital of Rs.7.13 billion. standards. continued into the current ﬁnancial year of operations are outlined as follows: Financial Performance The PAT of the industry group increased Since the key businesses within the industry by 19 per cent to Rs.2.04 billion in the year • Recycling of toner cartridges in group comprise of the Banking and Insurance under review, primarily driven by the growth partnership with a third party supplier arms of the Group, the ensuing discussion witnessed in UAL. The PAT of the life insurance • Installation of master key switches in all will be predominantly based on PAT, in order business grew by 36 per cent during the branches, which enables the automatic to capture the net earnings of the businesses. year as a result of the life insurance surplus shutting down of power once the transferred to the shareholders amounting to users leave the premises leaving their Rs.1.10 billion [CY2015: Rs.800 million] and computers powered on Turnover an increase in the earnings contribution from 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% its general insurance associate company • Recycling of used paper during the year, Fairfirst Insurance Ltd. The PAT of NTB grew effectively saving 300 fully grown trees 69 28 3 by 5 per cent during the year under review, • Replacement of traditional ﬂuorescent 2014/15 stemming from healthy growth in loans lights with LED lighting at branches 66 32 2 and advances. The adverse equity market 2015/16 • Installation of timer switches in all split conditions witnessed throughout the year 69 30 1 under review had a significant impact on and package air conditioners at branch 2016/17 JKSB, resulting in a loss of Rs.20 million. offices to enable automatic shutting down after office hours EBIT 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Return on Capital Employed 73 24 3 2014/15 ROCE 2016/17: 28.0% 64 35 1 [2015/16: 24.2%] 2015/16 (1) 59 42 2016/17 Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity Insurance 0.36 14.9% 5.18 Banking and Leasing Stockbroking 158 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review FINANCIAL SERVICES The continued effort of the industry group to minimise the impact on the environment proved Indicators fruitful as evident in the table below. The industry group provided an average of 17 hours of training per person during the Indicators reporting period, whilst the total number of 2016/17 2015/16 (%) injuries increased by 3 per cent. Carbon footprint (MT) 1,391 1,407 (1) Social and Relationship Capital With the regulatory frameworks governing the ﬁnancial services industry necessitating Human Capital • Talent development and top management that business is carried out in accordance The Financial Services industry group engagement with identified talent pools with the highest ethical standards, customer continued its initiatives to enhance its Human through projects such as “The Odessey” conﬁdentiality and satisfaction is a key factor Capital productivity through training and and “The Ladder project” for the Financial Services industry group. development, especially the sales agents of • Conducting “Executive Development The focus on its Social and Relationship UA. Programmes” to prepare young Capital through its sustainability strategy executives for the work environment and is based upon these material impacts. As The material impacts identiﬁed for the to facilitate career building such, the Group focuses on strengthening its industry group are as follows: brand presence among customers through • Personality development through “Union a commitment to high quality products Occupational Union Assurance sales Transformers” and “Project Emerge” and services, community engagement and health and agents, who account for for staff below 30 years of age, and employee development with minimal impact safety over 75 per cent of the school leavers respectively. (Apprentices on the environment while ensuring that its John Keells Group’s total of “Project Emerge” were offered operations are undertaken in a responsible contractor's personnel, permanent employment positions at UA manner. are at risk of road side upon completion of the project) accidents Amidst these personal development The material impacts for the industry group Talent The need to retain and initiatives, more focused initiatives such are: Management continuously upgrade as a comprehensive re-structuring of the the skills of existing bancassurance unit was initiated with the Customer Negative impacts on staff, while developing intention of retaining and enhancing the satisfaction key customer accounts, a resource base of productivity of staff, which is a key contributor investor and client professionals. towards the overall revenue generation of the conﬁdence business. Community Proactive community Talent Management engagement engagement contributes During the year under review, UA was Health and Safety Initiatives to building trust and recognised as one of the 20 great places to promotes brand image work in Sri Lanka for the fourth consecutive • Road Safety Awareness Programmes for year by the Great Place to Work Institute 469 sales staff were conducted in 5 zones Ethics, Fraud and corruption loss and was also recognised at the Insurance • The annual fire evacuation drill was fraud and of brand reputation and Industry Awards for Best People Management carried out at the UA Head office in corruption possible regulatory nonPractices. association with the Colombo Fire Brigade compliance • UA implemented assessment centre Building a high performing team through The significant suppliers within the industry based recruitment processes for all training, developing and educating the group are: regions, including the bancassurance employee cadre and the agency force is a channel, to enable recruitment of more focal point of UA’s current business strategy. suitable employees Some key initiatives in this regard are Significant Suppliers summarised below; • Outstanding performers of UA sales staff were rewarded for their performance • Conducting a bottom-up strategic planning achieved via digital submission of process including representatives from policies, through the “Digital Quarter all functions to enhance employee 2016” competition Janitors Security engagement and ensure their buy in • A Career Progression System (CPS) and commitment to deliver corporate was introduced to track sales training objectives provided to sales staff • Enhancing of leadership and team 2016/17 2015/16 (%) building through various training programmes Injuries and diseases (number) 30 29 3 Total hours of training 13,553 11,389 19 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 159 Initiatives Number of people screened Number of potential diabetes Number of diabetes patients Anti-Corruption patients Corruption and unethical behaviour are covered under the overall risk management 1,058 109 173 process of the Group, particularly considering the relevance to the Financial Services industry group. All employees are expected Intellectual Capital will focus on developing its agency force to abide by the John Keells Group’s Code The following initiatives were undertaken to deliver and retain value in a dynamic of Conduct and new employees are trained during the year under review to strengthen technologically advanced financial services on the expectations of ethical behaviour at processes and product offerings. sphere. UA will leverage on its strong brand induction. The Group has a zero tolerance presence, differentiated product portfolio and policy with regards to breaches of its Code • Launching of “Union Smart Health” an offerings, experienced staff and IT enabled of Conduct while Internal reviews and audits innovative health rider which provides cost effective processes to grow the Life are also carried out on a continuous basis as coverage for the policyholder as well as Insurance business. part of the management approach. the policyholder’s dependents The dynamics of the banking industry are • UA designed “Union 60 Plus,” a policy Other initiatives include a strategic CSR expected to continuously evolve, driven by aimed at providing comfort and ease programme carried out at UA focusing disruptive business models and technology during the sunset years of a policyholder’s on addressing national concerns with the with customers increasingly adopting such life support of the Ministry of Health. The CSR new platforms and channels, both globally and brand, titled “Union Manushyathwaya”, • Introduction of GOYO”, a wellness locally. To this end, NTB will continue to focus was launched with the aim of creating proposition which offers benefits beyond on delivering smart banking solutions and healthy and happy communities around the conventional protection for which UA creating innovative products for its customers. country through the dissemination of vital partnered with several entities to create Big data and analytics will also become focal information to the public regarding how to an ecosystem in offering benefits with the points for the Bank going forward, with roll protect themselves from diseases such as aim of harnessing the digital revolution out of modern and customised products. This thalassemia, dengue and diabetes. phase of innovation and digital disruption • Enhancement of an automated is also expected to create a platform on underwriting rules engine to facilitate Health Awareness which the Bank can develop better solutions speedy acceptance of new proposals • Awareness programmes for the prevention and product offerings for its consumers, digitally which has resulted in a of epidemic diseases (e.g. dengue) were especially for Corporate and SME clients. considerable reduction of paper usage conducted island-wide. An initiative in collaboration with the Divisional Ministry • UA commenced a brand revamping The ambiguity in tax policy and lack of of Health (DMOH) and the Public Health process to include “trust” in re-defining policy direction remains a challenge to the Department (PHD) of the Colombo Municipal its brand promise banking industry. The policies proposed to Council was undertaken providing be implemented in the forthcoming financial personnel and awareness material during Strategy and Outlook year will likely create operating challenges house to house visits. UA also organised The future prospects for the life insurance for the industry at large, despite the industry two island-wide dengue awareness days industry in Sri Lanka continue to be being identified as one of the thrust areas of with the involvement of the PHD and DMOH promising. Despite the improving per the economy. A clearly articulated tax policy, offices, distributing 162,250 leaflets capita economic indicators and the ageing developed in consultation with all stakeholders population, domestic life insurance will augur well for the success of the industry. • A total of 59 programmes on awareness penetration is significantly lower compared and prevention of thalassaemia were The stock broking arm of the Group will continue to other regional markets. Life premiums conducted for teachers, parents and to pursue foreign tie-ups in order to strengthen as a percentage of GDP in Sri Lanka are still students in partnership with the National its presence in the international markets whilst below 1 per cent, whilst the corresponding Thalassaemia Center impacting 12,611 simultaneously working towards expanding figure in India is approximately 6 per cent. persons. The awareness programmes its local client base through continued also addressed issues such as engagement via customer forums and oneCapitalisation on key customer segments developing mental concepts of children, on-one meetings aimed at local corporates, and channels, such as bancassurance, which child management skills and life skills fund managers and high net worth individuals has demonstrated significant potential, will depending on the target audience (HNWI). JKSB will also continue to liaise with continue to be a key focus area of the Life • UA developed diabetes pre-screening Insurance business through the development the CSE and SEC to improve and upgrade the programme models with the PHD and the of innovative products and policies. The current infrastructure to help better manage DMOH offices aimed at identifying persons requirement for training and development risk and enhance trading and settlement who are potential diabetic patients and of its agency force continues to be identified efficiencies. To this end, the implementation of channelling them to preventive medical by the management as an imperative the CAR ratio by the regulatory authorities is a attention. 13 programmes have been investment for the long term sustainability positive move which will enhance the industry’s carried out throughout the year, reaching and growth of the business. To this end, UA stability and risk mitigation strategies. 1,058 persons 160 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Our Business Model business process outsourcing (BPO), software industry group is at the forefront of making Sri Vision and Scope services and information integration, to office Lanka an ICT hub in South Asia. The Information Technology industry group automation. Having established a strong has a vision of providing best in class quality customer base in Sri Lanka, South Asia, as end to end information communication well as the United Kingdom, Middle East, North technology (ICT) services ranging from America, Scandinavia and the Far East, the IT Contribution to JKH Group 9% 3% 1% 1% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint JKOA is the authorised distributor of many leading communication and automation products including the recently launched “Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8+”. IT Services Office IT Enabled CO2 Automation Services 0.10 MT per Rs.mn revenue Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 161 Sectors IT Services Office Automation IT Enabled Services The business within • John Keells Computer • John Keells Office Automation (JKOA) is • BPO operations voice vertical the sector Services (JKCS) offer software the authorised distributor for some of through JK BPO, which operates products and services to a the leading office automation brands in approximately 750 seats in India wide range of clients in Sri the world • Provider of shared service Lanka and overseas • Sole distributor for Toshiba B&W solutions in the ﬁnance, • Core focus areas are in and colour digital multi-function accounting, payroll verticals software engineering services printers (MFPs), offering managed and data entry services to the and products targeted at the print solutions and print now pay later JKH Group and external clients aviation and leisure industries (PNPL) digital copier rental solutions. under InfoMate (operates with National distributor for Samsung Smart approximately 150 seats) phones. Authorised distributor for Asus commercial series notebook’s, and other office automation products such as Samsung Laser printers, hotel TV’s, large format displays (LFD), RISO digital duplicators, RISO Comcolour printers, the world’s fastest full colour inkjet printer Posiflex and FEC POS systems, Bixolon receipt and label printers, tabs, accessories, Lava mobiles and Hitachi projectors Key external/ • Increase in wages for skilled • Depreciation of the Rupee contributed • The shift of voice processing internal variables engineers due to the dearth of towards increased procurement costs services from India to on-shore impacting the skilled resources and pressure on margins and near-shore regions business • Mandatory requirements • Increased demand for back office, of Advanced Passenger including finance, accounting and Processing (APP) features knowledge processes in India and Advanced Passenger • Automation and the use Information messages for of robotics are significant departure control systems in developments in the industry and certain international borders the move towards higher end knowledge intensive services Key developments • Work commenced on Zhara • JKOA made a conscious effort to focus • InfoMate increased its footprint in during the ﬁnancial Neo which is intended for very on the upper end of the market, which Australia and the Nordic region year small hotels (5-15 rooms) encompasses higher margin products • Implementation of • The Software Engineering and • JKOA launched SAP HYBRIS, the new “SupplierMate”; an online Products verticals secured 4 ERP for technical operations. The supplier portal and 5 new clients, respectively project will introduce a state-of-theart customer support module which is expected to deliver globally renowned service levels to customers Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Total assets 4,777 4,116 16 3,750 Turnover 11,107 8,262 34 7,212 Total equity 1,983 1,951 2 2,322 EBIT 621 161 286 382 Total debt 348 339 3 92 PBT 612 148 312 370 1 Capital employed 2,331 2,289 2 2,414 PAT 468 96 389 280 Employees (number)2 1,075 985 9 1,224 EBIT per employee 0.6 0.2 254 0.3 Carbon footprint (MT) 1,076 1,269 (15) 1,309 1 For equity accounted investees the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 As per the sustainability reporting boundary 162 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY External Environment and Operational supply. JKCS witnessed growth through Review “Zhara HS” and “Zhara E-commerce” which Digital disruption and technological was deployed to six hotel properties during dynamism have emerged as central themes the year. In addition to the above, JKCS within a majority of global industries. instilled higher prominence in expanding Innovation and technological know-how its software solutions across overseas has enabled companies to differentiate markets in partnership with Strategic Group 32 per cent internet penetration, Information Technology (SGIT) of the Group. products and offerings, creating unforeseen given the growing inclination towards opportunities within markets. Over the technology and consumer preferences The Group’s BPO operations in Sri Lanka, recent years, Sri Lanka has also witnessed significant growth in connectivity and much InfoMate, successfully increased its external needed digital infrastructure. A Nielsens successfully expanding into new markets client portfolio through an increase of its report published in February 2017 reveals during the financial year 2016/17. The domestic and foreign payroll customers. a 92 per cent mobile penetration, 32 per segment expanded its reach to 4 new clients During the year, the company rolled out cent internet penetration, and, given the through the operation of several Offshore “SupplierMate”, an online supplier portal growing inclination towards technology and Dedicated Centers. The Software Engineering to facilitate supplier payments. Although consumer preferences to improve lifestyle product vertical added 3 new clients and the Group’s BPO operations in India did and convenience, a 28 per cent smart phone expanded its services through the Evinta not secure new customers, the business penetration within Sri Lanka. Departure Control System (DCS) to Moldova, continued to service its prominent North Maldives and the Middle East. During the America based client at a level above In light of these developments, during the year year, JKCS introduced “Zhara Neo”, a singleexpectations as evidenced by the customer under review, John Keells Office Automation screen hotel system targeted at the small satisfaction scores. During the year, JK BPO (JKOA) recorded encouraging volume growth and informal hotels, which encompasses reviewed and right sized its operation in line across all three product categories; mobile approximately 40 per cent of the local room with the current operating seats. phones, notebooks and photo copiers. The mobile phone segment recorded double digit growth in volumes, primarily driven Capital Management Review by continued growth in demand for smart Subsequent to the external environment and the operational review of the Information phones. During the year, Samsung launched Technology industry group, the ensuing section elaborates on the forms of Capital deployed to two mobile phone models, “On-5” and “On-7”, meet the strategic priorities and the performance of the businesses during the period under which were exclusively marketed through ondiscussion. line channels for the first time in Sri Lanka. JKOA also launched five new e-STUDIO™ Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors, are summarised series printers to its multifunction printer as follows: (MFPs) range. The MFPs are designed to help Sectors IT Services Office Automation IT Enabled organisations operate more efficiently and Services cost effectively, while improving workflow through cloud and mobile printing. Financial and Manufactured Rs.459 million, 12 Rs.9.52 billion, 45 Rs.1.13 billion, 11 Capital revenue and per cent increase per cent increase per cent decrease John Keells Computer Services (JKCS), the growth software engineering and product vertical Financial and Manufactured Rs.19 million, 279 Rs.471 million, 185 Rs.132 million, of the IT Services sector, strengthened its Capital EBIT and growth per cent decrease per cent increase 2028 per cent product portfolio through new additions while increase Natural Capital carbon 159 MT 255 MT 662 MT footprint Human Capital number of 222 220 633 A Nielsens report published in employees February 2017, reveals a 92 per cent mobile penetration, 32 per cent internet penetration, and, Financial and Manufactured Capital billion recorded in the previous financial As at 1 April 2016, the Information Technology year. The revenue of JKOA increased by 45 given the growing inclination industry group had total assets of Rs.4.12 per cent in the year under review, mainly towards technology and consumer billion, debt of Rs.339 million and an opening on account of the higher volumes recorded preferences to improve lifestyle equity capital of Rs.1.95 billion. across all three of its product categories, in particular the mobile phone segment. JK BPO and convenience, a 28 per cent Financial Performance India recorded a decline in revenue of 13 per smart phone penetration within Revenue of the industry group increased by cent while JKCS recorded a revenue growth Sri Lanka 34 per cent to Rs.11.11 billion against Rs.8.26 of 12 per cent as a result of higher volumes. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 163 The EBIT of the industry group recorded a Return on Capital Employed significant increase of 286 per cent to Rs.621 ROCE million during the year. The growth in EBIT 2016/17: 26.9% was mainly driven by JKOA and JKCS, on [2015/16: 6.8%} account of the significant growth in sales volumes and expansion in to new foreign markets achieved through software products. Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity 2.50 5.6% 1.92 Turnover 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% • The asset turnover of the industry group Energy and Emissions Management 5 75 20 increased to 2.50 times from the 2.10 Targets: 2014/15 times reported in the previous financial • Minimising electricity use by adhering 5 80 15 year, despite a 16 per cent increase in the to energy targets, efficient practices and 2015/16 asset base to Rs.4.78 billion on account of awareness campaigns 4 86 10 higher inventory at JKOA . The increase in 2016/17 the ratio is stemming from the significant Initiatives: increase in revenue as discussed above • InfoMate and JKOA continued its initiative EBIT to replace all personal computer 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Natural Capital workstations with laptops, resulting in Adhering to the John Keells Group’s the reduction of energy consumption 12 80 8 2014/15 environmental policy, the Information • JKCS continued to record savings Technology industry group proactively (6) 102 4 over the recent years through space manages its carbon footprint and energy 2015/16 rationalisation on particular working usage by monitoring usage and seeking low 3 76 21 days to conserve electricity. A heat energy and energy efficient solutions through 2016/17 insulation initiative was also carried out new technologies and innovative thinking. IT Services to improve air conditioning efficiency and Companies are aware of the potential impact Office Automation thereby reduce energy consumption IT Enabled Services from the generation of electronic waste, and are conscientious in ensuring that such • JK BPO implemented a system to Borrowings and Finance Expense waste is disposed of in a responsible manner automatically shut down personal The total debt of the industry group as by working with third parties who reuse and computers in work stations when not in at 31 March 2017 was Rs.348 million. recycle electronic waste. use The moderate increase in debt resulted from JKOA’s increased working capital The material impacts for the industry group Waste Management requirements. The finance expense of the are classified as follows: Targets: industry group declined by 23 per cent to • Responsible disposal and reduction in Rs.10 million during the year on account of Energy and Financial implications generation of e-waste and paper waste the growth in sales volumes for the office emissions and environmental automation business, thereby reducing the management responsibility Initiatives: requirement for short term debt financing. • As per the Group’s electronic waste Waste Environmental and policy, businesses responsibly dispose of Return on Capital Employed management social responsibility, its electronic waste through the Group’s • The ROCE of the industry group increased especially in terms of contracted e-waste disposal partner to 26.9 per cent from the 6.8 per cent disposing e-waste and paper • All businesses consciously seek to recorded in the previous financial year minimise paper usage. Furthermore, due to the significant improvement in paper waste is recycled through a performance which translated to high certified partner EBIT growth compared to the growth in the asset base Performance The IT industry group recorded a carbon footprint of 1,076 MT this year, a 15 per cent reduction • The EBIT margin of the industry group compared to the previous year. increased to 5.6 per cent from 1.9 per cent recorded in the previous year of Sustainability indicators operations as a result of the high EBIT 2016/17 2015/16 (%) growth witnessed during the year Carbon footprint (MT) 1,076 1,269 (15) * Water usage is not shown as it is not material for the industry group 164 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Human Capital Labour indicators Given the competitive nature of the Information 2016/17 2015/16 (%) Technology industry, sound management Injuries and diseases (number) 0 0 0 of Human Capital is a vital component of the industry group’s strategy. Addressing Total hours of training 43,556 57,348 (24) the training and development needs of the current staff are priorities to ensure career development and skill enhancement. • As part of its recruitment strategy, communities whilst providing a platform for Emphasis is also placed on developing a JKCS continued to engage with local cost optimisation and a new pool of talent fresh pool of talent from universities by universities and higher education for recruitment. As the need for IT literacy creating relationships with such institutions institutes, building its brand presence by becomes increasingly more significant, the via the provision of learning and internship providing career guidance and soft skills IT industry group strategy looks to create opportunities to young people who have the training shared value, grooming youth towards potential to be successfully absorbed into the the industry requirements and providing • A number of graduates from the staff cadre, creating a sustainable solution to them with employment opportunities and aforementioned initiative were provided the challenges in recruitment. marketable skills. with internship opportunities and on-thejob training by JKCS. These graduates With the nature of the work in the Information In line with Group practices, all significant will be absorbed into the employee cadre Technology industry group being largely suppliers have been identified as given in the based on capability and performance office based, businesses make it a priority diagram below and have been assessed for to ensure such working conditions are of an any negative impacts on the environment, Health and Safety acceptable standard for employees. Aspects Targets: labour and human rights aspects. such as ergonomic concerns, lighting and • Strive to ensure a safe and healthy air quality are all considered with respect working environment in line with the Impact through CSR initiatives: to the working environment. Given the 24 Group’s Health and Safety Policy InfoMate, in collaboration with John Keells hour operations of some of the companies Foundation (JKF) and the Foundation for in the industry group, provisions are made to Initiatives: Advancing Rural Opportunity (FARO), created ensure the safe commute of employees. • Group companies continuously reviewed satellite centers in rural areas for accounting their business continuity plans (BCPs) functions, thereby creating sustainable The material impacts for the industry group employment opportunities for rural youth. are classified as follows: • Fire training and fire teams were appointed for all companies Currently, three BPO centres run by InfoMate Talent The need to retain and • Transport was provided to all staff in are in operation employing a total of 48 management continuously upgrade JKBPO India, given the 24 hour nature of associates. During the year under review, the skills of existing operations, to ensure safety of employees the total earnings of these BPOs recorded staff and ensure a pool during their commute to and from work an increase of 12 per cent while average of quality potential staff associate earnings increased by 13.5 per given the nature of the Indicators cent compared to the previous financial year. industry The IT industry group provided a total of The BPOs were offered support in terms 43,556 hours of training to its employees, with of training and work volumes, covering of Health and Providing a safe and 41 hours of training provided per employee. expenses relating to connectivity, generators safety conducive environment and health insurance. JKF continued to given that long hours Social and Relationship Capital provide infrastructure support to the BPOs are spent at work The benefits and necessity of an IT literate through the donation of computers and stations populace are widely accepted in a constantly office equipment while facilitating general changing and globalised international training and sensitisation for the associates. Talent Management JKF also extended support in terms of economy. Against this backdrop, the IT Targets: industry group recognises the benefits that other key initiatives such as weekly English • Continuous improvement of training can be reaped from a strategy that strengthens language classes to upgrade proficiency and focused on improving skills and its Social and Relationship Capital with rural competency of associates to enable access knowledge • Engagement with local universities to build a pool of potential employees with Significant Suppliers requisite soft skills Initiatives: • The current staff cadre of the industry Outsourced Outsourced Transportation group were provided with 41 hours of operational support staff Janitors Security providers training per employee functions seasonally Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 165 InfoMate, the Sri Lanka based BPO operation, The beneﬁts and necessity of an IT literate populace is widely accepted will continue its current momentum, in a constantly changing and globalised international economy. Against achieving market share through its high end data entry services. The business will this backdrop, the IT industry group recognises the beneﬁts that can evaluate the possibility of automation of be reaped from a strategy that strengthens its Social and Relationship several processes as an efficiency measure. Capital with rural communities whilst providing a platform for cost The digitisation initiative rolled out across the optimisation and a new pool of talent for recruitment. Group in the previous financial year presents a signiﬁcant opportunity for the businesses within this industry group, particularly with focused attention on IT and digitisation to more lucrative jobs and opportunities have immense market opportunities. In light solutions sought within the Group. In order to towards uplifting their livelihoods. of these developments, the industry group is capitalise on this opportunity, the Group will Associates also benefitted from a one month formulating strategies to create integrated continue to evaluate cross sale opportunities voluntary consulting initiative by 3 European solutions and expand the services’ portfolio in order to create synergies across industry SAP consultants. The initiative included to include mobility, big data, predictive groups. This will connect the skills, expertise the study of the current BPO model and a analytics, artificial intelligence, Internet of and infrastructure required to roll out such final report. The initiative entailed valuable Things, smart buildings and cloud services, initiatives which are already resident within recommendations and insights from the amongst others. the various verticals of the Group. Holistic associates and consultants. products and services with end-to-end The demand for smart phones is expected to solutions, as envisioned, are expected to Other key initiatives carried out in within the maintain its current growth trajectory driven augur well for the Information Technology industry group were as follows; by increasing disposable incomes, improved industry group in the medium to long term. network coverage and data connectivity. • JKCS conducted training for 300 The profitability of the mobile phone undergraduates towards enhancing the portfolio of the Office Automation business quality and employability of graduates is likely to improve with the changing and creating awareness on the trends in consumer preferences towards Information Technology industry group of smartphones. JKOA will continue to capitalise the John Keells Group on the more tech-savvy modern customer; capturing market share through lifestyle • JKCS also developed a continuous soft products which offer greater connectivity skills development programme with and convenience. The business will also Mercury Institute on behalf of InfoMate. invest in internal service delivery channels The first batch of students underwent a to provide unparalleled service quality to certificate programme on Unleashing its customers. Focus will also be placed on Your Potential which included soft skills driving the sales for both notebooks and development, career planning, CV writing tabs in order to achieve market leadership and interview facing techniques in these product segments. A number of • During the year under review, 20 CPUs training initiatives and performance based were donated by JKCS to schools and reward programmes are also expected to be organisations. JKOA donated 5 laptops introduced in an effort to attract and retain to the Wildlife and Protection Society talent. The concept of “Gamification” is also Sri Lanka and 6 CPUs to Sondura Kotte expected to be introduced as a platform to Foundation facilitate an environment of “gaming” related to sales targets and incentives. • JKOA donated water purifiers to a school in Habarana, enabling access to clean The software engineering and product drinking water, benefiting approximately vertical, JKCS will work towards enhancing 158 students and staff of the school its portfolio through focused attention on mobility, big data, predictive analytics, Strategy and Outlook artificial intelligence and internet of things. As indicated in the External Environment JKCS in partnership with the Strategic Group and Operational Review, the IT industry Information Technology (SGIT) function group is cognizant of the technological will explore opportunities in establishing a developments that are taking place, both presence in Middle Eastern and North African regionally and globally. The Group believes markets (MENA) in order to accelerate growth that the core operations within the sector of the business in international markets. 166 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES Our Business Model grown teas and is also recognised as a top Functions such as John Keells Capital, Vision and Scope quality producer of CTC teas in Sri Lanka. John John Keells Research and Strategic Group The Plantation Services sector includes the Keells PLC is one of the leading tea brokers in Information Technology (SGIT), as well as operations of tea factories, tea and rubber the country and its warehousing facility is the several auxiliary companies. John Keells Capital broking and pre-auction produce warehousing. largest for pre-auction produce in the country. is the private equity arm of the Group. SGIT supports the Group’s information technology Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF PLC) is The “Other” sector consists of John Keells requirements, consulting services and SAP among the top manufacturers of orthodox low Holdings PLC including its divisions/Centre implementation services to external clients. Contribution to JKH Group 2% 23% 33% 4% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint The Plantations cluster continued to upgrade its infrastructure with investments in new colour sorter machines. John Keells Research established a new state-of-the-art laboratory during the year. Plantation Other CO2 Services 1.02 MT per Rs.mn revenue Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 167 Sectors Plantation Services Other The business within • John Keells PLC leading tea and rubber broker. • JKH and Other businesses (Centre Functions/ the sector • John Keells Warehousing operates a state-of-the-art divisions) warehouse for pre-auction produce • John Keells Capital, a division of JKH, is the private • Tea Smallholder Factories PLC operates 8 tea factories equity arm of the Group and is a leading manufacturer of low grown teas in the • Strategic Group Information Technology (SGIT) country, including the CTC variety supports the Group’s IT requirements, provides consultancy services and SAP implementation services to external companies Key external/ • Recovery of tea prices due to the slowdown in • Depreciation of the rupee had a positive impact on the internal variables production stemming from adverse weather valuation of net US Dollar holdings of JKH impacting the conditions • Relative inactivity in private equity markets owing to business • Depreciation of currencies of major tea consuming the availability of credit, particularly in the first half of nations the year • Shortage of SAP resource personnel in the market limiting SGIT’s expansion capabilities Key developments • JK PLC automated the client advance system which • JKR made significant headway during the year under during the financial assists in inventory management and supplier cost review through the initiation of several research year optimisation projects • JKR filed for its first patent in December 2016 • JKH launched “John Keells X Open Innovation Challenge 2016”, as a part of its digitisation initiative • SGIT, in partnership with Microsoft and Cisco, established a full-fledged practice in IT/digital consultancy services, predictive analytics and digital services centred around social, mobile, analytics, cloud and “smart buildings” Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2016/17 2015/16 (%) 2014/15 Total assets 74,105 66,370 12 57,313 Turnover2 2,953 2,663 11 3,468 Total equity 71,715 61,835 16 50,910 EBIT 5,381 3,907 38 3,415 Total debt 91 2,304 (96) 3,633 PBT 5,229 3,772 39 3,233 Capital employed1 71,805 64,140 12 54,543 PAT 3,101 2,343 32 2,025 Employees (number) 830 882 (6) 941 EBIT per employee 6.5 4.4 46 3.6 Carbon footprint 3,334 3,543 (6) 3,898 1 For equity accounted investees the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of equity accounted investees 168 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES External Environment and Operational collaboration, while contributing towards Review creating and nurturing an ecosystem of Global tea production grew by a modest rate innovation. The new location gives rise of 5 per cent during the year due to adverse to better opportunities as JKR will have weather conditions across key tea producing access to sophisticated equipment and countries. Sri Lanka, the third largest exporter analytical services of SLINTEC. In its quest John Keells X Open Innovation towards enhancing its research capability of tea in the global tea industry, produced 292 Challenge was launched in June 2016 and developing intellectual property, JKR million kilograms of tea in 2016, a decline of 11 per cent from the 329 million kilograms achieved another milestone by establishing produced in 2015. A total of 288 million its own laboratory, enabling it to conduct kilograms of tea were exported during the certain research projects in-house, thereby 2016 calendar year, a 4 per cent decline Sri Lanka, the third largest facilitating retention of a higher proportion of against the previous year, while also recording intellectual property for JKH. exporter of tea in the global tea a total revenue of Rs.184.77 billion, which is a decline of 4 per cent against the previous industry, produced 292 million John Keells Holdings PLC carried out an calendar year. The reduction in supply was kilograms of tea in 2016, a decline exercise to restructure the shareholding mainly attributable to the reduction of green of 11 per cent from the 329 million of the Group’s investments in a few of its leaf harvest as a result of the drought which unlisted subsidiaries to reduce the complexity affected the country in the second half of the kilograms produced in 2015. of the shareholding structure by limiting year. On the back of limited supply, average the ownership to two tiers, where possible. price at the Colombo Auction increased by 16 Accordingly, select Group companies holding per cent to Rs.470 per kilogram and led to the investments in other subsidiaries transferred moderate increase in export revenues. The its respective investments to JKH, at existing market demand for Ceylon tea from manual, achieving a significant reduction valuations independently verified by the traditional export markets and the significant in over exposure to its lending portfolio and Group’s Auditors. The exercise was completed drop in production were the primary drivers awareness sessions on good manufacturing via a combination of share buybacks between of the rise in the average price. practices to enhance quality. the unquoted entities within the Group and its subsidiaries for a consideration of either cash The performance of Tea Smallholder The year under review marked a significant or owners’ shares. The total transaction value Factories PLC (TSF) improved as a result development for John Keells Research (JKR), of this exercise was Rs.3.71 billion, in cash of the aforementioned increase in the price the research and development arm of the and non-cash terms. of tea. The supply of green leaf from the Group. JKR filed for its first patent for a novel smallholder crops moderated as a result of the energy source material that was developed In furthering the digitisation initiative rolled extreme weather conditions which affected through a research project undertaken in out within the Group, JKH launched “John the country. However, TSF streamlined its collaboration with the National Metallurgical Keells X Open Innovation Challenge 2016”. cost structures through various efficiency Lab of the Council for Scientific and Industrial John Keells X (JKX) was created to form a enhancements and monitoring such as the Research (CSIR-NML) in India based on an unique platform for disruptive and innovative upgrading and replacement of processing idea generated by John Keells Research. solutions also designed to provide the equipment to ensure minimum breakdown The patent application which was filed at the initial investments required for start-up time. TSF faced heavy competition for green Indian patent office in December 2016 relates businesses and technologies. The inaugural leaf as the market faced a scarcity of supply to a composite nanomaterial which could JKX challenge was well received where a due to lower production. Focused supplier be used in energy storage. This composite total of 148 applications were received with relation extensions were actively pursued to nanomaterial can be synthesised with raw ten of these applicants being shortlisted for combat these developments. The business materials found in Sri Lanka. The composite the final pitch. The mentoring and access also embarked on a quality drive to improve material has the unique advantage of to JKH Group resources prior to the final the standard of the end product, which biocompatibility and a lower cost per unit of pitch presentations were valued by the proved fruitful, with the business being able power stored. JKR is in the process of building participating teams. Considering the success to command a premium of approximately a prototype energy storage device that of the inaugural challenge, the second open 1.3 per cent over the low grown elevational utilises the patented technology to enhance innovation challenge was launched in May average. the Technology Readiness Level (TRL) of 2017. the intellectual property and to examine the During the year under review, the commercial viability of a prototype product. Strategic Group Information Technology performance of John Keells PLC (JK PLC) was (SGIT) continued to grow and consolidate in line with expectations, mainly attributable During the year under review, JKR relocated its presence during the year under review, to the increase in tea prices as discussed to the Technology Incubation Centre at the mainly through the acquisition of two above, coupled with the improvement in Nanotechnology and Science Park of the Sri strategic MNC accounts for SAP while demand for Sri Lanka’s exclusive range of Lanka Institute of Nano Technology (SLINTEC) expanding its services portfolio, leveraging orthodox black teas in the ﬁrst half of the in Pitipana, Homagama, a space which on its partnership with Microsoft and Cisco year. JK PLC launched an advance policy offers greater opportunities for technical to address the emerging needs in the digital Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 169 space of organisations. SGIT’s fully-fledged Capital Management Review practice in IT/digital consultancy services Subsequent to an operational review of the covers a broad spectrum of competencies such as mobility, big data, predictive analytics, artificial intelligence, smart buildings and sectors, the ensuing section summarises the forms of Capital available for the execution of the near, medium and long term strategies Rs. 5.23Bn Other including Plantation cloud services. SGIT actively promoted its of the business in creating value and also Services industry group PBT products and services in keeping with its deliberates on the Capital-wise performance A 39 per cent growth expansion plans, participating in conferences, of the sectors. both locally and regionally. The EBIT of JKH PLC at company level, includes a capital gain of Rs.2.58 billion pertaining to Key indicators under selected forms of Capital are as follows: the exercise undertaken to rationalise the Sectors Plantation Services Others Group’s shareholding structure. The exercise, as discussed in the External Environment Financial and Manufactured Capital revenue Rs.2.80 billion, 16 Rs.154 million, 38 and Operational Review section, was carried and growth per cent increase per cent decrease out to restructure the shareholding of the Financial and Manufactured Capital EBIT and Rs.388 million, 642 Rs.4.99 billion, 30 Group companies which had multiple layers growth per cent increase per cent increase of ownership. The exercise was executed Natural Capital carbon footprint 2,777 MT 557 MT via a hybrid model which consisted of both Human Capital number of employees 655 175 share and cash transfers within JKH PLC and its unquoted subsidiaries. It should also be noted that the capital gain was eliminated at a Group consolidated level. The Company also, included an impairment provision of Rs.900 Financial and Manufactured Capital million at EBIT level against the investment As at 1 April 2016, the Other including Turnover in the BPO cluster. However it is pertinent Plantations Services industry group had total to note that the adjustment is eliminated at 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% assets of Rs.66.37 billion, debt of Rs.2.30 a Group consolidation level. The EBIT of the billion and an opening equity capital of 91 9 industry group included investment property Rs.61.84 billion. 2014/15 gains of Rs.101 million emanating from 91 9 property held by Keells Realtors Limited, JK Financial Performance 2015/16 PLC and Facets (Pvt.) Limited. The recurring Total revenue of the industry group primarily 95 5 EBIT adjusted for the above is 5.28 billion. consisted of the revenue generated from the 2016/17 Plantations Services sector since there were Borrowings and Finance Expense no other signiﬁcant operating businesses in EBIT Total debt as at 31 March 2017 was Rs.91 this cluster. The Other including Plantations 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% million [2015/16: Rs.2.30 billion]. The USD Services sector recorded revenues of Rs.2.95 10 million loan balance of the IFC loan facility billion, an increase of 11 per cent against last 10 90 was repaid during the year. It should also be year [2015/16:Rs.2.66 billion]. The increase 2014/15 noted that the Company does not have any in revenue was primarily driven by TSF PLC, 1 99 long term borrowings subsequent to the which grew 21 per cent to Rs.2.31 billion due 2015/16 repayment of the IFC facility. The finance to the increase in average prices of tea during 7 93 expense of the industry group increased the year as discussed under the External 2016/17 by 1 per cent during the year on account of Environment and Operational Review section. Plantation Services the higher working capital expenses of the Other Plantations sector. The total EBIT inclusive of the Holding Company increased by 38 per cent to Rs.5.38 billion [2015/16: Rs.3.91 billion]. The growth is mainly attributable to the interest income Return on Capital Employed generated on the Group’s Rupee and US Dollar portfolios and exchange gains recorded ROCE 2016/17: 7.9% at the Company on its foreign currency [2015/16: 6.6%] denominated cash holdings. Interest income increased due to higher interest rates and an increase in the average capital base which included the 2016 Warrant conversion in Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity 0.04 182.3% 1.03 November 2016 amounting to Rs.3.18 billion. 170 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES Natural Capital • Usage of energy efficient compressed Waste Management Given the importance of the effective air by replacing reciprocating air Targets: management of Natural Capital and the compressors with the installation • Continuously ensure all waste water from vital inputs from natural resources for Sri of screw compressors, resulting in factory cleaning and waste generated Lanka’s plantations sector, sustainability estimated annual savings of 21,000 kWh from biomass generators are disposed has become increasingly entrenched within responsibly in line with requirements of • Continued usage of natural lighting the industry in recent years. Thus, focus the Environmental Protection License through the introduction of transparent has been placed on sustainable practices (EPL) roofing sheets resulting in an annual throughout the supply chain from cultivation energy saving as well as increased to distribution. Ongoing collaboration and Initiatives: efficiency of lighting systems by replacing partnerships with international conservation • Responsible disposal of wood ash and fluorescent tube lights with LED lights bodies help to disseminate international best e-waste through certified third-party practices and standards, while recognising that international buyers are increasingly concerned with seeking eco-friendly and Performance sustainable products. The carbon footprint for the Other including Plantation Services industry group improved to 3,334 MT for the year under review from the 3,543 MT recorded in the previous year, while waste The industry group seeks to reduce its generated reduced to 191,986 kg from 210,923 kg. usage of energy within the Centre Functions of the Group, through process efficiencies 2016/17 2015/16 (%) and monitoring, in meeting the Group’s Carbon footprint (MT) 3,334 3,543 (6) Environmental and Energy Management Waste generated (kg) 191,986 210,923 (9) Policy. The material impacts for the industry group Carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor are classified as follows: 2016/17 2015/16 TSF PLC CO2 (kg per kg of tea produced) 0.6 0.6 Energy and Financial and JK PLC and JKW CO2 (kg per square foot of floor area) 0.8 1.2 emissions regulatory implications, management environmental and social responsibility Impact through CSR initiatives Training and Ensuring functionally Waste and Regulatory implications TSF PLC, in collaboration with John Keells Development skilled and motivated effluent and environmental Foundation (JKF) and Carbon Consulting staff at the Centre management responsibility Company (Private) Limited, organised a tree Functions is considered planting initiative to increase the coverage important in facilitating Energy and Emissions Management: of vegetation in Neluwa in the Galle district. Group-wide synergies Targets: JKF coordinated the participation of 17 staff • Continuously assess existing facilities, volunteers from the John Keells Group. Forest machinery and processes for energy saplings and fruit saplings were planted for Training and Development efficiency and carry out improvements the long term benefit of the environment as Targets: as required well as the surrounding community. • Ensure group-wide synergies are created through continuous enhancement of • Continue to seek process improvements Human Capital knowledge and skills through innovation and strive to reduce Investment in Human Capital is carried out emissions whilst maintaining productivity through training and development activities Initiatives: Initiatives: conducted on a needs-basis, whilst ensuring • Provided 5,742 hours of training to that workplace health and safety remains a employees in the industry group, with 6.9 • Utilisation of renewable energy sources priority. hours of training per employee, resulting amounting to 65 per cent of the total in increased productivity energy requirement through usage of biomass, contributing to a reduction in Health and The respective carbon footprint safety businesses need to ensure safe working • Increased combustion efficiency of conditions, mainly biomass on account of construction of focusing on occupational fast drying UV covered firewood sheds health and safety and use of dry, split firewood, with damper control, for excess air and flue gas during the drier operations resulting in energy savings Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 171 The material impacts for the industry group are classified as follows: Supplier Sharing of knowledge development and best practices and social on cultivation with responsibility tea smallholders to ensure higher yields and quality green leaf which beneﬁts both the tea factories and the smallholder community Supplier Development and Social Responsibility: Targets: Energy saving screw compressor installed at Neluwa Medagama tea factory • Seek to assist with livelihood development of smallholders through improving yields and providing alternative sources of Health and Safety • Training and awareness programmes income while simultaneously improving Targets: on food safety conducted in line with ISO agricultural practices and environmental • Minimising health and safety incidents 22000 standard under which 5 factories conservation and provide a safe and healthy working have been re-certified contributing to environment for staff higher standards of product quality • Ensuring business sustainability through building and maintaining relationships Initiatives: Performance with smallholder communities to ensure • OHSAS ISO 18001 Certification obtained The industry group provided 5,742 hours of a steady supply of green leaf for 7 out of the 8 smallholder factories training to employees in the industry group, compared to 12,744 hours in the previous Initiatives: • Training and awareness on worker • TSF PLC, in collaboration with JKF and year. Injuries amounted to 3 incidents, all in health and safety was conducted in line Carbon Consulting Company (CCC), the Plantation Services sector. with OHSAS 18001 standard resulting in continued its tree planting projects in reduced number of injuries and lost days multiple locations in the Galle District; Hingalgoda, Neluwa, Kurupanawa and Labour indicators Halvitigala. The project is aimed at 2016/17 2015/16 (%) establishing plant cover on underutilised Injuries and diseases (number) 3 8 (63) farming lands. During the year in review, Total hours of training 5,742 12,744 (55) 3 plant monitoring visits were completed assessing the 3,000 plants that had been previously distributed among 31 pieces of farmland, covering over 15 acres. The Social and Relationship Capital to ongoing training and awareness sessions project which promotes environmental Social and Relationship Capital is of on HIV and AIDS and WAVE programmes. sustainability has also improved significant importance to the Plantations relations among community members Services sector, particularly TSF PLC, given All significant suppliers are identified and and enhanced farmers' livelihoods via that the surrounding community is an assessed for any negative impacts on the sale of non-timber forest products integral part of the company’s supply chain. environmental, labour and human rights while empowering and enabling women Building trust through ongoing initiatives, aspects and companies within the sector in the region to become active members such as replanting on unproductive tea lands, work closely with their supply chain of society community projects which assist in livelihood to improve the sustainability practices • TSF PLC continued its tea replanting development and the dissemination of throughout the value chain. project to replant unproductive tea lands, knowledge and best practices through with 5 projects conducted to date, out extension services assist the sector in of which 2 have been completed. A new solidifying these mutually beneficial Significant Suppliers project was undertaken in 2016/17 where relationships and producing socially desirable approximately 120,000 plants were outcomes. Such activities are carried out planted in a land extent of over 23 acres. both at a company level and through John The total extent of tea lands replanted, Keells Foundation, particularly with regards Tea smallholder farmers Tea plantations since its inception in 2010 to date, is 170 acres, where 245 smallholders have 172 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Industry Group Review OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES participated. The project aims to improve markets continue to remain a challenge. supplier livelihood whilst simultaneously John Keells Research (JKR), The impending promotional activities by the retaining the company’s supplier bases the research and development Sri Lanka Tea Board to reposition Ceylon and developing its brand image Tea, while retaining market share within arm of the Group continuously traditional export markets, will augur well for • Introduction of organic compost fertilizer strives to create sustainable the industry. The Group also expects a shift in for smallholder tea lands to supplement the inorganic fertilizer to ensure value through research and focus towards China, as a key growth market in black orthodox tea with the potential to sustainable agricultural practices development, and innovation, to double export volumes and earnings. • Extension services to disseminate develop the Intellectual Capital of knowledge on good agricultural practices the respective industry groups and TSF PLC will continue to work alongside (GAP) were provided to suppliers through sectors. smallholders and RPCs while building brand seminars/workshops and field advisory loyalty and guarantee of continuous supply visits enhancing their technical skills in to the company. The company will focus terms of best practices on the production of high quality green leaf composite materials has concluded and place signiﬁcance on processing high • The sector continues to carry out eye and the parties are in the process of quality tea which has the ability to command camps, health clinics, and awareness submitting an article titled “Oxidation premium prices at the auctions. In keeping programmes on gender-based violence protection of carbon fiber by sol-gel with the digitisation initiatives rolled out and serious diseases such as AIDS to its derived Boron doped Yittria-stabilised within the Group, JK PLC is in the process smallholders and residents in the vicinity Zirconia coatings” for publication of developing a system to capture factory of their operations, improving their dispatches online to improve efficiencies and quality of life • SGIT was bestowed with the SAP avoid duplication of work at the warehouses. Partner of the Year India Sub Continent/ Intellectual Capital New Markets and an ACE award for the JKR will continue to focus on its core areas John Keells Research (JKR), the research and first ever SP S4HANA implementation in of research and identified projects. As development arm of the Group continuously the subcontinent previously discussed, the research arm of the strives to create sustainable value through Group will continue to test the commercial research and development, and innovation, Strategy and Outlook viability and marketability of the energy to develop the Intellectual Capital of the The global demand for tea is expected to storage prototype developed. Alongside respective industry groups and sectors. During continue its current growth momentum in these developments, JKR will also extend the year, JKR continued to show progress by the near term with a relatively stable outlook the ongoing collaboration with a leading reaching significant milestones in its evolution for oil and other commodities. China, India university in the USA to develop reinforcing with some key developments, along with an and Kenya are expected to gain share in material using Sri Lankan agricultural waste. initiative of SGIT, as discussed below. the export market following the shortfall in supply witnessed from Sri Lanka in the past In an effort to address the increasing • JKR successfully filed its first patent for a year. emphasis on plastic waste management novel energy storage material within the country, the John Keells Group, The Sri Lankan tea industry is expected to • JKR increased the number of PhDs in its will spearhead a project to drive change by improve in the medium term with buoyant tea cadre through Post-Doctoral research encouraging reduction and rationalisation prices and relative stability in the commodity positions and will continue to invest on of use of single use plastics, supporting markets. However, supply is expected to be Human Capital to enhance scientific responsible disposal and promoting recycling impacted to an extent by the withdrawal of innovation capabilities initiatives. The first phase of the project, led fertilizer subsidies from regional plantation by the Consumer Foods and Retail industry • JKR signed an agreement with the companies (RPCs) and the ban on weedicide. group, will be piloted within a identified University of Moratuwa to begin new Additionally, the political and economic locality in the city of Colombo in the first half collaborative projects in digital health uncertainties in key export markets such of the ensuing financial year. as the Russian and the Middle Eastern • JKR is in the process of starting a collaborative research project with a SGIT will continue to expand its regional second university in the USA to develop presence through partnerships in Asia and novel technologies for the conversion of the Middle Eastern and North African (MENA) waste to energy markets. Towards this end, SGIT is in the process of establishing direct presence in • JKR’s collaborative research project with MENA markets together with John Keells the Human Genetics Unit, University of Computer Services under the brand “John Colombo, is in its final phase Keells IT”. • The research project undertaken in JKR successfully filed its first patent collaboration with the Sri Lanka Institute for a novel energy storage material of Nanotechnology to develop novel F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S Building Value The Financial Statements provide the reader with a detailed analysis of performance, results and financial strength. 175 Annual Report of the Board of Directors • 180 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility • 181 Independent Auditors’ Report • 182 Income Statement • 183 Statement of Comprehensive Income • 184 Statement of Financial Position • 185 Statement of Cash Flows • 186 Statement of Changes in Equity • 191 Notes to the Financial Statements Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 175 Annual Report of the Board of Directors The Directors have pleasure in presenting the have been prepared in accordance with whilst the Group profit attributable to equity 38th Annual Report of your Company which Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/ holders of the parent for the year was LKR covers the audited Financial Statements, LKAS) with the inclusion of signatures of the 16,275 million (2016 LKR 14,070 million). Chairman’s message, Corporate Governance Chairman, Group Finance Director and Group Commentary, Capital Management Review, Financial Controller, are given from page 182 The Company’s total comprehensive income Industry Group Review and all the other to 258 which form a part of the Integrated net of tax was LKR 16,123 million (2016 relevant information for the year ended 31 Annual Report. -LKR 17,029 million), and the Group total March 2017. Disclosures which appear in comprehensive income attributable to parent Share and Warrant Information section form Financial Results and Appropriations was LKR 25,694 million (2016 -LKR 17,848 a part of the Annual Report of the Board Revenue million). of Directors as it is a requirement of the Revenue generated by the Company Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. amounted to LKR. 1,126 million (2016 – Dividend and Reserves LKR 1,108 million), whilst Group revenue As required by Section 56(2) of the Principal Activities amounted to LKR 106,273 million (2016 Companies Act No 7 of 2007, the Board of John Keells Holdings PLC (the Company), – LKR 93,710 million). Contribution to Directors has confirmed that the Company the Group’s holding Company, manages a Group revenue, from the different business satisfies the solvency test in accordance portfolio of holdings consisting of a range of segments is provided in note 7 to the financial with Section 57 of the Companies Act No 7 diverse business operations, which together statements. of 2007, and has obtained a certificate from constitute the John Keells Group (the Group), the auditors, prior to declaring all dividends. and provides function based services to its Profit and Appropriations A final dividend will be paid on 16 June 2017 subsidiaries and equity accounted investees. The profit after tax of the Company was LKR to those shareholders on the register as of 6 16,152 million (2016 – LKR 17,070 million) June 2017. The companies within the Group and its business activities are described in the Group Directory under the Supplementary Information on dividends and reserves of the Company are given below. Information section of the Annual Report. There were no significant changes to the John Keells Holdings PLC principal activities of the Company or its subsidiaries during the year. For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR ‘000s Corporate Vision and Values A culture of innovation, integrity, excellence, Profit after tax 16,152,442 17,070,114 caring and trust has been developed within the Group and by being aligned with them, Other adjustments (5,309) (283,784) the Directors and employees conduct their Balance brought forward from the previous year 39,337,754 30,877,090 activities to achieve the vision,” Building Amount available for appropriation 55,484,887 47,663,420 businesses that are leaders in the region”. 1st interim dividend of LKR 2.00 per share (2016-LKR 4.50) Review of Business Segments paid out of dividend received. (2,721,458) (5,352,156) A review of the financial and operational performance and future business 2nd interim dividend of LKR 2.00 per share (2016-LKR 1.00) developments of the Group, sectors, and paid out of dividend received. (2,774,933) (1,189,404) its business units are described in the Management Discussion and Analysis Final dividend Declared of LKR 2.00 per share (2016-LKR section of the Annual Report. Significant 1.50) to be paid out of the dividend received.* (2,774,933) (1,784,106) changes to business combinations and Balance to be carried forward to the next year 47,213,563 39,337,754 acquisition of non-controlling interests are provided in note 9 to the financial *In accordance with LKAS 10, Events After the Reporting Period, the final dividend has not statements. These reports, together with been recognised as a liability in the financial statements. the audited financial statements, reflect the state of affairs of the Company and the Group. Segment wise contribution to Accounting Policies the Group prepared its financial statements Group revenue, results, assets and liabilities All the significant accounting policies adopted in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting are provided in note 7 to the financial by the Company and the Group are mentioned Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) which have statements. in note 4 to the financial statements. There materially converged with the International have been no changes in the accounting Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as Financial Statements policies adopted by the Group during the issued by the International Accounting Financial Statements of the Group and year under review. For all periods up to and Standards Board (IASB). Company for the year ended 31 March 2017, including the year ended 31 March 2017, 176 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Annual Report of the Board of Directors Donations Investment properties of business units, Details of Group properties as at 31 March Total donations made by the Company and when significantly occupied by Group 2017 are disclosed in real estate portfolio the Group during the year amounted to LKR companies, are classified as property, plant under the supplementary information section 14 million (2016 LKR 24 million) and LKR 34 and equipment in the consolidated financial of the Annual Report. million (2016 LKR 24 million), respectively. statements in compliance with LKAS 40. These amounts do not include contributions Investments on account of corporate social responsibility All investment properties of the Group Detailed description of the long term (CSR) initiatives. were revalued as at 31 March 2017, and investments held as at the reporting date, is the carrying value amounted to LKR given in note 25, 26 and 27 to the financial Related Party Transactions 5,366 million (2016 -LKR 4,878 million). All statements. The Company’s transactions with Related information related to revaluation of the Parties, given in note 43 to the financial investment properties are provided in note statements, have complied with Colombo 23 to the financial statements. Stock Exchange Listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions Stated Capital under the Securities Exchange Commission Information on the stated capital of John Keells Holdings PLC is given below; Directive issued under Section 13(c) of the Securities Exchange Commission Act. 2017 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility For the year ended 31 March Number of Value of Number of Value of The John Keells Foundation, which is funded shares shares shares shares by the Company and its subsidiaries, handles In ’000 LKR’000 In ’000 LKR’000 most of the Group’s CSR initiatives and activities. The Foundation manages a range of Fully paid ordinary shares programmes that underpin its key principle of acting responsibly towards its stakeholders. At the beginning of the year 1,189,404 58,701,977 997,486 50,702,701 The CSR initiatives, including completed and on-going projects, are detailed in the Capital Share options exercised 6,869 911,261 165 26,516 Management Review section in the Annual Subdivision of shares 169,915 142,498 Report. Exercise of share warrants 21,280 3,176,842 49,255 7,972,760 In quantifying the Group’s contribution to At the end of the year 1,387,468 62,790,080 1,189,404 58,701,977 charities, no account has been taken of inhouse costs or management time. Capital Expenditure Share Information Revenue Reserves The Company’s and Group’s capital The distribution and composition of Revenue reserves as at 31 March 2017 for expenditure on property, plant and equipment shareholders and the information relating to the Company and Group amounted to LKR amounted to LKR 11 million (2016 LKR 30 earnings, dividends, net assets, market value 49,998 million (2016 LKR 41,122 million) million) and LKR 4,332 million (2016 -LKR per share and share trading are given in and LKR 77,193 million (2016 LKR 67,565 4,582 million) respectively and all other the Share Information section of the Annual million), respectively. The movement and related information and movements have Report. As an additional disclosure, the the composition of the reserves are disclosed in been disclosed in the note 21 to the financial Company’s Board of Directors’ (including their the Statement of Changes in Equity. statements. close family members) shareholdings and options available under the employee share The Board of Directors Additions to intangible assets of the Company option (ESOP) plans as at 31 March 2017, The Board of Directors of the Company as at and Group during the year amounted to LKR are given in Share and Warrant Information 31 March 2017 and their brief profiles are 7 million (2016 LKR 4 million) and LKR 114 section of the Annual Report. given in the Board of Directors section of the million (2016 LKR 163 million) respectively Annual Report. and all other related movements are Major Shareholders disclosed in the note 24 to the financial Details of the twenty largest shareholders of Retirement And Re-Election of Directors statements. the Company and the percentages held by In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles each of them are disclosed in the Share and of Association of the Company, D A Cabraal Valuation of Property, Plant & Equipment Warrant Information section of the Annual and A N Fonseka retire by rotation and being and Investment Property Report. eligible, offer themselves for re-election. All land and buildings owned by Group companies were revalued during the year. All Equitable Treatment of Shareholders S H H Wijayasuriya was appointed information relating to revaluation is given in The Company has at all times ensured that all to the Board as an independent, Non note 21.3 to the financial statements. shareholders are treated equitably. Executive Director on 4 October 2016, and Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 177 K N J Balendra and J G A Cooray were Given below are, the particulars of All indemnities and remuneration have been appointed to the Board as Executive Directors subsidiaries’ interest register; approved by the Boards of the respective on 5 November 2016. In accordance with companies as recommended by the Human Article 91 of the Articles of Association Trans Asia Hotels PLC; Resources and Compensation Committee. of the Company, S H H Wijayasuriya, K N J • N L Gooneratne Sale of 110 shares These indeminities and remuneration Balendra and J G A Cooray are eligible for reare structured after considering market election. Brief profiles of S H H Wijayasuriya, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC; comparators, experts views and specific K N J Balendra and J G A Cooray are given in • M Hamza Purchase of 500 shares management complexities associated with the Board of Directors section of the Annual the John Keells Group. Report. Tea Smallholder Factories PLC; • R E Rambukwella Sale of 4,600 shares The contracts and the Directors’ fees of the Review of Performance of the Board following Non-Executive Directors have been The performance of the Board is evaluated Indemnities and Remuneration approved/renewed by the Board. The fees are through a formalised process, where each The Board approved the payment of commensurate with the market complexities individual Director anonymously comments remuneration of the following Executive associated with the John Keells Group. on the dynamics of the Board. The process is Directors for the period of 1 April 2016 to 31 described in page 30. March 2017 comprising of; John Keells Holdings PLC; • S S H Wijayasuriya (appointed w.e.f 4 Board Committees An increment from 1 July 2016 based on the October 2016) Information relating to members of the individual performance rating obtained by the Audit Committee, Human Resources & Executive Directors in line with performance Asian Hotels and Properties PLC; Compensation Committee, Nominations management system of the John Keells • K N J Balendra (appointed w.e.f 1 April Committee and the Related Party Transactions Group; 2016) Review Committee including reports of Ceylon Cold Stores PLC; each of the committees and attendance of A short term variable incentive based on • S Ratwatte (appointed w.e.f 17 June 2016) Directors for each of the committee meetings the individual performance, organization • R S Wilson Wijeratnam (appointed w.e.f 17 are disclosed under Corporate Governance performance and role responsibility based on June 2016) section of the Annual Report. the results of the financial year 2015/2016, and Long Term Incentive Plan in the form of John Keells PLC Interests Register and Interests in an Employee Share Options in John Keells • R B A I Rajakarier (appointed w.e.f 29 June Contracts Holdings PLC. 2016) The Company has maintained an Interests • A K Gunawardhana (appointed w.e.f 29 Register as contemplated by the Companies John Keells Holdings PLC; June 2016) Act No 7 of 2007. • S C Ratnayake • C N Wijewardene (appointed w.e.f 29 June • A D Gunewardene 2016) This Annual Report also contains particulars • J R F Peiris of entries made in the Interests Registers of • K N J Balendra (appointed w.e.f 5 November John Keells Hotels PLC subsidiaries which are public companies and 2016) • N B Weerasekara private companies which have not dispensed • J G A Cooray (appointed w.e.f 5 November • T L F W Jayasekera with the requirement to maintain an Interests 2016) • K N J Balendra (appointed w.e.f 1 April 2016) Register as permitted by Section 30 of the • A K Moonesinghe (appointed w.e.f 1 July Companies Act No 7 of 2007. Asian Hotels and Properties PLC; 2016) • R J Karunarajah All the Directors have made a general • S Rajendra Keells Food Products PLC; disclosure relating to share dealings and • S De Silva (appointed w.e.f 10 June 2016) Ceylon Cold Stores PLC; • A E H Sanderatne (appointed w.e.f 10 June indemnities and remuneration to the Board • J R Gunaratne 2016) of Directors as required by Section 192 (2) of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007 and no • I Samarajiva (appointed w.e.f 10 June John Keells PLC; additional interests have been disclosed 2016) • R S Fernando (resigned w.e.f 9 September by any Director. The Interest Register is • P D Samarasinghe (appointed w.e.f 10 2016) available at the registered head office of the June 2016) Company, in keeping with the requirements Union Assurance PLC; Tea Smallholders Factories PLC of the section 119(1) (d) of the Companies Act • A D Pereira • M H De Silva (appointed w.e.f 6 February No 7 of 2007. Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd; 2017) Share Dealings • B J S M Senanayake Trans Asia Hotels PLC; Particulars of the Company Interest Register • J C Ponniah are disclosed in the Share and Warrant Walkers Tours Ltd; • K N J Balendra (appointed w.e.f 1 April 2016) Information section of the Annual Report. • V Leelananda 178 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Annual Report of the Board of Directors Fees payable to Non-executive Nominee stakeholders such as employees, customers, The Group strives to integrate principles Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC was suppliers and the community. These of sustainable practices and policies in its paid to John Keells Holdings PLC and not to measures are encapsulated in a Group-wide value chain through extensive stakeholder individual Directors. sustainable development strategy which is consultations, the findings of which are continuously evolving. This year, the Group integrated into work-plans. During the year, Directors’ Remuneration published it’s second integrated Annual a supplier management framework and a Details of the remuneration and other Report, which presents a comprehensive supplier code of conduct were implemented. benefits received by the Directors are set out capital’s discussion on its financial and nonSupplier engagement including various fora in note 43.7 of the financial statements. financial performance, in a bid to provide and assessments of sites, suppliers were its stakeholders with holistic information closely engaged with, particularly where the Employee Share Option Plan (ESOP) relating to its value creation proposition. supply is of great importance to the Group. At the beginning of the year, the employee The Group has sought independent thirdshare option plan consisted of the seventh, party assurance from DNV GL represented Environmental Protection eighth and ninth plans approved by the in Sri Lanka by DNV Business Assurance The Group complies with the relevant shareholders on, 7 December 2011, 28 June Lanka (Private) Limited in relation to the nonenvironmental laws, regulations and 2014 and 24 June 2016 respectively. financial information contained in this Report. endeavours to comply with best practices applicable in the country of operation. A The Directors confirm that the Company has The Report has also successfully completed summary of selected Group activities in the not granted any funding to employees to the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. above area is contained in the Sustainability exercise options. Report. Employment Details of the options granted, options The Group has an equal opportunity policy Research and Development exercised, the grant price and the options and these principles are enshrined in The Group has an active approach to research cancelled or lapsed and outstanding as at specific selection, training, development and and development and recognizes the the date of the Directors’ report as required promotion policies, ensuring that all decisions contribution that it can make to intellectual by the Listing Rules of The Colombo Stock are based on merit. The Group practices property and the Group’s operations. Exchange are given in the Shares and equality of opportunity for all employees Significant investment has been made over Warrants Information section of the Annual irrespective of ethnicity, religion, political the years and substantial efforts will continue Report. opinion, gender, marital status or different to be made to introduce intellectual property physical attributes. Employee ownership rights, new products and processes, enhance The highest, lowest and the closing prices of in the Company is facilitated through the the existing products and service offering the Company shares during the year were employee share option plan. including improve operational efficiency. LKR 165.00, LKR 133.90 and LKR 137.90 respectively. Details of the Group’s human resource Statutory Payments initiatives are detailed in the Human Capital The Directors confirm that to the best of Corporate Governance section under Capital Management Review of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies The Board of Directors is committed the Annual Report. payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, towards maintaining an effective Corporate all contributions, levies and taxes payable on Governance Framework and implementing The number of persons employed by the behalf of, and in respect of the employees systems and structures required to ensure Company and Group as at 31 March 2017 of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all best practices in Corporate Governance and was 162 (2016 156) and 13,211 (2016 – other known statutory dues as were due and their effective implementation. The table on 12,035), respectively. payable by the Company and its subsidiaries page 46 and 47 shows the manner in which as at the statement of financial position date the Company has complied with the Section There have been no material issues pertaining have been paid or, where relevant provided 7.10 of the Rules of the Colombo Stock to employees and industrial relations of the for, except as specified in note 44 to the Exchange (CSE) on Corporate Governance. Company and the Group. financial statements, covering contingent The Risk Management report is given liabilities. from page 101 to 105 and the Corporate Supplier Policy Governance Commentary is given from page The Group adopts a clear policy of terms Enterprise Risk Management 26 to 56. and condition including payment as part The Board confirms that there is an ongoing of the commercial agreements negotiated process of identifying, evaluating and Sustainability with suppliers, and endeavours to pay for all managing any significant risks faced by the The Group pursues its business goals based on items properly charged in accordance with Group, where annual risk reviews are carried a model of stakeholder governance. Findings these agreed terms. As at 31 March 2017 the out by the Sustainability, Enterprise Risk of the continuous internal stakeholder trade and other payables of the Company and Management and Group Initiatives Division engagements have enabled the Group to focus Group amounted to LKR 330 million (2016 and the risks are further reviewed each on material issues such as the conservation LKR 333 million) and LKR 14,136 million quarter by each business unit. The headline of natural resources and the environment (2016 LKR 12,755 million), respectively. risks of each listed Company is presented as well as material issues impacting other Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 179 to its respective Board Audit Committee & Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers. for review by the business unit and in the Details of audit fees are set out in note 17 of case of John Keells Holdings PLC, by the the financial statements. The Auditors do Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management not have any relationship (other than that of and Group Initiatives Division to the John an Auditor) with the Company or any of its Keells Board Audit Committee. subsidiaries. Internal Controls and Assurance Further details on the work of the Auditor and The Board, through the involvement of the the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Group Business Process Review Division, Committee Report. takes steps to gain assurance on the effectiveness over the financial, operational Compliance with Laws and Regulations and risk management control systems in To the best of knowledge and belief of the place. The Audit Committee receives regular Directors, the Group/Company has not reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of engaged in any activity, which contravenes internal control in the Group, compliance with laws and regulations of the country. laws and regulations and established policies and procedures of the Group. The head of the Annual Report Group Business Process Review Division The Board of Directors approved the has direct access to the chairman of the consolidated financial statements on 26 Audit Committee. Reports of the outsourced May 2017. The appropriate number of internal auditors are also reviewed by the copies of this report will be submitted to Committee on matters pertaining to the the Colombo Stock Exchange and to the Company. Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Monitoring Board on 31 May 2017. Events after the Reporting Period There have been no events subsequent to Annual General Meeting the reporting period, which would have any The annual general meeting will be held material effect on the Company or on the at the Institute of Chartered Accountants Group other than those disclosed in note 48 of Sri Lanka, 30A, Malalasekera Mawatha, to the financial statements. Colombo 7, on Friday, 30 June 2017 at 10.00 a.m. The notice of meeting appears in the Going Concern Supplementary Information section of the The Directors are satisfied that the Company, integrated Annual Report. its subsidiaries and equity accounted investees, have adequate resources to This Annual Report is signed for and on continue in operational existence for the behalf of the Board of Directors foreseeable future, to justify adopting the By Order of the Board going concern basis in preparing these financial statements. Appointment and Remuneration of Independent Auditors Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, Director are willing to continue as Auditors of the Company, and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be tabled at the annual general meeting. The Auditors Report is found in the Financial Director Information section of the Annual Report. The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Auditor, its effectiveness, its independence and its relationship with the Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. Group, including the level of audit and nonSecretaries audit fees paid to the Auditor. 26 May 2017 The Group works with 3 firms of Chartered Accountants across the Group, namely, Ernst 180 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility The responsibility of the Directors in relation The Directors are also responsible for taking to the financial statements is set out in the reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of following statement. The responsibility the Company and of the Group and in this of the auditors, in relation to the financial regard to give proper consideration to the statements prepared in accordance with the establishment of appropriate internal control provision of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, systems with a view to preventing and is set out in the Report of the Auditors. detecting fraud and other irregularities. The financial statements comprise of: The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements and to provide the • Income statement and statement of auditors with every opportunity to take comprehensive income of the Company whatever steps and undertake whatever and its subsidiaries, which present a true inspections that may be considered being and fair view of the profit and loss of the appropriate to enable them to give their audit Company and its subsidiaries for the opinion. financial year. Further, as required by Section 56 (2) of the • A statement of financial position, which Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Board of presents a true and fair view of the state of Directors have confirmed that the Company, affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries based on the information available, satisfies as at the end of the financial year: and the solvency test immediately after the distribution, in accordance with Section 57 of The Directors are required to confirm that the the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, and have financial statements have been prepared: obtained a certificate from the auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend of LKR 2.00 per • Using appropriate accounting policies share for this year, to be paid on 16 June which have been selected and applied 2017. in a consistent manner, and material departures, if any, have been disclosed and The Directors are of the view that they have explained; and discharged their responsibilities as set out in this statement. • Presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS); and Compliance Report that reasonable and prudent judgments The Directors confirm that to the best of and estimates have been made so that the their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies form and substance of transactions are payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, properly reflected; and all contributions, levies and taxes payable on behalf of and in respect of the employees • Provides the information required by and of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all otherwise comply with the Companies Act other known statutory dues as were due and and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock payable by the Company and its subsidiaries Exchange. as at the balance sheet date have been paid, or where relevant provided for, except The Directors are also required to ensure as specified in note 44 to the financial that the Company has adequate resources statements covering contingent liabilities. to continue in operation to justify applying the going concern basis in preparing these By order of the Board financial statements. Further, the Directors have a responsibility to ensure that the Company maintains sufficient accounting records to disclose, with Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. reasonable accuracy the financial position of Secretaries the Company and of the Group. 26 May 2017 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 181 Independent Auditors’ Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT about whether the financial statements are Report on Other Legal and Regulatory TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JOHN KEELLS free from material misstatement. Requirements HOLDINGS PLC As required by section 163 (2) of the Report on the Financial Statements An audit involves performing procedures to Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we state the We have audited the accompanying financial obtain audit evidence about the amounts and following: statements of John Keells Holdings PLC, disclosures in the financial statements. The (“the Company”), and the consolidated procedures selected depend on the auditor’s a) The basis of opinion, scope and limitations financial statements of the Company and judgment, including the assessment of of the audit are as stated above. its subsidiaries (“Group”), which comprise the risks of material misstatement of the the statement of financial position as at financial statements, whether due to fraud or b) In our opinion: 31 March 2017, and the income statement error. In making those risk assessments, the • we have obtained all the information and and statement of comprehensive income, auditor considers internal controls relevant explanations that were required for the statement of changes in equity and, cash to the entity’s preparation of the financial audit and, as far as appears from our flow statement for the year then ended, and statements that give a true and fair view in examination, proper accounting records a summary of significant accounting policies order to design audit procedures that are have been kept by the Company, and other explanatory information. appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion • the financial statements of the Company Board’s Responsibility for the Financial on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal give a true and fair view of its financial Statements control. An audit also includes evaluating position as at 31 March 2017, and of its The Board of Directors (“Board”) is the appropriateness of accounting policies financial performance and cash flows for responsible for the preparation of these used and the reasonableness of accounting the year then ended in accordance with Sri financial statements that give a true and fair estimates made by the Board, as well as Lanka Accounting Standards, and view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting evaluating the overall presentation of the Standards and for such internal control as financial statements. Board determines is necessary to enable the • the financial statements of the Company, preparation of financial statements that are and the Group comply with the We believe that the audit evidence we have free from material misstatement, whether requirements of sections 151 and 153 of obtained is sufficient and appropriate to due to fraud or error. the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. provide a basis for our audit opinion. Auditor’s Responsibility Opinion Our responsibility is to express an opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial on these financial statements based on our statements give a true and fair view of audit. We conducted our audit in accordance the financial position of the Group as at 31 with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those March 2017, and of its financial performance standards require that we comply with and cash flows for the year then ended 26 May 2017 ethical requirements and plan and perform in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Colombo the audit to obtain reasonable assurance Standards. 182 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Income Statement Group Company For the year ended 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Continuing operations Sale of goods 68,238,202 58,608,224 Rendering of services 38,034,899 35,101,730 1,126,353 1,108,095 Revenue 13 106,273,101 93,709,954 1,126,353 1,108,095 Cost of sales (75,158,110) (65,057,256) (564,049) (541,812) Gross profit 31,114,991 28,652,698 562,304 566,283 Dividend income 14 10,469,023 10,260,828 Other operating income 15.1 1,765,187 1,704,123 2,607,861 3,821,890 Selling and distribution expenses (3,900,667) (3,615,527) Administrative expenses (11,435,797) (10,744,227) (903,969) (947,588) Other operating expenses 15.2 (3,170,105) (3,429,561) (941,172) (566,680) Results from operating activities 14,373,609 12,567,506 11,794,047 13,134,733 Finance cost 16 (436,278) (993,802) (89,397) (81,579) Finance income 16 10,033,281 8,010,952 5,540,768 4,640,404 Change in insurance contract liabilities 35.2 (4,869,288) (3,430,533) Change in fair value of investment property 23 483,554 262,875 Share of results of equity accounted investees 26 3,302,955 2,781,233 Profit before tax 17 22,887,833 19,198,231 17,245,418 17,693,558 Tax expense 20.1 (4,771,068) (3,406,366) (1,092,976) (623,444) Profit for the year 18,116,765 15,791,865 16,152,442 17,070,114 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 16,275,158 14,070,009 Non-controlling interests 1,841,607 1,721,856 18,116,765 15,791,865 LKR. LKR. Earnings per share Basic 18.1 11.85 10.54 Diluted 18.2 11.84 10.52 Dividend per share 19 5.50 7.00 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 191 to 258 form an integral part of these financial statements. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 183 Statement of Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Profit for the year 18,116,765 15,791,865 16,152,442 17,070,114 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to income statement in subsequent periods Currency translation of foreign operations 1,089,650 3,009,187 Net (loss)/gain on cash flow hedges 12.3 331,679 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees 272,648 576,177 Net gain / (loss) on available-for-sale financial assets (302,773) (521,015) (24,087) (38,373) Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to income 1,391,204 3,064,349 (24,087) (38,373) statement in subsequent periods Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to income statement in subsequent periods Revaluation of land and buildings 10,361,135 1,282,978 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees 3,830 40,947 Re-measurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans 37 (110,758) (44,627) (5,310) (2,478) Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to income 10,254,207 1,279,298 (5,310) (2,478) statement in subsequent periods Tax on other comprehensive income 20.2 49,444 (52,348) Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 11,694,855 4,291,299 (29,397) (40,851) Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 29,811,620 20,083,164 16,123,045 17,029,263 Attributable to : Equity holders of the parent 25,694,454 17,848,337 Non-controlling interests 4,117,166 2,234,827 29,811,620 20,083,164 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 191 to 258 form an integral part of these financial statements. 184 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Statement of Financial Position Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 21 64,396,373 52,736,375 93,913 116,039 Lease rentals paid in advance 22 13,206,058 10,888,158 Investment property 23 5,366,180 4,878,406 Intangible assets 24 2,118,160 2,337,860 30,801 43,820 Investments in subsidiaries 25 42,987,395 36,384,646 Investments in equity accounted investees 26 17,718,887 16,949,464 8,910,800 8,867,622 Non-current financial assets 27 27,666,621 22,635,444 2,789,980 507,405 Deferred tax assets 20.4 143,548 129,837 Other non-current assets 28 41,692,316 35,557,148 16,254 12,414 172,308,143 146,112,692 54,829,143 45,931,946 Current assets Inventories 29 5,605,712 4,664,833 Trade and other receivables 30 11,687,429 9,998,949 118,076 169,144 Amounts due from related parties 43.1 111,639 133,031 286,735 595,182 Other current assets 31 3,265,327 2,303,431 99,442 128,353 Short term investments 32 79,174,327 72,635,070 60,243,280 56,862,236 Cash in hand and at bank 5,119,185 5,127,463 304,265 178,193 104,963,619 94,862,777 61,051,798 57,933,108 Total assets 277,271,762 240,975,469 115,880,941 103,865,054 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 33 62,790,080 58,701,977 62,790,080 58,701,977 Revenue reserves 77,193,184 67,564,513 49,988,495 41,121,860 Other components of equity 33.2 38,651,568 28,715,262 1,504,876 1,084,617 178,634,832 154,981,752 114,283,451 100,908,454 Non-controlling interest 15,695,543 13,498,570 Total equity 194,330,375 168,480,322 114,283,451 100,908,454 Non-current liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 35 31,700,278 27,205,282 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 36 14,202,636 13,706,848 Deferred tax liabilities 20.4 2,336,241 2,029,371 Employee benefit liabilities 37 1,880,287 1,660,880 217,910 189,181 Other deferred liabilities 38 838,891 861,802 103,218 371,014 Other non-current liabilities 39 3,933,882 3,095,181 54,892,215 48,559,364 321,128 560,195 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 40 14,136,040 12,755,466 330,078 332,506 Amounts due to related parties 43.2 10,434 28,982 210,029 102,135 Income tax liabilities 20.3 2,395,379 1,873,472 635,532 345,555 Short term borrowings 41 1,380,238 821,243 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 36 2,918,854 2,991,582 1,482,508 Other current liabilities 42 2,944,118 2,234,856 16,441 16,289 Bank overdrafts 4,264,109 3,230,182 84,282 117,412 28,049,172 23,935,783 1,276,362 2,396,405 Total equity and liabilities 277,271,762 240,975,469 115,880,941 103,865,054 I certify that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. M J S Rajakariar Group Financial Controller The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements. S C Ratnayake J R F Peiris Chairman Group Finance Director 26 May 2017 Colombo The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 191 to 258 form an integral part of these financial statements. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 185 Statement of Cash Flows Group Company For the year ended 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before working capital changes A 14,249,210 14,577,471 (143,117) (183,324) (Increase) / Decrease in inventories (940,879) 934,769 (Increase) / Decrease in trade and other receivables (1,712,513) 69,939 38,775 (62,627) (Increase) / Decrease in other current assets (320,693) (176,563) 37,903 10,017 (Increase) / Decrease in other non-current assets (5,008,630) (6,646,918) (3,840) 1,393 Increase / (Decrease) in trade, other payables and other non-current liabilities 2,200,730 3,551,730 (3,617) (99,067) Increase / (Decrease) in other current liabilities 820,376 (1,033,059) 153 1,406 Increase / (Decrease) in insurance contract liabilities 4,494,996 3,273,316 Cash generated from operations 13,782,597 14,550,685 (73,743) (332,202) Finance income received 9,536,363 8,117,933 4,221,631 4,162,732 Finance cost paid (302,583) (955,839) (63,216) (78,912) Dividend received 2,854,182 2,588,485 10,789,765 9,902,966 Tax paid (4,630,808) (2,519,947) (803,000) (541,130) Super Gain Tax paid (1,096,780) (235,746) Gratuity paid (219,443) (171,100) (9,412) (386) Net cash flow from operating activities 21,020,308 20,513,437 14,062,025 12,877,322 CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment (4,331,582) (4,582,064) (11,110) (30,002) Purchase of intangible assets (114,398) (162,608) (6,746) (4,196) Addition to investment property (4,220) (6,590) Purchase of lease rights (2,657,012) (607,155) Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired 9.2 (12,914) Acquisition of associates (115,407) Increase in interest in subsidiaries (4,840,893) (5,100,725) Increase in interest in associates (44,172) (40,200) (43,178) (40,200) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 157,919 592,421 211 8,260 Proceeds from sale of non-current investments 36,357 5,739,902 Proceeds from sale of financial instruments fair valued through profit or loss 1,242,075 236,082 Purchase of financial instruments fair valued through profit or loss (1,285,594) (448,206) (Purchase) / disposal of short term investments (net) (5,443,340) (39,731) (1,681,845) (2,591,480) (Purchase) / disposal of non current financial assets (net) (5,270,637) (4,506,403) 1,311 106,491 Grants received for investing activities 80,800 10,714 Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities (17,670,161) (9,566,654) (6,545,893) (2,027,357) CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from issue of shares 4,088,103 7,999,276 4,088,103 7,999,276 Direct cost on issue of shares (71,189) (45,560) Changes in non controlling interest 65,660 (23,079) Payment of other deferred liabilities (115,406) Dividend paid to equity holders of parent (7,280,497) (8,037,790) (7,280,497) (8,037,790) Dividend paid to shareholders with non-controlling interest (1,279,179) (1,595,872) Proceeds from long term borrowings 3,300,907 409,372 Repayment of long term borrowings (3,443,821) (4,623,992) (1,469,884) (1,388,100) Proceeds from (repayment of) other financial liabilities (net) 558,995 (1,773,958) Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities (4,105,238) (7,717,232) (4,662,278) (1,472,174) NET INCREASE / (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (755,091) 3,229,551 2,853,854 9,377,791 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING 48,398,696 45,169,145 37,135,335 27,757,544 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END 47,643,605 48,398,696 39,989,189 37,135,335 ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Favorable balances Short term investments 32 46,788,529 46,501,415 39,769,206 37,074,554 Cash in hand and at bank 5,119,185 5,127,463 304,265 178,193 Unfavourable balances Bank overdrafts (4,264,109) (3,230,182) (84,282) (117,412) Total cash and cash equivalents 47,643,605 48,398,696 39,989,189 37,135,335 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less. For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 191 to 258 form an integral part of these financial statements. 186 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Statement of Cash Flows Group Company For the year ended 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s A. Profit before working capital changes Profit before tax 22,887,833 19,198,231 17,245,418 17,693,558 Adjustments for: Finance income (10,033,281) (8,010,952) (5,540,768) (4,640,404) Dividend income (10,469,023) (10,260,828) Finance costs 436,278 993,802 89,397 81,579 Share based payment expense 444,346 395,592 119,822 128,541 Change in fair value of investment property (483,554) (262,875) Share of results of equity accounted investees (3,302,955) (2,781,233) (Profit) / loss on sale of non-current investments (2,574,003) (3,792,821) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,874,071 2,782,315 33,042 33,415 Provision for impairment losses 34,332 215,764 900,419 525,000 (Profit) / loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 41,183 34,050 (17) (1,656) Gain on bargain purchase of a subsidiary 9.2 (4,088) Amortisation of lease rental paid in advance 592,983 738,407 Amortisation of intangible assets 333,046 320,564 19,765 23,659 Amortisation of other deferred liabilities (19,669) (14,984) Gratuity provision and related costs 327,633 283,900 32,831 26,633 Unrealised (gain) / loss on foreign exchange (net) 116,964 688,978 14,249,210 14,577,471 (143,117) (183,324) Statement of Changes in Equity COMPANY Stated Other Available Revenue Total In LKR '000s capital capital for sale reserve equity reserve reserve As at 1 April 2015 50,702,701 562,718 164,680 32,373,320 83,803,419 Charge relating to Super Gain Tax (235,746) (235,746) Profit for the year 17,070,114 17,070,114 Other comprehensive income (38,373) (2,478) (40,851) Total comprehensive income (38,373) 17,067,636 17,029,263 Exercise of share warrants 7,972,760 7,972,760 Exercise of share options 26,516 26,516 Direct cost of issue of shares (45,560) (45,560) Share based payments 395,592 395,592 Final dividend paid 2014/15 (1,496,230) (1,496,230) Interim dividends paid 2015/16 (6,541,560) (6,541,560) As at 31 March 2016 58,701,977 958,310 126,307 41,121,860 100,908,454 Profit for the year 16,152,442 16,152,442 Other comprehensive income (24,087) (5,310) (29,397) Total comprehensive income (24,087) 16,147,132 16,123,045 Exercise of share warrants 3,176,842 3,176,842 Exercise of share options 911,261 911,261 Share based payments 444,346 444,346 Final dividend paid 2015/16 (1,784,105) (1,784,105) Interim dividends paid 2016/17 (5,496,392) (5,496,392) As at 31 March 2017 62,790,080 1,402,656 102,220 49,988,495 114,283,451 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 191 to 258 form an integral part of these financial statements. Attributable to equity holders of the parent GROUP Stated Revaluation Foreign Cash flow Other Available Revenue Total Non Total In LKR '000s capital reserve currency hedge capital for sale reserve controlling equity translation reserve reserve reserve interests reserve As at 1 April 2015 50,702,701 19,752,411 3,770,496 562,718 415,653 62,593,948 137,797,927 12,278,883 150,076,810 Charge relating to Super Gain Tax (1,237,546) (1,237,546) (104,567) (1,342,113) Profit for the year 14,070,009 14,070,009 1,721,856 15,791,865 Other comprehensive income 1,093,779 3,310,483 (585,870) (40,064) 3,778,328 512,971 4,291,299 Total comprehensive income 1,093,779 3,310,483 (585,870) 14,029,945 17,848,337 2,234,827 20,083,164 Exercise of share warrants 7,972,760 7,972,760 7,972,760 Exercise of share options 26,516 26,516 26,516 Direct cost of issue of shares (68,255) (68,255) (2,934) (71,189) Re-purchase of subsidiary shares held by NCI (23,079) (23,079) Share based payments 395,592 395,592 395,592 Restatement of fully depreciated assets 20,482 20,482 3,900 24,382 Final dividend paid 2014/15 (1,496,230) (1,496,230) (1,496,230) Interim dividends paid 2015/16 (6,541,560) (6,541,560) (6,541,560) Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling interest 307,928 307,928 (1,903,800) (1,595,872) Acquisition, disposal and changes in non-controlling interest (44,199) (44,199) 1,015,340 971,141 As at 31 March 2016 58,701,977 20,846,190 7,080,979 958,310 (170,217) 67,564,513 154,981,752 13,498,570 168,480,322 Statement of Changes in Equity Profit for the year 16,275,158 16,275,158 1,841,607 18,116,765 Other comprehensive income 8,148,602 1,222,916 312,529 (192,087) (72,664) 9,419,296 2,275,559 11,694,855 Total comprehensive income 8,148,602 1,222,916 312,529 (192,087) 16,202,494 25,694,454 4,117,166 29,811,620 Exercise of share warrants 3,176,842 3,176,842 3,176,842 Exercise of share options 911,261 911,261 911,261 Share based payments 444,346 444,346 444,346 Final dividend paid 2015/16 (1,784,105) (1,784,105) (1,784,105) Interim dividends paid 2016/17 (5,496,392) (5,496,392) (5,496,392) Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling interest 659,992 659,992 (1,939,171) (1,279,179) Acquisition, disposal and changes in non-controlling interest 46,682 46,682 18,978 65,660 As at 31 March 2017 62,790,080 28,994,792 8,303,895 312,529 1,402,656 (362,304) 77,193,184 178,634,832 15,695,543 194,330,375 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 191 to 258 form an integral part of these financial statements. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 187 188 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Performance Highlights Sri Lanka* Sri Lanka* LKR 106.27 bn Sri Lanka* Prope Group Revenue Financial rty A growth of 13 per cent Sri Lanka* Prope Asia* rty Services Financial Asia* Services Sri Lanka* IT Sri Sri Lanka* IT Sri 2017 2016 Sri Lanka* Lanka* Lanka* CF&R CF&R TRP LKR 106.27 bn Sri LKR 93.71 bn Asia* Lanka* TRP Asia* Leisure Leisure Asia* Asia* Europe* Europe* Sri Lanka* Sri Lanka* * Geographical segment analysis by location of customers Group* LKR 22.89 bn Group* Group* Group* Group Profit before Tax Group* Group* TRP Prope A growth of 19 per cent rty Financial Financial Services Services Leisure Group* Leisure Property Group* TRP 2017 2016 LKR 22.89 bn LKR 19.20 bn Other Group* CF&R Group* Other CF&R Group* Group* * Attributable to equity holders of the parent 2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015 2014 2014 10 2013 22. 2013 6.2 7 89 Group Revenue Group PBT 41 85. 1 LKR bn LKR bn 86.7 6 91.85 18.5 19.2 0 93.71 15 . 15 67 .32 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 189 anice l cias Leisure LKR277.27 bn Trans Leisure cia an es Fin rvic l Trans FSinerv Group Assets portation Se portation Other LRPA Other Equity LRPA Sho A growth of 15 per cent Equity Sho accounted rt l accounted rt te ncia investees te investees Finavices s No rm Ser rm ial anc s r assets finan n-Cur Nons s ment ment Fin rvice sets financiaCurren est est Othe Se inv cial ren inv er as Financial 2017 2016 l as t ass t Services Oth Financial Services set Leisure et CF&R Others LKR 277.27 bn LKR 240.98 bn Leisure s Other CF&R Leisure Othe Leisure Othe rn rn as on-c as on-c se urre PP&E se urre &E ts nt Leisure ts nt PP Leisure Property Property CF& Pro CF&R Pro R perty perty Le CF &R Prope rty LKR 82.94 bn Le Prop erty k Ban rafts isu Group Liabilities Other erd Other &R ov re Bank non-current over liabilities A growth of 14 per cent Ot he CF ure non-current r liabilities TRP drafts es is ervices ervices Leisure payables Othe Other ial S ial S liab nce nce ura ura ther anc anc Leisure ilit Ins CF&R Ins r li ies Fin Fin do CF&R 2017 2016 ab an provisions provisions yables ilit 82.94 bn 72.50 bn r pa LKR LKR e the d i do Financial IT Services n a Leisure Leisure Tra Tr de a CF&R CF&R Leisure Property Leisure Property 2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015 2014 2014 2013 82 2013 .94 277 .27 Group Assets Group Liabilities 72.50 LKR bn LKR bn 240.9 67.26 8 68.01 21 57 20 .93 8.0 2.4 9 7 159.12 190 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Index to the Notes Corporate and Group information Notes to the income statement, statement 33 Stated capital and other of comprehensive income and statement of components of equity 244 1 Corporate information 191 financial position 34 Share-based payment plans 245 2 Group information 191 13 Revenue 216 35 Insurance contract liabilities 246 14 Dividend income 216 36 Interest-bearing loans and Basis of preparation and other significant 15 Other operating income and other borrowings 248 accounting policies operating expenses 216 37 Employee benefit liabilities 251 3 Basis of preparation 191 16 Net finance income 217 38 Other deferred liabilities 252 4 Summary of significant accounting 17 Profit before tax 218 policies 192 39 Other non current liabilities 253 18 Earnings per share 218 5 Significant accounting judgements, 40 Trade and other payables 253 estimates and assumptions 192 19 Dividend per share 219 41 Short term borrowings 253 6 Standards issued but not yet 20 Taxes 219 42 Other current liabilities 253 effective 193 21 Property , plant and equipment 225 43 Related party transactions 253 22 Leases 230 Group business, operations & management 23 Investment property 230 Other disclosures 7 Operating segment information 194 24 Intangible assets 232 44 Contingent liabilities 256 8 Basis of consolidation and material 25 Investment in subsidiaries 234 partly owned subsidiaries 199 45 Capital and other commitments 258 26 Investment in equity accounted 9 Business combinations and 46 Lease commitments 258 investees 237 acquisitions of non-controlling 47 Assets pledged 258 interests 200 27 Non current financial assets 240 48 Events after the reporting period 258 10 Financial risk management 28 Other non current assets 241 objectives and policies 202 29 Inventories 241 11 Fair value measurement and 30 Trade and other receivables 242 related fair value disclosures 209 31 Other current assets 242 12 Financial instruments and related policies 211 32 Short term investments 242 www.keells.com Financial Calendar Date Date Interim Financial Statements Interim Financial Statements Three months ended 30 June 2016 28 July 2016 Three months ended 30 June 2017 On or before 27 July 2017 Six months ended 30 September 2016 4 November 2016 Nine months ended 31 December 2016 26 January 2017 Six months ended 30 September 2017 On or before 2 November 2017 Nine months ended 31 December 2017 On or before 25 January 2018 First interim dividend paid on 24 October 2016 Second interim dividend paid on 16 February 2017 Final dividend proposed to be paid on 16 June 2017 Annual Report 2017/18 On or before 1 June 2018 Annual Report 2016/17 31 May 2017 38th Annual General Meeting 30 June 2017 39th Annual General Meeting On or before 29 June 2018 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 191 Notes to the Financial Statements CORPORATE AND GROUP INFORMATION Principal activities and nature of 2. Group information 1. Corporate information operations of the holding Company Subsidiaries , associates and joint ventures Reporting entity John Keells Holdings PLC, the Group’s The companies within the Group and its John Keells Holdings PLC is a public limited holding Company, manages a portfolio business activities are described in the liability Company incorporated and domiciled of investments consisting of a range Group Directory under the Supplementary in Sri Lanka. The registered office and of diverse business operations, which Information section of the Annual Report. principal place of business of the Company is together constitute the John Keells Group, located at 117, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner and provides function based services to its There were no significant changes in the Mawatha, Colombo 2. subsidiaries, equity accounted investees. nature of the principal activities of the Company and the Group during the financial Ordinary shares of the Company are listed Responsibility for financial statements year under review. on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Global The responsibility of the Board of Directors in depository receipts (GDRs) of John Keells relation to the financial statements is set out BASIS OF PREPARATION AND OTHER Holdings PLC are listed on the Luxembourg in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibility SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Stock Exchange. John Keells Holdings PLC report in the Annual report. 3. Basis of preparation became the holding Company of the Group The consolidated financial statements have during the financial year ended 31 March Statements of compliance been prepared on an accrual basis and under 1986. The financial statements which comprise the historical cost convention except for the income statement, statement of investment properties, land and buildings, Consolidated financial statements comprehensive income, statement of derivative financial instruments, fair value The financial statements for the year ended financial position, statement of changes through profit or loss financial assets and 31 March 2017, comprise “the Company” in equity and the statement of cash flows, available-for-sale financial assets that have referring to John Keells Holdings PLC as the together with the accounting policies and been measured at fair value. holding Company and “the Group” referring to notes (the “financial statements”) have the companies that have been consolidated been prepared in accordance with Sri Presentation of functional currency therein. Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) The consolidated financial statements are as issued by the Institute of Chartered presented in Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR), which Approval of financial statements Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and is the primary economic environment in The financial statements for the year ended in compliance with the Companies Act No. 7 which the holding Company operates. Each 31 March 2017 were authorised for issue by of 2007. entity in the Group uses the currency of the the Board of Directors on 26 May 2017. primary economic environment in which they operate as their functional currency. The following subsidiaries are using different functional currencies other than Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR): Country of incorporation Functional Currency Name of the Subsidiary Canada Canadian Dollar (CAD) John Keells BPO Solutions Canada Inc. India Indian Rupee (INR) John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. Singapore Singapore Dollar (SGD) John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. USA United States Dollar (USD) John Keells BPO Solutions US Inc. Republic of Maldives United States Dollar (USD) Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. John Keells Maldivian Resort (Pte) Ltd. Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Mauritius United States Dollar (USD) John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka United States Dollar (USD) Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 192 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements Each material class of similar items are • Expected to be realised within twelve and joint ventures which are deemed to be presented cumulatively in the Financial months after the reporting period, or foreign operations are translated to Sri Lanka Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or • Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted rupees at the rate of exchange prevailing as at function are presented separately unless from being exchanged or used to settle a the reporting date and at the average annual they are immaterial as permitted by the liability for at least twelve months after the rate of exchange for the period respectively. Sri Lanka Accounting Standard-LKAS 1 on reporting period. ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’. The exchange differences arising on the All other assets are classified as non-current. translation are taken directly to other All values are rounded to the nearest rupees comprehensive income. On disposal of thousand (LKR ’000) except when otherwise A liability is current when: a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative indicated. • It is expected to be settled in normal amount recognised in other comprehensive operating cycle income relating to that particular foreign The significant accounting policies are • It is held primarily for the purpose of operation is recognised in the income discussed with relevant individual notes. trading statement. • It is due to be settled within twelve months The indicative US Dollar financial statements after the reporting period, or The Group treated goodwill and any fair under Supplementary Information section of • There is no unconditional right to defer the value adjustments to the carrying amounts the Annual Report do not form a part of the settlement of the liability for at least twelve of assets and liabilities arising on the financial statements prepared in accordance months after the reporting period. acquisition as assets and liabilities of the with SLFRS/LKAS. parent. Therefore, those assets and liabilities The Group classifies all other liabilities as are non-monetary items already expressed Comparative information non-current. in the functional currency of the parent and The presentation and classification of the no further translation differences occur. financial statements of the previous years Deferred tax assets and liabilities are have been amended, where relevant including classified as non-current assets and 5. Significant accounting judgements, the following, for better presentation and to liabilities. estimates and assumptions be comparable with those of the current year. The preparation of the financial statements of Foreign currency translation, foreign the Group require the management to make The share of results of equity accounted currency transactions and balances judgments, estimates and assumptions, investees in the income statement and other The consolidated financial statements are which may affect the amounts of income, comprehensive income statement are shown presented in Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR), expenditure, assets, liabilities and the net of all related taxes. which is the Company’s functional and disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end presentation currency. The functional of the reporting period. 4. Summary of significant accounting currency is the currency of the primary policies economic environment in which the entities Uncertainty about these assumptions and Summary of significant accounting policies of the Group operate. All foreign exchange estimates could result in outcomes that have been disclosed along with the relevant transactions are converted to functional require a material adjustment to the carrying individual notes in the subsequent pages. currency, at the rates of exchange prevailing amount of assets or liabilities affected in at the time the transactions are effected. future periods. In the process of applying the Those accounting policies presented with Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Group’s accounting policies, management each note, have been applied consistently by in foreign currency are retranslated to has made various judgements. Those which the Group. functional currency equivalents at the spot management has assessed to have the most exchange rate prevailing at the reporting significant effect on the amounts recognised Other significant accounting policies not date. in the consolidated financial statements have covered with individual notes. been discussed in the individual notes of the Following accounting policies, which have Non-monetary items that are measured in related financial statement line items. been applied consistently by the Group, are terms of historical cost in a foreign currency considered to be significant but not covered are translated using the exchange rates as The key assumptions concerning the future in any other sections. at the dates of the initial transactions. Non and other key sources of estimation of monetary assets and liabilities are translated uncertainty at the reporting date, that have Current versus non-current classification using exchange rates that existed when the a significant risk of causing a material The Group presents assets and liabilities values were determined. The gain or loss adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets in the statement of financial position arising on translation of non-monetary items and liabilities within the next financial year, based on current/non-current classification. is treated in line with the recognition of gain are also described in the individual notes to An asset is current when it is: or loss on changing fair value of the item. the financial statements. The Group based its • Expected to be realised or intended to be assumptions and estimates on parameters sold or consumed in normal operating Foreign operations available when the financial statements cycle The statement of financial position and were prepared. Existing circumstances and • Held primarily for the purpose of trading income statement of overseas subsidiaries assumptions about future developments, Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 193 however, may change due to market changes b) Impairment of non-financial assets in the future and have not been applied or circumstances arising that are beyond c) Share based payments in preparing these financial statements. the control of the Group. Such changes are d) Taxes Those SLFRS’s will have an effect on the reflected in the assumptions when they occur. e) Employee benefit liability accounting policies currently adopted by the f) Valuation of insurance contract liabilities Group and may have an impact on the future The line items which have the most significant financial statements. effect on accounting, judgements, estimates 6 Standards issued but not yet effective and assumptions are as follows; The following SLFRS have been issued The Group intends to adopt these standards, a) Valuation of property, plant and equipment by the Institute of Chartered Accountants if applicable, when they become effective. and investment property. of Sri Lanka that have an effective date Accounting Summary of the Requirements Effective Possible Impact on Consolidated Financial Standard Date Statements SLFRS 9 Financial SLFRS 9 replaces the existing standard LKAS On or after The Group has performed a high-level impact Instruments 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 1 January assessment of all aspects of SLFRS 9. This Measurement. SLFRS 9 includes revised 2018 (early preliminary assessment is based on currently guidance on the classification and measurement adoption available information and may be subjected to of financial instruments, a new expected permitted) changes arising from further detailed analysis credit loss model for calculating impairment or additional reasonable and supportable on financial assets and new general hedge information being made available to the Group accounting requirements. It also carries forward in the future. Overall, the Group expects no the guidance on recognition and derecognition of significant impact on its financial position and financial instruments from LKAS 39. equity. SLFRS 15 Revenue SLFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive On or after The Group completed a diagnostic phase of from Contracts with framework for determining whether, how much 1 January SLFRS 15 adaptation in 2016/17 financial year, Customers and when revenue is recognised. It replaces 2018 (early with the assistance of external consultants. existing revenue recognition standard and adoption The Group's current study has not revealed a guidance, including LKAS 18 Revenue, LKAS 11 permitted) significant change to the revenue recognition Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer patterns. However, the gaps identified will be Loyalty Programmes addressed during 2017/18 financial year, and any impact to the current systems and processes will be modified where necessary. SLFRS 16 Leases SLFRS 16 sets out the principles for the On or after The Group plans to assess the potential effect recognition, measurement, presentation and 1 January of SLFRS 16 on its consolidated financial disclosure of leases and requires lessees to 2019 (early statements in the financial year 2017/18. account for all leases under a single on-balance adoption sheet model similar to the accounting for permitted) finance leases under LKAS 17. The objective is to ensure that lessees and lessors provide relevant information in a manner that faithfully represents those transactions. This information gives a basis for the users of financial statements to assess the effect that leases have on the financial position. IFRIC 15 This interpretation clarifies whether LKAS 18, Deferred Considering the latest developments in revenue Agreements for the ‘Revenue’ or LKAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’ application recognition (the five-step model ), the Institute of construction of real should be applied to particular transactions. It until SLFRS Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has decided estate (Deferring also explains the point at which revenue and 15 Revenue to grant an option for entities to defer application Application) related expenses from a sale of real estate unit from of IFRIC 15 until SLFRS 15 Revenue from should be recognised, if an agreement between Contracts Contracts with Customers comes into effect. The a developer and a buyer is reached before the with Group has not adopted IFRIC 15 which is related construction of the real estate unit is completed. Customers to recognition of revenue of construction of real comes into estate. The Group has deferred application of this effect IFRIC based on the ruling issued by CA Sri Lanka. The following amendments and improvements are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group's financial statements • Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations (Amendments to SLFRS11) • Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation (Amendments to LKAS 16 and LKAS 38) • Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements (Amendments to LKAS 27) • Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture (Amendments to SLFRS 10 and LKAS 28) • Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2012–2014 Cycle – various standards • Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception (Amendments to SLFRS 10, SLFRS 12 and LKAS 28) • Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 1) 194 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements GROUP BUSINESS, OPERATIONS & The activities of each of the operating ventures/associations with leading shipping MANAGEMENT business segments of the Group are detailed and air transportation multinationals and in the Group directory in the Supplementary logistics, travel and airline services in 7. Operating segment information section of the Annual report. Sri Lanka, India and the Maldives. Accounting policy The Group’s internal organisation and As such for management purposes, the Leisure management is structured based on Group is organised into business units based The leisure operating segment encompasses individual products and services which are on their products and services and has seven two five star city hotels and a three star city similar in nature and process and where the operating business segments as follows: hotel in Colombo and eight resort hotels risks and returns are similar. The operating spread in prime tourist locations across Sri segments represent this business structure. Transportation Lanka and three resorts in Maldives offering Business of the transportation operating beaches, mountains, wildlife and cultural In addition, segments are determined segment offers an array of transportation splendour under the ‘Cinnamon Hotels based on the Group’s geographical spread related services in Sri Lanka and the region and Resorts’ brand. The leisure operating of operations as well. The geographical and these operations comprise of South Asia segment also has destination management analysis of turnover and profits are based Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd in the port of businesses in Sri Lanka and India. on location of customers and assets Colombo, a marine bunkering business, joint respectively. 7.1. Business segments Transportation Leisure Property For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s External revenue 11,109,677 10,342,226 25,873,790 24,072,746 1,121,204 4,341,714 Inter segment revenue 365,421 278,657 27,325 34,540 206,678 197,500 Total segment revenue 11,475,098 10,620,883 25,901,115 24,107,286 1,327,882 4,539,214 Elimination of inter segment revenue Net revenue Segment results 2,652,278 560,242 5,713,936 5,028,273 540,625 1,620,032 Finance cost (25,488) (21,813) (203,544) (165,587) (25,858) (32,162) Finance income 117,449 90,903 458,531 309,305 93,077 172,055 Change in fair value of investment property 290,341 148,250 Share of results of equity accounted investees 2,274,792 1,868,769 53,473 52,110 Eliminations / adjustments (1,920,821) (2,940) (301,526) (255,771) (233,629) (265,213) Profit / (loss) before tax 3,098,210 2,495,161 5,720,870 4,968,330 664,556 1,642,962 Tax expense (119,057) (40,738) (713,304) (601,123) (41,058) (57,793) Profit/ (loss) for the year 2,979,153 2,454,423 5,007,566 4,367,207 623,498 1,585,169 Purchase and construction of PPE* 95,716 95,190 1,275,820 2,757,569 36,369 43,055 Addition to IA* 9,176 2,398 103,373 2,240 1,386 Depreciation of PPE* 101,630 87,953 1,588,847 1,546,807 18,589 14,395 Amortisation of IA* 1,975 1,278 67,092 54,764 661 1,211 Amortisation of LRPA* 569,140 712,950 20,307 24,282 Gratuity provision and related costs 13,946 12,020 114,363 102,066 3,273 2,939 In addition to segment results, information such as finance costs / income, tax expenses have been allocated to segments for better presentation. * PPE Property, plant and equipment, IA Intangible assets, LRPA Lease rentals paid in advance Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 195 Property office automation which offers end-to-end segments. An individual segment manager The property operating segment ICT services and solutions. is determined for each operating segment concentrates primarily on development and and the results are regularly reviewed sale of residential apartments. Others by the Board of Directors. The Board of This operating segment includes plantation Directors monitors the operating results Consumer Foods and Retail services sector which operates tea of its business units separately for the The consumer foods and retail operating factories, tea and rubber broking and prepurpose of making decisions about resource segment competes in the two major auction produce warehousing. This segment allocation and performance assessment. categories namely manufacturing and also consists of John Keells Holdings PLC Segment performance is evaluated based retailing. including its divisions / centre functions on operating profit or loss which in certain such as John Keells Capital and Strategic respects, as explained in the operating Financial Services Group IT (SGIT), as well as other companies segments’ information, is measured The financial services operating segment providing ancillary services. differently from operating profit or loss in the offers a complete range of financial consolidated financial statements. However, solutions including commercial banking, Segment information has been prepared except the Financial Services segment, other insurance, stock broking, debt trading, fund in conformity with the accounting policies segments’ financing activities are managed management and leasing. adopted for preparing and presenting the on a Group basis and are not allocated consolidated financial statements of the to operating segments. Transfer prices Information Technology Group. between operating segments are carried out The information technology operating in the ordinary course of business on arm’s segment comprises from BPO, software No operating segments have been length basis. services and information integration to aggregated to form the reportable operating Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others Group Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 45,812,242 36,886,260 8,296,409 7,142,880 11,107,277 8,261,542 2,952,502 2,662,586 106,273,101 93,709,954 363,698 290,419 110 1 221,044 193,315 767,899 700,966 1,952,175 1,695,398 46,175,940 37,176,679 8,296,519 7,142,881 11,328,321 8,454,857 3,720,401 3,363,552 108,225,276 95,405,352 (1,952,175) (1,695,398) 106,273,101 93,709,954 5,146,899 4,322,498 935,269 717,323 (571,917) (334,221) (2,078,119) (1,681,060) 12,338,971 10,233,087 (19,318) (25,026) (194) (193) (9,770) (12,657) (135,060) (134,283) (419,232) (391,721) 251,544 159,956 187,201 121,088 49,434 43,588 5,559,911 4,652,409 6,717,147 5,549,304 92,005 16,947 101,208 97,678 483,554 262,875 974,690 860,354 3,302,955 2,781,233 (4,720) (1,925) 1,143,772 451,588 1,781,362 837,714 464,438 763,453 5,466,410 4,472,450 2,096,966 1,698,572 611,519 148,298 5,229,302 3,772,458 22,887,833 19,198,231 (1,570,344) (1,243,488) (55,140) 19,264 (143,373) (52,572) (2,128,792) (1,429,916) (4,771,068) (3,406,366) 3,896,066 3,228,962 2,041,826 1,717,836 468,146 95,726 3,100,510 2,342,542 18,116,765 15,791,865 2,682,990 1,454,411 67,965 25,470 139,532 113,369 33,190 93,000 4,331,582 4,582,064 18,471 1,929 62,807 29,239 14,957 20,088 6,747 4,195 114,398 162,608 830,197 736,013 80,210 89,363 122,090 179,518 132,508 128,266 2,874,071 2,782,315 11,789 11,892 220,609 217,437 11,153 10,323 19,767 23,659 333,046 320,564 2,361 1,175 1,175 592,983 738,407 91,621 73,365 24,678 24,110 20,138 18,594 59,614 50,806 327,633 283,900 196 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 7. Operating segment information (Contd.) 7.2. Business segments Transportation Leisure Property As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Property, plant and equipment 500,463 477,027 43,251,774 34,059,483 2,318,107 2,308,494 Lease rentals paid in advance 11,495,184 9,330,503 245,301 248,040 Investment property 487,000 425,000 2,148,400 1,905,000 5,230,949 4,853,668 Intangible assets 14,072 6,871 374,191 441,284 2,963 363 Non-current financial assets 74,073 48,539 5,710,380 5,507,782 432,679 224,930 Other non-current assets 11,163 5,892 25,343 14,673 41,379,103 35,451,293 Segment non-current assets 1,086,771 963,329 63,005,272 51,258,725 49,609,102 43,086,788 Investments in equity accounted investees 11,118,544 11,263,337 512,143 474,364 Deferred tax assets Goodwill Eliminations / adjustments Total non-current assets Inventories 522,461 161,484 337,494 307,040 15,255 294,659 Trade and other receivables 1,685,506 1,028,910 3,474,959 3,144,535 941,864 1,435,139 Short term investments 2,053,279 1,943,880 8,188,744 5,734,333 987,176 339,545 Cash in hand and at bank 290,699 741,739 2,198,542 2,310,577 973,122 1,046,241 Segment current assets 4,551,945 3,876,013 14,199,739 11,496,485 2,917,417 3,115,584 Other current assets Eliminations / adjustments Total current assets Total assets Insurance contract liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 6,650,926 7,376,034 12,548,001 11,360,684 Employee benefit liabilities 84,859 73,018 638,131 562,241 29,435 44,788 Other deferred liabilities 1,640 120,007 84,401 558,435 560,220 Other non-current liabilities 10,267 78,418 3,730,151 2,884,834 Segment non-current liabilities 96,766 73,018 7,409,064 8,101,094 16,866,022 14,850,526 Deferred tax liabilities Eliminations / adjustments Total non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 847,988 1,198,528 2,074,128 3,341,897 1,382,676 1,604,938 Short term borrowings 1,389,643 830,648 3,487,404 2,051,370 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2,662,075 1,208,978 181,645 145,778 Bank overdrafts 374,011 56,533 1,847,574 1,217,688 709,561 843,340 Segment current liabilities 2,611,642 2,085,709 10,071,181 7,819,933 2,273,882 2,594,056 Income tax liabilities Other current liabilities Eliminations / adjustments Total current liabilities Total liabilities Total segment assets 5,638,716 4,839,342 77,205,011 62,755,210 52,526,519 46,202,372 Total segment liabilities 2,708,408 2,158,727 17,480,245 15,921,027 19,139,904 17,444,582 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 197 Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others Group Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 9,290,844 7,283,463 1,498,964 1,514,336 260,153 246,979 1,287,795 1,317,211 58,408,100 47,206,993 174,701 40,679 41,854 11,955,865 9,620,397 207,042 111,404 3,434,063 3,215,185 11,507,454 10,510,257 37,685 80,504 891,546 999,848 28,305 25,553 30,802 44,841 1,379,564 1,599,264 226,097 165,973 23,645,619 21,441,579 57,131 30,666 2,827,038 546,718 32,973,017 27,966,187 553,357 376,324 51,378 51,369 15,994 5,496 21,603 17,727 42,057,941 35,922,774 10,489,726 8,017,668 26,087,507 24,007,132 361,583 308,694 7,641,980 5,183,536 158,281,941 132,825,872 6,088,200 5,211,763 17,718,887 16,949,464 143,548 129,837 738,596 738,596 (4,574,829) (4,531,077) 172,308,143 146,112,692 3,840,380 2,996,410 14,966 8,672 676,063 701,831 217,483 208,408 5,624,102 4,678,504 2,720,088 2,268,819 1,415,290 731,550 1,938,636 2,044,672 1,084,448 1,012,242 13,260,791 11,665,867 553,219 2,350,084 9,318,833 6,496,141 994,577 726,511 60,565,974 57,095,945 82,661,802 74,686,439 232,360 241,991 336,648 272,029 580,119 235,716 456,679 276,798 5,068,169 5,125,091 7,346,047 7,857,304 11,085,737 7,508,392 4,189,395 3,708,730 62,324,584 58,593,393 106,614,864 96,155,901 3,265,327 2,303,431 (4,916,572) (3,596,555) 104,963,619 94,862,777 277,271,762 240,975,469 31,700,278 27,205,282 31,700,278 27,205,282 289,896 98,793 9,621 12,000 192,458 19,500,823 19,037,590 549,079 463,598 138,656 129,058 106,889 91,931 333,238 296,246 1,880,287 1,660,880 55,490 26,336 103,991 191,516 839,563 862,473 193,464 131,929 3,933,882 3,095,181 1,087,929 720,656 31,838,934 27,334,340 106,889 101,552 449,229 680,220 57,854,833 51,861,406 2,336,241 2,029,371 (5,298,859) (5,331,413) 54,892,215 48,559,364 5,293,347 4,503,394 1,955,235 1,254,729 1,994,141 1,694,604 768,391 734,477 14,315,906 14,332,567 12,074 12,074 4,889,121 2,894,092 65,000 119,073 10,134 35,244 1,482,508 2,918,854 2,991,581 766,477 594,225 137,849 105,834 338,122 293,649 90,515 118,912 4,264,109 3,230,181 6,124,824 5,216,692 2,093,084 1,360,563 2,342,397 2,023,497 870,980 2,347,971 26,387,990 23,448,421 2,395,379 1,873,472 2,944,118 2,234,856 (3,678,315) (3,620,966) 28,049,172 23,935,783 82,941,387 72,495,147 17,835,773 15,874,972 37,173,244 31,515,524 4,550,978 4,017,424 69,966,564 63,776,929 264,896,805 228,981,773 7,212,753 5,937,348 33,932,018 28,694,903 2,449,286 2,125,049 1,320,209 3,028,191 84,242,823 75,309,827 198 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 7. Operating segment information (Contd.) 7.3. Geographical segments, based on the location of assets Sri Lanka Asia (excluding Others Group Total Sri Lanka) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Segment assets 235,720,710 202,856,785 27,414,975 23,161,826 1,761,120 2,963,162 264,896,805 228,981,773 Segment liabilities 71,369,556 65,998,618 12,855,813 9,271,496 17,454 39,713 84,242,823 75,309,827 Investments in equity accounted 17,718,887 16,949,464 17,718,887 16,949,464 investees Segment revenue 98,692,457 86,272,881 7,580,644 7,426,567 10,506 106,273,101 93,709,954 Segment results 12,093,968 9,655,632 858,550 756,822 (613,547) (179,367) 12,338,971 10,233,087 Purchase and construction of 3,823,767 3,415,006 505,004 1,167,058 2,811 4,331,582 4,582,064 property, plant and equipment Purchase and construction of 114,398 162,608 114,398 162,608 intangible assets Purchase of lease rental paid in 177,062 2,479,950 607,155 2,657,012 607,155 advance Depreciation of property, plant 2,471,879 2,294,367 402,062 484,523 130 3,425 2,874,071 2,782,315 and equipment Amortisation of intangible assets 333,046 320,564 333,046 320,564 Amortisation of lease rental paid 39,241 40,854 553,742 697,553 592,983 738,407 in advance Gratuity provision and related 326,106 280,784 1,527 3,116 327,633 283,900 costs 7.4. Business segment analysis Group 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Sale of Rendering Total Sale of Rendering Total goods of services revenue goods of services revenue Transportation 10,275,518 834,159 11,109,677 9,660,391 681,835 10,342,226 Leisure 25,873,790 25,873,790 24,072,746 24,072,746 Property 587,363 533,841 1,121,204 3,758,466 583,248 4,341,714 Consumer Foods & Retail 45,812,242 45,812,242 36,886,260 36,886,260 Financial Services 8,296,409 8,296,409 7,142,880 7,142,880 Information Technology 9,250,749 1,856,528 11,107,277 6,390,265 1,871,277 8,261,542 Others 2,312,330 640,172 2,952,502 1,912,842 749,744 2,662,586 Group revenue 68,238,202 38,034,899 106,273,101 58,608,224 35,101,730 93,709,954 7.5. Geographical segment analysis (by location of customers) Group 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Sri Lanka 81,776,854 71,940,772 Asia (excluding Sri Lanka) 9,225,727 10,266,229 Europe 9,667,726 8,198,612 Others 5,602,794 3,304,341 Total Group external revenue 106,273,101 93,709,954 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 199 8. Basis of consolidation and material Subsidiaries that are consolidated have 12 months ending 31 March, using consistent partly owned subsidiaries been listed in the Group directory under accounting policies. Accounting policy Supplementary section of the annual report. Basis of consolidation Transactions eliminated on consolidation The consolidated financial statements are The following companies, with equity All intra-group assets, liabilities, equity, comprised of the financial statements of the control equal to or less than 50%, have been income, expenses and cash flows relating Company and its subsidiaries as at the end consolidated as subsidiaries based on above to transactions between members of the of reporting period. Control over an investee criteria. Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. is achieved when the Group is exposed, % A change in the ownership interest of a or has rights, to variable returns from its Holding subsidiary, without a loss of control, is involvement with the investee and has the accounted for as an equity transaction. ability to affect those returns through its Rajawella Holdings Ltd. 49.85 power over the investee. Loss of control Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 50.00 If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) 49.00 Control over an investee it derecognises the related assets (including Ltd. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if, goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest and only if, the Group has: Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 37.62 and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in the • Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights The Group re-assesses whether or income statement. Any investment retained that give it the current ability to direct the not it controls an investee, if facts and is recognised at fair value. relevant activities of the investee) circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three • Exposure, or rights, to variable returns The total profits and losses for the year of the elements of control. Consolidation of a from its involvement with the investee Company and of its subsidiaries included in subsidiary begins when the Group obtains consolidation are shown in the consolidated • The ability to use its power over the control over the subsidiary and ceases when income statement and consolidated investee to affect its returns the Group loses control of the subsidiary. statement of comprehensive income and all Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of assets and liabilities of the Company and Consolidation of entities in which the Group a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during of its subsidiaries included in consolidation holds less than a majority of voting rights the year are included in the consolidated are shown in the consolidated statement of When the Group has less than a majority of financial statements from the date the Group financial position. the voting or similar rights of an investee, gains control until the date the Group ceases the Group considers all relevant facts and to control the subsidiary. Non-controlling interest (NCI) circumstances in assessing whether it has Non-controlling interest which represents the power over an investee, including: Profit or loss and each component of other portion of profit or loss and net assets not held comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed by the Group, are shown as a component of • The contractual arrangement with the to the equity holders of the parent of the profit for the year in the consolidated income other vote holders of the investee; Group and to the non-controlling interests, statement and statement of comprehensive • Rights arising from other contractual even if this results in the non-controlling income and as a component of equity in the arrangements and; interests having a deficit balance. The consolidated statement of financial position, financial statements of the subsidiaries • The Group’s voting rights and potential separately from equity attributable to the are prepared for the same reporting voting rights shareholders of the parent. period as the parent Company, which is 8.1. Material partly-owned subsidiaries Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (NCI) are provided below. Leisure Consumer Foods & Retail For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Summarised Income Statement for the period ending 31 March Revenue 28,134,885 26,829,126 46,834,239 37,366,674 Operating cost (20,438,667) (20,789,711) (40,941,279) (33,046,101) Finance cost (367,870) (307,424) (19,318) (25,026) Finance income 622,856 451,141 251,544 159,956 Change in fair value of investment property 243,400 126,100 92,005 16,947 Profit before tax 8,194,604 6,309,232 6,217,191 4,472,450 Tax expense (715,716) (603,455) (1,570,344) (1,243,488) Profit for the year 7,478,888 5,705,777 4,646,847 3,228,962 Other comprehensive income 9,968,550 690,444 209,357 70,066 Total comprehensive income 17,447,438 6,396,221 4,856,204 3,299,028 Profit/(loss) allocated to material NCI 842,273 682,783 730,983 574,321 Dividend paid to NCI 1,016,875 906,513 717,319 400,602 The above information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations 200 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 8. Basis of consolidation and material partly owned subsidiaries (Contd.) 8.1. Material partly-owned subsidiaries (Contd.) Leisure Consumer foods & retail For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Summarised statement of Financial Position as at 31 March Current assets 15,147,953 11,368,244 8,033,574 8,098,607 Non-current assets 79,431 66,812,284 17,620,783 14,829,369 Total assets 15,227,384 78,180,528 25,654,357 22,927,976 Current liabilities 11,472,392 8,360,308 7,822,565 6,570,597 Non-current liabilities 8,055,181 8,586,091 2,275,496 1,656,754 Total liabilities 19,527,573 16,946,399 10,098,061 8,227,351 Accumulated balances of material NCI 12,680,462 11,022,992 2,351,519 2,287,966 Summarised cash flow information for year ended 31 March Cash flows from operating activities 12,072,010 5,750,329 4,977,847 5,175,631 Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities (2,900,274) (2,154,749) (3,066,146) (1,415,285) Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities (5,534,896) (4,067,811) (3,891,090) (2,465,962) Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 3,636,840 (472,231) (1,979,389) 1,294,384 The above information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations Names of material partly-owned Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. 19.68% Group is the single largest shareholder of subsidiaries and effective holding (2016 19.68%) those subsidiaries with equity interest. The percentage owned by non-controling Resort Hotels Ltd. 20.76% (2016 20.75%) remaining equity shares in those subsidiaries interest: Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 1.26% are widely held by many other shareholders, (2016 1.26%) and there is no history of the other Leisure Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 19.68% (2016 19.68%) shareholders collaborating to exercise their Ahungalle Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. 19.68%c (2016 19.68%) votes collectively or to outvote the Group. 19.68% (2016 19.68%) Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 17.26% (2016 17.26%) Asian Hotels & Properties PLC. 21.44% Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 19.68% (2016 19.68%) Considering the Group balances, none of the (2016 21.44%) Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 19.68% individual partly-owned subsidiaries have Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 20.22% (2016 19.68%) material non-controlling interest. However, (2016 20.22%) Walkers Tours Ltd. 1.49% (2016 1.49%) the above information has been presented Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. 20.76% Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. 19.68% (2016 19.68%) on the aggregated interests in similar entities (2016 20.76%) Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 24.67% (2016 24.67%) namely, the Leisure and Consumer Foods and Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 19.68% Retail (CF&R) segment, based on the nature (2016 19.68%) Consumer Foods & Retail and risks of the products and services. Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 18.64% 19.68% (2016 19.68%) (2016 18.64%) 9. Business combinations and Habarana Lodge Ltd. 21.01% JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 18.64% acquisitions of non-controlling interests (2016 21.01%) (2016 18.64%) Accounting policy Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. 20.66% Keells Food Products PLC. 11.47% Business combinations & goodwill (2016 20.66%) (2016 10.35%) Business combinations are accounted for Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd. 18.64% using the acquisition method of accounting. 20.76% (2016 20.76%) (2016 N/A) The Group measures goodwill at the International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd. acquisition date as the fair value of the 20.22% (2016-20.22%) Accounting judgements,estimates and consideration transferred including the John Keells Hotels PLC. 19.68% assumptions recognised amount of any non-controlling (2016 19.68%) Consolidation of entities in which the Group interests in the acquiree, less the net John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. holds less than a majority of voting right recognised amount (generally fair value) 19.68% (2016 19.68%) (de facto control) of the identifiable assets acquired and Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. 20.97% The Group considers that it controls some liabilities assumed, all measured as of the (2016 20.97%) subsidiaries even though it owns less than acquisition date. Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 50% of the voting rights. This is because the 19.68% (2016 19.68%) Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 201 When the fair value of the consideration amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in transferred including the recognised amount and then to the other assets pro-rata to the future periods. of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree carrying amount of each asset in the unit. is lower than the fair value of net assets 9.1. Investment in 2016/17 acquired, a gain is recognised immediately Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. in the income statement. The Group elects on on the acquisition of a foreign operation are John Keells Holdings PLC. (JKH) further a transaction-by-transaction basis whether treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign invested LKR 4,341 mn in Waterfront to measure non-controlling interests at fair operation and translated at the closing rate. Properties (Pvt) Ltd. a subsidiary of JKH value, or at their proportionate share of the involving the developing, owning, managing, recognised amount of the identifiable net Where goodwill forms part of a cashoperating, selling, leasing and renting of a assets, at the acquisition date. Transaction generating unit and part of the operation luxury multi/mixed use Integrated Resort. costs, other than those associated with the within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill issue of debt or equity securities, that the associated with the operation disposed of The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd. Group incurs in connection with a business is included in the carrying amount of the Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, invested LKR 270 combination are expensed as incurred. When operation when determining the gain or million in The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) the Group acquires a business, it assesses loss on disposal of the operation, goodwill Ltd a subsidiary of the Group, entered in to the financial assets and liabilities assumed disposed in this circumstance is measured an agreement with the Board of Investment for appropriate classification and designation based on the relative values of the operation of Sri Lanka (BOI) for the establishment of an in accordance with the contractual terms, disposed of and the portion of the cashIce Cream factory. economic circumstances and pertinent generating unit retained. conditions as at the acquisition date. If 9.2. Acquisitions in 2015/16 the business combination is achieved in Impairment of goodwill Rajewella Holdings Ltd. stages, the acquisition date fair value of the Goodwill is tested for impairment annually In September 2015, the Group has increased acquirer’s previously held equity interest in (as at 31 March) and when circumstances its shareholdings in Rajawella Holdings Ltd. the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at indicate that the carrying value may be (RHL) from 16.9% to 49.85% with a total the acquisition date through profit or loss. Any impaired. Impairment is determined for investment of LKR 1,044 mn over a three contingent consideration to be transferred by goodwill by assessing the recoverable year period. Total investment comprises a the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at amount of each cash-generating unit (or partial buyout from existing shareholders, an the acquisition date. Contingent consideration group of cash-generating units) to which infusion into RHL and release of an existing which is deemed to be an asset or liability, the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable sublease of land held by the Group. which is a financial instrument and within amount of the cash generating unit is less the scope of LKAS 39, is measured at fair than their carrying amount, an impairment The fair value of net assets acquired of value with changes in fair value either in the loss is recognised. Impairment losses Rajewella Holdings Ltd. were as follows; income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent Fair value recognised consideration is classified as equity, it will not In LKR '000s on acquisition be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is accounted within equity. In instances where ASSETS the contingent consideration does not fall Cash 145,588 within the scope of LKAS 39, it is measured Inventories 10,675 in accordance with the appropriate SLFRS/ Trade and other receivables 38,767 LKAS. Other current assets 3,498 Intangible assets 484 After initial recognition, goodwill is Lease rentals paid in advance* 1,507,818 measured at cost less any accumulated Property, plant and equipment 460,706 impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate LIABILITIES that the carrying value may be impaired. Bank overdrafts (43,501) Deferred tax liabilities (954) For the purpose of impairment testing, Other deferred liabilities (564,181) goodwill acquired in a business combination Employee benefit liabilities (8,435) is, from the acquisition date, allocated Other current liabilities (14,125) to each of the Group’s cash generating Trade and other payables (145,045) units that are expected to benefit from the Total identifiable net assets at fair value 1,391,295 combination, irrespective of whether other Non-controlling interest measured at fair value (971,141) assets or liabilities of the acquiree are Gain on bargain purchase of a subsidiary (4,088) assigned to those units. Total purchase consideration 416,066 Impairment is determined by assessing the Deferred purchase consideration (301,065) recoverable amount of the cash-generating Bank overdrafts acquired (102,087) unit to which the goodwill relates. Where the Net cash outflow on acquisition of the subsidiary 12,914 recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an * This represents the fair value on the date of acquisition of the leasehold land right held by impairment loss is recognised. The impairment Rajawella Holdings Ltd. The fair value has been determined by an external independent loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying chartered valuer. 202 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 9. Business combinations and acquisitions provide guarantees to support its operations. credit terms are subject to credit verification of non-controlling interests (Contd.) The financial risk governance framework procedures. In addition, receivable balances 9.3. Investment in 2015/16 provides assurance to the Group’s senior are monitored on an ongoing basis with the Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. management that the Group’s financial result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts John Keells Holdings PLC. (JKH) further risk activities are governed by appropriate is not significant. invested in LKR 4,732 mn in Waterfront policies and procedures and that financial Properties (Pvt) Ltd. a subsidiary of JKH risks are identified, measured and managed With respect to credit risk arising from the involving the developing, owning, managing, in accordance with the Group’s policies and other financial assets of the Group, such as operating, selling, leasing and renting of a risk objectives. The Group is exposed to cash and cash equivalents, available-forluxury multi/mixed use Integrated Resort. market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. sale financial investments, investments, and certain derivative instruments, the Group’s 10. Financial risk management 10.1. Credit risk exposure to credit risk arises from default objectives and policies Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will of the counterparty. The Group manages The Group has loans and other receivables, not meet its obligations under a financial its operations to avoid any excessive trade and other receivables and cash and instrument or customer contract, leading to a concentration of counterparty risk and the short-term deposits that arise directly from financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure its operations. The Group also holds other risk from its operating activities (primarily the counterparties fulfill their obligations. financial instruments such as available for trade receivables) and from its financing sale and fair value through profit or loss activities, including deposits with banks 10.1.1. Risk exposure financial instruments and may enter into and financial institutions, foreign exchange The maximum risk positions of financial derivative transactions. The Group’s principal transactions and other financial instruments. assets which are generally subject to credit financial liabilities, comprise of loans and risk are equal to their carrying amounts borrowings, trade and other payables and The Group trades only with recognised, (without consideration of collateral, if financial guarantee contracts. The main creditworthy third parties. It is the Group’s available). Following table shows the purpose of these financial liabilities is policy that all clients who wish to trade on maximum risk positions. to finance the Group’s operations and to 2017 Notes Non Cash in Trade and Short term Amounts Total % of current hand and other investdue from allocation As at 31 March financial at bank receivables ments related In LKR '000s assets parties Group Government securities 10.1.2 17,750,289 24,450,907 42,201,196 35% Corporate debt securities 10.1.3 4,244,764 1,436,526 5,681,290 5% Deposits with bank 10.1.4 3,276,582 49,853,042 53,129,624 44% Loans to executives 10.1.5 733,037 184,626 917,663 1% Loans to life policyholders 10.1.6 902,300 902,300 1% Preference shares 10.1.7 267,275 267,275 0% Interest rate swap 10.1.8 331,679 331,679 1% Trade and other receivables 10.1.9 11,034,918 11,034,918 9% Reinsurance receivables 10.1.10 214,342 214,342 0% Premium receivable 10.1.11 253,543 253,543 0% Amounts due from related parties 10.1.12 111,639 111,639 0% Cash in hand and at bank 10.1.13 5,119,185 5,119,185 4% Total credit risk exposure 27,505,926 5,119,185 11,687,429 75,740,475 111,639 120,164,654 100% Financial assets at fair value through P&L 10.3.3.1 3,433,852 Available-for-sale investments 10.3.3.2 160,695 Total equity risk exposure 160,695 3,433,852 Total 27,666,621 5,119,185 11,687,429 79,174,327 111,639 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 203 2017 Notes Non Cash in Trade and Short term Amounts Total % of current hand and other investdue from allocation As at 31 March financial at bank receivables ments related In LKR '000s assets parties Company Government securities 10.1.2 16,690,302 16,690,302 26% Corporate debt securities 10.1.3 268,306 268,306 0% Deposits with bank 10.1.4 2,576,339 43,284,672 45,861,011 72% Loans to executives 10.1.5 71,669 18,652 90,321 0% Trade and other receivables 10.1.9 99,424 99,424 0% Amounts due from related parties 10.1.12 286,735 286,735 1% Cash in hand and at bank 10.1.13 304,265 304,265 1% Total credit risk exposure 2,648,008 304,265 118,076 60,243,280 286,735 63,600,364 100% Available-for-sale investments 10.3.3.2 141,972 Total equity risk exposure 141,972 Total 2,789,980 304,265 118,076 60,243,280 286,735 2016 Notes Non Cash in Trade and Short term Amounts Total % of current hand and other investdue from allocation As at 31 March financial at bank receivables ments related In LKR '000s assets parties Group Government securities 10.1.2 15,287,098 26,149,799 41,436,897 39% Corporate debt securities 10.1.3 4,939,118 856,498 5,795,616 5% Deposits with bank 10.1.4 568,198 42,621,898 43,190,096 40% Loans to executives 10.1.5 618,850 167,940 786,790 1% Loans to life policyholders 10.1.6 783,373 783,373 1% Preference shares 10.1.7 254,024 254,024 0% Trade and other receivables 10.1.9 9,482,865 9,482,865 9% Reinsurance receivables 10.1.10 132,298 132,298 0% Premium receivable 10.1.11 215,846 215,846 0% Amounts due from related parties 10.1.12 133,031 133,031 0% Cash in hand and at bank 10.1.13 5,127,463 5,127,463 5% Total credit risk exposure 22,450,661 5,127,463 9,998,949 69,628,195 133,031 107,338,299 100% Financial assets at fair value through P&L 10.3.3.1 3,006,875 Available-for-sale investments 10.3.3.2 184,783 Total equity risk exposure 184,783 3,006,875 Total 22,635,444 5,127,463 9,998,949 72,635,070 133,031 204 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 10 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.) 10.1.1. Risk exposure (Contd.) 2016 Notes Non Cash in Trade and Short term Amounts Total % of current hand and other investdue from allocation As at 31 March financial at bank receivables ments related In LKR '000s assets parties Company Government securities 10.1.2 18,066,890 18,066,890 31% Corporate debt securities 10.1.3 268,366 268,366 1% Deposits with bank 10.1.4 38,795,346 38,795,346 67% Loans to executives 10.1.5 72,980 19,823 92,803 0% Trade and other receivables 10.1.9 149,321 149,321 0% Amounts due from related parties 10.1.12 595,182 595,182 1% Cash in hand and at bank 10.1.13 178,193 178,193 0% Total credit risk exposure 341,346 178,193 169,144 56,862,236 595,182 58,146,101 100% Available-for-sale investments 10.3.3.2 166,059 Total equity risk exposure 166,059 Total 507,405 178,193 169,144 56,862,236 595,182 10.1.2. Government securities As at 31 March 2017 government securities comprise 35% (2016-39%) and 26% (2016-31%) for the Group and Company respectively, which consist of treasury bonds, bills and reverse repo investments. Government securities are usually referred to as risk free due to the sovereign nature of the instrument. 10.1.3. Corporate debt securities As at 31 March 2017, corporate debt securities comprise 5% (2016-5%) of the total investments in debt securities, out of which 92% (2016 – 94%) were rated “A” or better, or guaranteed by a banking institution with a rating of “A” or better. Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In Rating In Rating Fitch ratings LKR ’000s % of total LKR ’000s % of total AA+ 812,063 14% 615,672 11% AA 25,572 0% 77,505 1% AA1,887,448 35% 2,988,097 52% A+ 1,699,653 30% 1,132,347 20% A 751,104 13% 562,794 10% A422,857 7% 398,424 6% BBB+ 82,593 1% 20,777 0% Total 5,681,290 100% 5,795,616 100% Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 205 10.1.4 Deposits with bank Deposits with bank mainly consist of fixed and call deposits. As at 31 March 2017, fixed and call deposits comprise 92% (201693%) and 95% (201693%) for the Group and Company respectively were rated “A+” or better. Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In Rating % In Rating % In Rating % In Rating % Fitch ratings* LKR ’000s of total LKR ’000s of total LKR ’000s of total LKR ’000s of total AAA 98,936 0% 1,003,763 2% 889,560 2% 870,038 2% AA+ 17,584,755 33% 10,200,822 24% 16,964,101 37% 9,382,100 24% AA 5,204,255 10% 5,110,419 12% 4,833,086 11% 5,097,422 13% AA23,048,321 43% 20,978,876 48% 19,819,906 43% 18,737,328 48% A+ 2,967,207 6% 2,966,941 7% 1,135,939 2% 2,140,013 6% A 2,612,559 5% 2,929,275 7% 604,828 2% 2,568,445 7% A1,613,591 3% 1,613,591 3% Total 53,129,624 100% 43,190,096 100% 45,861,011 100% 38,795,346 100% * rating agencies 10.1.5. Loans to executives given to life policy holders by Union 10.1.8. Interest rate swap Loans to executive portfolio is largely made Assurance PLC. System controls are in place The Group has entered into interest rate up of vehicle loans which are given to staff to automatically convert a policy to lapse swap that is a cash flow hedge. The at assistant manager level and above. The stage when the policy loan amount together changes in counterparty credit risk had no respective business units have obtained the with the interest is reaching the surrender material effect on the hedge effectiveness necessary promissory notes as collateral for value of the policy. assessment for derivatives designated in the loans granted. hedge relationships. Refer note 12.3. 10.1.7. Preference Shares 10.1.6. Loans to life policyholders Cumulative preference share investment The surrender value of insurance policies which has lien over an assets, redeemable at considered as the collateral for the loans the option of share holder. 10.1.9. Trade and other receivables Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Neither past due nor impaired 3,357,908 4,974,544 79,574 96,094 Past due but not impaired 0-30 days 4,411,225 2,083,677 9,738 10,089 31–60 days 1,199,016 958,904 8,914 16,506 61–90 days 263,358 299,605 > 91 days 1,803,411 1,166,135 1,198 26,632 Impaired 1,050,357 1,035,892 Gross carrying value 12,085,275 10,518,757 99,424 149,321 Less: impairment provision Individually assessed impairment provision (418,296) (564,864) Collectively assessed impairment provision (632,061) (471,028) Total 11,034,918 9,482,865 99,424 149,321 The Group has obtained customer deposit from major customers by reviewing their past performance and credit worthiness, as collateral. The requirement for an impairment is 10.1.10. Reinsurance receivables 10.1.11. Premium receivable analysed at each reporting date on an The Union Assurance PLC operates a policy Only designated institutions are employed individual basis for major customers. to manage its reinsurance counterparty as intermediary parties by Union Assurance Additionally, a large number of minor exposures by limiting the reinsurers that PLC. receivables are grouped into homogeneous may be used and applying strict limits each groups and assessed for impairment reinsurer. Agreements have been signed with the collectively. The calculation is based on actual intermediaries committing them to settle incurred historical data. dues within a specified time period. 206 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 10. Financial risk management or financial standing of the counterparty, facilities to enable the Group to manage its objectives and policies (Contd.) where the position is reviewed as and when liquidity risk. 10.1.12. Amounts due from related parties required, the duration of the exposure in The Group's amounts due from related managing such exposures and the nature The Group monitors its risk to a shortage parties mainly consists of associates and of the transaction and agreement governing of funds using a daily cash management other venture partners' balances. the exposure. process. This process considers the maturity of both the Group’s financial investments and The Company balance consists of the 10.2 Liquidity risk financial assets (e.g. accounts receivable, balances from affiliate companies. The Group’s policy is to hold cash and other financial assets) and projected cash undrawn committed facilities at a level flows from operations. 10.1.13. Credit risk relating to cash and sufficient to ensure that the Group has cash equivalents available funds to meet its short and medium The Group’s objective is to maintain a In order to mitigate the concentration, term capital and funding obligations, balance between continuity of funding and settlement and operational risks related including organic growth and acquisition flexibility through the use of multiple sources to cash and cash equivalents, the Group activities, and to meet any unforeseen of funding including debentures, bank loans, consciously manages the exposure obligations and opportunities. The Group loan notes, overdrafts and finance leases to a single counterparty taking into holds cash and undrawn committed over a broad spread of maturities. consideration, where relevant, the rating 10.2.1. Net debt/(cash) As at 31 March Group Company In LKR '000s 2017 2016 2017 2016 Short term investments 79,174,327 72,635,070 60,243,280 56,862,236 Cash in hand and at bank 5,119,185 5,127,463 304,265 178,193 Adjustments to liquid assets (6,218,187) (5,163,192) Total liquid assets 78,075,325 72,599,341 60,547,545 57,040,429 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Non-current) 14,202,636 13,706,848 Short term borrowings 1,380,238 821,243 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Current) 2,918,854 2,991,582 1,482,508 Bank overdrafts 4,264,109 3,230,182 84,282 117,412 Total liabilities 22,765,837 20,749,855 84,282 1,599,920 Net debt / (cash) (55,309,488) (51,849,486) (60,463,263) (55,440,509) 10.2.2. Liquidity risk management The mixed approach combines elements of the cash flow matching approach and the liquid assets approach. The business units attempt to match cash outflows in each time bucket against a combination of contractual cash inflows plus other inflows that can be generated through the sale of assets, repurchase agreement or other secured borrowing. Maturity analysis The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2017 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus interest) payments. Group Within Between Between Between Between More than Total In LKR '000s 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Interest-bearing loans and 2,969,995 1,040,496 1,149,113 1,141,074 501,146 10,355,654 17,157,478 borrowings Trade and other payables 14,136,040 14,136,040 Amounts due to related parties 10,434 10,434 Short term borrowings 1,380,238 1,380,238 Bank overdrafts 4,264,109 4,264,109 22,760,816 1,040,496 1,149,113 1,141,074 501,146 10,355,654 36,948,299 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 207 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2016 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus interest) payments. Group Within Between Between Between Between More than Total In LKR '000s 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Interest-bearing loans and 3,687,083 1,985,299 1,475,617 827,071 720,891 11,773,215 20,469,176 borrowings Trade and other payables 12,755,466 12,755,466 Amounts due to related parties 28,982 28,982 Short term borrowings 821,243 821,243 Bank overdrafts 3,230,182 3,230,182 20,522,956 1,985,299 1,475,617 827,071 720,891 11,773,215 37,305,049 Maturity analysis The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company's financial liabilities on contractual undiscounted (principal plus interest) payments. Company 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Within 1 year Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,482,508 Trade and other payables 330,078 332,506 Amounts due to related parties 210,029 102,135 Bank overdrafts 84,282 117,412 624,389 2,034,561 10.3 . Market risk The analysis excludes the impact of will fluctuate because of changes in market Market risk is the risk that the fair value of movements in market variables on the interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the future cash flows of a financial instrument carrying values of other post-retirement risk of changes in market interest rates will fluctuate because of changes in market obligations, provisions and the non-financial relates primarily to the Group’s long-term prices. assets and liabilities. debt obligations with floating interest rates. Market risk comprises of the following types The following assumptions have been made Most lenders grant loans under floating of risks: in performing the sensitivity analyses: interest rates. To manage this, the Group • Interest rate risk enters into interest rate swaps, in which it • The Statement of Financial Position • Currency risk agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the sensitivity relates to derivatives and • Equity price risk difference between fixed and variable rate available-for-sale debt instruments. • Commodity price risk interest amounts calculated by reference to • The sensitivity of the relevant Income an agreed-upon notional principal amount. The objective of market risk management is Statement item is the effect of the assumed to manage and control market risk exposures changes in respective market risks. The following table demonstrates the within acceptable parameters, while sensitivity to a reasonably possible change • This is based on the financial assets and optimising the return. in interest rates, with all other variables held financial liabilities held at 31 March 2017 constant, of the Group’s and Company's profit and 2016. The sensitivity analyses in the following before tax (through the impact on floating sections relate to the position as at 31 March rate borrowings). 10.3.1. Interest rate risk in 2017 and 2016. Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument For the year ended 31 March Increase/ (decrease) in basis points Effect on profit before tax LKR '000s Rupee Other currency Group Company borrowings borrowings 2017 +188 +53 115,552 -188 -53 (115,552) 2016 +189 +52 (119,511) (7,709) -189 -52 119,679 7,709 The assumed spread of basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market environment changes to base floating interest rates. 208 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 10. Financial risk management 10.3.2.1. Effects of currency transaction on before tax due to changes in the fair value objectives and policies (Contd.) forward contract of the Group’s forward exchange contracts. 10.3.2. Foreign currency risk The following table demonstrates the Currently these financial instruments Foreign currency risk is the risk that the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change are categorised under trade and other fair value or future cash flows of a financial in the USD/LKR exchange rate, with all other receivables. instrument will fluctuate because of changes variables held constant, of the Group’s profit in foreign exchange rates. The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it For the year ended 31 March Increase/(decrease) Effect on profit has cash flows in overseas operations and in basis points USD before tax foreign currency transactions which are LKR '000s affected by foreign exchange movements. Group Group treasury analyses the market condition of foreign exchange and provides market updates to the Group Executive Committee 2017 +4% (44,617) (GEC), with the use of external consultants' -4% 44,617 advice. Based on the suggestions made by 2016 +10% (42,282) Group treasury the GEC takes decisions -10% 42,282 on whether to hold, sell, or make forward bookings of foreign currency as per decision The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current observable market rights given by Board of Directors. environment. 10.3.2.2. Effects of currency translation For purposes of JKH's consolidated financial statements, the income and expenses and the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries located outside Sri Lanka are converted into Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR). Therefore, period-to-period changes in average exchange rates may cause currency translation effects that have a significant impact on, for example, revenue, segment results (Earnings Before Interest and Taxes –EBIT) and assets and liabilities of the Group. Unlike exchange rate transaction risk, exchange rate translation risk does not necessarily affect future cash flows. The Group’s equity position reflects changes in book values caused by exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. For the year ended 31 March Group Company Increase/(decrease) Effect on profit Effect on equity Effect on profit in exchange rate USD before tax LKR '000s LKR '000s before tax LKR '000s 2017 +4% 1,169,224 1,490,189 841,661 -4% ( 1,169,224 ) (1,490,189) (841,661) 2016 +10% 3,242,566 3,329,445 1,817,315 -10% (3,242,566) (3,329,445) (1,817,315) Assumptions The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current observable market environment. 10.3.3. Equity price risk The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. 10.3.3.1. Financial assets at fair value through Profit and loss The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and by placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on the equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior management on a regular basis. The Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity investment decisions. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 209 Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 LKR ’000s % LKR ’000s % Banks finance and insurance 1,678,946 49% 1,849,371 62% Beverage food and tobacco 12,353 0% 364,221 12% Construction & engineering 116,745 3% 53,844 2% Diversified holdings 591,424 18% 360,216 12% Manufacturing 856,378 25% 273,713 9% Motors 12,128 0% Power and energy 16,058 1% Other services 6,651 0% Telecommunications 178,006 5% 64,641 2% Healthcare 6,032 0% 3,433,852 100% 3,006,875 100% 10.3.3.2 Available-for-sale investments All unquoted equity investments are made after obtaining Board approval. 10.3.3.3 Sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the market index, with all other variables held constant, of the Group & Company's profit before tax & equity due to changes in the fair value of the listed equity securities. For the year ended 31 March Group Change in year-end Effect on profit Effect on equity market price index before tax LKR '000s LKR '000s 2017 0% 0% 2016 +10% 300,688 32 -10% (300,688) (32) 10.4 Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong financial position and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in the light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares, have a rights issue or buy back of shares. As at 31 March Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Debt/Equity 11.7% 12.3% 0.1% 1.6% 11. Fair value measurement and related • Investment in unquoted equity in an orderly transaction between market fair value disclosures Note 27.1 participants at the measurement date. The shares Fair value measurement • Property, plant and equipment Note 21.3 fair value measurement is based on the Fair value related disclosures for financial under revaluation model presumption that the transaction to sell the instruments and non-financial assets that asset or transfer the liability takes place • Investment properties Note 23 are measured at fair value or where fair either: • Financial Instruments Note 12 values are only, disclosed are reflected in (including those carried at • In the principal market for the asset or this note. Apart from this note, additional amortised cost) liability, or fair value related disclosures, including the valuation methods, significant estimates and • In the absence of a principal market, in the Accounting policy assumptions are also provided in: most advantageous market for the asset Fair value is the price that would be received or liability to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 210 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 11. Fair value measurement and related on the lowest level input that is significant to nonrecurring measurement, such as assets fair value disclosures (Contd.) the fair value measurement as a whole: held for sale in discontinued operations. The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group. • Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market External valuers are involved in the valuation prices in active markets for identical of significant assets, such as land and building The fair value of an asset or a liability is assets or liabilities and investment properties, and significant measured using the assumptions that market liabilities, such as insurance contracts. • Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which participants would use when pricing the asset Selection criteria for external valuers include the lowest level input that is significant to or liability, assuming that market participants market knowledge, reputation, independence the fair value measurement is directly or act in their economic best interest. and whether professional standards are indirectly observable. maintained. The Group decides, after A fair value measurement of a non• Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which discussions with the external valuers, which financial asset takes into account a market the lowest level input that is significant valuation techniques and inputs to use for participant's ability to generate economic to the fair value measurement is individual assets and liabilities. benefits by using the asset in its highest and unobservable. best use or by selling it to another market For the purpose of fair value disclosures, participant that would use the asset in its For assets and liabilities that are recognised the Group has determined classes of assets highest and best use. in the financial statements on a recurring and liabilities on the basis of the nature, basis, the Group determines whether characteristics and risks of the asset The Group uses valuation techniques that transfers have occurred between levels in or liability and the level of the fair value are appropriate for the circumstances and the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation hierarchy as explained above. for which sufficient data are available to (based on the lowest level input that is measure fair value, maximising the use of significant to the fair value measurement as Fair value hierarchy relevant observable inputs and minimising a whole) at the end of each reporting period. 11.1 Financial assets and liabilities by the use of unobservable inputs. fair value hierarchy Group The Group determines the policies and All assets and liabilities for which fair value procedures for both recurring fair value The Group held the following financial is measured or disclosed in the financial measurement, such as investment properties instruments carried at fair value in the statements are categorised within the fair and unquoted AFS financial assets, and for Statement of Financial Position: value hierarchy, described as follows, based FINANCIAL ASSETS Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Financial assets held for trading 1,678,122 1,395,201 Designated at fair value through profit or loss 2,187,708 2,253,716 132,683 21,160 Foreign exchange forward contracts 26,732 Interest rate swap 331,679 Available for sale 6,478,510 7,018,665 180,722 301,134 160,369 184,456 Total 10,344,340 10,667,582 645,084 349,026 160,369 184,456 NON FINANCIAL ASSETS Note Assets measured at fair value Land and buildings 21.1 40,092,971 29,953,873 Buildings on leasehold land 21.1 12,522,459 11,541,882 Investment property 23 5,366,180 4,878,406 Total 57,981,610 46,374,161 In determining the fair value, highest and best use of the property has been considered including the current condition of the properties, future usability and associated redevelopment requirements. Also, the valuers have made reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties, with appropriate adjustments for size and location. The appraised fair values are rounded within the range of values. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 211 11.2. Financial assets and liabilities by fair value hierarchy Company available-for-sale or held to maturity FINANCIAL ASSETS Level 3 depends on the nature of the asset. This As at 31 March 2017 2016 evaluation does not affect any financial In LKR '000s assets designated at fair value through profit or loss using the fair value option at designation. Available for sale 141,972 166,059 Loans and receivables 11.3. Reconciliation of fair value measurements of level 3 financial instruments Loans and receivables are non-derivative The Group and Company carries unquoted equity shares as available-for-sale financial financial assets with fixed or determinable instruments classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. A reconciliation of the beginning payments that are not quoted in an active and closing balances including movements is summarised below: market. After initial measurement, such Available-for-sale financial assets financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest In LKR '000s Group Company rate method (EIR), less impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any As at 1 April 2016 184,456 166,059 discount or premium on acquisition and fees Total gains and losses recognised in OCI (24,087) (24,087) or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. As at 31 March 2017 160,369 141,972 The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the income statement. The losses Fair valuation carried at 31 March 2017 for all unquoted equity shares are classified as Level 3 arising from impairment are recognised in within the fair value hierarchy using discounted cash flow valuation method. Fair value would the income statement in finance costs. not significantly vary if one or more of the inputs were changed. Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are nonderivative financial assets with fixed or 12. Financial instruments and related purposes of subsequent measurement determinable payments and fixed maturities policies financial assets are classified in four are classified as held-to-maturity when Accounting policy categories: the Group has the positive intention and Financial instruments — Initial recognition ability to hold them to maturity. After • Financial assets at fair value through profit and subsequent measurement initial measurement, held-to-maturity or loss Financial assets Initial recognition and investments are measured at amortised measurement • Loans and receivables cost using the effective interest method, less Financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39 impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by • Held-to-maturity investments are classified as financial assets at fair value taking into account any discount or premium through profit or loss, loans and receivables, • Available for sale financial assets on acquisition and fees or costs that are an held-to-maturity investments, availableintegral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization for-sale financial assets, or as derivatives Financial assets at fair value through profit is included in finance income in the designated as hedging instruments in an or loss Income Statement. The losses arising from effective hedge, as appropriate. The Group Financial assets at fair value through profit or impairment are recognised in the Income determines the classification of its financial loss include financial assets held for trading Statement in finance costs. assets at initial recognition. and financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss. Available-for-sale financial investments All financial assets are recognised initially Financial assets are classified as held for Available-for-sale financial investments at fair value plus, in the case of assets not trading if they are acquired for the purpose include equity and debt securities. Equity at fair value through profit or loss, directly of selling or repurchasing in the near term. investments classified as available-for-sale attributable transaction costs. Purchases or are those, which are neither classified as sales of financial assets that require delivery Financial assets at fair value through profit held for trading nor designated at fair value of assets within a time frame established or loss are carried in the Statement of through profit or loss. Debt securities in this by regulation or convention in the market Financial Position at fair value with changes category are those which are intended to place (regular way trades) are recognised in fair value recognised in finance income or be held for an indefinite period of time and on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Group finance costs in the Income Statement. which may be sold in response to needs for commits to purchase or sell the asset. liquidity or in response to changes in the The Group evaluates its financial assets market conditions. The Group’s financial assets include cash held for trading, other than derivatives, to and short-term deposits, trade and other determine whether the intention to sell After initial measurement, available-forreceivables, loans and other receivables, them in the near term is still appropriate. sale financial investments are subsequently quoted and unquoted financial instruments When the Group is unable to trade these measured at fair value with unrealised gains and derivative financial instruments. financial assets due to inactive markets and or losses recognised in other comprehensive management’s intention to sell them in the income under the available-for-sale reserve Financial assets Subsequent foreseeable future significantly changes, until the investment is derecognised, at measurement the Group may elect to reclassify these which time the cumulative gain or loss is The subsequent measurement of financial financial assets in rare circumstances. The recognised in other operating income, or assets depends on their classification. For reclassification to loans and receivables, determined to be impaired, at which time the 212 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 12. Financial instruments and related substantially all the risks and rewards of that are not individually significant. If the policies (Contd.) the asset, but has transferred control of Group determines that no objective evidence cumulative loss is reclassified to the Income the asset. of impairment exists for an individually Statement in finance costs and removed assessed financial asset, whether significant from the available-for-sale reserve. Interest When the Group has transferred its rights or not, it includes the asset in a Group of income on available-for-sale debt securities to receive cash flows from an asset or has financial assets with similar credit risk is calculated using the effective interest entered into a pass-through arrangement, characteristics and collectively assesses method and is recognised in the Income and has neither transferred nor retained them for impairment. Assets that are Statement. substantially all of the risks and rewards individually assessed for impairment and for of the asset nor transferred control of it, which an impairment loss is, or continues to The Group evaluates its available-for-sale the asset is recognised to the extent of the be, recognised are not included in a collective financial assets to determine whether the Group’s continuing involvement in it. assessment of impairment. ability and intention to sell them in the near term is still appropriate. When the Group is In that case, the Group also recognises an If there is objective evidence that an unable to trade these financial assets due associated liability. The transferred asset impairment loss has been incurred, the to inactive markets and management’s and the associated liability are measured amount of the loss is measured as the intention to do so significantly changes in on a basis that reflects the rights and difference between the assets carrying the foreseeable future, the Group may elect obligations that the Group has retained. amount and the present value of estimated to reclassify these financial assets in rare future cash flows (excluding future expected circumstances. Reclassification to loans and Continuing involvement that takes the form credit losses that have not yet been incurred). receivables is permitted when the financial of a guarantee over the transferred asset The present value of the estimated future assets meet the definition of loans and is measured at the lower of the original cash flows is discounted at the financial receivables and the Group has the intent and carrying amount of the asset and the asset’s original effective interest rate. If a ability to hold these assets for the foreseeable maximum amount of consideration that the loan has a variable interest rate, the discount future or until maturity. Reclassification to the Group could be required to repay. rate for measuring any impairment loss is held-to-maturity category is permitted only the current effective interest rate. when the entity has the ability and intention Impairment of financial assets to hold the financial asset accordingly. The Group assesses at each reporting date The carrying amount of the asset is reduced whether there is any objective evidence through the use of an allowance account For a financial asset reclassified out of the that a financial asset or a group of financial and the amount of the loss is recognised available-for-sale category, any previous assets is impaired. A financial asset or a in the Income Statement. Interest income gain or loss on that asset that has been group of financial assets is deemed to be continues to be accrued on the reduced recognized in equity is amortised to the impaired if, and only if, there is objective carrying amount and is accrued using the Income Statement over the remaining life of evidence of impairment as a result of one rate of interest used to discount the future the investment using the EIR. Any difference or more events that has occurred after the cash flows for the purpose of measuring between the new amortised cost and the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred the impairment loss. The interest income expected cash flows is also amortised over ‘loss event’) and that loss event has an is recorded as part of finance income in the remaining life of the asset using the EIR. If impact on the estimated future cash flows of the Income Statement. Loans together with the asset is subsequently determined to be the financial asset or the group of financial the associated allowance are written off impaired, then the amount recorded in equity assets that can be reliably estimated. when there is no realistic prospect of future is reclassified to the Income Statement. recovery and all collateral has been realised Evidence of impairment may include or has been transferred to the Group. If, in a Financial assets derecognition indications that the debtors or a group of subsequent year, the amount of the estimated A financial asset (or, where applicable a debtors is experiencing significant financial impairment loss increases or decreases part of a financial asset or part of a group difficulty, default or delinquency in interest because of an event occurring after the of similar financial assets) is derecognised or principal payments, the probability that impairment was recognised, the previously when: they will enter bankruptcy or other financial recognised impairment loss is increased or reorganisation and where observable data reduced by adjusting the allowance account. • The rights to receive cash flows from the indicate that there is a measurable decrease If a future write-off is later recovered, the asset have expired in the estimated future cash flows, such as recovery is credited to finance costs in the changes in arrears or economic conditions Income Statement. • The Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from the asset or has that correlate with defaults. assumed an obligation to pay the received AFS financial assets cash flows in full without material delay Financial assets carried at amortised cost For available-for-sale financial investments, to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the group assesses at each reporting date arrangement; and either (a) the Group the Group first assesses whether objective whether there is objective evidence that has transferred substantially all the risks evidence of impairment exists individually an investment or a Group of investments is and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group for financial assets that are individually impaired. has neither transferred nor retained significant, or collectively for financial assets Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 213 In the case of equity investments classified as Financial liabilities Subsequent legal right to offset the recognised amounts available-for-sale, objective evidence would measurement and there is an intention to settle on a net include a significant or prolonged decline The subsequent measurement of financial basis, or to realise the assets and settle the in the fair value of the investment below its liabilities depends on their classification. liabilities simultaneously. cost. ‘Significant’ is evaluated against the For purposes of subsequent measurement original cost of the investment and ‘prolonged’ financial liabilities are classified in to two Derivative financial instruments Initial against the period in which the fair value has categories: recognition and subsequent measurement been below its original cost. Where there is The Group uses derivative financial evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss • Loans and borrowings instruments such as forward currency measured as the difference between the contracts, interest rate swaps and forward • Financial guarantee contracts acquisition cost and the current fair value (less commodity contracts to hedge its foreign any impairment loss) is removed from other currency risks, interest rate risks and After initial recognition, interest bearing loans comprehensive income. Impairment losses on commodity price risks respectively. Such and borrowings are subsequently measured equity investments are not reversed through derivative financial instruments are initially at amortised cost using the effective the Income Statement; increases in their fair recognised at fair value on the date on interest rate method. Gains and losses are value after impairment are recognised directly which a derivative contract is entered into recognised in the Income Statement when in other comprehensive income. and subsequently remeasured at fair value. the liabilities are derecognised as well as Derivatives are carried as financial assets through the effective interest rate method In the case of debt instruments classified as when the fair value is positive and as financial (EIR) amortization process. available-for-sale, impairment is assessed liabilities when the fair value is negative. based on the same criteria as financial Amortised cost is calculated by taking assets carried at amortised cost. However, The fair value of commodity contracts that into account any discount or premium on the amount recorded for impairment is the meet the definition of a derivative as defined acquisition and fees or costs that are an cumulative loss measured as the difference by LKAS 39 are recognised in the Income integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization between the amortised cost and the current Statement in cost of sales. is included in finance costs in the Income fair value, less any impairment loss on that Statement. investment previously recognised in the Any gains or losses arising from changes in Income Statement. the fair value of derivatives are taken directly Financial guarantee contracts issued by to the Income Statement. the Group are those contracts that require a Future interest income continues to be payment to be made to reimburse the holder accrued based on the reduced carrying Foreign exchange forward contracts for a loss it incurs in case the specified amount of the asset, using the rate of interest Foreign exchange forward contracts are fair debtor fails to make a payment when due used to discount the future cash flows for the valued at each reporting date. Gains and in accordance with the terms of a debt purpose of measuring the impairment loss. losses arising from changes in fair value instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are The interest income is recorded as part of are included in the Income Statement in the recognised initially as a liability at fair value, finance income. If, in a subsequent year, the period in which they arise. adjusted for transaction costs that are directly fair value of a debt instrument increases and attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. the increase can be objectively related to an Cash Flow Hedges Subsequently, the liability is measured at the event occurring after the impairment loss Interest rate swaps higher of the best estimate of the expenditure was recognised in the Income Statement, The Group has entered into interest rate required to settle the present obligation at the the impairment loss is reversed through the swap that is a cash flow hedge for the reporting date and the amount recognised Income Statement. Group’s exposure to interest rate risk on its less cumulative amortisation. borrowings Financial liabilities – Initial recognition and Financial liabilities Derecognition measurement These contracts entitle the Group to receive A financial liability is derecognised when the Financial liabilities within the scope of LKAS interest at floating rates on notional principal obligation under the liability is discharged or 39 are classified as financial liabilities at amounts and oblige the Group to pay interest cancelled or expired. fair value through profit or loss, loans and at fixed rates on the same notional principal borrowings or as derivatives designated as amounts, thus allowing the Group to raise When an existing financial liability is hedging instruments in an effective hedge, borrowings at floating rates and swap them replaced by another from the same lender on as appropriate. The Group determines the with fixed rates. substantially different terms, or the terms of classification of its financial liabilities at initial an existing liability are substantially modified, recognition. The fair value changes on the effective such an exchange or modification is treated portion of interest rate swaps designated as a derecognition of the original liability All financial liabilities are recognised initially as cash flow hedges are recognised in other and the recognition of a new liability, and the at fair value and in the case of loans and comprehensive income, accumulated in the difference in the respective carrying amounts borrowings, carried at amortised cost. This fair value reserve and reclassified to profit are recognised in the Income Statement includes directly attributable transaction or loss when the hedged interest expense costs. on the borrowings is recognised in profit or Offsetting of financial instruments loss. The fair value changes on the ineffective Financial assets and financial liabilities are The Group’s financial liabilities include trade portion of interest rate swaps are recognised offset and the net amount reported in the and other payables, bank overdrafts, loans immediately in profit or loss. Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and borrowings, financial guarantee contracts if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable and derivative financial instruments. 214 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 12.1. Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with LKAS 39 Group Loans and receivables Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 LKR '000s Financial instruments in non-current assets/non-current liabilities Non-current financial assets 9,474,414 2,492,810 96,016 50,452 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Financial instruments in current assets/current liabilities Trade and other receivables/ Payables 11,687,429 9,998,949 Amounts due from/due to related parties 111,639 133,031 Short term investments 70,970,351 67,404,837 3,902,497 3,619,625 Cash in hand and at bank 5,119,185 5,127,463 Short term borrowings Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Bank overdrafts Total 97,363,018 85,157,090 3,998,513 3,670,077 12.2. Financial assets and liabilities by categories in accordance with LKAS 39 Financial assets by Financial liabilities by categories categories Company Loans and receivables Available-for-sale financial Total Financial liabilities assets measured at amortised cost As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 LKR '000s Financial instruments in non-current assets/ non-current liabilities Non-current financial 2,648,008 341,346 141,972 166,059 2,789,980 507,405 assets Financial instruments in current assets/current liabilities Trade and other 118,076 169,144 118,076 169,144 330,078 332,506 receivables/ Payables Amounts due from/due to 286,735 595,182 286,735 595,182 210,029 102,135 related parties Short term investments 60,243,280 56,862,236 60,243,280 56,862,236 Cash in hand and at bank 304,265 178,193 304,265 178,193 Interest-bearing loans and 1,482,508 borrowings Bank overdrafts 84,282 117,412 Total 63,600,364 58,146,101 141,972 166,059 63,742,336 58,312,160 624,389 2,034,561 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 215 Financial assets by categories Financial liabilities by categories Available-for-sale financial Held-to-maturity investments Total Financial liabilities measured assets at amortised cost 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 6,639,029 6,987,250 11,457,162 13,104,932 27,666,621 22,635,444 14,202,636 13,706,848 11,687,429 9,998,949 14,136,040 12,755,466 111,639 133,031 10,434 28,982 180,572 517,005 4,120,907 1,093,603 79,174,327 72,635,070 5,119,185 5,127,463 1,380,238 821,243 2,918,854 2,991,582 4,264,109 3,230,182 6,819,601 7,504,255 15,578,069 14,198,535 123,759,201 110,529,957 36,912,311 33,534,303 For financial assets both at fair value The fair value of unquoted instruments, loans Fair value of the unquoted ordinary shares through profit and loss and available-for-sale from banks and other financial liabilities, has been estimated using a Discounted Cash financial assets the carrying amount and fair obligations under finance leases, as well Flow (DCF) model. The valuation requires value are equal. as other non-current financial liabilities is management to make certain assumptions estimated by discounting future cash flows about the model inputs, including forecast The fair value of loans and receivables is not using rates currently available for debt on cash flows, the discount rate, credit risk and significantly different from the value based similar terms, credit risk and remaining volatility. The probabilities of the various on amortised cost methodology. Fair value maturities. estimates within the range can be reasonably of held to maturity investments amounts to assessed and are used in management’s LKR 14,725 mn (2016 LKR 15,160 mn) for estimate of fair value for these unquoted the Group. equity investments. The Group has designated financial assets amounting to LKR 3,999 mn (2016 LKR 4,010 mn) upon initial recognition, as fair 12.3. Derivative financial instruments value through profit or loss. Group 2017 The management assessed that, cash and Cash-flow hedges Contract notional Fair value (In LKR '000) short-term deposits, trade receivables, trade amount USD ('000) payables, bank overdrafts and other current Asset Liability financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term Interest rate swaps 75,000 331,679 maturities of these instruments. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions in an orderly transaction between market Fair value of financial instruments participants at the measurement date. Where the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active markets, their fair value is determined using The following methods and assumptions valuation techniques including the discounted cash flow model. The inputs to these models are were used to estimate the fair values: taken from observable markets where possible. Fair value of quoted equities, debentures and bonds is based on price quotations in an Where this is not feasible, a degree of judgment is required in establishing fair values. The active market at the reporting date. judgments include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. 216 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 13. Revenue Rendering of services Life insurance business gross written Accounting policy Revenue from rendering of services is premium Revenue recognition recognised by reference to the stage of Gross written premiums on life and Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is completion. Where the contract outcome investment contracts with discretionary probable that the economic benefits will flow cannot be measured reliably, revenue participating features (DPF) are recognised to the Group, and the revenue and associated is recognized only to the extent that the as revenue when receivable from the costs incurred or to be incurred can be expenses incurred are eligible to be policyholder (policies within the 30 day grace reliably measured. Revenue is measured at recovered. period are considered as due). For single the fair value of the consideration received or premium business, revenue is recognised on receivable, net of trade discounts and value Rental income the date on which the policy is effective. added taxes, after eliminating sales within Rental income arising from operating leases the Group. on investment properties is accounted for on Turnover based taxes a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Companies in the Group pay turnover based The following specific criteria are also must taxes including value added tax in accordance be met for recognition of revenue: with the respective statutes. 13.1. Revenue Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized Group Company when the significant risk and rewards of For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 ownership of the goods have passed to the In LKR '000s buyer with the Group retaining neither a continuing managerial involvement to the Gross revenue 106,483,869 93,815,682 1,126,353 1,108,095 degree usually associated with ownership, Turnover tax (210,768) (105,728) nor an effective control over the goods sold. Net revenue 106,273,101 93,709,954 1,126,353 1,108,095 14. Dividend income Accounting policy Dividend Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive the payment is established. Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries and equity accounted investees 10,469,023 10,260,828 15. Other operating income and other operating expenses Accounting policy carrying amount from proceeds on disposal of Any losses arising from guaranteed rentals Gains and losses such assets and the related selling expenses. are accounted for, in the year of incurring Net gains and losses of a revenue nature the same. A provision is recognised if the Gains and losses arising from activities arising from the disposal of property, plant projection indicates a loss. incidental to the main revenue generating and equipment and other noncurrent assets, activities and those arising from a group of Other income and expenses including investments in subsidiaries, joint similar transactions, which are not material Other income and expenses are recognised ventures and associates, are accounted in are aggregated, reported and presented on a on an accrual basis. the income statement, after deducting the net basis. 15.1. Other operating income Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Exchange gains 282,572 236,421 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 17 1,656 Profit on sale of non current investments 2,574,003 3,792,821 Promotional income and commission fee 1,062,548 859,218 Write back of dealer deposits 8,789 12,410 Sundry income 411,278 596,074 33,841 27,413 1,765,187 1,704,123 2,607,861 3,821,890 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 217 At the Company level, other operating income includes a capital gain of LKR 2,574 mn pertaining to the exercise undertaken to simplify the Group’s shareholding structure. This exercise, as discussed in note 43.8, was carried out to restructure the shareholding of the Group companies which had multiple layers of ownership. The exercise was executed via a model which consisted of both share and cash transfers within the Company and its unquoted subsidiaries. It should also be noted that this capital gain was eliminated at the Group consolidation level. The Company exercised its buy back option of Union Assurance PLC, resultant gain of LKR 3.10 bn has been reported under other operation income in 2015/16 income statement. 15.2. Other operating expenses Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Nation building tax 1,105,567 1,029,657 22,909 22,533 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 41,183 34,050 Impairment losses of non financial assets 34,332 215,764 900,419 525,000 Other overheads 1,989,023 2,150,090 17,844 19,147 3,170,105 3,429,561 941,172 566,680 The recoverable amount of the investments in the BPO business as at 31 March 2017, has been determined using the “fair value less cost to sell” basis. Accordingly, an impairment loss of LKR 900 mn (2016 LKR 525 mn) has been recognized in the Company financial statements under other operating expenses. The said loss has been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. 16. Net finance income financial instrument or a shorter period, where the rate that exactly discounts the estimated Accounting policy appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the future cash payments through the expected Finance income financial asset. Interest income is included in life of the financial instrument or a shorter Finance income comprises interest income finance income in the income statement. period, where appropriate, to the net carrying on funds invested (including available-foramount of the financial liability. sale financial assets), dividend income and Finance costs gains on the disposal of available-for-sale Finance costs comprise interest expense on Borrowing costs directly attributable to the financial assets, fair value gains on financial borrowings, unwinding of the discount on acquisition, construction or production of an assets at fair value through profit or loss, provisions, losses on disposal of availableasset that necessarily takes a substantial gains on the remeasurement to fair value of for-sale financial assets, fair value losses on period of time to get ready for its intended any pre-existing interest in an acquiree that financial assets at fair value through profit use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost are recognised in the income statement. or loss, impairment losses recognised on of the respective assets. All other borrowing financial assets (other than trade receivables) costs are expensed in the period they occur. Interest income is recorded as it accrues using that are recognised in the income statement. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other the effective interest rate (EIR), which is the costs that the Group incurs in connection rate that exactly discounts the estimated future Interest expense is recorded as it accrues with the borrowing of funds. cash receipts through the expected life of the using the effective interest rate (EIR), which is Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Net finance income Finance income Interest income 9,016,816 6,226,155 4,908,325 2,935,026 Dividend income on Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 164,269 102,328 Available-for-sale financial assets 49,289 8,724 49,289 8,724 Investment related expenses (47,432) (22,909) Net gain on Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 267,176 Available-for-sale financial assets 9 82,406 82,406 Exchange gains 583,154 1,614,248 583,154 1,614,248 Total finance income 10,033,281 8,010,952 5,540,768 4,640,404 Finance cost Interest expense on borrowings (436,278) (391,721) (89,397) (81,579) Net loss on Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (602,081) Total finance cost (436,278) (993,802) (89,397) (81,579) Net finance income 9,597,003 7,017,150 5,451,371 4,558,825 218 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 17. Profit before tax Accounting policy Expenditure recognition Expenses are recognised in the income statement on the basis of a direct association between the cost incurred and the earning of specific items of income. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state of efficiency has been charged to the income statement. For the purpose of presentation of the income statement, the “function of expenses” method has been adopted, on the basis that it presents fairly the elements of the Company’s and Group’s performance. Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following; Remuneration to executive directors 363,411 375,934 154,024 163,099 Remuneration to non executive directors 47,470 51,698 16,920 22,320 Costs of defined employee benefits Defined benefit plan cost 327,633 283,900 32,831 26,633 Defined contribution plan cost EPF and ETF 841,237 775,679 31,571 29,316 Staff expenses 11,166,845 10,135,789 567,671 561,849 Auditors’ remuneration Audit 44,992 41,014 7,273 6,943 Non-audit 6,654 7,588 3,183 2,753 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,874,071 2,782,315 33,042 33,415 Amortisation of intangible assets 333,046 320,564 19,765 23,660 Amortisation of lease rentals paid in advance 592,983 738,407 Impairment losses of non financial assets 34,332 215,764 900,419 525,000 Operating lease payments 913,962 1,068,459 (Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 41,183 34,050 (17) (1,656) Donations 34,135 24,361 13,505 23,510 18. Earnings per share Accounting policy Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (after adjusting outstanding share option scheme and warrants) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. Group For the year ended 31 March Note 2017 2016 18.1. Basic earnings per share Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (In LKR '000s) 16,275,158 14,070,009 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (In ’000s) 18.3 1,373,936 1,335,196 Basic earnings per share (LKR) 11.85 10.54 18.2. Diluted earnings per share Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent (In LKR '000s) 16,275,158 14,070,009 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares (In ’000s) 18.3 1,374,525 1,337,984 Diluted earnings per share (LKR) 11.84 10.52 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 219 18.3. Amount used as denominator In '000s 2017 2016 Ordinary shares at the beginning of the year 1,189,404 997,486 Bonus element on share split 2015/16 142,498 Bonus element on share split 2016/17 169,915 169,915 Effect of share options exercised / warrants exercised 14,617 25,297 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue before dilution 1,373,936 1,335,196 Effects of dilution from: Employee share option scheme 589 929 Share warrants 2015/16 1,859 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,374,525 1,337,984 19. Dividend per share Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 LKR In LKR’000s LKR In LKR’000s Equity dividend on ordinary shares declared and paid during the year Final dividend (Previous years' final dividend paid in the current year) 1.50 1,784,105 1.50 1,496,230 Interim dividend 4.00 5,496,392 5.50 6,541,560 Total dividend 5.50 7,280,497 7.00 8,037,790 20. Taxes Deferred tax time of the transaction, affects neither the Accounting policy Deferred tax is provided using the liability accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; Current tax method on temporary differences at the and Current tax assets and liabilities for the reporting date between the tax bases of • In respect of deducible temporary current and prior periods are measured at assets and liabilities and their carrying differences associated with investments the amount expected to be recovered from or amounts for financial reporting purposes. in subsidiaries, associates and interests paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are and tax laws used to compute the amount Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all recognised only to the extent that it is are those that are enacted or substantively taxable temporary differences, except: probable that the temporary differences enacted, at the reporting date in the countries • Where the deferred tax liability arising from will reverse in the foreseeable future and where the Group operates and generates the initial recognition of goodwill or of an taxable profit will be available against which taxable income. asset or liability in a transaction that is not a the temporary differences can be utilised. business combination and, at the time of the Current income tax relating to items transaction, affects neither the accounting The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is recognised directly in equity is recognised profit nor taxable profit or loss; and reviewed at each reporting date and reduced in equity and for items recognised in other to the extent that it is no longer probable that comprehensive income shall be recognised • In respect of taxable temporary sufficient taxable profit will be available to in other comprehensive income and not differences associated with investments allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to in the income statement. Management in subsidiaries, associates and interests be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets periodically evaluates positions taken in in joint ventures, where the timing of the are reassessed at each reporting date and are the tax returns with respect to situations in reversal of the temporary differences can recognised to the extent that it has become which applicable tax regulations are subject be controlled and it is probable that the probable that future taxable profit will allow to interpretation and establishes provisions temporary differences will not reverse in the deferred tax asset to be recovered. where appropriate. the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are Management has used its judgment on the Deferred tax assets are recognised for measured at tax rates that are expected to application of tax laws including transfer all deductible temporary differences, and apply to the year when the asset realises pricing regulations involving identification of unused tax credits and tax losses carried or liability is settled, based on the tax rates associated undertakings, estimation of the forward, to the extent that it is probable that and tax laws that have been enacted or respective arm’s length prices and selection taxable profit will be available against which substantively enacted as at the reporting date. of appropriate pricing mechanism. the deductible temporary differences and the unused tax credits and tax losses carried Deferred tax relating to items recognised The Group has complied with the arm’s forward can be utilised except: outside the income statement is recognised length principles relating to transfer pricing • Where the deferred income tax assets outside the income statement. Deferred as prescribed in the Inland Revenue Act, relating to the deductible temporary tax items are recognised in correlation to and has complied with the related Gazette difference arises from the initial recognition the underlying transaction either in other notification issued by Ministry of Finance. of an asset or liability in a transaction that comprehensive income or directly in equity. is not a business combination and, at the 220 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 20. Taxes (Contd.) enjoying the Board of Investment (BOI) Tax of acquisition of the asset or as part of the Holiday period, if there are no qualifying assets expense item as applicable; and Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities or liabilities beyond the BOI period. • Where receivables and payables are stated are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists with the amount of sales tax included. to set off current tax assets against current Sales tax tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, relate to the same taxable entity and the same net of the amount of sales tax except: or payable to, the taxation authority is included taxation authority. • Where the sales tax incurred on the purchase as part of receivables or payables in the of an asset or service is not recoverable statement of financial position. No deferred tax asset or liability has been from the taxation authority, in which case recognised in the companies which are the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost 20.1. Tax expense Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Current income tax Current tax charge 20.5 3,461,444 2,294,854 1,092,976 578,959 Under/(over) provision of current tax of previous years 21,503 23,357 44,485 Irrecoverable economic service charge 20.7 199 445 10% Withholding tax on inter company dividends 943,718 754,194 Deferred tax charge/(reversal) Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 20.2 344,204 333,516 20.6 4,771,068 3,406,366 1,092,976 623,444 20.2. Deferred tax expense Group For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Income statement Deferred tax expense arising from; Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 149,894 102,019 Revaluation of investment property to fair value 26 6,134 Retirement benefit obligations (38,970) (1,030) Reversal/(benefit) arising from tax losses 222,940 156,990 Others 10,314 69,403 Deferred tax charged directly to income statement 344,204 333,516 Other comprehensive income Deferred tax expense arising from; Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations (19,880) 9,710 Revaluation of land and building to fair value 28,237 20,796 Net gain/(loss) on available for sale financial assets (57,801) 21,842 Total deferred tax charged/(credited) directly to OCI (49,444) 52,348 Deferred tax has been computed at 28% for all standard rate companies (including listed companies), and at 12% for leisure Group companies and at rates as disclosed in notes 20.10 and 20.11. Temporary differences associated with the undistributed reserves in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, amounts to LKR 2,117 mn (2016 LKR 3,104 mn). The deferred tax effect on undistributed reserves of subsidiaries has not been recognised since the parent can control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 221 20.3. Income tax liabilities Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s At the beginning of the year 1,873,472 1,592,079 345,555 263,240 Charge for the year 20.1 3,482,947 2,318,211 1,092,976 623,444 Payments and set off against refunds (2,961,040) (2,036,818) (802,999) (541,129) At the end of the year 2,395,379 1,873,472 635,532 345,555 20.4. Deferred tax Group ASSETS LIABILITIES As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s At the beginning of the year 129,837 108,585 2,029,371 1,625,394 Charge and release 11,591 26,598 306,351 412,462 Acquisition/(disposal) of subsidiary 955 Transfers/exchange translation difference 2,120 (5,346) 519 (9,440) At the end of the year 143,548 129,837 2,336,241 2,029,371 The closing deferred tax asset and liability balances relate to the following; Revaluation of land and building to fair value (642) 229,549 397,497 Revaluation of investment property to fair value (13,670) 51,252 31,188 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 59,399 (15,028) 2,155,280 1,755,586 Employee benefit liability 62,620 72,680 (240,655) (182,131) Losses available for offset against future taxable income 18,557 83,596 (51,920) (215,730) Net gain/loss on available for sale financial assets (35,959) 21,842 Others 2,972 2,901 228,694 221,119 143,548 129,837 2,336,241 2,029,371 The Group has tax losses amounting to LKR the interpretation of the applicability of tax The Group has tax losses relating to 7,045 mn (2016 LKR 7,287 mn) that are laws, at the time of the preparation of these subsidiaries that have a history of losses that available indefinitely to offset against future financial statements. do not expire and may not be used to offset taxable profits of the companies in which the other tax liabilities and where the subsidiaries tax losses arose. Uncertainties also exist with respect to the have no taxable temporary differences nor interpretation of complex tax regulations any tax planning opportunities available that Deferred tax liability amounting to LKR and the amount and timing of future taxable could partly support the recognition of these 230 mn (2016 – LKR 220 mn) for the Group income. Given the wide range of business losses as deferred tax assets. recognised on the impact pertaining to relationships and the long-term nature the current year on declared dividends of and complexity of existing contractual The Group has contingent liabilities subsidiaries and the Group's portion of agreements, differences arising between the amounting to LKR 1,168 mn (2016 – LKR distributable reserves of equity accounted actual results and the assumptions made, 1,168 mn). These have been arrived at after investees. or future changes to such assumptions, discussing with independent and legal tax could necessitate future adjustments to experts and based on information available. Accounting judgements, estimates and tax income and expense already recorded. All assumptions are revisited at the reporting assumptions Where the final tax outcome of such matters date. Further details on contingent liabilities The Group is subject to income tax and other is different from the amounts that were are disclosed in note 44 in the financial taxes including VAT. Significant judgment initially recorded, such differences will statement. was required to determine the total provision impact the income and deferred tax amounts for current, deferred and other taxes due in the period in which the determination is to uncertainties that exist with respect to made. 222 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 20. Taxes (Contd.) 20.5. Reconciliation between current tax charge and the accounting profit Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Profit before tax 22,887,833 19,198,231 17,245,418 17,693,558 Dividend income from Group companies 14,165,500 12,252,499 Share of results of equity accounted investees (3,302,955) (2,781,233) Other consolidation adjustments 3,908,163 3,357,687 Profit after adjustment 37,658,541 32,027,184 17,245,418 17,693,558 Exempt profits (1,554,480) (2,555,264) (889,488) (639,902) Income not liable for income tax (6,131,108) (4,545,016) (2,585,646) (3,875,227) Resident dividend (14,194,939) (12,285,025) (10,518,312) (10,269,552) Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes 15,778,014 12,641,879 3,251,972 2,908,877 Disallowable expenses 9,571,337 9,206,717 1,338,095 875,071 Allowable expenses (4,949,360) (6,024,919) (666,521) (1,694,336) Utilization of tax losses (421,603) (366,929) Qualifying payment deductions (54,692) (227,614) (20,059) (21,900) Taxable income 19,923,696 15,229,134 3,903,487 2,067,712 Income tax charged at Standard rate of 28% 2,885,195 1,842,728 1,092,976 578,959 Other concessionary rates 576,249 452,126 Current tax charge 3,461,444 2,294,854 1,092,976 578,959 20.6. Reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting profit Adjusted accounting profit chargeable to income taxes 15,778,014 12,641,879 3,251,972 2,908,877 Tax effect on chargeable profits 3,445,175 2,803,964 910,552 814,486 Tax effect on non deductible expenses 493,075 425,968 337,310 221,625 Tax effect on deductions claimed (156,497) (645,311) (172,889) (467,508) Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for the year 12,426 19,774 18,003 10,356 Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for prior years 1,469 (46,025) Under/(over) provision for previous years 21,503 23,357 44,485 Other income based taxes Irrecoverable economic service charge 199 445 10% Withholding tax on inter company dividends 943,718 754,194 Deferred tax on withholding tax of inter company dividends 10,000 70,000 Tax expense 4,771,068 3,406,366 1,092,976 623,444 Group tax expense is based on the taxable profit of individual companies within the Group. At present the tax laws of Sri Lanka do not provide for Group taxation. 20.7. Economic service charge (ESC) Group For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Irrecoverable economic service charge 199 445 199 445 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 223 20.8. Tax losses carried forward Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Tax losses brought forward 7,287,486 7,572,469 1,230,471 1,230,471 Adjustments on finalisation of liability 178,959 81,946 Tax losses arising during the year 228,324 319,789 Utilisation of tax losses (649,927) (686,718) 7,044,842 7,287,486 1,230,471 1,230,471 20.9. Details of investment relief Year of Cost of approved Relief Liability to investment investment claimed/forgone additional tax on In LKR '000s on investments disposal of In LKR '000s investment Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. (CCS) 2011/2012 256,702 256,702 2012/2013 167,091 167,091 2013/2014 72,801 72,801 Keells Food Products PLC. (KFP) 2012/2013 457,732 457,732 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. (TAH) 2011/2012 81,522 81,522 CCS, KFP and TAH are eligible for qualifying payment relief granted under Section 34(2)(s) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto. CCS, KFP and TAH have now fully claimed the relief. 20.10 Applicable rates of income tax The tax liability of resident companies are computed at the standard rate of 28% except for the following companies which enjoy full or partial exemptions and concessions. Company/Sector Basis Exemptions or Period concessions Exemptions/concessions granted under the Inland Revenue Act Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Off-shore activities for payment in foreign Exempt Open-ended currency John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. do do do John Keels Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd. do do do John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. do do do InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. do do do John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. On-shore activities for payment in foreign do do currency John Keells Holdings PLC. do do do Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. Export consignment sales of Petroleum do do Products John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd. New Undertaking engaged in construction do 9 years from 1 April 2015 of commercial buildings South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Operation of any port terminal in Sri Lanka do Exemption will continue even after the expiry of the BOI exemption Sancity Hotels & Properties Ltd. Construction and operation of a tourist hotel do 12 years from 1st year of profit or 2 years from operations John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Operation and maintenance of facilities for 10% Open-ended storage 224 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 20. Taxes (Contd.) 20.10. Applicable rates of income tax (Contd.) Company/Sector Basis Exemptions or Period concessions John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (sites which are Operation and maintenance of facilities for 10% Open-ended not covered by the BOI agreement) storage Leisure sector Promotion of tourism 12% do Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Consumer Foods and Retail sector Qualified export profits do do Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Mackinnons Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. Provision of services to foreign ships do do Exemptions / concessions granted under the Board of Investment Law Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Construction and operation of a tourist hotel Exempt 8 years from 1st year of profit or 2 years from operations Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. Domestic Airline do 8 years from 1st year of profit or 2 years from operations John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Real estate developer do 8 years from April 2011 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. For upgrading and refurbishment of a hotel do 10 years from 1st year of profit in the Eastern Province or 2 years from operations South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Port Services at Queen Elizabeth Quay do 20 years from September 1999 British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd. Infrastructure Development do 9 years from 1st April 2013 Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Integrated super luxury tourist resort do 10 years from 1st year of profit or 3 years from operations Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Construction and operation of office, 2% of turnover 15 years from 1st April 2014 apartment complex and a hotel Other miscellaneous concessions Exemption on interest income earned from foreign currency denominated accounts. Capital gains from sale of shares are excluded from chargeability to income tax. Income/profits from offshore dividends and interest are exempt from income tax. 20.11. Income tax rates of off-shore subsidiaries Country of incorporation Company Rate India John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 33% (Max) John Keells Foods India (Pvt)Ltd. 30.9% Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 30.9% Mauritius John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 3%(Effective) John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. 3%(Effective) Republic of Maldives Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 15% Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 15% Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 15% John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 15% Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. 15% Singapore John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. 17% (Max) USA John Keells BPO Solutions US (Pvt) Inc. 35%(Max) Canada John Keells BPO Solutions Canada (Pvt) Inc 26.5% 20.12. Income tax exemptions / concessions of off-shore subsidiaries Company / Sector Basis Exemptions or concessions Exemptions or concessions John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. Eligible export turnover Only 50% of relevant profit is taxable 5 years starting Y/A 2015/2016 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 225 21. Property, plant and equipment valuers at least every 5 years, except for no reasonable certainty that the Group will Accounting policy properties held for rental and occupied obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, Basis of recognition mainly by group companies, which are the asset is depreciated over the shorter of Property, plant and equipment are recognized revalued by professional valuers at least the estimated useful life of the asset and the if it is probable that future economic benefits every 3 years. lease term. Operating lease payments are associated with the asset will flow to the recognised as an operating expense in the Group and the cost of the asset can be Derecognition income statement on a straight-line basis reliably measured. An item of property, plant and equipment is over the lease term. derecognized upon replacement, disposal Basis of measurement or when no future economic benefits are Impairment of property plant and equipment Plant and equipment are stated at cost expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising The Group assesses at each reporting date less accumulated depreciation and any on derecognition of the asset is included in whether there is an indication that an asset accumulated impairment loss. Such cost the income statement in the year the asset is may be impaired. If any such indication exists, includes the cost of replacing component derecognised. the Group makes an estimate of the asset’s parts of the plant and equipment and recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable borrowing costs for long-term construction Depreciation amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash projects if the recognition criteria are Depreciation is calculated by using a straightgenerating unit’s fair value less costs to sell met. When significant parts of plant and line method on the cost or valuation of all and its value in use and is determined for equipment are required to be replaced property, plant and equipment, other than an individual asset, unless the asset does at intervals, the Group derecognises the freehold land, in order to write off such not generate cash inflows that are largely replaced part, and recognises the new part amounts over the estimated useful economic independent of those from other assets or with its own associated useful life. Likewise, life of such assets. groups of assets. Where the carrying amount when a major inspection is performed, its of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, cost is recognised in the carrying amount of The estimated useful life of assets are as the asset is considered impaired and is the plant and equipment as a replacement follows: written down to its recoverable amount. In if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All assessing value in use, the estimated future Assets Years cash flows are discounted to their present other repair and maintenance costs are Buildings (other than hotels) 50 value using a pre-tax discount rate that recognised in the income statement as incurred. Hotel buildings upto 60 reflects current market assessments of the Plant and machinery 10 – 20 time value of money and the risks specific to Land and buildings are measured at fair Equipment 3– 15 the asset. Impairment losses are recognised value less accumulated depreciation Furniture and fittings 2– 15 in the income statement, except that, on buildings and impairment charged Motor vehicles 4 – 10 impairment losses in respect of property, subsequent to the date of the revaluation. plant and equipment previously revalued Returnable Containers 10 are recognized against the revaluation The carrying values of property, plant and Vessels 10-25 reserve through the statement of other equipment are reviewed for impairment comprehensive income to the extent that it when events or changes in circumstances Borrowing costs reverses a previous revaluation surplus. indicate that the carrying value may not be Borrowing costs directly attributable to the recoverable. acquisition, construction or production of an An assessment is made at each reporting asset that necessarily takes a substantial date as to whether there is any indication that Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other period of time to get ready for its intended previously recognised impairment losses comprehensive income and accumulated in use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost may no longer exist or may have decreased. equity in the asset revaluation reserve, except of the asset. All other borrowing costs are If such indication exists, the recoverable to the extent that it reverses a revaluation expensed in the period in which they occur. amount is estimated. A previously recognised decrease of the same asset previously Borrowing costs consist of interest and other impairment loss is reversed only if there recognised in the income statement, in which costs that an entity incurs in connection with has been a change in the estimates used case the increase is recognised in the income the borrowing of funds. to determine the asset’s recoverable statement. A revaluation deficit is recognised amount since the last impairment loss in the income statement, except to the extent Group as a lessee was recognised. If that is the case, the that it offsets an existing surplus on the same Finance leases which transfer to the Group carrying amount of the asset is increased asset recognised in the asset revaluation substantially all the risks and benefits to its recoverable amount. That increased reserve. incidental to ownership of the leased item, amount cannot exceed the carrying amount are capitalised at the commencement of the that would have been determined, net of Accumulated depreciation as at the lease at the fair value of the leased property depreciation, had no impairment loss been revaluation date is eliminated against the or, if lower, at the present value of the recognised for the asset in prior years. gross carrying amount of the asset and minimum lease payments. Lease payments Such reversal is recognised in the income the net amount is restated to the revalued are apportioned between finance charges statement unless the asset is carried at amount of the asset. Upon disposal, any and reduction of the lease liability so as to revalued amount, in which case the reversal revaluation reserve relating to the particular achieve a constant rate of interest on the is treated as a revaluation increase. After asset being sold is transferred to retained remaining balance of the liability. Finance such a reversal, the depreciation charge is earnings. Where land and buildings are charges are recognised in finance costs in adjusted in future periods to allocate the subsequently revalued, the entire class of the income statement. asset’s revised carrying amount, less any such assets is revalued at fair value on the residual value, on a systematic basis over its date of revaluation. The Group has adopted A leased asset is depreciated over the remaining useful life. a policy of revaluing assets by professional useful life of the asset. However, if there is 226 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 21. Property, plant and equipment (Contd.) 21.1. Property, plant and equipment Group As at 31 March Land and Buildings on Plant and Equipment, LKR '000s buildings leasehold machinery furniture land and fittings Cost or valuation At the beginning of the year 30,644,715 13,627,625 8,263,213 9,130,300 Additions 217,927 976,691 750,293 973,455 Acquisition/(disposal) of subsidiary Disposals (63,438) (14,564) (60,600) (536,257) Revaluations 10,206,472 154,663 Transfers (from revaluation adjustment) (256,508) (55,392) Impairment/derecognition (4,133) (72,250) (85,033) Transfers 106,359 138,994 133,791 8,650 Exchange translation difference 22,573 66,401 17,881 30,375 At the end of the year 40,878,100 14,890,285 9,032,328 9,521,490 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the year (690,842) (2,085,743) (3,577,489) (5,465,486) Charge for the year (353,762) (347,129) (633,647) (938,299) (Acquisition)/disposal of subsidiary Disposals 7,669 5,656 49,105 504,378 Revaluations Transfers (from revaluation adjustment) 256,508 55,392 Impairment / derecognition 2,659 60,857 68,801 Transfers 2,079 34,300 653 3,981 Exchange translation difference (6,781) (32,961) (8,488) (19,717) At the end of the year (785,129) (2,367,826) (4,109,009) (5,846,342) Carrying value As at 31 March 2017 40,092,971 12,522,459 4,923,319 3,675,148 As at 31 March 2016 29,953,873 11,541,882 4,685,724 3,664,814 21.2. Property, plant and equipment Company In LKR '000s Plant and Equipment, Motor Total Total machinery furniture vehicles 2017 2016 Cost At the beginning of the year 3,704 332,600 77,512 413,816 415,265 Additions 11,110 11,110 30,002 Disposals (92,374) (92,374) (31,451) At the end of the year 3,704 251,336 77,512 332,552 413,816 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the year (3,322) (270,128) (24,327) (297,777) (289,214) Charge for the year (123) (21,041) (11,878) (33,042) (33,415) Disposals 92,180 92,180 24,852 At the end of the year (3,445) (198,989) (36,205) (238,639) (297,777) Carrying value As at 31 March 2017 259 52,347 41,307 93,913 As at 31 March 2016 382 62,472 53,185 116,039 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 227 Motor vehicles Freehold Leasehold Returnable Others Vessels Capital Total Total containers work in 2017 2016 progress 609,764 13,292 848,129 3,940,867 504,487 511,402 68,093,794 63,142,568 53,629 169,276 612,877 577,434 4,331,582 4,582,064 547,955 (20,471) (12,373) (210,466) (59,454) (977,623) (1,507,360) 10,361,135 1,262,114 (311,900) (294,393) (22,108) (183,524) 319 9,899 (434,390) (36,378) (62,802) 1,481 1,631 2,999 143,341 423,648 644,722 13,292 1,005,032 4,332,700 504,487 597,991 81,420,427 68,093,794 (354,924) (6,857) (494,688) (2,534,152) (147,238) (15,357,419) (13,579,973) (67,581) (65,371) (468,282) (2,874,071) (2,782,315) (87,249) 18,763 11,533 181,417 778,521 889,949 315,257 311,900 17,926 150,243 (4,635) 36,378 86,189 (1,000) (659) (69,606) (199,277) (404,742) (6,857) (548,526) (2,808,385) (147,238) (17,024,054) (15,357,419) 239,980 6,435 456,506 1,524,315 357,249 597,991 64,396,373 254,840 6,435 353,441 1,406,715 357,249 511,402 52,736,375 21.3. Revaluation of land and buildings Valuations are based on open market The changes in fair value recognised in Accounting judgements, estimates and prices, adjusted for any difference in the other comprehensive income and in the assumptions nature, location or condition of the specific statement of equity. The valuer has used The Group uses the revaluation model property. These valuation techniques that valuation techniques such as market of measurement of land and buildings. are appropriate in the circumstances and for values and discounted cash flow methods The Group engaged independent expert which sufficient data is available to measure where there was lack of comparable valuers, to determine the fair value of its fair value, maximising the use of relevant market data available based on the nature land and buildings. Fair value is determined observable inputs and minimizing the use of the property. by reference to market-based evidence of of unobservable inputs. The date of the most transaction prices for similar properties. recent revaluation was on 31 March 2017. 228 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 21. Property, plant and equipment (Contd.) 21.3. Revaluation of land and buildings Details of Group's land, building and other properties stated at valuation are indicated below; Significant unobservable inputs Property Name of the Method of Estimated price Estimated price per Estimated Correlation chartered valuation* per perch square foot discount to fair value valuation rate surveyor Land Ahungalla Holiday S Fernando DCC LKR275,000 Positive Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Resort Hotels Ltd. P B Kalugalagedara OMV LKR125,000 Positive Nuwara Eliya Holiday S Fernando IM 10% Negative Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. P B Kalugalagedara OMV LKR125,000 Positive Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. S Fernando IM 8% Negative Land & Building Asian Hotels & P B Kalugalagedara OMV / DCC LKR10,000,000LKR2,000-LKR15,000 Positive Properties PLC. LKR15,000,000 Beruwala Holiday -doDCC LKR550,000-LKR700,000 LKR3,000-LKR10,500 Positive Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd. Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. -doDCC LKR125,000-LKR150,000 LKR500-LKR4,500 Positive Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. S Fernando OMV LKR400,000-LKR1,000,000 LKR850-LKR8,000 Positive Keells Food Products P B Kalugalagedara OMV LKR 350,000 LKR400-LKR1,600 Positive PLC. Keells Realtors Ltd. -doOMV LKR1,700,000 LKR500-LKR1,000 Positive (Ferguson Road,Colombo 15. Lot A IN,SP 2016) Mackinnons Keells Ltd. -doOMV LKR6,500,000 LKR1,500 Positive Tea Smallholder K T D Tissera CM LKR3,000-LKR7,800 LKR500-LKR2,000 Positive Factories PLC. Transware Logistics -doDCC LKR175,000-LKR250,000 LKR500-LKR2,250 Positive (Pvt) Ltd. Trinco Holiday Resorts P B Kalugalagedara DCC LKR200,000 LKR1,000-LKR7,000 Positive (Pvt) Ltd. Union Assurance PLC. -doOMV LKR10,000,000 LKR500-LKR4,000 Positive Whittal Boustead -doOMV LKR5,250,000 LKR1,000-LKR2,000 Positive (Pvt) Ltd. 199,Union Place,Colombo 2 Whittal Boustead -doOMV LKR4,500,000 LKR1,000-LKR4,000 Positive (Pvt) Ltd. 148,Vauxhall Street,Colombo 2 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 229 Significant unobservable inputs Property Name of the Method of Estimated price Estimated price per Estimated Correlation chartered valuation* per perch square foot discount to fair value valuation rate surveyor Whittal Boustead (Pvt) P B Kalugalagedara DCC LKR1,250,000 LKR500-LKR1,400 Positive Ltd. Ulex Villa ,Badulla Road,Nuwara Eliya Building on leasehold land Ceylon Holiday Resorts P B Kalugalagedara OMV LKR1,000-LKR3,500 Positive Ltd. Keells Food Products do OMV LKR5,000-LKR7,000 Positive PLC. Habarana Lodge Ltd. S Fernando DCC LKR500-LKR10,250 Positive Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. -doDCC LKR2,500-LKR7,500 Positive Hikkaduwa Holiday P B Kalugalagedara DCC LKR1,000-LKR5,250 Positive Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Jaykay Marketing -doIM 6% Negative Services (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells K T D Tissera CM LKR1,500-LKR2,500 Positive Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Rajawella Holdings Ltd. P B Kalugalagedara DCC LKR6,250-LKR43,750 Positive Trans Asia Hotels PLC. -doDCC LKR350-LKR8,000 Positive Yala Village (Pvt ) Ltd. S Fernando OMV LKR1,000-LKR8,000 Positive Effective date of valuation were as at 31 March 2017 except for Union Assurance PLC which was valued as at 31 December 2015. *Summary description of valuation price of properties as a whole. In such cases, building element and the market value of the methodologies; the capitalized value of the property is fixed land. Current build costs and often the land Open market value method (OMV) by direct comparison with capitalized value price will be established by comparison. Open market value method uses prices and of similar property in the locality. other relevant information generated by Investment method (IM) market transactions involving identical or Contractors method (CM) The investment method is used to value comparable assets, liabilities or a group of The replacement cost (contractor's) method properties which are let to produce an income assets and liabilities, such as a business. is used to value properties which do not for the investor. Conventionally, investment generally exchange on the open market and value is a product of rent and yield. Each of Direct capital comparison method (DCC) for which comparable evidence therefore these elements is derived using comparison This method may be adopted when the does not exist. The valuations are based on techniques. rental value is not available for the property two components: the depreciated cost of the concerned, but there are evidences of sale 21.4. The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were carried at cost less depreciation and impairment, would be as follows; Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Cost 18,226,653 15,028,727 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (2,796,120) (2,099,601) Carrying value 15,430,533 12,929,126 Group land and buildings with a carrying value of LKR 7,331 mn (2016 LKR 6,925 mn) have been pledged as security for term loans obtained, details of which are disclosed in note 36.3. Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of LKR 5,983 mn (2016 LKR 6,517 mn) have been fully depreciated and continue to be in use by the Group. The cost of fully depreciated assets of the Company amounts to LKR 148 mn (2016 – LKR 268 mn). 230 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 22. Leases assets or the arrangement conveys a right to Lease rentals paid in advance Accounting Policy use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly Prepaid lease rentals paid to acquire land Leases specified in an arrangement. use rights, are amortised over the lease term The determination of whether an arrangement and assessed for impairment whenever contains a lease is based on the substance For arrangements entered prior to 1 April there is an indication that the asset may be of the arrangement at the inception date, 2011, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 impaired. whether fulfillment of the arrangement is April 2011 in accordance with the SLFRS 1. dependent on the use of a specific asset or 22.1. Lease rentals paid in advance Group As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 In LKR '000s At the beginning of the year 10,888,158 8,709,033 Addition for the year 2,657,012 607,155 Acquisition of subsidiary (lease hold right) 9.2 1,507,818 Amortisation for the year (592,983) (738,407) Exchange gain/(loss) 253,871 802,559 At the end of the year 13,206,058 10,888,158 Prepaid lease rentals paid in advance to acquire land use rights have been classified as lease rentals paid in advance and are amortised over the lease term in accordance with the pattern of benefits provided. 22.2. Details of lease rentals paid in advance Amount Property Land extent Lease period 2017 2016 (in acres) In LKR '000s In LKR '000s Fantasea World Investment (Pte) Ltd. 13.42 33 years from 27-08-2014 326,141 327,438 Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Republic of Maldives John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. 6.00 50 years from 19-09-2001 36,935 38,024 Muthurajawela Rajawella Holdings Ltd. 517.09 99 years from 02-12-1996 1,496,584 1,516,890 Digana Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 4.98 50 years from 15-08-1997 2,655 2,741 Karawita Tea Factory The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd. 9.30 50 Years from 18-07-2016 174,701 Avissawella Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 18.62 35 Years from 26-08-2010 9,121,221 6,917,044 Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 7.65 99 years from 07-08-1981 781,452 793,856 Colombo Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 13.75 14 years from 04-08-2006 1,207,738 1,230,540 Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 11.25 30 years from 27-11-1997 58,631 61,625 Kirinda 13,206,058 10,888,158 23. Investment property that cost is incurred if the recognition Gains or losses arising from changes in fair Accounting policy criteria are met, and excludes the costs value are included in the income statement Investment properties are measured initially of day today servicing of the investment in the year in which they arise. Fair values at cost, including transaction costs. The property. Subsequent to initial recognition, are evaluated at least every 3 years by an carrying value of an investment property the investment properties are stated at fair accredited external, independent valuer. includes the cost of replacing part of an values, which reflect market conditions at the existing investment property, at the time reporting date. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 231 Investment properties are derecognised when for a transfer from investment property to of change in use. Where Group companies disposed, or permanently withdrawn from owner occupied property or inventory (WIP). occupy a significant portion of the investment use because no future economic benefits are The deemed cost for subsequent accounting property of a subsidiary, such investment expected. Any gains or losses on retirement is the fair value at the date of change in properties are treated as property, plant or disposal are recognised in the income use. If owner occupied property becomes and equipment in the consolidated financial statement in the year of retirement or disposal. an investment property or inventory (WIP), statements, and accounted using Group the Group accounts for such property in accounting policy for property, plant and Transfers are made to or from investment accordance with the policy stated under equipment. property only when there is a change in use property, plant and equipment up to the date Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Carrying value At the beginning of the year 4,878,406 4,608,941 Additions 4,220 6,590 Change in fair value during the year 483,554 262,875 At the end of the year 5,366,180 4,878,406 Freehold property 5,189,917 4,752,406 Leasehold property 176,263 126,000 5,366,180 4,878,406 Rental income earned 562,215 517,821 Direct operating expenses incurred 187,545 172,132 Accounting judgements, estimates and International Valuation Standards published properties, with appropriate adjustments for assumptions by the International Valuation Standards size and location. The appraised fair values Fair value of the investment property is Committee (IVSC) by the independent are rounded within the range of values. ascertained by independent valuations carried valuers. In determining the fair value, the out by Chartered valuation surveyors, who current condition of the properties, future The changes in fair value recognised in the have recent experience in valuing properties usability and associated re-development income statement. The determined fair values of akin location and category. Investment requirements have been considered. Also, of investment properties, using investment property is appraised in accordance with the valuers have made reference to market method, are most sensitive to the estimated LKAS 40, SLFRS 13 and the 8th edition of evidence of transaction prices for similar yield as well as the long term occupancy rate. Description of valuation techniques used and key inputs to valuation on investment properties: Significant unobservable inputs Property Name of the * Method of valuation Estimated price Estimated Estimated Correlation Chartered Valuation per perch price per discount to Fair Value Surveyor square foot rate Freehold property Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. P B Kalugalagedara IM 6.25% Negative Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 3 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Inner do OMV/DCC LKR 1,000,000 LKR 1,000 Positive Harbour Road, Trincomalee LKR 2,000 John Keells Properties Ja-Ela do DCC LKR 800,000 LKR 5,500 Positive (Pvt) Ltd. Kapuwatte Keells Realtors Ltd. Ferguson do OMV/DCC LKR 1,700,000 LKR 1,000 Positive Road, Colombo 15. John Keells PLC. 17/1, Temple do Market comparable LKR 350,000 Positive Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela. method LKR 450,000 Facets (Pvt) Ltd. Ahungalla. S Fernando IM 9.00% Negative Leasehold property Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. P B Kalugalagedara OMV/DCC LKR 900,000 LKR 1,100 Positive Stores Complex, Peliyagoda * Summary description of valuation methodologies can be found in property plant and equipment note no 21.3. 232 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 24. Intangible assets financial year-end and treated as accounting Software license Accounting policy estimates. The amortization expense Software license costs are recognised as Basis of recognition on intangible assets with finite lives is an intangible asset and amortised over the An Intangible asset is recognised if it is recognised in the income statement. period of the related license. probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives Research and development costs Group and the cost of the asset can be and Goodwill are not amortised but tested Research costs are expensed as incurred. An reliably measured. for impairment annually, or more frequently intangible asset arising from development when an indication of impairment exists expenditure on an individual project is Basis of measurement either individually or at the cash-generating recognised as an intangible asset, when the Intangible assets acquired separately are unit level. The useful life of an intangible asset Group can demonstrate: measured on initial recognition at cost. with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to The cost of intangible assets acquired in a determine whether indefinite life assessment • the technical feasibility of completing the business combination is the fair value as at continues to be supportable. If not, the change intangible asset so that it will be available the date of acquisition. in the useful life assessment from indefinite for use or sale, to finite is made on a prospective basis. • its intention to complete and its ability to Following initial recognition, intangible assets use or sell the assets, are carried at cost less any accumulated Present value of acquired in-force business • how the assets will generate future amortisation and any accumulated (PVIB) economic benefits, impairment losses. The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long term life insurance contracts • the availability of resources to complete Internally generated intangible assets, as at the acquisition date is recognised as an the assets and excluding capitalized development costs, are intangible asset based on a valuation carried • the ability to measure reliably the not capitalised, and expenditure is charged out by an independent actuary. Subsequent expenditure during development. to income statement in the year in which the to initial recognition, the intangible asset is expenditure is incurred. carried at cost less accumulated amortization Following initial recognition of the and accumulated impairment losses. development expenditure of an asset, the Useful economic lives, amortisation and cost model is applied requiring the asset impairment The PVIB is amortised over the average to be carried at cost less any accumulated The useful lives of intangible assets are useful life of the related contracts in the amortisation and accumulated impairment assessed as either finite or indefinite lives. portfolio. The amortisation charge and any losses. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised impairment losses would be recognised in over the useful economic life and assessed for the consolidated income statement as an Amortisation of the asset begins when impairment whenever there is an indication expense. development is complete and the asset is that the intangible asset may be impaired. available for use. It is amortised over the Purchased software period of expected future benefit from the The amortisation period and the amortization Purchased software is recognised as an use or expected future sales from the related method for an intangible asset with a finite intangible asset and is amortised on a project. During the period of development, the useful life is reviewed at least at each straight line basis over its useful life. asset is tested for impairment annually. A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s intangible assets is as follows. Intangible assets Useful life Type Impairment testing PVIB 12 When indicators of impairment exists. The amortization method is reviewed at Purchased software 5 Acquired each financial year end Software license 5 Developed software 5 Internally Annually for assets not yet in use and more frequently when indicators of generated impairment arise. Assets in use, when indicators of impairment arise. The amortization method is reviewed at each financial year end. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised. Intangible assets As at 31 March Group Company LKR '000s 2017 2016 2017 2016 Software Note Developed Purchased Licenses WIP PVIB Goodwill Other Software licenses Cost/carrying value At the beginning of the year 552,153 181,247 599,337 6,589 2,249,000 738,596 49,500 4,376,422 4,428,071 491,081 486,885 Additions 2,854 74,398 27,286 9,860 114,398 162,608 6,746 4,196 Transfers 9,978 (9,978) 7,384 Disposal (10,400) Acquisition/(disposal) of subsidiary 9.2 4,523 Impairment (1,029) (23) (1,052) (215,764) At the end of the year 563,956 255,645 626,623 6,448 2,249,000 738,596 49,500 4,489,768 4,376,422 497,827 491,081 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At the beginning of the year (92,419) (115,033) (519,197) (1,311,913) (2,038,562) (1,708,614) (447,261) (423,602) Amortisation (77,556) (31,923) (36,151) (187,416) (333,046) (320,564) (19,765) (23,659) Transfers (6,385) Disposal 1,040 (Acquisition)/disposal of subsidiary 9.2 (4,039) At the end of the year (169,975) (146,956) (555,348) (1,499,329) (2,371,608) (2,038,562) (467,026) (447,261) Carrying value As at 31 March 2017 393,981 108,689 71,275 6,448 749,671 738,596 49,500 2,118,160 30,801 As at 31 March 2016 459,734 66,214 80,140 6,589 937,087 738,596 49,500 2,337,860 43,820 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 233 234 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 24. Intangible assets (Contd.) Present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) Upon acquiring a controlling stake in Union Assurance PLC . (UA), the Group has recognised in the consolidated financial statements an intangible asset representing the present value of future profits on UA’s portfolio of long term life insurance contracts, known as the present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) at the acquisition date. Further, PVIB recognised at the acquisition date will be amortised over the estimated life of the business acquired and reviewed annually for any impairment in value. Net carrying value of goodwill As at 31 March 2017 In LKR '000s Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to 5 cash generating units (CGU's) for impairment testing as follows; Airline Services 5,054 Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts 166,248 Consumer Foods and Retail 299,293 Financial Services 265,360 Logistics, Ports and Shipping 2,641 738,596 The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have been determined based on the fair value, less cost to sell or the value in use (VIU) calculation. Accounting judgements, estimates and Discount rates Volume growth assumptions The discount rate used is the risk free rate, Volume growth has been budgeted on a Impairment of goodwill adjusted by the addition of an appropriate reasonable and realistic basis by taking into Impairment exists when the carrying value risk premium. account the growth rates of one to four years, of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds immediately subsequent to the budgeted year its recoverable amount, which is the higher Inflation based on Industry growth rates. Cash flows of its fair value less costs to sell and its value The basis used to determine the value beyond the five year period are extrapolated in use (VIU). The fair value less costs to sell assigned to the budgeted cost inflation is the using 0% growth rate. calculation is based on available data from an inflation rate based on projected economic active market, in an arm’s length transaction, conditions. The recoverable amounts of all CGUs have of similar assets or observable market prices been determined based on the fair value, less incremental costs for disposing of the less cost to sell or the value in use (VIU) asset. The value in use calculation is based calculation. on a discounted cash flow model. The cash flows are derived from the budget for the next five years and do not include restructuring 25. Investment in subsidiaries activities that the Group is not yet committed Accounting policy to or significant future investments that Investment In subsidiaries are initially recognised at cost in the financial statements of the Company. will enhance the asset’s performance of Any transaction cost relating to acquisition of investment in subsidiaries is immediately recognised the cash generating unit being tested. The in the income statement. Following initial recognition, Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost recoverable amount is most sensitive to the less any accumulated impairment losses. discount rate used for the discounted cash flow model as well as the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate used for 25.1. Carrying value extrapolation purposes. The key assumptions Company used to determine the recoverable amount As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 for the different cash generating units, are as In LKR '000s follows; Investment in subsidiaries Gross margins Carrying value The basis used to determine the value Investments in subsidiaries assigned to the budgeted gross margins Quoted 25.2 19,216,229 19,101,303 is the gross margins achieved in the year preceding the budgeted year adjusted for Unquoted 25.3 23,771,166 17,283,343 projected market conditions. 42,987,395 36,384,646 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 235 25.2. Cost Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2017 2016 Number of Effective Number of Effective Cost Cost shares holding % shares holding % LKR ’000s LKR ’000s Group quoted investments Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 347,824,190 78.56 347,824,190 78.56 5,301,660 5,278,888 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 77,321,208 81.36 67,109,128 70.61 1,450,473 1,396,691 John Keells Hotels PLC. 1,169,598,478 80.32 1,169,598,478 80.32 7,102,140 7,102,140 John Keells PLC. 52,834,784 86.90 52,834,784 86.90 458,036 444,745 Keells Food Products PLC. 23,350,658 88.53 19,110,399 74.94 1,052,311 1,040,298 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 11,286,000 37.62 11,286,000 37.62 63,466 63,466 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 184,107,284 82.74 97,284,256 48.64 1,604,606 1,601,482 Union Assurance PLC. 55,344,310 93.92 50,981,538 86.51 2,183,537 2,173,593 19,216,229 19,101,303 Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Market Value Group quoted investments Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 19,304,243 16,625,996 19,304,243 16,625,996 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 62,707,500 33,248,119 54,425,503 28,856,925 John Keells Hotels PLC. 11,695,985 14,035,182 11,695,985 14,035,182 John Keells PLC. 2,699,857 3,698,435 2,699,857 3,698,435 Keells Food Products PLC. 3,385,845 3,969,612 2,771,008 3,248,768 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 270,864 220,077 270,864 220,077 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 13,826,457 14,710,172 7,306,048 7,773,012 Union Assurance PLC. 7,858,892 8,849,555 7,239,378 8,151,948 121,749,643 95,357,148 105,712,886 82,610,343 25.3. Group unquoted investments Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2017 2016 Number of Effective Number of Effective Cost Cost shares holding % shares holding % LKR ’000s LKR ’000s Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. 13,275,000 80.32 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd. 219,725,653 79.78 1,352 1,192 British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd 61 61.00 61 61.00 57,001 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. 12,119,739 79.24 2,742 1,707 Cinnamon Hotels Management Services Ltd. 1,000,000 100.00 1,000,000 100.00 161,507 101,313 Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 20,000 80.32 Facets (Pvt) Ltd. 15,000 100.00 15,000 100.00 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 7,299 80.32 1,736 1,196 Habarana Lodge Ltd. 12,981,548 78.99 3,369 2,705 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. 4,321,381 79.34 1,643 1,135 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 107,596,700 79.24 1,138 974 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 2,000,000 100.00 2,000,000 100.00 29,488 26,568 International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd. 38,490,901 79.78 J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 1,450,000 100.00 1,450,000 100.00 JKOA Mobiles (Pvt) Ltd. 800,000 100.00 800,000 100.00 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 282,239,025 81.36 111,355 73,648 John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 19,000,000 100.00 John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. 1,500,000,000 100.00 John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd. 14,700 100.00 John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd. Preference A 57,200,000 236 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 25. Investment in subsidiaries (Contd.) 25.3. Group unquoted investments (Contd.) Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2017 2016 Number of Effective Number of Effective Cost Cost shares holding % shares holding % LKR ’000s LKR ’000s John Keells BPO Solutions Canada (Pvt) Ltd. 5,000 100.00 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 34,131,306 100.00 John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 32,843,578 100.00 John Keells BPO Solutions US (Pvt) Ltd. 5,000 100.00 John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. 9,650,000 100.00 9,650,000 100.00 115,738 111,664 John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd. 100 100.00 100 100.00 9 9 John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd. 8,999,990 89.65 John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 2,303,225 100.00 2,303,225 100.00 38,007 John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. 199,160,000 100.00 199,160,000 100.00 659,292 1,473,635 John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 19,999,998 100.00 19,999,998 100.00 209,049 205,652 John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 49,044,238 80.32 9,934 6,666 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 500,000 100.00 500,000 100.00 40,291 30,928 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 24,000,000 100.00 24,000,000 100.00 192,169 192,169 John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd. 95,436,000 100.00 95,436,000 100.00 954,360 954,360 John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 2,081,698 100.00 2,081,698 100.00 20,817 20,817 John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. 160,000 80.00 160,000 80.00 4,209 4,209 John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. 1,500,00 90.04 360,000 24.00 46,772 23,162 John Keells Teas Ltd. 12,000 100.00 12,000 100.00 11,903 7,895 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. 12,000,000 86.90 2,680 1,803 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. 6,165,484 79.03 2,291 1,637 Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. 4,621 100.00 4,621 100.00 1,094 2,554 Keells Realtors Ltd. 7,500,000 95.81 5,100,000 68.00 119,124 30,000 Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. 50,000 100.00 50,000 100.00 502 502 Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. 34,805,470 99.44 34,805,470 99.44 1,352,042 1,338,947 Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. 90,133 100.00 90,133 100.00 14,629 50,221 Mack Air Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. 4,900 49.00 4,700 47.00 2,021 2,021 Mackinnon Keells Ltd. 806,443 100.00 806,443 90.00 364,476 11,912 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company (Shipping) Ltd. 139,112 100.00 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of (Ceylon) Ltd. 2,645 100.00 245 9.26 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 499,996 100.00 499,996 100.00 19,888 16,490 Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd. 43 100.00 43 100.00 20,000 327,240 Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. 31,606,252 80.32 Rajawella Holdings Ltd. 25,615,561 49.85 11,573,339 45.18 801,707 801,707 Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. 3,157,384 80.32 Resort Hotels Ltd. 106,107 79.24 Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 800,000 98.74 The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd. 27,000,000 81.36 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 637,499 80.32 3,187 2,011 Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 11,000,007 50.00 11,000,007 50.00 114,577 114,577 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 29,059 80.32 1,811 1,593 Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd 8,120,005 80.32 1,684 1,167 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. 3,000,007 80.32 Walkers Tours Ltd. 4,925,577 98.51 4,925,577 98.51 169,351 153,359 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 237 Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2017 2016 Number of Effective Number of Effective Cost Cost shares holding % shares holding % LKR ’000s LKR ’000s Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 2,291,082,423 94.52 1,500,266,262 65.48 15,002,663 10,661,871 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 9,917,823 100.00 9,917,823 73.18 2,904,582 137,790 Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd. 25,041,000 100.00 25,040,996 99.70 292,230 288,259 Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. 1,646,750 80.32 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 28,268,000 75.33 1,754 1,070 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd.Non voting preference shares 10,000,000 80.32 23,771,166 17,283,343 26. Investment in equity accounted similar to those necessary to determine After application of the equity method, the investees control over subsidiaries. Group determines whether it is necessary Accounting policy to recognise an impairment loss on its An associate is an entity over which the The Group’s investments in its associate and investment in its associate or joint venture. Group has significant influence. Significant joint venture are accounted for using the At each reporting date, the Group determines influence is the power to participate in the equity method. whether there is objective evidence that the financial and operating policy decisions investment in the associate or joint venture of the investee, but is not control or joint Under the equity method, the investment is impaired. If there is such evidence, the control over those policies. in an associate or a joint venture is initially Group calculates the amount of impairment recognised at cost. The carrying amount as the difference between the recoverable Associate companies incorporated in of the investment is adjusted to recognise amount of the associate or joint venture and Sri Lanka of the Group which have been changes in the Group’s share of net assets its carrying value, and then recognises the accounted for under the equity method of of the associate or joint venture since the loss as ‘Share of results of equity accounted accounting are: acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the investees' in the income statement. associate or joint venture is included in the Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. carrying amount of the investment and is Upon loss of significant influence over the Fairfirst Insurance Ltd. (formally known as not tested for impairment individually. associate or joint control over the joint Union Assurance General Ltd.) venture, the Group measures and recognises Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. The income statement reflects the Group’s any retained investment at its fair value. Any Nations Trust Bank PLC. share of the results of operations of the difference between the carrying amount of Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. associate or joint venture. Any change in the associate or joint venture upon loss of South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. OCI of those investees is presented as part significant influence or joint control and the of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there fair value of the retained investment and A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement has been a change recognised directly in proceeds from disposal is recognised in whereby the parties that have joint control the equity of the associate or joint venture, income statement. of the arrangement have rights to the net the Group recognises its share of any assets of the joint venture. Joint control is changes, when applicable, in the statement The accounting policies of associate the contractually agreed sharing of control of changes in equity. companies and joint ventures conform to of an arrangement, which exists only when those used for similar transactions of the decisions about the relevant activities Unrealised gains and losses resulting from Group. Accounting policies that are specific require unanimous consent of the parties transactions between the Group and the to the business of associate companies are sharing control. associate or joint venture are eliminated to discussed below. the extent of the interest in the associate or Joint ventures incorporated in Sri Lanka joint venture. Equity method of accounting has been entered into by the Group, which have been applied for associate and joint ventures using accounted for using the equity method, are: The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit their corresponding/matching 12 month DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. or loss of an associate and a joint venture financial period. In the case of associates, NDO Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. is shown on the face of the statement of where the reporting dates are different to Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd. profit or loss outside operating profit and Group reporting dates, adjustments are represents profit or loss after tax and nonmade for any significant transactions or The considerations made in determining controlling interests in the subsidiaries of events up to 31 March. significant influence or joint control are the associate or joint venture. 238 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 26. Investment in equity accounted (Contd.) Investment in equity accounted investees Group Company As at 31 March Number of Effective 2017 2016 Number of Effective 2017 2016 shares Holding % In In shares Holding % In In LKR’000s LKR’000s LKR’000s LKR’000s 26.1 . Investments in joint ventures NDO Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 7,800,000 60.00 63,041 63,041 7,800,000 60.00 Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd. 5,931,300 40.16 59,313 58,288 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. 1,000,000 50.00 10,000 10,000 1,000,000 50.00 10,000 10,000 26.2. Investments in associates Quoted Nations Trust Bank PLC. 68,951,695 29.90 1,561,355 1,561,355 46,121,532 20.00 1,011,052 1,011,052 Unquoted Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 3,254,832 19.47 325,483 325,483 3,254,832 19.47 325,483 325,483 Fairfirst Insurance Ltd. (formally 68,902,870 20.66 689,718 689,718 known as Union Assurance General Ltd.) Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 30,000 30.00 150 150 30,000 30.00 150 150 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. 24,887,160 40.00 248,872 248,872 24,887,160 40.00 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. 21,774,750 217,748 174,570 21,774,750 217,748 174,570 preference shares South Asia Gateway Terminals 159,826,750 42.19 7,346,367 7,346,367 159,826,750 42.19 7,346,367 7,346,367 (Pvt) Ltd. Cumulative profit accruing to the 4,335,610 3,886,868 Group net of dividend Share of net assets of equity 2,861,230 2,584,752 accounted investees 17,718,887 16,949,464 8,910,800 8,867,622 Group's shareholding in Nations Trust Bank PLC. The JKH Group currently holds 29.9% in Nations Trust Bank PLC. (NTB). The Monetary Board had previously directed that the Group reduces its share holdings in NTB to 15% or below by April 2012. The founder shareholders including JKH had written to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) requesting an extension of the deadline and a response is awaited. Market Value Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Quoted Nations Trust Bank PLC. 5,102,425 5,116,216 3,412,993 3,422,218 26.3 Summarised financial information of equity accounted investees South Asia Gateway Other associates Joint ventures Total Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Group Share of; Revenue 4,955,789 4,336,078 6,641,880 5,703,083 1,751,781 1,433,929 13,349,450 11,473,090 Operating expenses including (2,988,281) (2,680,375) (5,075,534) (4,327,546) (1,543,168) (1,302,963) (9,606,983) (8,310,884) cost of sales Net finance income 35,867 23,599 137,738 130,769 11,185 5,402 184,790 159,770 Tax expense (6,746) (3,720) (555,997) (495,148) (61,559) (41,875) (624,302) (540,743) Share of results of equity 1,996,629 1,675,582 1,148,087 1,011,158 158,239 94,493 3,302,955 2,781,233 accounted investees Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 239 South Asia Gateway Other associates Joint ventures Total Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Group share of; Total assets 6,900,020 7,036,483 74,855,266 58,297,556 618,552 491,455 82,373,838 65,825,494 Total liabilities (1,260,608) (1,298,074) (67,857,907) (52,089,069) (266,426) (218,877) (69,384,941) (53,606,020) Net assets 5,639,412 5,738,409 6,997,359 6,208,487 352,126 272,578 12,988,897 12,219,474 Goodwill 4,674,278 4,674,278 55,712 55,712 4,729,990 4,729,990 10,313,690 10,412,687 7,053,071 6,264,199 352,126 272,578 17,718,887 16,949,464 Contingent liabilities Capital commitments 409,975 593,431 409,975 593,431 Other commitments and 42,201,702 32,042,386 42,201,702 32,042,386 Guarantees Dividend received 2,321,179 2,341,686 383,003 171,799 150,000 75,000 2,854,182 2,588,485 The share of results of equity accounted investees in Income Statement and Other Comprehensive Statement are shown net of all related taxes. The Group and the Company have neither contingent liabilities nor capital and other commitments towards its associates and joint ventures.. Significant accounting policies that are specific income continues to be recognized using the South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. to the business of equity accounted investees rate of interest used to discount the future Revenue recognition Nations Trust Bank PLC. cash flows for the purpose of measuring the Stevedoring revenue is recognised on the Revenue recognition impairment loss. berthing time of the vessel. Storage revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is is recognised on the issue of delivery advice. probable that the economic benefits will flow Fee and commission income to the bank and the revenue can be reliably The Group earns fee and commission income South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. uses measured. The following specific recognition from a diverse range of services it provides to United States Dollar (USD) as their functional criteria must also be met before revenue is its customers. Fee income can be divided into currency. recognised. the following two categories: Fairfirst Insurance Ltd. (formally known as Interest income and expense Fee income earned from services that are Union Assurance General Ltd.) For all financial instruments interest income provided over a certain period of time Revenue recognition or expense is recorded using the EIR. EIR is Fees earned for the provision of services General insurance business-gross written the rate that exactly discounts estimated over a period of time are accrued over that premium future cash payments or receipts through period. These fees include commission Gross written premiums comprise the total the expected life of the financial instrument income and asset management, custody and premiums received/ receivable for the whole or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the other management and advisory fees. Credit period of cover provided by contracts entered net carrying amount of the financial asset or related fees are deferred and recognised as into during the accounting period. GWP is financial liability. The calculation takes into an adjustment to the EIR of the loan. generally written upon inception of the policy. account all contractual terms of the financial Rebates that form part of the premium rate, instrument (for example, prepayment Fee income from providing transaction such as no-claim rebates, are deducted from options) and includes any fees or incremental services the gross written premium costs that are directly attributable to the Fees arising from negotiating or participating instrument and are an integral part of the EIR, in the negotiation of a transaction for a Insurance contract liabilities general but not future Impairment losses. third party, such as the arrangement of the Non-life insurance contract liabilities include acquisition of shares or other securities the outstanding claims provision (Reserve The carrying amount of the financial asset or the purchase or sale of businesses, are for gross outstanding and incurred but or financial liability is adjusted if the Group recognised on completion of the underlying not reported, and incurred and not enough revises its estimates of payments or receipts. transaction. reported IBNR/ IBNER) and the provision The adjusted carrying amount is calculated for unearned premium and the provision for based on the original EIR and the change Fees or components of fees that are linked premium deficiency. in carrying amount is recorded as ‘Interest to a certain performance are recognised after Income’ for financial assets and ‘Interest fulfilling the corresponding criteria. Expense’ for financial liabilities. Net trading income Once the recorded value of a financial asset Results arising from trading activities include or a group of similar financial assets has been all gains and losses from changes in fair reduced due to an impairment loss, interest value. 240 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 27. Non current financial assets Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Other quoted equity investments 326 327 Other unquoted equity investments 27.1 160,369 184,456 141,972 166,059 Other non equity investments 27.2 27,505,926 22,450,661 2,648,008 341,346 27,666,621 22,635,444 2,789,980 507,405 27.1. Other unquoted equity investments Group Company As at 31 March Number of 2017 2016 Number of 2017 2016 In LKR '000s shares shares Asia Power (Pvt) Ltd. 388,527 141,972 166,059 388,527 141,972 166,059 Other equity instruments 18,397 18,397 160,369 184,456 141,972 166,059 27.2. Other non equity investments Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Bank deposits 3,154,685 515,657 2,576,339 Debentures 4,244,764 4,939,118 268,366 Preference shares 267,275 254,024 Government securities 17,750,289 15,287,098 Loans to executives 27.3 733,037 618,850 71,669 72,980 Loans to life policyholders 902,300 783,373 Cash flow hedge 331,679 Deposits 121,897 52,541 27,505,926 22,450,661 2,648,008 341,346 27.3. Loans to executives Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s At the beginning of the year 786,790 699,330 92,803 82,442 Loans granted/transfers 635,300 433,303 66,469 55,949 Recoveries (504,427) (345,843) (68,951) (45,588) At the end of the year 917,663 786,790 90,321 92,803 Receivable within one year 184,626 167,940 18,652 19,823 Receivable between one and five years 733,037 618,850 71,669 72,980 917,663 786,790 90,321 92,803 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 241 28. Other non current assets Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Pre paid staff cost 178,726 124,364 16,254 12,414 Work-in-progress Cinnamon Life project 28.1 41,007,979 35,082,711 Non current advances 505,611 350,073 41,692,316 35,557,148 16,254 12,414 28.1. Work-in-progress Cinnamon Life project Freehold property* 9,598,213 9,329,665 Leasehold property* 3,618,350 3,506,883 Other constructions in progress 21,538,694 15,948,350 Contractor advances 6,252,722 6,297,813 41,007,979 35,082,711 *The freehold and leasehold properties are located at Glennie Street and Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo 2. Other non-current assets represents the construction work in progress, which mainly consists of freehold land, advance on leasehold land and other project cost incurred. Freehold land included under other non-current asset is carried at cost. Lease prepaid in advance consists of the prepayment made to obtaining the lease land rights for 99 years. Other project cost includes advances paid to contractors, directly attributable cost incurred on the project and capitalised borrowing costs. Details of the Cinnamon Life project The company is engaged in the development and construction of an integrated complex with an approximate area of 4,500,000 square feet, comprising of offices, residential units, service apartments, a hotel and conference centre, retail and associate facilities and a car park. Details of Freehold Property Freehold property: Land Occupied Extent: 7A0R -16.63P Details of Leasehold Property Leased property: Land Occupied Extent: 3A0R -6.35P Lessor: Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Period: 99 years from 12/02/2014 Lease commitment: Upfront lease rental of LKR3.03 bn 29. Inventories The costs incurred in bringing inventories • Finished goods and work-in-progress At Accounting policy to its present location and condition, are the cost of direct materials, direct labour Inventories are valued at the lower of cost accounted for as follows: and an appropriate proportion of fixed and net realizable value. Net realisable value production overheads based on normal • Raw materials On a weighted average is the estimated selling price less estimated operating capacity but excluding borrowing basis costs of completion and the estimated costs costs necessary to make the sale. • Other inventories – At actual cost Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Inventories Raw materials 527,124 463,186 Finished goods 3,977,944 2,964,930 Produce stocks 216,443 207,349 Other stocks 884,201 1,029,368 Total Inventories at the lower of cost & net realisable value 5,605,712 4,664,833 242 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 30. Trade and other receivables Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Trade and other receivables 11,034,918 9,482,865 99,424 149,321 Reinsurance receivables 30.1 214,342 132,298 Premiums receivable 30.2 253,543 215,846 Loans to executives 27.3 184,626 167,940 18,652 19,823 11,687,429 9,998,949 118,076 169,144 30.1. Reinsurance receivables Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Reinsurance receivables on outstanding claims 90,342 83,873 Reinsurance receivables on settled claims net of dues 124,000 48,425 Total assets arising from reinsurance contracts 214,342 132,298 30.2. Premiums receivable Premium receivable 253,543 215,846 253,543 215,846 31. Other current assets Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Prepayments and non cash receivables 1,803,924 962,316 60,301 89,212 Tax refunds 1,461,403 1,341,115 39,141 39,141 3,265,327 2,303,431 99,442 128,353 32. Short term investments Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Quoted equities at market value 32.1 3,433,852 3,006,875 Debentures 1,381,855 631,846 268,306 Bank deposits (more than 3 months and less than 1 year) 23,335,897 17,338,169 20,205,768 15,312,664 Government securities (more than 3 months and less than 1 year) 4,234,194 5,156,765 4,475,018 32,385,798 26,133,655 20,474,074 19,787,682 Debentures (less than 3 months) 54,671 224,652 Bank deposits (less than 3 months) 26,517,145 25,283,729 23,078,904 23,482,684 Government securities (less than 3 months) 20,216,713 20,993,034 16,690,302 13,591,870 Reported in statement of cash flow 46,788,529 46,501,415 39,769,206 37,074,554 79,174,327 72,635,070 60,243,280 56,862,236 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 243 32.1. Quoted equities at market value Number of shares Cost Market value As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR’000s In LKR’000s In LKR’000s In LKR’000s Access Engineering PLC. 4,005,642 1,124,524 105,508 33,898 95,334 23,390 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. 364,900 490,393 25,931 34,934 12,844 25,991 Aitken Spence PLC. 125,493 650,890 9,004 76,951 4,418 47,840 Alumex PLC. 3,044,222 60,761 57,840 Asiri Hospital Holdings PLC. 251,297 5,805 6,032 Cargills (Ceylon) PLC. 180,968 27,335 27,145 Central Finance Company PLC. 590,800 285,871 54,445 54,445 50,927 60,033 Ceylinco Insurance PLC. 5,530 7,669 8284 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 8,133 3,278 3497 Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC. 68,889 69,125 69,709 Chevron Lubricants Lanka PLC. 942,314 367,677 113,683 80,777 160,193 112,141 Colombo Dockyard PLC. 281,715 281,715 60,500 60,500 21,410 30,454 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. (Non voting) 664,896 654,287 47,645 47,645 68,551 73,935 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 402,280 2,233,929 41,100 238,932 52,457 280,358 DFCC Bank PLC. 482,072 973,984 81,550 143,891 54,956 133,436 Dialog Axiata PLC. 15,752,754 6,337,348 167,142 59,806 178,006 64,641 Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC. 22,062 22,062 33,340 12,128 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC. 1,090,930 33,340 233,803 12,353 224,949 Hatton National Bank PLC. 3,306,868 2,896,275 525,175 409,681 662,197 544,433 Hemas Holdings PLC. 1,479,150 839,729 94,808 37,446 160,784 67,682 HNB Assurance PLC. 336,266 336,266 23,645 23,645 19,537 18,158 John Keells Holdings PLC. 1,230,182 1,522,660 188,208 271,431 169,642 225,354 Lanka ORIX Finance Company PLC. 275,713 20,852 19,851 Melstacorp Limited. 4,117,164 222,061 243,736 National Development Bank PLC. 1,087,945 1,544,335 198,072 281,314 151,877 260,683 Nestle Lanka PLC. 19,188 34,282 38,921 People's Insurance Limited. 1,453,951 482,500 25,320 7,238 26,607 8155 Peoples Leasing and Finance PLC. 4,516,116 5,866,532 79,105 112,788 70,451 93,865 Piramal Glass PLC. 14,118,350 2,680,100 84,110 21,502 79,063 13,669 Sampath Bank PLC. 2,013,070 1,540,618 413,261 330,543 521,385 348,180 Textured Jersey Lanka PLC. 6,176,049 1,941,200 203,891 31,534 228,514 61,536 The Bukit Darah PLC. 45,881 32,017 16,058 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC. 2,175,777 640,777 99,377 7,817 132,722 23,709 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC. (Non 3,736,714 1,939,895 137,786 48,859 198,048 62,658 voting) 3,095,428 2,883,083 3,433,852 3,006,875 Above list mainly comprises of the investments made by Union Assurance PLC. (UA) under the unit linked equity tracker fund, which invests in the companies that comprise the S&P Price Index. 244 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 33. Stated capital and other components of equity Accounting policy The ordinary shares of John Keells Holdings PLC are quoted in the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Global Depository Receipts are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are eligible for one vote per share at General Meetings of the Company. The Group has in place an Employee Share Option Plan. Please refer note 34 for further details. 33.1. Stated capital As at 31 March 2017 2016 Number of shares Value of shares Number of shares Value of shares In ’000s In LKR '000s In ’000s In LKR '000s Fully paid ordinary shares At the beginning of the year 1,189,404 58,701,977 997,486 50,702,701 Share options exercised 6,869 911,261 165 26,516 Subdivision of shares 169,915 142,498 Exercise of share warrants 21,280 3,176,842 49,255 7,972,760 At the end of the year 1,387,468 62,790,080 1,189,404 58,701,977 The number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2017, include global depository receipts (GDRs) of 1,320,942 (2016 1,282,364). Further information on the composition of shares in issue is given under the Share Information section of the Annual Report. 35,415,944 shares (2016 29,959,331) have been reserved to be issued under the employee share option plan as at 31 March 2017. 33.2. Other components of equity Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Revaluation reserve 28,994,792 20,846,190 Foreign currency translation reserve 8,303,895 7,080,979 Other capital reserve 1,402,656 958,310 1,402,656 958,310 Cash flow hedge reserve 312,529 Available for sale reserve (362,304) (170,217) 102,220 126,307 38,651,568 28,715,262 1,504,876 1,084,617 Revaluation reserve consists of the net surplus on the revaluation of property, plant and equipment and present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB). Foreign currency translation reserve comprises the net exchange movement arising on the currency translation of foreign operations and equity accounted investees into Sri Lankan rupees. The other capital reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Available for sale reserve includes changes of fair value of financial instruments designated as available for sale financial assets. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 245 34. Share-based payment plans cumulative expense recognized as at the Employee Share Option Scheme Accounting Policy beginning and end of that period and is Under the John Keells Group’s Employees Employee share option plan Equityrecognized in employee benefits expense. share option scheme (ESOP), share options settled transactions of the parent are granted to executives of the Employees of the Group receive No expense is recognised for awards that do Group generally with more than 12 months remuneration in the form of share-based not ultimately vest, except for equity-settled of service. The exercise price of the share payment transactions, whereby employees transactions where vesting is conditional options is equal to the 30 day volume weighted render services as consideration for equity upon a market or non-vesting condition, average market price of the underlying instruments (equity-settled transactions). which are treated as vesting irrespective of shares on the date of grant. The share whether or not the market or non-vesting options vest over a period of four years and The Group applies SLFRS 2 Share Based condition is satisfied, provided that all other is dependent on a performance criteria and Payments in accounting for employee performance and service conditions are a service criteria, performance criteria being remuneration in the form of shares from 1 satisfied. the minimum performance achievement of April 2013 onwards. Met Expectations and service criteria being Where the terms of an equity-settled the employee still being in employment at the transaction award are modified, the minimum The cost of equity-settled transactions are time of vesting. The fair value of the share expense recognised is the expense had the recognised, together with a corresponding options is estimated at the grant date using terms not been modified, if the original terms increase in other capital reserves in equity, a binomial option pricing model, taking into of the award are met. An additional expense over the period in which the performance account the terms and conditions upon which is recognized for any modification that and service conditions are fulfilled. The the share options were granted. increases the total fair value of the sharecumulative expense recognised for equitybased payment transaction, or is otherwise settled transactions at each reporting date The contractual term for each option granted beneficial to the employee as measured at until the vesting date reflects the extent to is five years. There are no cash settlement the date of modification. which the vesting period has expired and alternatives. The Group does not have a past the Group’s best estimate of the number of The dilutive effect of outstanding options is practice of cash settlement for these share equity instruments that will ultimately vest. reflected as additional share dilution in the options. The income statement expense or credit computation of diluted earnings per share for a period represents the movement in (further details are given in note 18.2). Share-based payment plans Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 444,346 395,592 119,822 128,541 Movements in the year The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year; Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 No. WAEP No. WAEP No. WAEP No. WAEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 23,372,526 197.46 14,015,893 241.42 7,501,984 198.60 4,508,542 241.42 Granted during the year 9,998,000 142.83 6,781,282 171.25 2,692,274 142.83 1,957,332 171.25 Transfers 1,256,175 167.37 206,837 207.75 Adjustment due to sub division of shares 3,301,351 172.59 2,963,779 198.05 1,062,440 173.68 953,197 199.40 Adjustment due to share warrants 136,944 190.96 324,455 219.03 43,309 190.96 110,200 219.03 Exercised during the year (3,224) 149.84 Expired during the year (1,340,234) 167.31 (712,883) 202.02 (176,726) 164.93 (234,124) 206.87 Outstanding at the end of the year 35,465,363 164.43 23,372,526 197.46 12,379,456 166.43 7,501,984 198.60 Exercisable at the end of the year 15,044,992 177.30 6,119,220 211.98 5,583,774 178.46 1,910,954 212.82 Accounting judgements, estimates and is dependent on the terms and conditions and is not necessarily indicative of exercise assumptions of the grant. This estimate also requires patterns that may occur. The expected The Group measures the cost of equity-settled determination of the most appropriate inputs volatility reflects the assumption that the transactions with employees by reference to to the valuation model including the expected historical volatility over a period similar to the fair value of the equity instruments at the life of the share option, volatility and dividend the life of the options is indicative of future date at which they are granted. Estimating yield and making assumptions about them. trends, which may not necessarily be the fair value for share-based payment actual outcome either. transactions require determination of the The expected life of the share options is based most appropriate valuation model, which on historical data and current expectations 246 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 34. Share-based payment plans (Contd.) The following information were used and results were generated using binomial model for ESOP. As at 31 March 2017 2016 2015 2014 Plan no 9 Plan no 8 Plan no 8 Plan no 8 award 1 award 3 award 2 award 1 Dividend yield (%) 2.18 1.44 1.42 2.07 Expected volatility (%) 21.05 19.19 19.34 27.50 Risk free interest rate (%) 11.91 8.13 8.70 11.26 Expected life of share options (Years) 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 Weighted average share price at the grant date (LKR) 142.83 171.25 229.93 253.16 Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 (Years) Weighted average fair value of options (LKR) 56.29 64.62 61.93 81.54 Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (LKR) 142.83 171.25 229.93 253.16 Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (LKR) 142.83 149.84 176.04 191.65 (adjusted as at 31-03-2017) 35. Insurance contract liabilities Accounting policy Insurance contract liabilities life The Directors agree to the long term and unit link insurance business provisions on the recommendation of the actuary following annual valuation of the life insurance business. The actuarial valuation takes into account all liabilities including contingent liabilities and is based on assumptions recommended by the independent external actuary. 35.1. Insurance contract liabilities Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Insurance contract liabilities 31,161,611 26,704,512 Unclaimed benefits 538,667 500,770 31,700,278 27,205,282 Long duration contract liabilities included • Mortality rates based on published Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers Watson and in the life insurance fund, result primarily mortality tables adjusted for actual a sum of LKR 1,100 mn was transferred from traditional participating and non experience as required by regulations from the conventional life insurance fund participating life insurance products. Short issued by the IBSL. to the shareholders fund for the year 2016. duration contract liabilities are primarily Subsequent to the transfer the conventional • Surrender rates based on the actual group term, accident and health insurance life fund stood at LKR 27,703 mn. experience. products. Similarly the non unit fund of linked long The amount of policy holder dividend to be The actuarial reserves have been established term business valuation was carried out by paid is determined annually by the UA. The based on the following; Mr. Vivek Jalan FIA, FIAI of Willis Towers dividend includes life policy holders’ share of Watson and the Non Unit fund as at 31 • Non participating liabilities are discounted net income that is required to be allocated by December 2016 stood at LKR 186 mn. In using risk free yield curve provided by the insurance contract. the opinion of the consultant actuary, the the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka and the admissible assets of the conventional life participating liabilities are based on the The valuation of the conventional life insurance fund and the non unit fund of fund yield of the life fund. insurance fund as at The valuation of the linked long term business as at 31 December conventional life insurance fund as at 31 2016 is adequate to cover the liabilities of the December 2016 was carried out by Mr. Vivek funds. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 247 Group As at 31 December 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Conventional life insurance Balance as at 1 January 23,581,967 20,308,965 Increase in life insurance fund before surplus transfer to share holders 5,123,562 3,927,534 Transfer to shareholders (1,100,000) (760,000) Net change in unclaimed benefits 97,881 105,468 Balance as at 31 December Conventional life insurance 27,703,410 23,581,967 Non unit fund of linked life insurance contracts Balance as at 1 January 149,271 126,911 Increase in non unit fund of linked life insurance before surplus transfer to share holders 35,396 60,986 Transfer to shareholders (40,000) Net change in unclaimed benefits 1,605 1,374 Balance as at 31 December Non unit fund of linked life insurance 186,272 149,271 27,889,682 23,731,238 35.2. Change in life insurance contract liabilities The results of Union Assurance PLC’s (UA) is consolidated into the Group's consolidated income statement. The change in life insurance contract liabilities represents the transfer to the Life Fund, the difference between all income and expenditure attributable to life policy holders during the year. Group For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Revenue 8,181,868 6,952,717 Cost of sales (3,262,922) (2,740,644) Gross profit 4,918,946 4,212,073 Operating expenses including distribution and administration expenses (2,331,918) (2,021,615) Net finance income 3,556,360 2,044,301 Profit attributable to shareholders of UA (1,274,100) (804,226) Change in insurance contract liabilities 4,869,288 3,430,533 Accounting judgements , estimates and on the economics of the transaction). The this period, unless all rights and obligations are assumptions classification of contracts identifies both extinguished or expire. Investment contracts Valuation of insurance contract liabilities the insurance contracts UA issues and can, however, be reclassified as insurance and investment contract liabilities – Union reinsurance contracts holds by UA. contracts after inception if insurance risk Assurance PLC (UA) Insurance operations becomes significant. Product classification Contracts where UA does not assume a SLFRS 4 requires contracts written by significant insurance risk is classified as Insurance and investment contracts are insurers to be classified as either “insurance investment contracts. further classified as being either with or contracts” or “investment contracts” without discretionary participating features depending on the level of insurance risk Investment contracts are those contracts (“DPF”). transferred. that transfer significant financial risk and no significant insurance risk. Financial risk Life insurance contract liabilities Insurance contracts are contracts under is the risk of a possible future change in one These liabilities are measured by using which one party (the Insurer) accepts or more of a specified interest rate financial the net premium method. The liability is significant insurance risk from another party instrument price, commodity price, foreign determined as the sum of the discounted (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate exchange rate, index of price or rates, credit value of the expected future benefits, claims the policyholder if a specified uncertain rating or credit index or other variable, handling and policy administration expenses, future event (the insured event) adversely provided in the case of a non financial policyholder options and guarantees and affects the policyholder. variable that the variable is not specific to a investment income from assets backing party to the contract. such liabilities, which are directly related to Significant insurance risk exists if an the contract, less the discounted value of the insured event could cause an insurer to pay Once a contract has been classified as an expected premiums that would be required significant additional benefits in any scenario, insurance contract, it remains an insurance to meet the future cash outflows based on excluding scenarios that lack commercial contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the valuation assumptions used. The liability substance (i.e. have no discernible effect the insurance risk reduces significantly during is either based on current assumptions or 248 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 35. Insurance contract liabilities (Contd.) 35.2. Change in life insurance contract liabilities (Contd.) calculated using the assumptions established return on all related assets where the an existing liability adequacy test as laid at the time the contract was issued, in which apportionment between the shareholder and out under SLFRS 4. The liability value is case, a margin for risk and adverse deviation the policyholder has not yet been determined. adjusted to the extent that it is insufficient is generally included. Adjustments to the The liability includes certain elements of to meet future benefits and expenses. In liabilities at each reporting date are recorded net unrealized gains/(losses) and retained performing the adequacy test, current best in the income statement in ‘Increase in life earnings attributable to the DPF, based on the estimates of future contractual cash flows, insurance contract liabilities’. mandated rates applied to these gains and including related cash flows such as claims earnings on the assumption that they had handling and policy administration expenses, The liability is de-recognised when the been realised as of the statement of financial policyholder options and guarantees, as contract expires, is discharged or is position date. well as investment income from assets cancelled. backing such liabilities, are used. A number The minimum mandated amounts, which are of valuation methods are applied, including At each reporting date, an assessment to be paid to policyholders plus any declared/ discounted cash flows to the extent that the is made of whether the recognised life undeclared additional benefits, are recorded test involves discounting of cash flows, the insurance liabilities are adequate, by using an in liabilities. interest rate applied based on management’s existing liability adequacy test in accordance prudent expectation of current market with SLFRS 4. Liability adequacy test (LAT) Life interest rates. insurance For products containing discretionary At each reporting date, an assessment Any deficiencies shall be recognized in the participating features (DPF) the amount is made of whether the recognised life income statement by setting up a provision of the DPF is deemed to be the investment insurance liabilities are adequate by using for liability adequacy. 36. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 36.1 Movement Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s At the beginning of the year 16,698,430 9,358,789 1,482,508 2,670,784 Loans obtained 3,300,907 409,372 Loans transferred 10,027,539 Repayments (3,443,821) (4,623,992) (1,469,884) (1,388,100) Amortization of transaction cost 8,992 37,962 8,992 13,629 Exchange difference and interest accrued 556,982 1,488,760 (21,616) 186,195 At the end of the year 17,121,490 16,698,430 1,482,508 Repayable within one year 2,918,854 2,991,582 1,482,508 Repayable between one and five years 14,202,636 13,706,848 17,121,490 16,698,430 1,482,508 Group interest bearing borrowings include finance lease obligations amounting to LKR 10 mn (2016 LKR 45 mn), details of which are disclosed in following note. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 249 36.2. Finance leases Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s At the beginning of the year 44,865 75,674 Repayments (38,556) (32,397) Adjustments/transfers 3,825 1,588 At the end of the year 10,134 44,865 Finance lease obligations repayable within one year Minimum lease payments 10,254 37,740 Finance charges (120) (3,691) Present value of minimum lease payments 10,134 34,049 Finance lease obligations repayable between one and five years Minimum lease payments 10,928 Finance charges (112) Present value of minimum lease payments 10,816 36.3. Security and repayment terms In LKR '000s Lending Nominal Repayment Details of 2017 2016 Institution Interest rate terms collaterals John Keells Holdings IFC 6 month LIBOR based Bi-annual repayments 1,482,508 PLC. plus margin commencing from December 2009 Group companies Beruwala Holiday HNB 1 month SLIBOR 74 quarterly LKR 3,395mn Primary 439,683 559,683 Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. based plus margin installments floating mortgage bond commencing from over hotel property April 2013 Sampath 6 month LIBOR based 20 quarterly Corporate guarantee from 75,950 132,885 Bank plus margin installments John Keells Hotels PLC, commencing from amount of USD 4 mn July 2013 SCB 1 month LIBOR based 16 quarterly Corporate guarantee from 243,040 442,950 plus margin installments John Keells Hotels PLC commencing from for LKR equivalent of USD February 2014 2 mn Ceylon Cold Stores DFCC 3 month AWDR based 60 equal installments LKR 2,769 mn Kaduwela 39,073 PLC. plus margin commencing from land, building and January 2012 machinery of soft drink plant DFCC 3 month AWDR based 60 monthly do 15,000 45,000 plus margin installments commencing from October 2012 Habarana Lodge Ltd. Sampath 6 month LIBOR based 20 quarterly Corporate guarantee of 75,950 132,885 Bank plus margin installments John Keells Hotels PLC of commencing from USD 2 mn July 2013 Habib Bank 1 month LIBOR based 48 monthly Corporate guarantee of 6,076 32,483 Limited plus margin installments John Keells Hotels PLC of commencing from USD 0.9 mn July 2013 250 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 36. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Contd.) 36.3. Security and repayment terms (Contd.) In LKR '000s Lending Nominal Repayment Details of 2017 2016 Institution Interest rate terms collaterals Hikkaduwa Holiday DFCC 1 month AWPLR based 66 monthly installments Primary mortgage over 403,495 568,495 Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. plus margin commencing from lease rights of LKR 940 November 2013 mn and LKR 60 mn over movable plant, machinery and equipment Sampath 6 month LIBOR based 20 quarterly installments Corporate guarantee of 167,280 295,300 Bank plus margin commencing from October John Keells Hotels PLC for 2013 the LKR equivalent of USD 4 mn John Keells Sampath 6 month LIBOR based The loan is payable within Fixed deposit of 1,477,455 Maldivian Resorts Bank plus margin 90 days USD 4.4 mn (Pte) Ltd. John Keells Commercial 1 month AWPLR based 60 monthly installments General terms and 125,000 Properties Ja-Ela Bank plus margin commencing from April conditions for LKR 150 mn (Pvt) Ltd. 2014 with 1 year grace signed in relation to the period term loan Commercial 1 month AWPLR based 60 monthly installments 253,393 Bank plus margin commencing from April 2014 HSBC 1 month COF based 60 monthly installments General terms and 394,907 plus margin commencing from conditions for LKR 450 mn December 2016. signed relating to the term loan Keells Food DFCC 3 month AWDR plus 60 monthly installments Primary mortgage bond on 83,704 133,793 Products PLC. margin commencing from the building and assets at December 2013 with 1 Pannala year grace period Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. HSBC 1 month LIBOR based 60 monthly installments Land and building value of 91,840 252,933 plus margin commencing from October LKR1,438 mn 2013 with 1 year grace period The Colombo Ice HSBC COF based plus margin 60 monthly installments Corporate guarantee of 256,192 Company (Pvt) Ltd. commencing from Ceylon Cold Stores PLC for February 2016 with 1 year LKR3.8 bn grace period Trans Asia Hotels HNB Fixed rate (annually 16 quarterly installments 370,256 442,951 PLC. reviewed) commencing from September 2016 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. HSBC 3 month LIBOR based 8 quarterly installments 99,663 plus margin commencing from December 2014 HSBC 1 month LIBOR based 12 quarterly installments 303,800 plus margin commencing from September 2017 Trinco Holiday Sampath 6 month LIBOR based 20 quarterly installments Corporate guarantee of 70,360 102,588 Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Bank plus margin commencing from April John Keells Hotels PLC for 2014 the LKR equivalent of USD 1.158 mn Sampath 3 month AWPLR based 83 monthly installments Letter of comfort from 205,000 216,500 Bank plus margin commencing July 2014 John Keells Hotels PLC Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 251 In LKR '000s Lending Nominal Repayment Details of 2017 2016 Institution Interest rate terms collaterals Waterfront Syndicated 1 month LIBOR based 13 quarterly installments Freehold and leasehold 12,334,739 11,128,070 Properties (Pvt) loan through plus margin commencing from land of LKR 11.4 bn. Ltd. SCB September 2019 Additionally, as a part of the sponsor support, John Keells Holdings PLC has pledged 1.5 bn of its shares in Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Yala Village (Pvt) Habib Bank 1 month AWPLR based 30 monthly installments 39,666 67,748 Ltd. minus margin commencing from July 2014 Sampath 6 month LIBOR based 20 quarterly installments Corporate guarantee of 56,963 99,664 Bank plus margin commencing from July John Keells Hotels PLC of 2013 USD 1.5 mn 17,111,356 16,653,565 JK BPO Solution DLF Assets Finance lease 10,134 44,865 India (Pvt) Ltd. (Pvt) Ltd. 17,121,490 16,698,430 37. Employee benefit liabilities emoluments of employees to an approved of the defined benefit obligation at the Accounting Policy Employees’ Provident Fund and to the reporting date using the projected unit Employee contribution plans EPF/ETF Employees’ Trust Fund respectively, which credit method. Any actuarial gains or losses Employees are eligible for Employees’ are externally funded. arising are recognized immediately in other Provident Fund contributions and Employees’ comprehensive income this was previously Trust Fund contributions in line with respective Employee defined benefit plan gratuity recognized in income statement. statutes and regulations. The companies The liability recognised in the statement contribute the defined percentages of gross of financial position is the present value Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Employee benefit liabilities At the beginning of the year 1,660,880 1,494,711 189,181 160,456 Current service cost 144,936 133,665 12,967 10,587 Acquisitions 8,435 Transfers 10,528 5,695 Interest cost on benefit obligation 182,697 150,235 19,864 16,046 Payments (219,443) (171,100) (19,940) (6,081) (Gain)/Loss arising from changes in assumptions 110,758 44,627 5,310 2,478 Exchange translation difference 459 307 At the end of the year 1,880,287 1,660,880 217,910 189,181 The expenses are recognised in the income statement in the following line items; Cost of sales 149,829 140,319 11,387 10,890 Selling and distribution expenses 30,862 18,484 Administrative expenses 146,942 125,097 21,444 15,743 327,633 283,900 32,831 26,633 Accounting judgements , estimates and assumptions about discount rates and All assumptions are reviewed at each assumptions future salary increases. The complexity of reporting date. Employee benefit liability the valuation, the underlying assumptions The employee benefit liability of the Group and its long term nature, the defined benefit The principal assumptions used in is based on the actuarial valuation carried obligation is highly sensitive to changes in determining the cost of employee benefits out by Independent actuarial specialists. these assumptions. were: The actuarial valuations involve making 252 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 37. Employee benefit liabilities (Contd.) As at 31 March 2017 2016 Discount rate 9.50% 11.00% 10.50% Future salary increases 6.00% 10.00% 6.00% 9.00% 37.1. Sensitivity of assumptions used A one percentage change in the assumptions would have the following effects: Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Discount rate: 1% Increase (85,863) (76,569) (6,691) (6,040) 1% Decrease 64,966 68,440 7,363 6,538 Salary Increment rate: 1% Increase 65,922 72,446 7,863 7,235 1% Decrease (96,150) (81,420) (7,331) (6,797) 37.2. Maturity analysis of the payments The following payments are expected on employee benefit liabilities in future years Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Within the next 12 months 286,965 236,306 60,239 23,236 Between 1 and 2 years 363,244 418,173 65,281 111,308 Between 2 and 5 years 522,475 466,695 21,792 16,948 Between 5 and 10 years 618,230 386,856 58,446 24,863 Beyond 10 years 89,373 152,850 12,152 12,826 Total expected payments 1,880,287 1,660,880 217,910 189,181 Weighted average duration (years) of define benefit obligation 5.41 4.91 10.20 8.67 38. Other deferred liabilities value is credited to a deferred income account the benefit of the underlying asset by equal Accounting policy and is released to the income statement over annual installments. Government grants the expected useful life of the relevant asset Government grants are recognised where by equal annual installments. Deferred revenue there is reasonable assurance that the grant Deferred revenue is the money received will be received and all attached conditions Where the Group receives non-monetary for goods or services which have not yet will be complied with. When the grant relates grants, the asset and the grant are recorded been delivered. According to the revenue to an expense item, it is recognised as gross at nominal amounts and released to recognition principle, it is recorded as a income over the period necessary to match the income statement over the expected liability until delivery is made , at which time to the costs, that it is intended to compensate. useful life and pattern of consumption of it is converted to revenue. Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Government grants 772 960 Deferred revenue 838,119 670,286 Deferred purchase consideration 190,556 103,218 190,556 Amounts due to related parties 43.5 180,458 838,891 861,802 103,218 371,014 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 253 39. Other non current liabilities Accounting policy Group classifies all non financial non current liabilities under other current liabilities which include non refundable advances and deposits. Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Advances received 3,740,418 2,963,252 Deposits 193,464 131,929 3,933,882 3,095,181 40. Trade and other payables Accounting policy Trade payables are the aggregate amount of obligations to pay for goods or services, that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year. Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Trade and other payables Trade and other payables 13,665,569 12,392,889 330,078 332,506 Reinsurance payables 277,284 140,358 Advances and deposits 193,187 222,219 14,136,040 12,755,466 330,078 332,506 Trade and other payables are normally non-interesting bearing and settled within one year. Reinsurance payables normally settled within one year. For further explanation on the Group's liquidity risk management process refer note 10.2.2. 41. Short term borrowings Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Bank loans 1,380,238 821,243 1,380,238 821,243 42. Other current liabilities Accounting policy Group classifies all non financial current liabilities under other current liabilities. These include non refundable deposits and other tax payables. These liabilities are recorded at amounts expected to be set-off at the reporting date. Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Other current liabilities Non refundable deposits 1,481,641 1,706,292 2,566 2,566 Other tax payables 1,462,477 528,564 13,875 13,723 2,944,118 2,234,856 16,441 16,289 43. Related party transactions year end are unsecured, interest free and Recurrent related party transactions, Terms and conditions of transactions with settlement occurs in cash. There were no any recurrent related party related parties transactions which in aggregate value Non-recurrent related party transactions The Group and Company carried out exceeds 10% of the consolidated revenue There were no any non-recurrent related party transactions in the ordinary course of of the Group as per 31 March 2016 audited transactions which aggregate value exceeds business with the following related entities. financial Statements, which required 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets The list of Directors at each of the subsidiary, additional disclosures in the 2016/17 Annual whichever is lower of the Company as per joint venture and associate companies have Report under Colombo Stock Exchange listing 31 March 2016 audited financial statements, been disclosed in the Group directory under Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on which required additional disclosures in the the Supplementary Information section of the Related Party Transactions under the Security 2016/17 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Annual Report. Exchange Commission Directive issued Exchange listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best under Section 13(c) of the Security Exchange Transactions with related parties are carried Practices on Related Party Transactions under Commission Act. out in the ordinary course of the business. the Security Exchange Commission Directive Outstanding current account balances at issued under Section 13(c) of the Security Exchange Commission Act. 254 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 43.1. Amounts due from related parties Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Subsidiaries 43.5 215,115 412,187 Equity accounted investees 43.5 111,639 133,031 71,620 182,995 Key management personnel 111,639 133,031 286,735 595,182 43.2. Amounts due to related parties Subsidiaries 43.6 209,182 102,135 Equity accounted investees 10,434 28,982 847 Key management personnel 10,434 28,982 210,029 102,135 43.3. Transactions with related parties Group Company As at 31 March Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Subsidiaries Purchases of goods 5,004 3,631 Rendering of services 43.5 701,748 638,140 Receiving of services 43.6 48,918 51,957 Rent paid 38,729 34,292 Equity accounted investees Sales of goods 12,460 27,229 Rendering of services 43.5 468,353 412,627 281,929 225,464 Receiving of services 330,436 192,155 193 393 Interest received 43.4 200,565 35,065 87,567 29,589 Interest paid 43.4 7,844 1,794 Key management personnel (KMP) Sales of goods Close family members of KMP Sales of goods Companies controlled / jointly controlled / significantly Influenced by KMP and their close family members Sales of goods Post employment benefit plan Contributions to the provident fund 262,326 232,437 58,907 54,999 43.4. Transactions with related parties Associates Nations Trust Bank PLC. Interest received 200,565 35,065 87,567 29,589 Interest paid 7,844 1,794 The Group and Company held interest bearing deposits of LKR 2,491mn (2016 2,929 mn) and LKR 604 mn (2016 2,568 mn) respectively, at Nations Trust Bank PLC as at 31 March 2017. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 255 43.5. Transactions and amounts due from related parties Company Rendering of services Amounts due from As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Subsidiaries Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 34,493 32,028 3,109 3,338 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 54,234 45,867 58 4,030 Cinnamon Hotel Management Services Ltd. 92,943 94,328 16,170 5,154 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 23,010 19,608 1,789 576 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 79,814 66,395 9,268 3,997 John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 17,715 15,281 1,208 2,314 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 28,291 35,084 1,517 4,577 John Keells PLC. 16,323 16,350 1,472 Keells Food Products PLC. 22,790 20,938 2,199 2,339 Lanka Marine Services Ltd. 10,129 8,462 1,040 362,781 Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. 11,422 11,069 879 1,248 Mackinnons Keells Ltd. 2,476 2,476 124,589 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 12,133 10,390 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 24,298 22,207 Union Assurance PLC. 51,396 31,376 32,929 3,164 Walkers Tours Ltd. 34,610 31,597 3,696 615 Waterfront properties (Pvt) Ltd. 37,831 34,596 3,606 4,638 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 16,456 14,791 Other subsidiaries 131,384 125,297 13,058 11,944 701,748 638,140 215,115 412,187 Joint ventures 270,305 220,011 70,923 94,431 Associates 11,624 5,453 697 88,564 281,929 225,464 71,620 182,995 43.6. Transactions and amounts due to related parties Company Receiving of services Amounts due to As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Subsidiaries Current Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 5,334 4,481 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 8,157 6,041 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 6,724 Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. 1,809 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 18,046 23,276 2,221 1,574 Rajawella Holdings Ltd 203,104 90,300 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 4,552 6,957 2,176 2,205 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 8,744 7,901 905 678 Other subsidiaries 2,276 3,301 776 654 48,918 51,957 209,182 102,135 Non-current Rajawella Holdings Ltd. 180,458 256 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 43. Related party transactions (Contd.) 43.7. Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel include members of the Board of Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC and its subsidiary companies. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Short-term employee benefits 410,881 427,632 170,944 185,419 Post employment benefits Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Share based payments 133,911 145,481 55,747 65,688 544,792 573,113 226,691 251,107 Directors' interest in the employee share option plan of the Company As at 31 March 2017, the executive members of the Board of Directors held options to purchase ordinary shares under the employee share option plan as follows; 2017 2016 Expiry date Adjusted exercise Outstanding at Exercisable at Outstanding at Exercisable at price the end of period the end of period the end of period the end of period LKR 06.12.2016 151.39 1,517,847 1,517,847 30.06.2018 191.65 2,295,814 1,721,859 1,548,202 769,187 30.06.2019 176.04 2,038,537 1,019,268 1,392,774 348,193 24.06.2020 149.84 1,675,073 418,766 1,025,984 14.08.2021 142.83 1,575,000 No share options have been granted to the non-executive members of the Board of Directors under the employee share option plan. 43.8. Gain on share restructure/repurchase transaction John Keells Holdings PLC In the current year, the Company carried out an exercise to restructure the shareholding of the Company’s investments in a few of its unlisted subsidiaries to reduce the complexity of the shareholding structure. Accordingly, selected companies holding investments in other subsidiaries, transferred its respective investments to the Company, at valuations independently verified with the assistance of external consultants. The exercise was completed via a combination of share buybacks between the unquoted entities within the Group, and its subsidiaries for a consideration of either cash or owners’ shares. In LKR 000's Transaction Gain value Shares bought back from Keells Consultants Ltd 380,145 378,140 Mack Air Ltd. 1,007,985 960,978 Mackinnon Keells Ltd. 900,664 897,647 Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of (Ceylon) Ltd. 239,745 239,745 Mortlake Ltd 378,410 98,074 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd 1,093 1,071 2,908,042 2,575,655 44. Contingent liabilities it is probable that an outflow of resources reimbursement is recognised as a separate Accounting policy embodying economic benefits will be asset but only when the reimbursement is Provisions, contingent assets and required to settle the obligation and a virtually certain. contingent liabilities reliable estimate can be made of the amount Provisions are recognised when the of the obligation. Where the Group expects The expense relating to any provision is Group has a present obligation (legal or some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, presented in the income statement net of constructive) as a result of a past event, for example under an insurance contract, the any reimbursement. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 257 If the effect of the time value of money is rates of taxes, but this has been disputed by above three assessments were confirmed by material, provisions are discounted using the Department of Inland Revenue. The appeal the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where made by the company is currently with the and the company being aggrieved by the appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka. decision has appealed to the Tax Appeals Where discounting is used, the increase in Commission. Income tax assessments relating to years the provision due to the passage of time is of assessments 2002/03, 2003/04 and Income Tax Assessments relating to years recognised as a finance cost. 2004/05 of assessments 2012/2013 and 2013/2014 All contingent liabilities are disclosed as a Assessments were received in January Assessments were received based on normal note to the financial statements unless the 2009, once again based on normal tax tax rates. Appeals have been lodged with the outflow of resources is remote. A contingent rates. It is the view of the Company, based Department of Inland Revenue within the on opinions from independent legal counsel stipulated time period. liability recognised in a business combination and tax consultants, that the subject years is initially measured at its fair value. were statutorily time barred as provided Having discussed with independent legal Subsequently, it is measured at the higher in the Inland Revenue Act. The appeals and tax experts and based on information of: The amount that would be recognised in made by the Company to the Board of available, the contingent liability as at 31 accordance with the general guidance for Review were transferred to the Tax Appeals March 2017 is estimated at LKR 1,019 mn. Commission (TAC). The TAC determined that provisions above (LKAS 37) or The amount the assessments raised were time barred. A Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd (MTL) initially recognised less, when appropriate, case stated has been filed with the Court of The contingent liability of MTL as at 31 March cumulative amortisation recognised in Appeal by an application made by the CGIR. 2017, relates to the following; accordance with the guidance for revenue recognition (LKAS 18). Contingent assets are Income tax assessments relating to VAT Assessments received for years of disclosed, where inflow of economic benefit years of assessments 2005/06, 2006/07, assessments 2009/10 and 2010/2011 is probable. 2007/08 and 2008/09 The company has filed appeals against Assessments were received in August 2008, these assessments with the Inland Revenue The contingent liability of the Group and the October 2009 and March 2011, consequent to Department. The Tax Appeals Commission Company as at 31 March 2017, relates to the the Supreme Court judgement, whereby the determined the appeal in favour of the following; original BOI concessions granted were annulled. company and upheld the position that the Although the assessments were based on company is entitled to claim zero rated status John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) normal tax rates the company computed and on its taxable supplies The Department of The contingent liability of the Company as at paid income taxes at concessionary rates of Inland Revenue is currently awaiting the case 31 March 2017, relates to the following; taxes, based on opinions from independent stated from the Tax Appeals Commission to GST & VAT Assessments for the year of legal counsel and tax consultants, that the make an application to the Court of Appeal. assessment 2002/03 supply of bunkers to foreign vessels is an export and therefore eligible to concessionary Having discussed with independent legal The company has filed appeals against rates of taxes as provided in the Inland Revenue and tax experts and based on information these assessments and these are currently Act. Appeals were lodged against the balance available, the contingent liability as a 31 pending at the Court of Appeal. taxes assessed and penalties charged by the March 2017 is estimated at LKR 26mn. Income tax assessment relating to year of Inland Revenue and the status of each of the Union Assurance PLC (UA) assessment 2006/07 appeals are as follows: The contingent liability of UA PLC as at 31 The company has filed an appeal against this 2005/06 and 2006/07 The Tax Appeals March 2017, relates to the following; assessment and it is currently pending at the Court of Appeal. Commission determined that it has no Income Tax Assessments received for jurisdiction in respect of appeals relating years of assessments 2010/11, 2011/2012, Having discussed with independent legal to these two years and a case stated has 2012/13 and 2013/14 and tax experts and based on information been filed with the Court of Appeal by an The Department of Inland Revenue has available, the contingent liability as at 31 application made by the CGIR. raised assessments on Union Assurance March 2017 is estimated at LKR 123 mn. 2007/08 – The appeal was determined PLC for the above years of assessment, Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. (LMS) in favour of the CGIR by the Tax Appeals assessing the Life insurance business to The contingent liability of LMS as at 31 March Commission, and a case stated has been filed pay income taxes of LKR 13mn, LKR 132mn, 2017, relates to the following: with the Court of Appeal by an application LKR 466mn and LKR 175mn respectively. made by the company. The company has filed valid appeals against Post privatisation turnover tax levied by these assessments. the Western Provincial Council 2008/09 – The appeal was determined The Company has disputed this on the basis in favour of the CGIR by the Tax Appeals Having discussed with independent legal that its business activity is that of an export. Commission. The company intends to file the and tax experts and based on information An appeal has been made by the Company to case stated with the Court of Appeal. available, the Directors are of the view that the Western Provincial Council. the Company has followed due process Income tax Assessments relating to years and acted in accordance with the prevailing Income tax assessment relating to year of of assessments 2009/2010, 2010/2011 laws in its tax submissions for years of assessment 2001/02 and 2011/2012 assessment 2010 /11, 2011/12, 2012/13 and Assessment was received by the Company Assessments were received based on normal 2013/14, and accordingly have concluded based on normal tax rates. The company has tax rates. Appeals have been lodged with that the above assessments have no rationale appealed against this assessment on the the Department of Inland Revenue within or basis in law. grounds that the sale of bunker to foreign ships the stipulated time period for assessments is an export, which is liable to concessionary raised for these years of assessment. All the 258 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Notes to the Financial Statements 45. Capital and other commitments Group Company As at 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Capital commitments approved but not provided for 66,186,343 64,837,411 Guarantees 180,913 117,000 180,913 167,145 66,367,256 64,954,411 180,913 167,145 46. Lease commitments Group As at 31 March 2017 2016 In LKR '000s Lease rentals due on non-cancellable operating leases; Within one year 562,965 492,294 Between one and five years 1,084,140 1,017,705 After five years 5,391,496 3,739,095 7,038,601 5,249,094 Company Lessor Leased properties Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. CISCO Speciality Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. Pet bottle plant Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied Fantasea World Investment (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives Land occupied Habarana Lodge Ltd. Kekirawa Divisional Secretariat Land occupied Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. Kekirawa Divisional Secretariat Land occupied Jaykay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. Land owners Land occupied Keells Food Products PLC. Pannala Divisional Secretariat Land occupied The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd. Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Land occupied Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives and a sub lease with Ellaidhoo Land occupied Investments (Pte) Ltd. Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives Land occupied Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied Waterfront properties (Pvt) Ltd. Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Land occupied Extent of lease hold land is given in the Group real estate portfolio in the Supplementary section of the Annual Report. 47. Assets pledged Assets pledged for facilities obtained is given in note 36.3 to the financial statements. 48. Events after the reporting period Final dividend The Board of Directors of the Company has declared a final dividend of LKR 2.00 per share for the financial year ended 31 March 2017. As required by section 56 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors has confirmed that the Company satisfies the solvency test in accordance with section 57 of the Companies Act No.07 of 2007, and has obtained a certificate from auditors, prior to declaring a final dividend which is to be paid on the 16 June 2017. In accordance with LKAS 10, Events after the reporting period, the final dividend has not been recognised as a liability in the financial statements as at 31 March 2017. S U P P L E M E N TA R Y I N F O R M AT I O N Building Partnerships This section entails additional Group related information. 261 History of the John Keells Group . 262 Economic Value Statement . 264 Decade at a Glance 266 Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements . 268 Sri Lankan Economy . 270 Group Real Estate Portfolio 272 Memberships Maintained by the Industry Groups . 273 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 276 Group Directory . 283 GRI G4 Content Index . 288 Glossary of Financial Terms . 289 Notice of Meeting 290 Corporate Information . 291 Proxy Form Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 261 History of the John Keells Group 1870-1970 2001-2007 2011-2014 • 1870: Two English brothers, George and • 2003: JKH acquired Asian Hotels and • 2011: “The Emperor” apartment project at Edwin John set up E. John & Co, a firm of Properties, thereby gaining control of 40 Crescat City, Colombo reached completion. produce and exchange brokers. per cent of the five star room capacity in Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa and Chaaya Wild Colombo. Yala were re-opened after refurbishment. • 1948: The firm merged with two other London based tea brokers, and thereby • 2004: John Keells Hotels Limited (KHL) was • 2012: Cinnamon Bey, a 200 room five star evolved into a private liability company by created as a holding company for all Group resort was launched. “K-Zone”, a 140,000 the name of E. John, Thompson, White & resorts. The Group’s CSR arm, The John sq. ft. mall was opened in Ja-Ela, Colombo. Company Ltd. Keells Social Responsibility Foundation Keells Food Products PLC and Union was established as a non-profit. Assurance PLC successfully raised LKR 1.2 • 1960: Amalgamated with Keell and billion and LKR 720 million respectively, via Waldock Ltd., another long established • 2005: The Group launched its new hotel rights issues. produce, share and freight broking brands “Cinnamon Hotels & Resorts” and company. The company changed its name “Chaaya Hotels & Resorts”. JKH entered • 2013: The market capitalisation of JKH to John Keell Thompson White Ltd. into a MoU to develop a third resort in the exceeded USD 2 billion for the first time Maldives and also acquired 80 per cent of in the Group’s history. The “Waterfront” 1971-1990 the Yala Village Hotel. Keells Plantations integrated resort project was announced to • 1973: Walkers Tours and Travels (Ceylon) was sold off, thus marking the Group’s exit the public. JKH was recognised as one of Ltd, a leading inbound tour operator, is from the ownership of plantations. A joint the top 15 great places to work in Sri Lanka acquired. venture with Raman Roy Associates was through a survey conducted by the Great embarked upon, to enter the BPO space. Place to Work Institute. • 1974: The firm became a Rupee quoted public company. Changed its name to John • 2006: A lease was acquired on the • 2014: “Cinnamon red”, the first lean luxury Keells Ltd. Dhonveli Beach and Spa and the Ellaidhoo hotel in Sri Lanka, was launched. The Tourist Resort in the Maldives. The Group “OnThree20” residential development • 1986: A newly incorporated John Keells increased its stake in SAGT by 8 per cent to project was successfully completed. Holdings (JKH) acquired a controlling stake 34 per cent. John Keells Holdings Ltd was Union Assurance was segregated as per in John Keells Limited, and obtained a renamed as John Keells Holdings PLC. a regulatory directive, and the General quotation on the Colombo Stock Exchange Insurance segment was divested. JayKay (CSE) amidst a heavily over-subscribed • 2007: Cinnamon Island Alidhoo Marketing Services (Private) Limited public share issue. commenced operations. The Group merged with Nexus Networks (Private) signed a long term funding arrangement 1991-2000 Limited, with JMSL being the surviving amounting to USD 75 million with the entity. Divested stakes in Expo Lanka • 1991: Acquired the Whittalls Group of International Finance Corporation (IFC). Holdings PLC and Access Engineering PLC. Companies, and thus gained control of 2008-2010 Ceylon Cold Stores, Ceylon Holiday Resorts, 2015 – To Present and Union Assurance. The acquisition was • 2008: JKH acquired a further 8.4 per cent • 2015: Waterfront Properties (Private) one of the largest deals carried out at the in SAGT and also increased stakes in UA, Limited raised the necessary debt funding time. CCS, JKL and KFPL. The stake in AMW was for the “Cinnamon Life” project, by way of divested. • 1994: JKH became the first Sri Lankan the largest syndicated debt facility obtained company to obtain a listing abroad, • 2009: JKH’s market capitalization by a local firm. A controlling stake in by way of issuing Global Depository surpassed USD 1 billion. The Trans Asia Rajawella Holdings Ltd (RHL) was acquired Receipts (GDRs) on the Luxembourg Stock Hotel was re-branded, and re-launched as for LKR 1.04 billion. SAGT was ranked Exchange. Cinnamon Lakeside. The Group released number one in South Asia and number its first standalone Sustainability Report, in four in the world for terminal productivity • 1996: Velidhu Resort Hotel, an 80 roomed full compliance with the Global Reporting by the Journal of Commerce, USA. The island resort in the Maldives, was acquired. Initiative (GRI-G3) framework. refurbishment of Cinnamon Lakeside was This marked the Group’s first major completed. The Group raised LKR 8 billion overseas investment. • 2010: The head lease of Alidhoo Island by converting 50 million warrants. was divested while the head lease of • 1999: Nations Trust Bank (NTB) was Dhonveli Island was acquired for a period • “7th Sense”, a high-end, niche, residential established, in a joint venture with the of 18 years. Construction of “OnThree20”, development was completed JKH is International Finance Corporation (IFC) and a 475 unit apartment complex in the ranked first in the LMD Magazine’s “Most Central Finance Co. Ltd. The South Asia heart of Colombo commenced. Walkers Respected Entities in Sri Lanka” survey for Gateway Terminal (SAGT) commenced Tours and Whittall Boustead became the the tenth consecutive time, and also tops operations to own, operate, and develop only destination management companies the Business Today magazine’s list of Sri the Queen Elizabeth Quay at the Port of to obtain both ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 Lanka’s Top 25 companies for the second Colombo. certifications. Ceylon Cold Stores added time. The 50th Keells Super outlet was • 2000: JKH became the first Sri Lankan “KIK” as its cola brand in its portfolio of opened. company to obtain the SL-AAA credit rating soft drinks. JKH also acquired 5.6 million • 2016: Please refer the “Year at a Glance” from Fitch Ratings. The firm was also shares of Union Assurance PLC, and section of the JKH Annual Report. admitted as a full member of the World increased its stake to 95.6 per cent. Economic Forum, and was also rated among the best 300 small companies in the world by the Forbes Global magazine. 262 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Economic Value Statement Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Foods and Financial Services Retail For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 LKR millions Direct economic value generated Revenue 11,517 10,725 28,135 26,829 1,459 4,677 46,834 37,795 8,298 7,146 Finance income 242 188 2,849 1,588 591 476 998 451 3,512 2,665 Share of results of associates 2,275 1,869 53 52 975 860 Profit on sale of assets & other income 2,009 138 281 93 1,032 380 1,296 1,543 62 55 Valuation gain on IP 290 148 92 17 16,043 12,920 31,318 28,562 3,372 5,681 49,220 39,806 12,847 10,726 Economic value distributed Operating costs 11,210 9,030 12,208 10,654 1,540 1,742 33,428 27,462 9,135 6,621 Employee wages & benefits 451 409 4,569 4,069 390 251 4,078 3,531 851 822 Payments to providers of funds 1,139 863 6,744 6,588 824 2,337 4,507 2,914 514 1,256 Payments to government 168 57 1,352 1,199 69 132 3,155 2,467 63 41 Community investments 3 24 55 54 1 43 29 5 14 12,971 10,383 24,928 22,564 2,824 4,462 45,211 36,403 10,568 8,754 Economic value retained Depreciation 102 88 1,589 1,547 19 14 830 736 80 89 Amortisation 2 1 636 768 21 25 14 12 221 217 Profit after dividends 2,968 2,448 4,165 3,684 508 1,179 3,165 2,655 1,978 1,665 Retained for reinvestment / growth 3,072 2,537 6,390 5,999 548 1,218 4,009 3,403 2,279 1,971 Above data has been derived from the audited Financial Statements that were prepared based on Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 263 Information Others Total Eliminations/ Group Total Technology Adjustments 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 % 2016 % 11,337 8,463 3,757 3,397 111,337 99,032 (5,064) (5,322) 106,273 87.21 93,710 87.66 52 45 16,152 15,014 24,396 20,427 (14,363) (12,416) 10,033 8.23 8,011 7.49 3,303 2,781 3,303 2.71 2,781 2.60 71 113 4,060 3,931 8,812 6,253 (7,047) (4,121) 1,765 1.45 2,132 1.99 101 98 484 263 484 0.40 263 0.25 11,460 8,621 24,070 22,440 148,332 128,755 (26,474) (21,859) 121,858 100.00 106,896 100.00 8,710 6,303 10,622 9,665 86,853 71,477 (5,305) (1,657) 81,548 66.92 69,820 65.32 1,362 1,461 1,045 1,080 12,746 11,623 12,746 10.46 11,623 10.87 513 439 7,987 8,530 22,228 22,927 (13,889) (12,164) 8,339 6.84 10,763 10.07 271 129 1,207 669 6,285 4,694 6,285 5.16 4,694 4.39 3 4 34 144 125 144 0.12 125 0.12 10,859 8,336 20,895 19,944 128,256 110,846 (19,194) (13,821) 109,062 89.50 97,025 90.77 122 180 133 128 2,875 2,782 2,875 2.36 2,782 2.60 11 10 21 25 926 1,058 926 0.76 1,059 0.99 468 96 3,023 2,343 16,275 14,070 (7,280) (8,038) 8,995 7.38 6,032 5.64 601 286 3,177 2,496 20,076 17,910 (7,280) (8,038) 12,796 10.50 9,873 9.23 264 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Decade at a Glance 31 March 2017* 2016* 2015* 2014* 2013* LKR Millions OPERATING RESULTS Group revenue 106,273 93,710 91,852 86,706 85,408 EBIT 23,324 20,192 19,226 16,537 16,677 Finance cost (436) (994) (668) (1,217) (1,081) Share of results of equity accounted investees 3,303 2,781 2,778 3,089 3,440 Profit before tax 22,888 19,198 18,557 15,320 15,595 Tax expense (4,771) (3,406) (2,812) (2,362) (2,162) Profit after tax 1 8,117 15,792 15,745 12,958 13,433 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent Equity holders of the parent 16,275 14,070 14,348 11,721 12,113 Non-controlling interests 1,842 1,722 1,397 1,237 1,320 18,117 15,792 15,745 12,958 13,433 CAPITAL EMPLOYED Stated capital 62,790 58,702 50,703 49,749 26,480 Capital reserves and other components of equity 38,652 28,715 24,501 21,845 20,635 Revenue reserves 77,193 67,565 62,594 51,304 42,704 178,635 154,982 137,798 122,898 89,819 Non-controlling interest 15,696 13,499 12,279 11,421 11,152 Total equity 194,331 168,481 150,077 134,319 100,971 Total debt 22,766 20,750 23,934 26,139 20,107 217,097 189,231 174,011 160,458 121,078 ASSETS EMPLOYED Property, plant and equipment (PPE) 64,396 52,737 49,563 47,406 49,200 Non-current assets other than PPE 107,912 93,376 78,030 71,969 59,787 Current assets 104,964 94,863 90,493 82,206 49,934 Liabilities net of debt (60,175) (51,745) (44,075) (41,123) (37,843) 217,097 189,231 174,011 160,458 121,078 CASH FLOW Net cash flows from operating activities 21,020 20,513 20,855 8,041 14,568 Net cash flows from / (used in) investing activities (17,670) (9,567) (1,255) (19,710) (16,199) Net cash flows from / (used in) financing activities (4,105) (7,717) (4,838) 25,446 (1,320) Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (755) (3,229) 14,762 13,777 (2,951) KEY INDICATORS Basic earnings per share (LKR) 11.9 10.5 12.6 10.5 10.7 Interest cover (no. of times) 52.8 51.5 27.7 13.6 15.4 Net assets per share** (LKR) 128.7 111.7 99.3 88.6 64.7 Enterprise value (EV) 136,022 124,182 155,675 155,675 203,615 EV / EBITDA 5.0 5.0 6.6 10.0 10.0 ROE (%) 9.8 9.6 11.0 11.0 15.0 Debt / equity ratio (%) 11.7 12.3 15.9 19.5 19.9 TSR (%) (10.0)*** (12.2)*** (12.0)*** (0.4)*** 21.7 Dividend payout (Rs 'millions) 7,280 8,038 3,476 3,267 2,982 Current ratio (no. of times) 3.7 4.0 2.6 2.4 2.0 Market price per share unadjusted (LKR) 137.9 148.0 199.4 227.0 247.0 Market price per share diluted (LKR) 137.9 129.5 152.7 173.8 238.2 Revenue growth rate (%) 13.4 1.6 5.9 4.1 9.7 USD closing rate 151.9 147.7 133.5 130.7 126.8 USD average rate 148.0 139.2 131.2 130.1 129.9 * The figures are derived from financial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS. Figures for the remaining periods are derived from financial statements prepared in accordance with previous SLASs. ** Net assets per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the net assets of the Group and number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2017. *** Includes the proportionate impact arising from the ownership of warrants. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 265 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 75,924 60,500 47,980 41,023 41,805 14,192 11,425 7,908 7,986 8,197 (1,416) (796) (1,370) (1,695) (1,618) 2,809 2,641 2,556 2,340 2,243 12,778 10,629 6,538 6,291 6,579 (1,827) (1,566) (986) (1,326) (1,054) 10,951 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 9,689 8,245 5,201 4,733 5,119 1,262 818 351 232 406 10,951 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 25,111 24,612 23,322 22,525 22,464 13,226 9,560 7,574 7,437 6,019 33,001 25,415 18,936 15,545 14,914 71,338 59,587 49,832 45,507 43,397 8,624 7,608 6,430 4,960 4,770 79,962 67,195 56,262 50,467 48,167 20,054 14,641 17,453 21,596 12,667 100,016 81,836 73,715 72,063 60,834 34,246 28,628 29,989 29,965 28,381 52,397 47,436 34,104 33,456 19,128 47,412 34,228 34,566 28,718 23,440 (34,039) (28,456) (24,944) (20,076) (10,115) 100,016 81,836 73,715 72,063 60,834 16,476 8,501 9,485 4,146 6,914 (9,003) (4,469) (5,823) (3,972) (4,359) 496 (6,791) (636) 2,332 (6,262) 7,969 (2,759) 3,026 2,506 (3,707) 9.5 8.2 5.2 4.7 5.1 10.0 14.4 5.8 4.7 5.1 51.4 43.0 35.9 32.8 31.3 166,143 175,672 109,548 42,815 76,713 13.1 13.1 10.9 4.3 7.8 14.7 15.1 10.9 10.6 12.3 25.0 21.8 31.0 42.8 26.3 58.2 204.3 (43.1) 15.7 24.6 2,314 1,844 1,883 3,176 1,412 2.0 1.8 2.1 1.8 1.9 206.0 285.6 184.0 62.8 119.8 152.6 34.6 66.0 62.0 52.6 25.5 26.1 17.0 -1.9 27.2 128.1 110.4 114.0 115.5 107.8 112.6 112.1 115.0 109.8 110.3 266 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements Income Statement for Information Purposes Only Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In USD'000s Continuing operations Sale of goods 449,231 396,940 Rendering of services 250,394 237,736 7,415 7,505 Revenue 699,625 634,676 7,415 7,505 Cost of sales (494,787) (440,618) (3,713) (3,670) Gross profit 204,838 194,058 3,702 3,835 Dividend income 68,920 69,494 Other operating income 11,621 11,542 17,168 25,885 Selling and distribution expenses (25,679) (24,487) Administrative expenses (75,285) (72,768) (5,951) (6,418) Other operating expenses (20,870) (23,228) (6,196) (3,838) Results from operating activities 94,625 85,117 77,643 88,958 Finance cost (2,872) (6,731) (589) (553) Finance income 66,052 54,256 36,476 31,428 Change in insurance contract liabilities (32,056) (23,234) Change in fair value of investment property 3,183 1,780 Share of results of equity accounted investees 21,744 18,837 Profit before tax 150,676 130,025 113,530 119,833 Tax expense (31,409) (23,071) (7,195) (4,222) Profit for the year 119,267 106,954 106,335 115,611 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 107,143 95,292 Non-controlling interests 12,124 11,662 119,267 106,954 Basic earnings per share 0.08 0.07 Diluted earnings per share 0.08 0.07 This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/LKR 151.90 (2016 147.65) have been used to convert the income statement and statement of financial position. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 267 Statement of Financial Position for Information Purposes Only Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 In USD'000s ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 423,939 357,172 618 786 Lease rentals paid in advance 86,939 73,743 Investment property 35,327 33,040 Intangible assets 13,944 15,834 203 297 Investments in subsidiaries 282,998 246,425 Investments in equity accounted investees 116,648 114,795 58,662 60,058 Non-current financial assets 182,137 153,305 18,367 3,437 Deferred tax assets 945 879 Other non-current assets 274,472 240,821 107 84 1,134,351 989,589 360,955 311,087 Current assets Inventories 36,904 31,594 Trade and other receivables 76,942 67,721 777 1,146 Amounts due from related parties 735 901 1,888 4,031 Other current assets 21,497 15,601 655 869 Short term investments 521,227 491,941 396,598 385,115 Cash in hand and at bank 33,701 34,727 2,003 1,207 691,006 642,485 401,921 392,368 Total assets 1,825,357 1,632,074 762,876 703,455 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 413,365 397,575 413,365 397,575 Revenue reserves 508,184 457,599 329,088 278,509 Other components of equity 254,454 194,485 9,905 7,349 1,176,003 1,049,659 752,358 683,433 Non-controlling interest 103,328 91,423 Total equity 1,279,331 1,141,082 752,358 683,433 Non-current liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 208,692 184,255 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 93,500 92,833 Deferred tax liabilities 15,380 13,744 Employee benefit liabilities 12,378 11,249 1,435 1,281 Other deferred liabilities 5,523 5,837 680 2,513 Other non-current liabilities 25,898 20,963 361,371 328,881 2,115 3,794 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 93,061 86,390 2,173 2,252 Amounts due to related parties 69 196 1,383 692 Income tax liabilities 15,769 12,689 4,184 2,340 Short term borrowings 9,086 5,562 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19,216 20,261 10,041 Other current liabilities 19,382 15,136 108 110 Bank overdrafts 28,072 21,877 555 793 184,655 162,111 8,403 16,228 Total equity and liabilities 1,825,357 1,632,074 762,876 703,455 This information does not constitute a full set of financial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the Auditors' opinion and the notes to the financial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/LKR 151.90 (2016 : 147.65) have been used to convert the income statement and statement of financial position. 268 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Sri Lankan Economy Summary indicator Units 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 GDP growth (2010 base) Per cent 8.4 9.1 3.4 5.0 4.8 4.4 GDP growth (2002 base) Per cent 3.5 8.0 8.2 6.3 7.2 7.4 5.7 GDP(current prices: 2010 base) Rs. Billion 6,414 7,219 8,732 9,592 10,361 10,952 11,839 GDP(current prices: 2002 base) Rs. Billion 4,835 5,604 6,543 7,579 8,674 9,785 10,660 GDP(current prices: 2010 base) USD Billion 56.7 65.3 68.4 74.3 79.4 80.6 81.3 GDP(current prices: 2002 base) USD Billion 42.1 49.6 59.2 59.4 67.2 74.9 78.4 GDP per capita (USD) Growth : 2010 base Per cent 14.0 7.1 7.7 5.9 0.6 (0.2) GDP per capita (USD) Growth : 2002 base Per cent 2.1 16.7 18.3 3 12 11 8 GDP per capita (market prices: 2010 base) Rs 000 310 346 428 466 499 522 558 GDP per capita (market prices: 2002 base) Rs 000 236 271 314 371 422 471 508 GDP per capita (market prices: 2010 base) USD 2,744 3,129 3,351 3,609 3,821 3,843 3,835 GDP per capita (market prices: 2002 base) USD 2,057 2,400 2,836 2,908 3,265 3,608 3,894 Inflation (CCPI 2013=100) annual average Per cent 2.2 4 Inflation (CCPI 2006/07=100) annual average Per cent 3.5 6.2 6.7 7.6 6.9 3.3 0.9 3.7 Inflation (NCPI 2013=100) annual average Per cent 3.8 4 Current account balance USD Billion (0.2) (1.1) (4.6) (4.0) (2.5) (2.0) (1.9) (1.9) Current account % of GDP* Per cent (0.5) (1.9) 7.1 (5.8) (3.4) (2.5) (2.3) (2.4) Population Million 20.5 20.7 20.9 20.4 20.6 20.8 21.0 21.2 Exchange rate (Annual Average) Rs/USD 114.9 113.1 110.6 127.6 129.1 130.6 135.9 145.6 Exchange rate change (Annual Average) Per cent 6.1 (1.6) (2.2) 15.4 1.2 1.1 4.1 7.1 12m T-Bill yield (yr-end) Per cent 9.3 7.6 9.3 11.7 8.3 6.0 7.3 10.2 Prime lending rate (yr-end) Per cent 10.9 9.3 10.8 14.4 10.1 6.3 7.5 11.5 M2b money supply growth Per cent 18.6 15.8 19.1 17.6 16.7 13.4 17.8 18.4 Exports USD Billion 7.1 8.6 10.6 9.8 10.4 11.1 10.5 10.3 Imports USD Billion 10.2 13.5 20.3 19.2 18.0 19.4 18.9 19.4 Balance of payments* Per cent of GDP 6.5 1.6 (1.6) 0.2 1.3 1.7 (1.8) (0.6) Budget deficit* Per cent of GDP (9.9) (7.0) (6.2) (5.6) (5.4) (5.7) (7.6) (5.4) Unemployment rate Per cent 5.8 4.9 4.2 4.0 4.4 4.3 4.7 4.4 All Share Index (yr-end) Points 3,386 6,636 6,074 5,643 5,913 7,299 6,895 6,228 Tourist arrivals No.' 000 447.9 654.5 856.0 1,006 1,275 1,527 1,798 2,051 * Uses rebased GDP (2010 base) from 2010 onwards Sri Lanka's economic growth continued to stance throughout 2016. Following the hike Broad money supply continued to accelerate moderate in 2016, slowing to 4.4 per cent in the Statutory Reserve Ratio in December in 2016, rising by 18.4 per cent compared to from 4.8 per cent growth in the previous 2015, the Bank raised key policy rates by 50 the 17.8 per cent growth in 2015. This was led year. Strong growth in the construction subbasis points each in February and July 2016. primarily by a sizable increase in credit to the segment led a notable rise in the Industrial Despite these moves, credit demand was private sector which recorded an absolute sector, while the services sector continued slow to respond as it ended the year above growth of Rs. 754.8 billion compared to the to grow at healthy levels, despite recording the 20 per cent YOY (Year-on-Year) growth Rs. 691.4 billion increase in the previous year. a slight moderation from the previous year. target set by the CBSL. This prompted the Net credit to the Government also contributed Nevertheless, overall growth was weighed Bank to raise rates once again in March 2017 to the rise, increasing by 12.1 per cent down by poor performance in the agrarian by 25 basis points. The tightening stance over the year. Credit to public corporations sector as a result of adverse weather was further advocated by the International however recorded a decline of 5.3 per cent conditions throughout of most of the year. Monetary Fund (IMF) under its Extended during the year. Poor weather conditions also contributed to Fund Facility (EFF) which was put in place in several food supply disruptions throughout mid-2016 to support the country’s economic Sri Lanka’s Balance of Payments (BOP) the year which resulted in inflation edging reform agenda amid worsening debt levels deficit improved in 2016, contracting to US$ up in 2016, averaging higher at 4.0 per cent and external financing conditions. Under 500 million from the US$ 1.5 billion deficit (CCPI 2013 base) compared to the 2.2 the recommendation of the IMF, the CBSL is seen in the previous year. This was due to per cent average in 2015. In addition to the also expected to move towards an inflation an improvement in the Financial Account, unfavourable supply side factors, revisions targeting monetary framework from the despite a marginal expansion in the deficit in to taxation policies and rates implemented previous monetary targeting framework. the Current Account to 2.4 per cent of GDP. by the Government during the year, such as Increased import demand and weak export the VAT revision, also contributed to the rise In line with the tightening monetary stance, key performance contributed to a widening of the in inflation. market rates rose significantly during the year trade deficit to US$9.1billion in 2016 from a with the Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate deficit of US$ 8.4billion seen in the previous Given the accelerating pace of growth in (AWPLR) rising by 402 basis points to 11.52 year. Despite the curtailment of vehicle private sector credit, coupled with increased per cent by end-2016 from 7.50 per cent at the imports through several administrative import demand and concerns of demand end of 2015. Similarly, the Average Weighted measures taken by the Government, a sharp driven inflation pressures, the CBSL Deposit Rate (AWDR) rose by 197 basis points increase in investment goods imports, maintained a contractionary monetary policy to 8.17 per cent by the end of 2016. particularly machinery and equipment saw Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 269 overall import expenditure accelerate during Services recorded growth rates of 6.7 per 2013 from the previous base of 2006/07. the year. Meanwhile, poor global demand cent and 4.2 per cent respectively, while the According to the new base (2013=100), conditions and low commodity prices Agricultural sector recorded a sizable decline headline inflation reached an annual average contributed to the decline in export earnings. of 4.2 per cent. of 4.0 per cent in 2016 – higher than 2.2 per cent average recorded in 2015. Headline Nevertheless, increased tourism earnings Growth in the Agricultural sector in 2016 inflation picked up significantly during the and moderately higher workers’ remittances was significantly disturbed by intemperate first half of 2016, peaking at 5.8 per cent YOY resulted in an improvement in the Services weather conditions experienced throughout in July. Thereafter, it slowed down to around account, cushioning the overall fall in the the year, leading to a significant contraction 4.0 per cent levels toward the latter half of Current Account. Tourist arrivals grew 14 per of 4.2 per cent YOY in 2016 – down from the the year with a slight uptick in recorded cent during the year, crossing the 2 million positive growth of 4.8 per cent YOY recorded in December. The price movements were mark, while Tourism earnings increased by 18 in the previous year. This was mainly led largely owing to shortage in food supplies per cent to US$3.5billion. Workers’ Remittance by rice and tea sub-categories which saw during the year due to severe weather inflows also improved by 3.7 per cent to significant declines of 31.0 per cent and 11.2 conditions. Several tariff revisions which took US$7.2billion in 2016, reversing from the 0.5 per cent YOY, respectively. The continued place throughout the year also contributed to per cent decline seen in the previous year. weak performance of the Tea industry was the upward movement in headline inflation. owing to poor demand conditions and lower On the external front, Sri Lanka remained tea production. Additionally, Rubber also On the external front, Sri Lanka’s trade largely vulnerable to global volatilities, contributed significantly to this decline, falling account widened considerably during 2016 particularly amid political uncertainties by 10.7 per cent YOY. on account of increasing import expenditure such as Brexit and the U.S presidential and weak export performance, despite election, as well as a heightened global rates However, vegetables and oleaginous the significant decline in vehicle and fuel environment. With increased outflows being fruits (coconut, king coconut, oil palm) imports during the year. Export earnings saw seen from emerging markets in the last subcategories were less affected by the a contraction of 2.2 per cent YOY in 2016, quarter of 2016, foreign holdings in the Sri detrimental weather conditions, recording with a slight improvement seen toward the Lankan government securities market were marginal declines of 2.1 per cent and 0.6 per latter part of the year. The decline primarily severely impacted, reducing by Rs. 43.6 billion cent YOY, correspondingly. reflects reduced domestic output and lower during the year. This added depreciatory commodity prices, particularly in agricultural pressure on the currency, which weakened The Industrial sector grew at 6.7 per cent exports. Exports of transport equipment (due by 4.0 per cent against the USD in 2016. In in 2016, improving substantially from the to base effect of higher earnings in 2015), contrast, however, the LKR strengthened by a previous year’s growth of 2.1 per cent petroleum products, tea and spices were the sizable 13.8 per cent against the GBP during YOY. This growth was mainly driven by the main contributors to the downturn, recording the year, as the GBP weakened following UK’s construction sub-sector which witnessed declines of 46.0 per cent, 23.3 per cent, 5.3 referendum to leave the EU. Foreign Direct a significant upturn of 14.9 per cent YOY, per cent and 16.0 per cent YOY, respectively. Investments also remained subdued in 2016, followed by the mining and quarrying subHowever, earnings from textiles and garment dropping marginally to US$ 1.0 billion from category which showed 14.4 per cent growth. exports, a significant component of industrial US$ 1.1 billion seen in the previous year. Meanwhile, the food, beverages and tobacco exports, saw a marginal rise of 1.3 per cent sub-sector recorded a marginal decline of 2.5 YOY in 2016. Overall import expenditure Sri Lanka’s gross official reserves continued per cent during the year. expanded by 2.5 per cent in 2016, reversing to deplete in 2016, falling to US$ 6.0 billion from the 2.5 per cent decline recorded in from US$ 7.3 billion in the previous year. This The services sector, the most significant the previous year. A 13.8 per cent growth was due to several foreign currency debt component of GDP registered a growth of in expenditure on Investment goods led the repayments and defence of the LKR in the 4.2 per cent YOY in 2016, below the 5.7 per overall increase in imports, mainly due to first half of 2016. Under the guidance of the cent growth recorded in 2015, reflecting a notable rise in machinery & equipment IMF, the Central Bank aims to improve the a slowdown in a majority of the service and building material imports. Increased reserve position to US$7.5 billion by the end activities. Financial service activities led expenditure on Intermediate goods also of 2017. the service sector growth, rising at 12.4 contributed to the expansion in imports, per cent YOY, followed by transportation mainly owing to a 17.8 per cent YOY growth in According to the Central Bank Annual Report, and whole and retail trade. Transportation textiles and textile articles imports. However, Sri Lanka achieved its fiscal targets for 2016, category recorded a YOY growth of 4.2 per expenditure on fuel imports continued to reducing the budget deficit to 5.4 per cent of cent, while growth in wholesale and retail decline, contracting by 8.1 per cent YOY due GDP from 7.6 per cent in the previous year. trade moderated to 2.5 per centYOY in 2016, to the reduction in world crude oil prices, During the year, the Government undertook from a 5.1 per cent increase recorded in the despite the increase in import volume toward several measures to improve the country’s previous year. the latter part of the year. Expenditure on fiscal status following a revenue-based fiscal Together with the moderation in overall consumer goods recorded a contraction of consolidation programme. This included economic growth, domestic consumption 8.4 per cent in 2016, caused by a 41.5 per several revisions to tax rates, a widening of demand in real terms plummeted to 0.9 per cent YOY decline in personal motor vehicles the tax net and efforts to improve revenue cent in 2016 from 8.8 per cent in the previous imports as a result of increased tariffs to collection. This saw total revenue increase year (2010 base). This is likely attributable to curtail vehicle imports. to 14.2 per cent of GDP from 13.3 per cent in 2015, with a commendable growth in the tightened monetary environment as well Net foreign inflows to the Colombo Stock non-tax revenue. Supported by reductions in as significant weather disruptions during the Exchange (CSE) remained moderate during both recurrent and capital expenditure, Total year. Total domestic demand in real terms 2016, amounting to US$ 19.0 million, slightly expenditure also declined to 19.7 per cent of also saw a slight decline to 6.2 per cent from above the US$ 4.0 million inflows seen in the GDP in 2016, below the 20.9 per cent seen in 6.3 per cent a year ago. However, real growth previous year. Outflows from the Government the prior year. in investment expenditure climbed to 18.1 securities market reduced during the year, per cent in 2016, from the 1.2 per cent rise recording a net outflow of US$ 325 million, The Year That Was recorded in 2015. compared to the US$ 1,093.4 million during The GDP growth for the full year of 2016 was The Department of Census and Statistics 2015. recorded at 4.4 per cent. Out of the three major sub sectors of GDP; Industry and (DCS) revised the base year of the CCPI to 270 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Group Real Estate Portfolio Net book value Buildings Land in acres 2017 2016 Owning company and location in (Sq. Ft) Freehold Leasehold LKR '000s LKR '000s PROPERTIES IN COLOMBO John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. No.90 ,Union Place, Colombo 2. 9,100 76 John Keells PLC. 56/1, 58, 58 1/1 Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 5. 0.08 1,249 1,249 Keells Realtors Ltd. 427 & 429, Ferguson Road, Colombo 15. 27,750 1.22 311,599 298,192 Mackinnon Keells Ltd. Leyden Bastian Road, York Street, Colombo 1. 31,656 0.45 506,083 475,258 Union Assurance PLC. No 20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 3. 57,916 0.58 1,121,751 1,128,379 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. No.199 ,Union Place, Colombo 2. 14,014 0.50 446,800 406,800 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. 97,128 3.06 2,397,687 2,281,523 237,564 5.89 4,785,169 4,591,477 PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Kaduwela. 312,042 27.35 1,264,323 1,118,853 Trincomalee. 23,840 1.14 207,042 111,404 Facets (Pvt) Ltd. Ahungalla. 6.31 400,000 367,385 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. Floor 8, Tower B &C, Building No.6, DLF SEZ Cyber City, Phase III, Gurgaon, Haryana. 48,659 39,822 50,217 John Keells PLC. 17/1, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela. 3.77 226,500 181,170 John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd No 525, Colombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela. 144,631 6.60 1,758,000 1,633,000 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Muthurajawela. 146,743 6.00 315,057 323,024 Keells Food Products PLC. 41, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela. 52,569 3.00 1.00 240,411 202,730 Gonawila, Pannala 28,700 4.08 222,651 198,820 Rajawella Holdings Ltd. Mahaberiatenna, Kandy. 3,700 517.09 1,915,363 1,925,345 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Broadlands. 56,478 4.14 54,000 63,000 Halwitigala. 48,747 9.61 61,000 52,500 Hingalgoda. 63,676 17.00 83,000 84,000 Karawita. 80,364 4.98 97,655 83,741 Kurupanawa. 51,410 11.80 59,000 57,000 Neluwa. 48,888 5.27 67,000 60,000 New Panawenna. 44,568 10.59 48,000 42,000 Pasgoda. 40,091 7.24 48,000 33,000 Peliyagoda. 31,629 0.98 176,263 153,000 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 271 Net book value Buildings Land in acres 2017 2016 Owning company and location in (Sq. Ft) Freehold Leasehold LKR '000s LKR '000s PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO (Contd.) The Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd. Avissawella 9.30 174,701 Transware-Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. Tudella, Ja-Ela. 64,670 17.77 476,256 417,292 Union Assurance PLC. No 06,Rajapihilla Road, Kurunegala. 27,904 0.20 218,834 221,767 Whittall Boustead Ltd. 150, Badulla Road, Nuwara Eliya. 4,343 0.46 96,811 97,368 1,323,652 132.25 543.43 8,249,689 7,476,616 HOTEL PROPERTIES Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Cinnamon Grand Premises, Colombo 3. 648,793 8.03 25,159,212 15,910,277 Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 3. 145,196 2,416,250 2,260,000 Ahungalla Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Ahungalla. 4.63 152,790 148,000 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Cinnamon Bey, Beruwala. 425,684 11.39 3,406,000 3,229,000 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Bentota Beach by Cinnamon, Bentota. 236,524 2.32 11.02 291,173 642,042 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives. 150,412 13.42 1,183,395 1,155,217 Habarana Lodge Ltd. Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana. 202,999 25.48 715,100 669,900 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. Habarana Village by Cinnamon, Habarana 121,767 9.34 308,100 291,755 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon, Hikkaduwa. 233,965 0.29 4.36 1,175,799 1,194,996 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. Cinnamon Citadel, Kandy. 173,900 6.39 1,438,299 1,293,567 Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Nuwara Eliya. 3.35 290,911 259,396 Resort Hotels Ltd. Medway Estate, Nilaveli. 4,485 41.73 834,500 767,740 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Cinnamon Lakeside, Colombo 2. 448,791 7.65 5,688,301 5,519,905 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives. 246,358 18.62 9,690,056 7,414,527 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon 170,877 13.75 1,529,257 1,564,499 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Trinco Blu by Cinnamon, Trincomalee. 120,910 13.24 1,015,396 980,796 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. Trincomalee. 14.64 208,967 197,605 Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. Randunukelle Estate, Wirawila. 25.15 86,883 86,886 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. Cinnamon Wild, Yala. 111,529 11.25 474,431 485,569 3,442,190 131.16 114.89 56,064,820 44,071,677 Improvements to Keells Super outlets on leased hold 2,087,993 1,122,549 properties 5,003,406 269.30 658.32 71,187,671 57,262,319 272 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Memberships Maintained by the Group Senior management personnel of the in areas such as constitutional reform, Group hold positions in an array of industry, legislation relating to taxation, Right to professional and governance bodies and Information, Sustainable Development, participate to the fullest in realising the Securities & Exchange Commission and also objectives of these bodies. The Group recommending the way forward relating views these memberships as a vital part of to macroeconomic matters. In addition, sustaining its businesses for the long term, industry specific developments in areas especially given the ability of such bodies such as transport & logistics and trade, as to recommend policy changes needed to well as in areas such as food safety towards create a better environment for businesses developing standards and regulations in line and thereby ensure that stakeholders with international standards are some of flourish which no doubt would result in the areas in which the senior management the country benefiting. During the year, the have participated in. This engagement has Group’s senior management contributed to strengthened the partnerships with such ongoing dialogue with government bodies bodies, the government as well as industry by participating in industry led committees peers. The members of Group Executive Committee hold the following positions: • Members of Committees of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce such as Main Committee, Co-Chair of the National Agenda Committee on Logistics & Transport, Chairperson of the Legislation Sub Committee, Sub Committee on Economic, Fiscal and Policy Planning • Council Member of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors • Member of the National Labour Advisory Committee • Member of the Tourism Advisory Committee • Member of the Advisory Committee for Investment Promotion • Member of the Board of SLINTEC (Sri Lanka Institute of Nano Technology) • Member of the Steering Committee for establishment of the National Science Centre in Sri Lanka • Council Member, Member of the International Management Council and International Vice President of the Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport • Member of the Advisory Council of the Sri Lanka Logistics & Freight Forwarders Association • Vice President of the Indo-Lanka Chamber of Commerce • President of the Beverage Association of Sri Lanka • Member of the Food Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Health During the year, all business units and sectors maintained their numerous memberships in the respective industry, professional and governance bodies, and contributed their valuable input to these bodies and committees as relevant. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 273 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting Scope and Approach We planned and performed our work to evidence to support issues discussed. DNV GL represented by DNV GL Business obtain the evidence we considered necessary We were free to choose interviewees Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited has to provide a basis for our assurance opinion and interviewed those with overall been commissioned by the management and the process did not involve engagement responsibility to deliver the Company’s of John Keells Holdings PLC (‘JKH’ or ‘the with external stakeholders. sustainability objectives; Company’) to carry out an independent assurance engagement (Type 2, Moderate Responsibilities of the Management of • Site visits to sample branch operations level) for the non-financial qualitative JKH and of the Assurance Providers (i) Cinnamon Wild Yala (Cinnamon Hotels and quantitative information (sustainability The Management of JKH have the sole and Resorts), (ii) Warehouse at Seeduwa performance) reported in JKH’s Annual responsibility for the preparation of the (John Keells Logistics Pvt. Limited), and Report 2016/17 (‘the Report’) in its printed Report as well as the processes for collecting, (iii) Keells Super at Thimbirigasyaya format for the financial year ending 31st analysing and reporting the information (JayKay Marketing Services) to March 2017. The sustainability disclosures presented in the Report. In performing our review processes and systems for in this Report is prepared by JKH, based on assurance work, our responsibility is to preparing site level sustainability data the ‘in accordance’ -core option of the Global the Management; however, our statement and implementation of sustainability Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability represents our independent opinion and strategy. We were free to choose sites we Reporting Guidelines GRI G4. is intended to inform the outcome of our visited; assurance to the stakeholders of the Company. We performed our work using Account DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of • Review of supporting evidence for key Ability’s AA1000 Assurance Standard any statements or data included in the Report claims and data in the Report; 2008 (AA1000 AS) and DNV GL’s assurance except for this Assurance Statement. methodology VeriSustainTM , which is based • Review of the processes for gathering and on our professional experience, international DNV GL’s assurance engagements are consolidating the specified performance assurance best practice including based on the assumption that the data and data and, for a sample, checking the International Standard on Assurance information provided by the client to us as data consolidation. The reported data Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) Revised* part of our review have been provided in good on economic performance, expenditure and GRI G4. Our assurance engagement was faith. We were not involved in the preparation towards Corporate Social Responsibility planned and carried out in February 2017 – of any statements or data included in the (CSR) and other financial data are based May 2017. Report except for this Assurance Statement. on audited financial statements issued by DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or the Company’s statutory auditors; The intended user of this assurance co-responsibility for any decision a person or statement is the Management of JKH (‘the an entity may make based on this Assurance • An independent assessment of JKH’s Management’). We disclaim any liability or Statement. reporting against the Global Reporting responsibility to a third party for decisions, Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines and the whether investment or otherwise, based on Basis of our Opinion reporting requirements for its ‘in this assurance statement. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability accordance’ – Core option. and assurance specialists performed work The reporting aspect boundary of at JKH’s Corporate Office, and as part of During the assurance process, we did not sustainability performance is based assurance we visited sample operations come across limitations to the scope of the on internal and external materiality in Sri Lanka. We undertook the following agreed assurance engagement. assessment carried out by the Company activities: and covers JKH’s operations in Sri Lanka, Opinion Maldives and India. The Report does not • Review of JKH’s approach to stakeholder On the basis of the verification undertaken, include performance data and information engagement and materiality determination nothing came to our attention to suggest related to the activities of non-operational process and the outcome as reported in that the Report does not properly describe entities, investment entities and companies this Report. We did not have any direct JKH’s adherence to the GRI G4 reporting holding only land, over which JKH does not engagement with external stakeholders; requirements including the Principles for exercise significant management control. Defining Report Content, identified material This is as set out in the Report in the section • Interviews with selected senior managers Aspects, related strategies and Disclosures ‘Scope and Boundary’. responsible for management of on Management Approach and Performance sustainability issues and review of selected Indicators as below: 274 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting • General Standard Disclosures: The Observations Reliability reported information on General Standard Without affecting our assurance opinion, we The accuracy and comparability of information Disclosure generally meets the disclosure also provide the following observations. We presented in the report, as well as the quality requirements for the ‘in accordance’ – Core have evaluated the Report’s adherence to of underlying data management systems. option of reporting. the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, The majority of data and information verified ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: at Corporate Office and at sampled operational • Specific Standard Disclosures: The sites were found to be fairly accurate. Some Report describes the generic Disclosures Materiality of the data inaccuracies identified during on Management Approach (DMA) and The process of determining the issues that the verification process were found to be Performance Indicators for identified is most relevant to an organization and its attributable to transcription, interpretation material Aspects presented within the stakeholders. and aggregation errors and the errors Report as below: JKH has emphasized 26 material aspects on have been corrected. JKH has established which an internal and external materiality a systematic process for capturing data Economic determination exercise was carried out to related to sustainability performance. Hence − Economic Performance G4-EC1, G4-EC3; prioritise Aspects applicable for the Company in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) − Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7; as a whole. The materiality of Aspects is requirements for a Type 2, moderate level − Procurement Practices – G4-EC9 fairly explained in the Report along with the assurance engagement, we conclude that management and monitoring systems, and sustainability data and information presented Environmental is fairly integrated into JKH’s management in the Report is reliable and acceptable. In our − Energy G4-EN3, G4-EN6; system, decision making process and opinion, the level at which the Report adheres − Water – G4-EN8; strategy. In our opinion, the level at which the to this principle is ‘Good’. − Biodiversity – G4-EN11; Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. − Emissions – G4-EN15, G4-EN16; Specific Evaluation of the Information on − Effluents and Waste G4-EN22, G4-EN23, Inclusivity Sustainability Performance G4-EN24; The participation of stakeholders in developing We consider the methodology and process − Compliance G4-EN29; and achieving an accountable and strategic for gathering information developed by JKH − Supplier Environmental Assessment G4response to Sustainability. for its sustainability performance reporting EN32; JKH has established a documented process to be appropriate, and the qualitative and to identify and adequately monitor feedback quantitative data included in the Report Social on material issues from diverse stakeholder was found to be identifiable and traceable; Labour Practices and Decent Work groups across its industry sectors. The the personnel responsible were able to − Employment G4-LA1; Company is in the process of integrating demonstrate the origin and interpretation of − Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6; sustainability within its value chain and has the data and its reliability. We observed that − Training and Education G4-LA9, G4-LA11; put in place processes to identify key risks the Report presents a faithful description of − Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12; associated with its value chain. In our opinion, the reported sustainability activities for the − Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices the level at which the Report adheres to this reporting period. G4-LA14; principle is ‘Good’. Additional principles as per DNV GL Human Rights Responsiveness VeriSustain − Freedom of Association and Collections The extent to which an organization responds Completeness Bargaining – G4-HR4; to stakeholder issues. How much of all the information that has been − Child Labour G4-HR5; JKH has an effective system in place to identified as material to the organisation and − Forced or Compulsory Labour G4-HR6; adequately monitor and respond to feedback its stakeholders is reported. from stakeholders on material issues and The Report has fairly attempted to disclose Society concerns, through its policies, strategies, General and Specific Standard Disclosures − Local Communities G4-SO1; management systems and governance including the disclosure on management − Anti-Corruption G4-SO3; mechanisms, and this is reflected within the approach covering the strategy, management − Compliance G4-SO8; Report. The Company has set and deployed approach, monitoring systems and targets, objectives and action plans for its sustainability performances indicators Product Responsibility key material issues especially environmental against GRI G4’s – ‘in accordance’ – Core − Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3; aspects such as energy, water, compliance option, and considers Aspects which are − Marketing Communication G4-PR7; etc. In our opinion, the level at which the material across JKH’s boundary and its − Compliance G4-PR9. Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 275 supply chain. In our opinion, the level at which achieving its short, medium and long term • JKH may disclose the outcomes of supply the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. targets. In our opinion, the level at which the chain risk assessment across geolocations Report adheres to the principle of Neutrality and its businesses to further strengthen Neutrality is ‘Acceptable’. the disclosures related to supply chain, The extent to which a report provides a specially with regard to human rights and balanced account of an organization’s Opportunities for Improvement labour practices. performance, delivered in a neutral tone. The following is an excerpt from the The disclosures related to sustainability observations and further opportunities for • In line with the requirements of GRI G4, issues and performances are presented improvement reported to the management of JKH may further define all assumptions, in a neutral tone, in terms of content and JKH and are not considered for drawing our calculations and sources of data at each presentation; however, the Report may further conclusion on the Report; however, they are business level. bring out reasons for underperformance and generally consistent with the Management’s challenges during the period with respect to objectives: For DNV GL, Rathika de Silva Kiran Radhakrishnan Prasun Kundu Country Head and Lead Verifier Assessor Sustainability Services Assurance Reviewer DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Private) DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, Global Service Responsible Social Limited, Colombo, Sri Lanka India. Accountability DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. 25 May 2017 , Colombo, Sri Lanka DNV GL Business Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com 276 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 G4 17 Group Directory 2016/17 John Keells Holdings PLC has business interests across six industry groups, namely, Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, Transportation, Leisure, Property, Consumer Foods & Retail, Financial Services, Information A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, R M David, Technology and Other including Plantation Services. The Group consists of subsidiaries C K Cheng, A Hassan (Appointed w.e.f and associates companies with significant business operations in Sri Lanka, India and the 22/09/2016), J M Bevis (Appointed w.e.f Maldives. The holding company is located at No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, 22/09/2016), K N J Balendra, P Sondergaard, Colombo 2. The Group has considered all its subsidiary and associate companies in capturing P M English (Resigned w.e.f 22/09/2016), its financial performance. For the purpose of reporting on its sustainability performance, the S S Jakobsen, R M W B C Rajapaksa Group has considered the companies which are the legal entities and for which the Group is A Z Hashim, D C Smith (Resigned w.e.f accountable and has direct control. The companies not included for reporting on Sustainability 22/09/2016) Performance are companies in which the Group does not exercise significant management W L P Perera, D Ranatunga,R S A Soomar control, and companies which are non-operational, are investment entities, land only holding Stated capital: LKR3,788,485,900 companies, investment holding companies, managing companies and rental of office spaces, which do not carry out any operations. Such companies have been clearly identified below. Ports and Shipping While all core business activities are carried out in-house, the use of outsourced products and DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 1307) (50%)** services by Group companies are limited to activities where in it as industry practice to do International express courier services so, it has been proven to be an efficient and effective business model or a non-core business Incorporated in 1986 activity. No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Tel:2304304 / 4798600 The customer base serviced by the John Keells Group of companies can be classified primarily Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, into three sections as illustrated below. R M David alt. A Z Hashim, Y B A Khan, S P Wall Individuals Businesses & Corporates Government Stated capital: LKR20,000,020 Consumer Foods & Retail, IT, Transportation, Leisure, IT Property, Leisure, Financial Other (Plantation Services), John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 318) Services Financial Services (100%) Integrated supply chain management * The company is a non-operational company/ investment company/ holding company or Incorporated in 2006 owner of real estate No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner ** The company has not been considered for sustainability reporting as the Group does not Mawatha, Colombo 2. exercise management control over the entity Tel:2475574 Directors: S C Ratnayake-Chairman, A D Gunewardene, R M David, A Z Hashim Stated capital: LKR200,000,000 Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 2550 ) (30%)** TRANSPORTATION N D O Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 831) (60%)** Shipping agency representation & freight Ports and Shipping forwarding services International freight forwarding and clearing & Incorporated in 1992 forwarding Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 1272) (100%) Level 16, Park Land ,33,Park Street, Incorporated in 1980 Shipping agency representation & logistics Colombo 2. No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1 services Tel:0114794800 Tel: 7671671 Incorporated in 1996 Directors: W T Ellawala, Dinesh Lal Directors: R M David, H C K Hewamallika No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1 (Resigned w.e.f (30/03/2014), R M David, (Resigned w.e.f. 01/02/2017), A Z Hashim, Tel:2475509 Marc Eugene C Gijsbrechts (Resigned w.e.f C Besset Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, (08/09/2016) Stated capital: LKR130,000,000 R M David, A Z Hashim Franck Dedenis, Arjun Arun Maharaj Stated capital: LKR500,000 (Resigned w.e.f (25/03/2016), Sandun Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 84728) (40%)** Bandara (Appointed w.e.f (08/09/2016) Domestic air line operations Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co (Shipping) Ltd. Zeeshan Mukhi (Appointed w.e.f Incorporated in 2012 (PB 359) (100%) (25/03/2016) No.11,York Street, Colombo 1. Shipping agency representation & logistics Stated capital: LKR10,000,000 Tel:2475502 services Directors: A D Gunewardene, R M David, Incorporated in 1973 South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. B A B Goonetilleke, K Balasundaram, F Omar, No. 4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 (PV 326) (42.19%)** R T Abeyasinghe, A Z Hashim Tel:2475423 Ports & shipping services Stated capital: LKR622,179,000 Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, Incorporated in 1998 R M David, A Z Hashim Port of Colombo, P.O. Box 141, Colombo 1. Stated capital: LKR5,000,000 Tel:24575509 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 277 G4 17 Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 475) Mack Air Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. (C/I City Hotels (99.44%) 35-2000) (49%)* Importer & supplier of heavy marine fuel oils General sales agents for airlines in the Maldives Asian Hotels and Properties PLC Incorporated in 1993 Incorporated in 2000 -Cinnamon Grand. (PQ 2) (78.56%) No. 4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 4th Floor, STO Aifaanu Building, Owner & operator of the five star city hotel Tel:2475410-421 Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Male 20-05 Cinnamon Grand Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, Republic of Maldives Incorporated in 1993 A D Gunewardene, R M David, A Z Hashim Tel:+9603334708 09 77, Galle Road, Colombo 3. Stated capital: LKR350,000,000 Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, Tel:2437437 /2497442 R M David, S Hameed, A Shihab, A Z Hashim, Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co of Ceylon Ltd. Stated capital: USD8,532 (LKR677,892) A D Gunewardene Managing Director, (PB 348) (100%)* J R F Peiris, R J Karunarajah, Foreign recruitment agents & consultants LEISURE S Rajendra, S K G Senanayake, Incorporated in 1975 Hotel Management S A Jayasekara, K N J Balendra (Appointed No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1 w.e.f 01/04/2016), C J L Pinto Tel:2475509 Cinnamon Hotel Management Services Ltd. Stated capital: LKR3,345,118,012 Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, R M David (PB 7) (100%) Operator & marketer of resort hotels Trans Asia Hotels PLC. (PQ 5) (82.74%) Stated capital: LKR90,000 Owner & operator of the five star city hotel Incorporated in 1974 No.117 Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Cinnamon Lakeside . Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 3134) (50%)* Incorporated in 1981 Renting of storage space Colombo 2 Tel:2306600, 2421101-8 No. 115, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Incorporated in 1994 Mawatha, Colombo 2. No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala, Tel:2491000 Mawatha, Colombo 2. Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Tel:2475537-9 B J S M Senanayake, R J Karunarajah, K N J Balendra (Appointed A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, N L Gooneratne, C J L Pinto, J C Ponniah A Z Hashim K M D Gay (Appointed w.e.f w.e.f 02/05/2016 & Resigned w.e.f 28/12/2016) E H Wijenaike, R J Karunaraj, K N J Balendra 27/04/2016), M R B Shafie (Appointed w.e.f (Appointed w.e.f 01/04/2016) 23/03/2017), R M David, A A Miskon Stated capital: LKR19,520,000 Stated capital: LKR1,112,879,750 (Alt.N A Latif) (Resigned w.e.f 30/09/2016), Y K Boo, T H Pang (Resigned w.e.f John Keells Hotels PLC. (PQ 8) (80.32%)* Holding company of group resort hotel Capitol Hotel Holdings Ltd. (PB 5013) 27/04/2016) (19.47%)** Stated capital: LKR220,000,080 companies in Sri Lanka & Maldives Incorporated in 1979 Developer of city business hotels No.117,Chittampalam A Gardiner Incorporated in 2012 Air Lines Mawatha,Colombo 2 No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Tel:2306600 Colombo 2. Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 868) (100%) Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Tel:2306000 General sales agents for airlines in Sri Lanka A D. Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, Directors: A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Incorporated in 1980 J E P Kehelpannala, R T Wijesinha (Resigned (Resigned w.e.f 01/06/2016), No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1. w.e.f 30/06/2016), B J S M Senanyake M S Weerasekera Chairman Tel:2475375/2475335 N B Weerasekera,T L F W Jayasekara, W R K Wannigama, D A Kannangara, Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, K N J Balendra (Appointed w.e.f 01/04/2016), M D R Gunatilleke, L C H Leow, R M David, C N Lawrence (Resigned w.e.f., A.K. Moonasinghe (Appointed w.e.f A J Pathmarajah, K N J Balendra (Appointed 01/02/2017), A Z Hashim 01/07/2016) w.e.f 01/06/2016) Stated capital: LKR12,500,000 Stated capital: LKR9,500,246,939 Stated capital: LKR1,168,800,100 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 1261) Resort Hotels Sri Lanka Sentinel Realty (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 80706) (41.91%)** (100%) Investment company for hotel development land IATA accredited travel agent and travel related Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. (PV Incorporated in 2011 services 69678) (79.78%) No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Incorporated in 1971 Owner & operator of Cinnamon Bey Beruwala” Mawatha,Colombo 2. No. 186, Vaxhuall Street, Colombo 2. Incorporated in 2009 Tel:2306000 Tel:2318600 Moragolla Beruwala. Directors : A D Gunewardene (Resigned w.e.f Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Tel:2306600, 034-2297000 12/08/2016), S Rajendra, K N J Balendra A D Gunawardene, R S Fernando (Resigned Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, (Appointed w.e.f 12/08/2016) w.e.f 09/09/2016), R M David (Appointed A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake B A B Goonettileke, K Balasundaram w.e.f 02/05/2016), Stated Capital: LKR2,338,150,000 Stated capital: LKR127,013,480 A Z Hashim (Appointed w.e.f 02/05/2016) Stated capital: LKR5,000,000 278 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 G4 17 Group Directory 2016/17 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd*Bentota International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd. Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Beach Hotel. (PB 40) (79.24%) (PB 17) (79.78%)* A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake Owner & operator of Bentota Beach by Owner of real estate Stated capital: LKR119,850,070 Cinnamon Incorporated in 1973 Incorporated in 1966 No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. (PB 89) (80.32%)* Galle Road, Bentota. Mawatha,Colombo 2 Owner of real estate Tel:034-2275176 / 034-2275266 Tel:2306600, 2421101-8 Incorporated in 1994 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, No.117,Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake Colombo 2. Stated capital: LKR744,517,303 Stated capital: LKR1,939,760,925 Tel:2306780, 2421101-8 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd* Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. (PB 395) (79.03%) A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake (PV98357) (80.32%) Owner & operator of Cinnamon Citadel Kandy” Stated capital: LKR18,674,150 Owner of real estate Incorporated in 1979 Incorporated in 2014 No.124, Srimath Kuda Ratwatte Mawatha, Ahungalle Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. (PV No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Kandy. 85046) (80.32%)* Mawatha,Colombo 2 Tel:081 2234365-6/ 081 2237273-4 Owner of real estate Tel:2306000 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Incorporated in 2012 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake Stated capital: LKR115,182,009 Mawatha,Colombo 2 Stated Capital: LKR316,062,520 Tel:2306000 Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. (PB 92) Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Limited. (80.32%)* A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake (PV 71747) (79.24%) Owner of real estate Stated capital: LKR132,400,000 Owner & operator of Hikka Tranz by Incorporated in 1992 Cinnamon No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 2868) (75.33%) Incorporated in 2010 Colombo 2 Owner & operator of Cinnamon Wild Yala” P.O Box 1, Galle Road, Hikkaduwa Tel: 2306000 Incorporated in 1999 Tel:091 2298000 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, P.O Box 1,Kirinda, Tissamaharama. Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, J R Gunaratne Tel:047-2239449-52 A D Gunewardene, Stated capital: LKR34,861,762 Directors: M A Perera Chairman, B J S M Senanayake S C Ratnayake Deputy Chairman, Stated capital: LKR1,062,635,460 Resort Hotels Ltd. (PB 193) (79.24%)* A D Gunewardene, J A Davis, Owner of real estate B J S M Senanayake, K N J Balendra Habarana Lodge Ltd. (PB 38) (78.99%) Incorporated in 1978 (Appointed w.e.f 02/05/2016) Owner & operator of Cinnamon Lodge No.117,Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Stated capital: LKR419,427,600 Habarana” Colombo 2 Incorporated in 1978 Tel:2306780, 2421101-8 Resort Hotels Maldives P.O Box 2, Habarana. Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Tel:066-2270011-2/ 066-2270072 A D Gunewardene Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. (C Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Stated capital: LKR7,439,150 143/97) (80.32%) A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake Owner & operator of “Cinnamon Hakura Huraa Stated capital: LKR341,555,262 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pte) Ltd.(PV 69908) Maldives” (80.32%) Incorporated in 1997 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. (PB 33) (79.34%) Owner & operator of Trinco Blu by Cinnamon 2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, Owner & operator of Habarana Village by Incorporated in 2009 Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. Cinnamon Habarana” Alles Garden, Uppuvelli, Sampathiv Post, Tel:00960-6720014 / 00960-6720064 / Incorporated in 1973 Trincomalee. 00960 6720065 P.O Box 1, Habarana. Tel: 026 2222307 / 026 2221611 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Tel:066-2270046-7/ 066-2270077 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake, Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake S A S Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31/10/2016), A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake Stated Capital: LKR357,000,000 J E P Kehelpannala, K N J Balendra Stated capital: LKR126,350,000 (Appointed w.e.f. 15/07/2016 & Resigned Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. (PB 168) (80.32%)* w.e.f. 28/12/2016) Owner of real estate Stated capital: LKR341,573,190 Incorporated in 1984 (USD5,000,000) Alles Garden, Uppuveli, Sampathiv Post, Trincomalee. Tel: 026-2222307 / 011-2306600 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 279 G4 17 John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. (C Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. Rajawella Holdings Limited (49.85%) 208/96) (80.32%) (U63040MH2006PTC164985) (98.74%) (PB 27) Hotel holding company in the Maldives Tour operators Operates an 18 hole, Donald Streel designed Incorporated in 1996 Incorporated in 2006 Golf course in Digana 2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, 110, Bldg 2, Rolex Shopping Centre Premises Incorporated in 1991 Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. CHS Ltd, STN Road, NR Prashant Hotel, P.O. Box 7 Rajawella, Kandy. Tel:00960-3329083 / 00960-3304601 / Goregoan (W), Mumbai, Mumbai City, Tel: 2306000 00960-3313738 Maharashtra, 400062. Directors: S C Rathnayake Chairman Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Tel:091-22 42105210 99 A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris (Resigned A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake, Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman, w.e.f 21/11/2016), S Rajendra,C B Thornton S A S Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31/10/2016) V Leelananda, C.Somasunderam, (Alt. C J Holloway)(Appointed w.e.f. J E P Kehelpannala, K N J Balendra K N J Balendra (Appointed w.e.f. 01/07/2016) 24/10/2016), G R Bostock Kirk (Alt. E C (Appointed w.e.f. 15/07/2016) Stated capital: LKR6,492,000 (INR2,000,000) Oxlade)(Appointed w.e.f. 24/10/2016), Stated capital: LKR3,978,671,681 S E Captain (Alt. R S Captain)(Appointed w.e.f (USD38,904,010) Walkers Tours Ltd. (PB 249) (98.51%) 09/09/2015), K N J Balendra (Appointed w.e.f Inbound tour operators 21/11/2016) Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. (C 344/2004) (80.32%) Incorporated in 1969 Stated Capital: 784,690,140 Owner and operator of Cinnamon Dhonveli No.117,Chittampalam A Gardiner Maldives” Mawatha,Colombo 2 John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Incorporated in 2004 Tel:2306306 Limited. (PV 75050) (100%) 2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Developer of On320 project Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives. A D Gunewardene,V Leelananda, Incorporated in 2010 Tel: 00960-6640055 / 00960-6640012 K N J Balendra (Appointed w.e.f 02/05/2016) No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Stated capital: LKR51,374,200 Mawatha,Colombo 2 A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake, Tel:2300065 S A S Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31/10/2016), Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd. (PB 112) (100%) Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, J E P Kehelpannala, K N J Balendra Inbound tour operators A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra, J R F Peiris (Appointed w.e.f. 15/07/2016 & Resigned Incorporated in 1977 Stated capital: LKR925,200,000 w.e.f. 28/12/2016) No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Stated capital: LKR552,519,608 Mawatha,Colombo 2 John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd. (USD5,000,000) Tel:2306384 (PV 76068) (100%) Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Developer & manager of mall operations Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. (C 121/92) (80.32%) A D Gunewardene, V Leelananda Incorporated in 2010 Operator of “Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon” Stated capital: LKR250,410,000 No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Incorporated in 1992 Mawatha,Colombo 2 2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, Tel:2306000 PROPERTY Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives Tel:00960-6660839 / 00960-6660663 / Property Development A D Gunawardene, S Rajendra 00960-6660664 Stated capital: LKR954,360,000 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Asian Hotels and Properties PLC Crescat. A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake, Boulevard, The Monarch, The Emperor. Real estate S A S Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31/10/2016) (PQ 2) (78.56%) J E P Kehelpannala, K N J Balendra Developer and manager of integrated properties John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 1034) (Appointed w.e.f. 15/07/2016 & Resigned Incorporated in 1993 (100%)* w.e.f. 28/12/2016) No.77, Galle Road, Colombo 3. Renting of office space Stated capital: LKR143,172,000 (USD2,460,000) Tel:5540404 Incorporated in 2006 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, No.117,Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, A D Gunewardene Managing Director, Destination Management Colombo 2. J R F Peiris, R J Karunarajah, S Rajendra Tel:2306000 /2397263 S K G Senanayake, S A Jayasekara, Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 107427) Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, C J L Pinto, K N J Balendra (Appointed w.e.f (80.32%) A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra 1/4/2016) Provides inbound and outbound services Stated capital: LKR240,000,030 Stated capital: LKR3,345,118,012 Incorporated in 2015 No.117,Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Keells Realtors Ltd. (PB 90) (95.81%)* British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 80203) (61%) Owner of real estate Colombo 2 Developer of 7th Sense project Incorporated in 1977 Tel:2306000 Incorporated in 2011 No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2. A D Gunewardene Colombo 2 Tel:2306000 /2397263 Stated capital: LKR200,000 Tel:2306000 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Directors : A D Gunewardene, A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra K N J Balendra (Resigned w.e.f 28/12/2016), Stated capital: LKR75,000,000 D C Alagaratnam, S Rajendra, S P G N Rajapakse, J G A Cooray (Appointed w.e.f. 28/12/2016) Stated capital: LKR1,000 280 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 G4 17 Group Directory 2016/17 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd Real Estate Keells Food Products PLC. (PQ 3) (88.53%) FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP Division. (PV 31) (100%)* Manufacturer and distributor of processed Renting of office space meat, breaded meat and convenience food John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 89) Incorporated in1958 products. (90.04%) No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Incorporated in 1982 Share broking services Tel:2397263 /2327805 P.O Box 10, No.16, Minuwangoda Road, Incorporated in 1979 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Ekala, Ja-Ela. No. 186,Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2 A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Tel:2236317 / 2236364 Tel:+94(0) 11 230 6250, +94(0) 11 234 2066-7 Stated capital: LKR99,188,800 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman, A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, S C Ratnayake, K N J Balendra Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 82153) J R Gunaratne, R Pieris (Resigned w.e.f Stated capital: LKR57,750,000 (94.37%) 09/06/2016), S H Amarasekera (Resigned Developer of hotels, apartments & shopping w.e.f 09/06/2016), A D E I Perera (Resigned Nations Trust Bank PLC. (PQ 118) (29.9%)** malls w.e.f 09/06/2016), M P Jayawardena Commercial banking and leasing operations Incorporated in 2011 (Resigned w.e.f 09/06/2016),S. De Silva Incorporated in 1999 No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, (Appointed w.e.f 10/06/2016), No. 242, Union Place, Colombo 2. Colombo 2 A E H Sanderatne (Appointed w.e.f Tel:4313131 Tel:2306000 10/06/2016), I. Samarajiva (Appointed w.e.f Directors: K N J Balendra Chairman, Directors : S C Ratnayake Chairman, 10/06/2016), P D Samarasinghe (Appointed M Jafferjee, Dr.K De Soysa A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra, J R F Peiris, w.e.f 10/06/2016) D P De Silva, N S Panditharatne, D C Alagaratnam Stated capital: LKR1,294,815,000 K O V S M S Wijesinghe, Stated capital: LKR22,910,824,230 R N K Fernando, J G A Cooray, (USD169,382,764) John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd. C L K P Jayasuriya, H Raghavan, C D'Souza, (U15122MH2008FTC180902) (88.53%)* R D Rajapaksa (Appointed w.e.f 29/04/2016), CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL Marketing of branded meat and convenience N I R De Mel (Appointed w.e.f. 06/06/2016) food products Stated capital: LKR5,101,368,736 Consumer Foods Incorporated in 2008 Luthra and Luthra Chartered Accountants Union Assurance PLC. (PQ 12) (93.92%) Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. (PQ 4) (81.36%) A 16 / 9, Vasant Vihar, Life insurance underwriters Manufacture & marketing of beverages and New Delhi -110057, India. Incorporated in 1987 frozen confectionery and the holding company Tel:0091-1142591823, 0091-1126148048, No.20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 3. of JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 26151853, 26147365 Tel:2990990 Incorporated in 1926 Fax: +91-11-2614 5222 Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman, No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, D C Alagaratnam, S Rajendra, A S De Zoysa, Colombo 2 J R Gunaratne, R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f. G F C De Saram, H A J De Silva Wijeyeratne Tel:2318798 09/09/2016) A D Pereira Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Stated capital:LKR220,294,544 Stated capital: LKR1,000,000,000 A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, (INR 90,000,000) J R Gunaratne, P S Jayawardena (Resigned Fairfirst Insurance Limited (PV 99666) w.e.f 16/06/2016), A R Rasiah, M Hamza, Retail (20.66%)** R S W Wijeratnam (Appointed w.e.f General insurance underwriters 17/06/2016), S T Ratwatte (Appointed w.e.f JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. Incorporated in 2014 17/06/2016) (PV 33) (81.36%) No.33, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 3. Stated capital: LKR918,200,000 Owns and operates the Keells Super chain of Tel:2428428 supermarkets and Nexus Mobile loyalty card Directors: R AthappanChairman Colombo Ice Company (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 113758) programme. A D Pereira, C Ratnaswami, A S Wijesinha (81.36%)* Incorporated in 1980 C D Wijegunawardene, S Malhotra, S Jha Manufacturing and marketing of frozen No.117,Chittampalam A Gardiner (Appointed w.e.f. 9/12/2016) confectionery Mawatha,Colombo 2 Stated Capital: LKR3,131,949,000 Incorporated in 2016 No.117, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Tel:2316800 Mawatha, Colombo 2. Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Tel:2306000 A D Gunewardene, K N J Balendra Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, J G A Cooray, K C Subasinghe A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, Stated capital: LKR1,198,000,000 J R Gunaratne Stated capital: LKR270,000,000 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 281 G4 17 John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells BPO Solutions India Private INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (C 60882) (100%)* Limited. (U72300DL2006PTC153130) (100%) IT Services Holding company of BPO companies BPO operations in India (Formally known as Incorporated in 2006 Quatrro Business Support Services (Pvt) Ltd) John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius Incorporated in 2006 (PV 652) (100%) Tel:(230) 467 3000 Basement-24, C Block, Community Centre, Software services Janakpuri, New Delhi. Directors: S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene, Incorporated in 1998 Tel:+91 124 4561000 R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f. 09.09.2016), No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Directors: J R F Peiris, R S Fernando K N J Balendra (Resigned w.e.f. 28.12.2016), Tel:2300770-77 (Resigned w.e.f 09.09.2016), K N J Balendra, P Bissoonauth, Z H Niamut Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman, C. Somasundaram Stated capital: LKR1,988,300,000 (USD S C Ratnayake, R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f Stated capital: LKR138,050,960 19,000,000) 09/09/2016), J R F Peiris (Appointed w.e.f (INR350,248,060) 09/09/2016) John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. Stated capital: LKR96,500,000 (C 070137) (100%)* OTHERS Investment holding company J K O A Mobiles (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 136) (100%) Plantation Services Incorporated in 2007 Marketer of software packages IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius Incorporated in 1992 John Keells PLC. (PQ 11) (86.90 %) Tel:(230) 467 3000 No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Produce broking and real estate ownership Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Tel:2300770-77 Incorporated in 1960 A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando (Resigned Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman, No 186, Vauxhall street, Colombo 2. w.e.f. 09.09.2016), K N J Balendra (Resigned R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f 09/09/2016), Tel:2306000 w.e.f. 28.12.2016), P Bissoonauth, Z H Niamut D C Alagaratnam, J R F Peiris (Appointed Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Stated capital: LKR1,616,700,008 w.e.f 09/09/2016) A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, (USD 15,000,000) Stated capital: LKR8,000,000 R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f 09/09/2016), T de Zoysa (Resigned w.e.f 28/06/2016), John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd Office Automation Y A Hansen (Resigned w.e.f 28/06/2016), (PV 3458) (100%)* S T Ratwatte (Resigned w.e.f 28/06/2016), BPO operations in Sri Lanka John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. (PV V A A Perera, A K Gunawardhana (Appointed Incorporated in 2006 127) (100%) w.e.f 29/06/2016), C N Wijewardene No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1. Distributor/Reseller and services provider in (Appointed w.e.f 29/06/2016), Tel: (94) 2300770-77 office automation(OA), retail automation (RA) B A I Rajakarier (Appointed w.e.f 29/06/2016) Directors: S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene, and mobile devices Stated capital: LKR152,000,000 R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f 09/09/2016), Incorporated in 1992 Stated capital: LKR335,797,260 Corporate Office: No. 90 Union Place, John Keells (Teas) Ltd. (PV 522) (100%) Colombo 2. Manager of eight bought leaf tea factories John Keells BPO Solutions US Inc. (PO Technical Services: No. 148 Vauxhall Street, Incorporated in 1979 8000022353) (100%)* Colombo 2. No.117,Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Provides sales & marketing support for BPO Colombo 2. Tel: 2313000, 2431576, 2445760 operations in North America Directors:A D Gunewardene Chairman, Tel:2306518 Incorporated in 2008 Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f 09/09/2016), 9225, Ulmerton Road, Suite H, Largo, Florida J R F Peiris (Appointed w.e.f 09/09/2016) A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando (Resigned 33771, USA. w.e.f 09/09/2016), J R F Peiris (Appointed D C Alagaratnam Tel: +1 727 518 0000 Stated capital: LKR5,000,000 w.e.f 09/09/2016) Director: M P Gunaratna , R S Fernando Stated capital: LKR120,000 (Resigned w.e.f. 09.09.2016), J R F Peiris IT Enabled Services (Appointed w.e.f. 08.10.2016) John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. (PV Stated capital: LKR5,277,799 638) (86.90%) InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 921) (100%) (USD40,000) Warehousing of tea and rubber IT enabled services Incorporated in 2001 Incorporated in 2005 John Keells BPO solutions Canada Inc. No.93,1st Avenue, Muturajawela, Hendala, No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1. (761124-2) (100%)* Wattala, Muturajawala Tel: (94) 112149700 BPO operation in Canada Tel:4819560 Directors: S C Ratnayake, M J S Rajakariar, Incorporated in 2010 Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f 09/09/2016), 1900, 736-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando (Resigned J R F Peiris (Appointed w.e.f 09/09/2016) T2P 3T7, Canada. w.e.f 09/09/2016), J R F Peiris (Appointed Stated capital: LKR20,000,000 Directors: A D Gunewardene, K N J Balendra w.e.f 09/09/2016) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.12.2016), R S Fernando Stated capital: LKR120,000,000 (Resigned w.e.f. 09.09.2016) R M David, J R Gunaratne, D C Alagaratnam, T E Scott, A S Perera Stated capital: LKR88,484,008 (USD 1,177,800) 282 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 G4 17 Group Directory 2016/17 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. (PQ 32) John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 46) Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. (PB 3) (100%) (37.62%) (100%)* Company secretarial services to the group Owner and operator of bought leaf factories Regional holding company providing Incorporated in 1974 Incorporated in 1991 administrative & function based services No.117,Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1. Incorporated in 2006 Colombo 2 Tel:2 335 880 / 2149994 No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Tel:2421101-9 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Colombo 2 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, (Alt.Mr J R Gunaratne) A D Gunewardene, Tel:2306000 /2421101-9 A D Gunewardene, D C Alagaratnam J R F Peiris, E H Wijenaike, R Seevaratnam, Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman N W Tambiah R E Rambukwella, A S Jayatilleke, A D Gunewardene Stated capital: LKR160,000 J S Ratwatte, R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f Stated capital: LKR1,991,600,000 09/09/2016), M de Silva (Appointed w.e.f. Mackinnons Keells Ltd. (PB 8) (100%)* 6/2/2017 J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 1265) (100%)* Rental of office space Stated capital: LKR150,000,000 Printing and packaging services provider Incorporated in 1952 for the export market No. 4, Layden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 Incorporated in 1979 Tel:2475102-3 Centre & Others No 148, Vauxhall street, Colombo 2 Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, Facets (Pvt) Ltd. (PV1048) (100%)* Tel:2475308 A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Owner of real estate Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman Stated capital: LKR10,800,000 Incorporated in 1974 R M David, R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f 09/09/2016), J R F Peiris (Appointed w.e.f Mortlake Ltd. (PV 756) (100%)* No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, 09/09/2016) Investment company Colombo 2 Stated capital: LKR14,500,000 Incorporated in 1962 Tel:2306000 No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. Tel:2475308 D C Alagaratnam (199200499C) (80%)* Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman Stated capital: LKR150,000 International trading services A D Gunewardene, R M David John Keells Holdings PLC. (PQ 14) Incorporated in 1992 D C Alagaratnam Group holding company & function based No.16, Collyer Quay, Level 21, Stated capital: LKR3,000 services Office Suite 21-38 Incorporated in 1979 Singapore-049318 No.117,Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Tel:65 63296409 Mawatha, Colombo 2 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Tel:2306000 /2421101-9 Alt. A D Gunewardene, R M David, Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman R Ponnampalam, D C Alagaratnam A D Gunewardene Deputy Chairman, Stated capital: LKR9,638,000 J R F Peiris, E F G Amerasinghe (Resigned w.e.f 24/06/2016), T Das (Resigned w.e.f 24/06/2016), Dr I Coomaraswamy (Resigned w.e.f 03/07/2016), M A Omar, D A Cabraal, A N Fonseka, P Perera, K N J Balendra (Appointed w.e.f 05/11/2016), J G A Cooray (Appointed w.e.f 05/11/2016), S S H Wijesuriya (Appointed w.e.f 04/10/2016) Stated capital: LKR62,790,080,573 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 283 GRI G4 Content Index This Report is prepared ‘in accordance’ -core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Page Number (or Link) External Assurance UNGC IFC Code of Best Disclosures Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in Indicate if the Standard Principles Sustainability Practice on accordance’ options may already be included in other reports prepared Disclosure has been Framework Corporate by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect externally assured. Performance Governance to add a specific reference to where the relevant information can be If yes, include the page Standard 2013 found. reference for the External Assurance Statement in the report. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Page 12-18 Yes, 273 275 1 7 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Page 3 Yes, 273 275 22 G4-4 Page 8 Yes, 273 275 22 G4-5 Page 3 Yes, 273 275 22 G4-6 Page 3 Yes, 273 275 22 G4-7 Page 3 Yes, 273 275 22 G4-8 Pages 3, 8 Yes, 273 275 22 G4-9 Pages 3, 10-11, 70 Yes, 273 275 22 G4-10 Page 74 Yes, 273 275 11, 12 3 G4-11 Page 76 Yes, 273 275 11, 12 3 G4-12 Pages 77, 122, 132, 142, 151, 158, 164, 171 Yes, 273 275 21 Pages 8-9 of www.keells.com/sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach G4-13 Page 9 Yes, 273 275 22 G4-14 Page 102 Yes, 273 275 13 2 G4-15 Page 93 Yes, 273 275 4 7 G4-16 Pages 272 Yes, 273 275 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Pages 4, 276-282 Yes, 273 275 G4-18 Pages 4-5, 93 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 6, 7 G4-19 Page 98 Yes, 273 275 3 6 G4-20 Page 96-97 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 6 G4-21 Page 96-97 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 6 G4-22 Page 93 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 G4-23 Pages 4, 94, 98 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Pages 94-95 Yes, 273 275 3 6 G4-25 Page 94 Yes, 273 275 3 6 G4-26 Pages 94-95 Yes, 273 275 3 6 G4-27 Page 96 Yes, 273 275 6 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Page 4 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 G4-29 Page 93 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 G4-30 Page 93 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 7 G4-31 Page 98 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 G4-32 Pages 4, 16, 93, 273-275 Yes, 273 275 22, 23 7 G4-33 Pages 93, 16, 273-275 Yes, 273 275 24 7 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Page 27 Yes, 273 275 2 7 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Page 42 Yes, 273 275 2 284 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 GRI G4 Content Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Information related to Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Indicate if the Standard Standard Disclosures In exceptional In exceptional In exceptional Disclosure has been required by the ‘in cases, if it is cases, if it is cases, if it is externally assured. accordance’ options not possible not possible not possible may already be to disclose to disclose to disclose If yes, include the page included in other certain certain certain reference for the External reports prepared by required required required Assurance Statement in the organisation. In information, information, information, the report. these circumstances, identify the provide the explain the the organisation information reason for reasons may elect to add a that has been omission. why the specific reference to omitted. information where the relevant has been information can be omitted. found. CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 1 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 2, 6 G4-EC1 Pages 262-263 Yes, 273 275 1 G4-EC3 Page 76 Yes, 273 275 1 MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 4 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 9-10 G4-EC7 Page 77 Yes, 273 275 4 MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA 100, www.keells. Yes, 273 275 1 com/sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 8-9 G4-EC9 Page 77 Yes, 273 275 1 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 13, 14 3 2 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 3 G4-EN3 Page 70-71 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 3 2 G4-EN6 Page 71 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 3 2 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 285 MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 13, 14 4 2 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 3-4 G4-EN8 Page 71-72 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 4 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 13, 14 6 2 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 4 G4-EN11 Page 130 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 6 2 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 13, 14 3 2 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 3 G4-EN15 Page 70-71 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 3 2 G4-EN16 Page 70-71 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 3 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 13, 14 3 2 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 4 G4-EN22 Page 72 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 3 2 G4-EN23 Page 72-73 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 3 2 G4-EN24 Page 120 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 3 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 13, 14 2 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 4 G4-EN29 Page 11, 77 Yes, 273 275 15, 16 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA 100, www.keells. Yes, 273 275 15 com/sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 4 G4-EN32 Page 77 Yes, 273 275 15 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 9, 10 3 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 4-7 G4-LA1 Pages 11, 74-75 Yes, 273 275 11, 12 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 9, 10 3, 7 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 6 G4-LA6 Page 11, 76 Yes, 273 275 11, 12 3, 7 286 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 GRI G4 Content Index MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 9, 10 3 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 5-7 G4-LA9 Page 11, 76 Yes, 273 275 11, 12 3 G4-LA11 Page 11, 75 Yes, 273 275 11, 12 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 9, 10 2 3 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 5 G4-LA12 Page 74 Yes, 273 275 11, 12 2 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES G4-DMA 100, www.keells. Yes, 273 275 11 com/sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 6 G4-LA14 Page 11, 77 Yes, 273 275 11 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 9, 10 2 3 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 6 G4-HR4 Page 76-77 Yes, 273 275 11, 12 2 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOUR G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 5, 6 2 3 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 7 G4-HR5 Page 11 Yes, 273 275 7, 8 2 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 5, 6 2 3 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 7-8 G4-HR6 Page 11, 77 Yes, 273 275 7, 8 2 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA 100, www.keells. Yes, 273 275 7 com/sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 9 G4-HR10 Page 11, 77 Yes, 273 275 7 Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 287 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA 100, www.keells. Yes, 273 275 4 com/sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 9-10 G4-SO1 Pages 73, 76, 78 81 Yes, 273 275 4 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 17, 18 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 7-8 G4-SO3 11, 101 Yes, 273 275 19, 20 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 17, 18 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 8 G4-SO8 Page 77 Yes, 273 275 19, 20 SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY TOPIC: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 5 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 11 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 5 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 11 G4-PR3 Page 11, 152 Yes, 273 275 5 MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 5 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 11 G4-PR7 Page 77 Yes, 273 275 5 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA 99, www.keells.com/ Yes, 273 275 5 sustainability and csr Disclosure of Management Approach Page 11 G4-PR9 Page 11, 77 Yes, 273 275 5 288 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Glossary of Financial Terms ACCRUAL BASIS DIVIDEND PAYABLE NET PROFIT MARGIN Recording revenues and expenses in the period Final dividend per share multiplied by the latest Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of in which they are earned or incurred regardless available total number of shares as at the date the parent divided by total revenue including of whether cash is received or disbursed in that of the report. share of associates. period. DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO NET WORKING CAPITAL ADJUSTED ROCE AND ROE Dividend paid as a percentage of Company Current assets minus current liabilities. Adjusted for 2013 Rights Issue, 2015 Warrant profits adjusted for non-cash gains items. Issue, “Cinnamon Life” debt, revaluation of PRICE EARNINGS RATIO property, plant and equipment and fair value DIVIDEND YIELD Market price per share (diluted) over diluted changes on investment property for 2014/15, Dividends adjusted for changes in number of earnings per share. 2015/16 and 2016/17. shares in issue as a percentage of the share price (diluted) at the end of the period. PRICE TO BOOK RATIO ASSET TURNOVER Market price per share (diluted) over net asset Revenue including associate company revenue EARNINGS PER SHARE (BASIC) value per share. divided by average total assets. Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent divided by the weighted average number of PRICE TO CASH EARNINGS BETA ordinary shares in issue during the period. Diluted market price per share divided by diluted Covariance between daily JKH share return cash earnings per share. and market return divided by variance of daily EBIT market return, over a 5 year period. Earnings before interest and tax (includes other PUBLIC HOLDING operating income). Percentage of shares held by the public CAPITAL EMPLOYED calculated as per the Colombo Stock Exchange Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling EBIT MARGIN Listing Rules as at the date of the Report. interests and debt. EBIT divided by turnover inclusive of share of associate company turnover. QUICK RATIO CAPITAL STRUCTURE LEVERAGE (CSL) Cash plus short term investments plus Average total assets divided by average EBITDA receivables, divided by current liabilities. shareholders’ equity. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation. RECURRING EBIT/RECURRING PROFIT AFTER CASH EARNINGS PER SHARE TAX/RECURRING PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent EFFECTIVE RATE OF TAXATION EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT adjusted for non cash items minus share of Tax expense divided by profit before tax. Profit, as applicable, adjusted for changes in associate company profits plus dividends from fair value of investment property and one-off associate companies divided by the weighted ENTERPRISE VALUE (EV) disposal gains or losses accruing through the average number of ordinary shares in issue Market capitalisation plus net debt/(net cash). sale of investments not held under the private during the period. equity portfolio of JK Capital. INTEREST COVER COMMON EARNINGS LEVERAGE (CEL) Consolidated profit before interest and tax over RETURN ON ASSETS Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent interest costs Profit after tax divided by the average total divided by profit after tax. assets. LIABILITIES TO TANGIBLE NET WORTH CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Total non current and current liabilities including RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) A condition or situation existing as at the date contingent liabilities divided by tangible net Consolidated profit before interest and tax as a of the Report due to past events, where the worth. percentage of average capital employed. financial effect is not recognised because: 1. The obligation is crystallised by the LONG TERM DEBT TO TOTAL DEBT RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) occurrence or non occurrence of one or Long term loans as a percentage of total debt. Profit attributable to shareholders as a more future events or, percentage of average shareholders’ funds. 2. A probable outflow of economic resources is MARKET CAPITALISATION not expected or, Number of shares in issue at the end of the SHARE TURN RATIO 3. It is unable to be measured with sufficient period multiplied by the market price at the end Total volume of shares traded during the year reliability of the period. divided by average number of shares in issue. CURRENT RATIO MARKET VALUE ADDED SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS Current assets divided by current liabilities. Market capitalisation minus shareholders’ Total of stated capital, other components of funds. equity and revenue reserves. DEBT/EQUITY RATIO Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds and NET ASSETS TANGIBLE NET WORTH non-controlling interests. Total assets minus current liabilities, long term Total equity less intangible assets and deferred liabilities, and non-controlling interests. tax assets. DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Profit attributable to equity holders of the NET ASSETS PER SHARE TOTAL DEBT parent divided by the weighted average number Net assets as at a particular financial year end Long term loans plus short term loans and of ordinary shares in issue during the period divided by the number of shares in issue as at overdrafts. adjusted for options granted but not exercised the current financial year end. and outstanding unexpired warrants. TOTAL EQUITY NET DEBT (CASH) Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling Total debt minus (cash plus short term deposits). interest. Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 289 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Thirty Eighth Annual General Meeting of John Keells Holdings Notes: PLC will be held on 30th June 2017 at 10:00 a.m. at The Forum Area (Sixth Floor), The Institute i. A member unable to attend is entitled to of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30A, Malalasekera Mawatha (Longden Place), Colombo 7. appoint a Proxy to attend and vote in his/ her place. The business to be brought before the meeting will be: ii. A Proxy need not be a member of the 1. to read the notice convening the meeting. Company. 2. to receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the Financial Year iii. A member wishing to vote by Proxy at the ended 31st March 2017 with the Report of the Auditors thereon. Meeting may use the Proxy Form enclosed on page 291 of this Report. 3. to re-elect as Director, Mr. D A Cabraal, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. A brief profile of Mr. D A Cabraal is contained in the Board of iv. In order to be valid, the completed Proxy Directors section of the Annual Report. Form must be lodged at the Registered Office of the Company not less than 48 4. to re-elect as Director, Mr. A N Fonseka, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of hours before the meeting. Association of the Company. A brief profile of Mr. A N Fonseka is contained in the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report. v. If a poll is demanded, a vote can be taken on a show of hands or by a poll. Each 5. to re-elect as Director, Dr. S S H Wijayasuriya, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles share is entitled to one vote. Votes can of Association of the Company. A brief profile of Dr. S S H Wijayasuriya is contained in the be cast in person, by proxy or corporate Board of Directors section of the Annual Report. representatives. In the event an individual member and his/her proxy holder are both 6. to re-elect as Director, Mr. K N J Balendra, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of present at the meeting, only the member’s Association of the Company. A brief profile of Mr. K N J Balendra is contained in the Board of vote is counted. If the proxy holder’s Directors section of the Annual Report. appointor has indicated the manner of voting, only the appointor’s indication of 7. to re-elect as Director, Mr. J G A Cooray, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of the manner to vote will be used. Association of the Company. A brief profile of Mr. J G A Cooray is contained in the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report. 8. to re-appoint Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. 9. to consider any other business of which due notice has been given in terms of the relevant laws and regulations. By Order of the Board JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC Keells Consultants (Private) Limited Secretaries 31 May 2017 290 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 Corporate Information Name of Company Related Party Transaction Review Auditors John Keells Holdings PLC Committee Ernst & Young M P Perera Chairperson Chartered Accountants Legal Form D A Cabraal P.O. Box 101 Public Limited Liability Company A N Fonseka Colombo, Sri Lanka Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1979 S C Ratnayake Ordinary Shares listed on the Colombo Stock Bankers for the Group Exchange Registered Office of the Company Bank of Ceylon GDRs listed on the Luxembourg Stock 117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Citibank N.A. Exchange Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Commercial Bank of Ceylon Telephone : +94 11 230 6000 Deutsche Bank A.G. Company Registration No. Internet : www.keells.com DFCC Bank PQ 14 Email : jkh@keells.com Habib Bank Hatton National Bank Directors Secretaries Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation S C Ratnayake Chairman Keells Consultants (Private) Limited MCB Bank A D Gunewardene Deputy Chairman 117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, National Savings Bank J R F Peiris Group Finance Director Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Nations Trust Bank K N J Balendra Telephone : +94 11 230 6245 NDB Bank J G A Cooray Facsimile : +94 11 243 9037 Pan Asia Banking Corporation D A Cabraal People’s Bank A N Fonseka Investor Relations Sampath Bank M A Omar John Keells Holdings PLC Seylan Bank M P Perera 117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Standard Chartered Bank S S H Wijayasuriya Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Telephone : +94 11 230 6161 Depository for GDRs Senior Independent Director Facsimile : +94 11 230 6160 Citibank N.A. New York A N Fonseka Email : investor.relations@keells.com Audit Committee Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management A N Fonseka Chairman and Group Initiatives D A Cabraal 186 Vauxhall Street, M P Perera Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Telephone : +94 11 230 6182 Human Resources and Compensation Facsimile : +94 11 230 6249 Committee Email : sustainability@keells.com D A Cabraal Chairman M A Omar Contact for Media S S H Wijayasuriya Corporate Communications Division John Keells Holdings PLC Nominations Committee 117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, M A Omar Chairman Colombo 2, Sri Lanka M P Perera Telephone : +94 11 230 6191 S S H Wijayasuriya Email : jkh@keells.com S C Ratnayake Group Highlights | Governance | Management Discussion & Analysis | Financial Statements | Supplementary Information 291 Proxy Form I/We ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... of ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. being a member/s of John Keells Holdings PLC hereby appoint............................................................................................................................................................. of ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... or failing him/her MR. SUSANTHA CHAMINDA RATNAYAKE or failing him MR. AJIT DAMON GUNEWARDENE or failing him MR. JAMES RONNIE FELITUS PEIRIS or failing him MR. KRISHAN NIRAJ JAYASEKARA BALENDRA or failing him MR. JOSEPH GIHAN ADISHA COORAY or failing him MR. MOHAMED ASHROFF OMAR or failing him MR. DAMIEN AMAL CABRAAL or failing him MR. ANTHONY NIHAL FONSEKA or failing him MS. MARIE PREMILA PERERA or failing her DR. SHRIDHIR SARIPUTTA HANSA WIJAYASURIYA as my/our proxy to represent me/us and vote on my/our behalf at the Thirty Eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 30 June 2017 at 10:00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. I/We, the undersigned, hereby direct my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf on the specified Resolution as indicated by the letter “X” in the appropriate cage: FOR AGAINST To re-elect as Director, Mr. D A Cabraal, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-elect as Director, Mr. A N Fonseka, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-elect as Director, Dr. S S H Wijayasuriya, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-elect as Director, Mr. K N J Balendra, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-elect as Director, Mr. J G A Cooray, who retires in terms of Article 91 of the Articles of Association of the Company. To re-appoint Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. Signed on this ………………… day of …………………… Two Thousand and Seventeen …………………………………………………. Signature/s of Shareholder/s NOTE: INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY FORM ARE NOTED ON THE REVERSE. 292 John Keells Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2016/17 INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION OF PROXY 1. Please perfect the Form of Proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and filling in the date of signature. 2. The completed Form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2, not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the Meeting. 3. If the Form of Proxy is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney should accompany the completed Form of Proxy for registration, if such Power of Attorney has not already been registered with the Company. 4. If the appointer is a company or Corporation, the Form of Proxy should be executed under its Common Seal or by a duly authorised officer of the company or Corporation in accordance with its Articles of Association or Constitution. 5. If this Form of Proxy is returned without any indication of how the person appointed as Proxy shall vote, then the Proxy shall exercise his/her discretion as to how he/she votes or, whether or not he/she abstains from voting. Please fill in the following details: Name : ..................................................................................................................................................................................... Address : ..................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................... Jointly with : ..................................................................................................................................................................................... Share Folio No. : ..................................................................................................................................................................................... Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Publishing (Pvt) Ltd Photography by Danush De Costa www.keells.com
