Sustainability Report 2016/17 Contents Message from the CEO.........................................................3 Organizational Profile...........................................................5 About Virtusa....................................................................... 7 Our Services......................................................................... 7 Economic Performance........................................................ 8 Financial Data...................................................................... 9 Our Sustainability Program.................................................10 Our Sustainability Program................................................ 11 About this Report.............................................................. 14 External Commitments...................................................... 17 Supply Chain Management................................................ 18 Our Clients.......................................................................... 20 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 21 Client Engagement............................................................. 22 Technology and Innovation................................................ 23 Global Innovation Process................................................. 25 Platforming Approach........................................................ 26 Governance and Ethics.......................................................27 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 28 Corporate Governance...................................................... 29 Ethics and Compliance....................................................... 34 Information Security and Data Privacy ............................. 35 Risk Management.............................................................. 36 1 Environmental Stewardship................................................37 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 38 Data Computational Methods........................................... 39 Managing Impacts............................................................. 39 Spreading the Green Message........................................... 44 Our People.......................................................................... 47 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 48 Nurturing a Millennial Workforce...................................... 48 Employee Engagement and Recognition........................... 50 Performance Management ............................................... 52 Diversity............................................................................. 53 Health and Safety............................................................... 54 Encouraging Talent in Sports............................................. 55 People Data........................................................................ 57 IT for Good..........................................................................60 Our Strategy and Approach............................................... 61 Community Outreach Projects.......................................... 65 Global Compact Principles and GRI Indicator Mapping......70 GRI Reporting Framework G4 (Core): Content Index..........71 2 Message from the CEO At Virtusa, we believe that technology is a key enabler of sustainable development, helping us to create shared value for our clients, our team members, and our communities. Our sustainability strategy focuses on creating value for our clients through digital transformation and innovation; for our team members through diversity and collaboration; and for our communities through technology enablement as well as environmental stewardship. In FY17, we focused on integrating the operations of Virtusa Corporation and Polaris Consulting & Services Limited into one business entity. Our main goal was to integrate our sustainability initiative into one cohesive program. The result of this effort is highlighted in this sustainability report. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), this report also forms our seventh Communication on Progress (COP). While you will find detailed information on all our sustainability program within this report, I would like to share some specific highlights from FY17. Client value: Our focus is to help our clients navigate the rapidly changing technology landscape. As such, we have invested in creating innovation centers for new technology areas such as internet of things (“IoT”), artificial intelligence (“AI”), machine learning (“ML”), and robotic process automation (“RPA”). For example, our Skylab innovation center focuses on all these technologies and has delivered award winning solutions to some of our marquee clients in the healthcare, communications, and insurance sectors. Our FinTech Lab focuses on innovation for our financial services clients. These innovations have helped us maintain an average client delight index (CDI) of 8.7 and a net promoter score of 67%, which exceed the set targets of 8.5 for CDI and 60% for NPS. Compliance and ethics: During the reporting period, we reviewed and revised our Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery policies and our compliance training to ensure that our team members have a clear understanding of the company’s compliance program. Training included FCPA training and certifications aimed at the senior leadership levels at Virtusa, covering over 400 employees in sales, delivery, finance, IT, legal, HR, and management teams. Environmental stewardship: Our environmental management system, internally branded as Code Green, encompasses measures to manage the significant environmental aspects of our business operations. In FY17, we expanded monitoring of the following indicators to Polaris Consulting technology centers in India: energy usage, water usage, scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, and paper and e-waste recycling. We continue to report to the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Change Program and the Supply Chain Program. Our performance band for 2016 was “B” and we also received a “B” for the Supplier Engagement Rating, a new score introduced by CDP in 2016. This score measures an organization’s ability to engage with suppliers on climate change. 3 People value: Our goal is to provide a work environment that values diversity and innovation. As a result, in FY17 we formulated new policies to strengthen our existing policies. This includes the new Equal Employment Opportunity Policy that reinforces our existing Harassment Free Workplace Policy. We also formulated the Privacy Policy and the Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy. Social value: Our CSR pillars—Campus Reach, Digital Reach and Tech Reach—focus on creating positive social impact. We have always aimed to use technology to solve social issues. This was the case in point when we developed the 117 app for the Disaster Management Center (DMC) of Sri Lanka to manage flood relief activities in May 2016. The app allowed flood victims to submit requests through a mobile phone or tablet, making it possible for people in remote areas to request aid. The app also facilitated better tracking of aid requests and improved transparency. Detailed information on our CSR initiatives is provided in the section “IT for Good”. Future Direction Environmental stewardship: We aim to increase the use of renewable energy in our operations. In FY17, this goal faced a setback due to delays in obtaining state approvals. However, we will continue to seek opportunities for the use of renewable energy. People value: We aim to strengthen the learning opportunities within the company, strengthen our diversity initiatives, and groom the next level of leadership. To this end, we have implemented multiple leadership programs including the Women in Leadership Program, Future Architect Program, and the Global Leadership Program. Supply chain: We see increased focus on supply chains and responsible sourcing. Therefore, we seek to engage more with our supply chain on sustainability initiatives and also increase the checks and inspections needed to ensure that suppliers follow internationally accepted standards on human rights, labor, the environment, and business ethics. Kris Canekeratne Chairman & CEO 4 Organizational Profile 17,750 $858.7 12% people across the million in revenue reduction in globe* emissions per employee since $11.9 FY13** 4,048 million in net new hires income 22% reduction in energy 43% 80% increase in revenue per employee since FY13 of our workforce are millennials 195 42% perfect 10/10 Client 28% Delight Index (CDI) water used was recycled of workforce are scorecards women * Does not include contract and outsourced employees. ** Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. *** All data is for FY17 unless indicated. 5 Virtusa Corporation (NASDAQ: VRTU) is a leading worldwide provider of information technology (IT) consulting and outsourcing services. Headquartered in Massachusetts, we have offices in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, Austria, the United Arab Emirates, Hong Kong, Japan, Australia and New Zealand, with global delivery centers in India, Sri Lanka, Hungary, Singapore and Malaysia, as well as multiple nearshore delivery centers in the United States. OUR VISION OUR VALUES Apply domain and technology innovation to PASSION: To inspire our global teams to deliver accelerate business outcomes for our clients. extraordinary results INNOVATION: Apply intellectual curiosity to OUR MISSION reimagine better business outcomes for our clients Enable our clients to create a distinctive millennial RESPECT: Protect our environment, honor our experience, transform their businesses, and deliver diversity and treat everyone with dignity platform efficiencies. LEADERSHIP: Take personal responsibility when Build a great global firm that attracts, develops, things go awry and always ascribe success to the inspires and retains exceptional talent. team 6 About Virtusa Virtusa is a leading worldwide provider of information technology (IT) consulting and outsourcing services. We help accelerate business outcomes for Global 2000 businesses in banking and financial services, insurance, healthcare, telecommunications and media. Headquartered in Massachusetts and we have 50 offices across North America, Europe and Asia. We view our operations and manage our business as one operating segment. Our corporate structure also spans multiple jurisdictions, with Virtusa Corporation incorporated in Delaware and its operating subsidiaries organized in India, Sri Lanka, the United Kingdom, Hungary, Germany, Singapore, Austria, Malaysia, Sweden, Switzerland and the Netherlands, as well as Polaris and its operating subsidiaries which are incorporated in Australia, China, the United Arab Emirates, Japan and Canada. From time to time, we have also supplemented organic revenue growth with acquisitions. These acquisitions have focused on adding domain expertise, expanding our professional services teams and expanding our client base. For instance, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 we completed the acquisition of Polaris, which expands our banking and financial services offerings and domain expertise as described above. Our Services We support Forbes Global 2000 clients across large, consumer facing industries like Banking & Financial Services, Insurance, Healthcare, Communications, and Media & Entertainment, as they look to improve their business performance through accelerating revenue growth, delivering compelling consumer experiences, improving operational efficiencies, and lowering overall IT costs. We provide services across the entire spectrum of the IT services lifecycle, from strategy and consulting, to technology and user experience (“UX”) design, development of IT applications, systems integration, testing and business assurance, and maintenance and support services, including infrastructure and managed services. We enable our clients to leverage technology innovations to provide the distinctive millennial customer experiences demanded by digital consumers who are increasingly looking for services that are available 24×7 without interruption, location aware and highly customized to their social likes and dislikes. Our digital transformation and innovation (“DTi”) solutions support the business growth imperative by delivering targeted and differentiated solutions that help our clients expand their addressable markets as well as develop go-to-market strategies supporting new revenue streams. Our operational excellence (“OE”) basket of solutions enable our clients to improve operational and IT efficiencies through the innovative use of automation, effort compression and IT simplification. We provide our IT services primarily to enterprises engaged in the following industries: communications and technology (“C&T”); banking, financial services and insurance (“BFSI”); and media and information (“M&I”). Detailed information of our service offerings is available on our website, www.virtusa.com. 7 Economic Performance For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we had revenue of $858.7 million and income from operations of $18.4 million. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, our revenue increased by $258.4 million, or 43.0%, to $858.7 million, as compared to $600.3 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. Our net income decreased from $44.8 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 to $11.9 million in our fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. We serve clients across North America, Europe and Asia, and with the Polaris acquisition, added operations in Hong Kong, the United Arab Emirates, New Zealand, Japan, Australia and Canada. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, 65% of our revenue was generated in North America, 23% in Europe and 12% in rest of the world. Our Advanced Technology Centers in India and Sri Lanka help contribute to the economic development of these countries through job creation. The Polaris acquisition added eight locations to our Indian operations, increasing our footprint in India. In Sri Lanka, we are the largest IT service company and contribute to the development of the IT industry which is one of the top five export revenue earners for the country. In fact, we have been recognized as the highest foreign exchange revenue earner in the IT sector for Sri Lanka, having won the gold award for ‘Export of Business & Professional Services Sector’ in the ‘extra-large’ category at the National Chamber of Exporters Awards for four consecutive years from 2012 to 2015. We provide indirect economic benefits in two areas. Through our Campus Reach program, we collaborate with the academia to advance IT education in India and Sri Lanka. Through our Tech Reach program, we develop software applications for social good at zero cost to stakeholders. These programs are described in detail in the section “IT for Good” along with details of community investments made during the reporting period. We do not make any political donations as per our corporate policy. 8 Financial Data Fiscal Year Ended March 31 (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Revenue 858,731 600,302 478,986 396,933 333,175 277,771 Costs of revenue 620,950 389,310 304,422 250,533 215,866 177,434 Gross profit 237,781 210,992 174,564 146,400 117,309 100,337 Operating expenses 219,410 165,672 121,996 103,988 84,450 76,438 Income from operations 18,371 45,320 52,568 42,412 32,859 23,899 Other income 447 12,349 4,832 3,512 3,000 2,547 Income before income tax expense 18,818 57,669 57,400 45,924 35,859 26,446 Income tax expense 2,561 12,649 14,954 11,549 7,461 6,411 Net income 16,257 45,020 42,446 34,375 28,398 20,035 Less: Net income attributable to the 4,399 218 non-controlling interest Net income attributable to Virtusa 11,858 44,802 42,446 34,375 28,398 20,035 common stockholders Basic earnings per share 0.40 1.53 1.48 1.32 1.14 0.81 Diluted earnings per share 0.39 1.49 1.44 1.27 1.11 0.79 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Basic 29,650,026 29,233,861 28,753,102 26,116,516 24,937,162 24,643,063 Diluted 30,215,171 30,004,982 29,555,624 26,973,001 25,638,839 25,383,650 Table: Consolidated Statements of Income Data (in US$) Year Ended March 31 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Customer Revenue North America 554,437 421,215 319,285 278,318 251,219 215,723 Europe 196,516 134,639 129,904 97,178 65,863 49,839 Other 107,778 44,448 29,797 21,437 16,093 12,209 Consolidated revenue 858,731 600,302 478,986 396,933 333,175 277,771 Table: Revenue Breakdown According to Geographic Locations (in US$) 2017 2016 2015 Revenue by Industry Group BFSI 64% 54% 58% Communications and Tech 26% 35% 34% Media & Information and Other 10% 11% 8% Revenue by Product Type Time & Materials 57% 61% 63% Fixed Bid 43% 39% 37% Revenue by Service Offering Application Outsourcing 59% 54% 55% Consulting 41% 46% 45% Table: Breakdown of Services Provided 9 Our Sustainability Program OHSAS 35% B oﬃce space LEED Carbon Disclosure 18001:2007 certiﬁed Project Supplier certiﬁed Engagement Rating occupational health and safety system B Carbon Disclosure Project ISO Performance Band 14001:2004 certiﬁed environmental management system * All data is for FY17 unless indicated. 10 Our Sustainability Program Our aim is “to reduce our environmental footprint, with ethical maturity, respect and dignity to all”. Premised on our core corporate values of Passion, Innovation, Respect and Leadership (PIRL), we believe in doing more, and better, with less. Accordingly, we leverage unique and industry leading tools to increase “right first time” and reduce “cycle time” by aggressively measuring and improving quality and reuse at the source. By doing so, we effectively reduce the environmental footprint of the products and services offered to clients. Our sustainability program is based on the following core elements. Area Framework Current Status Health and Safety • OHSAS 18001:2007 Eleven technology centers in India and Sri Lanka are certified. Environment (Code Green) • ISO 14001:2004 (EMS) Eleven technology centers in India and Sri • ISO 50001:2011 Guidance Lanka are certified for ISO 14001. (Energy) • ISO 14064 Guidance (Climate Encompasses climate change, emissions, Change) energy, water and waste management. • Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol We report GHG emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Business Continuity Management • ISO 22301:2012 Nine technology centers in India, Sri Lanka, UK, USA and Hungary are certified. Information Security • ISO27001:2013 Seventeen technology centers in India, Sri Lanka, UK, USA, Singapore and Hungary are certified. Labor Standards • SA 8000 Guidance Policies formulated under SA 8000 guidance • Modern Slavery Act 2015 (UK) since July 2016. • Equality Act 2010 (UK) • United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD) Anti-Bribery and Corruption • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policies signed in line with framework. 1977 • Bribery Act 2010 (UK) Management Engagement, Social • ISO 26000 Guidance We create social impact through the following: Impact & Diversity • Companies Act 2013 section 135 (India) • Digital Reach – Creating a digitally inclusive society. • Campus Reach – Supporting the next generation of IT professionals to be workforce ready. • Tech Reach – Using technology for good. CSR Operating Committee for pan India formed in 2015. 11 Our Chief Operating Officer, reporting to the Board, has responsibility for all aspects of sustainability. Cross-functional teams at each geographic location oversee and implement components of the sustainability strategy that are specific to their operations. Update for FY17 In FY17, we did an overall review of our sustainability program and incorporated best practices from Polaris Consulting in the sustainability program. Our Sustainability Policy and its sub-policies (Energy Policy, Climate Change Policy, Waste Policy, Water Policy, and Social Responsibility Policy) were reviewed and updated as part of this process. In FY17, we also took the first step to mapping the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with our sustainability framework and identified the SDGs supported by the three pillars of our corporate social responsibility focus: Campus Reach, Tech Reach and Digital Reach. We hope to map other aspects of our sustainability framework to the SDGs in future. 12 FY16/FY17 Goals and Performance GOAL PERFORMANCE 10% of energy to be obtained from 14% of energy obtained from renewable sources by 2020 renewable sources in FY17 75% Target to groom leaders from within 65% Revised target 60% Target Net Promotor Score 67% Average Net Promotor Score for FY17 8.5 Target Client Delight Index 8.7 Average Client Delight Index for FY17 >75% Target Employee Delight Index 68% Average Employee Delight Index for FY17 Achieved Partially Achieved 13 About this Report REPORT QUICK FACTS We have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines as the foundation for our sustainability reporting, Reporting period: April 2016 to March 2017 and this report is prepared in accordance with the Core option. This report also forms our seventh Communication Date of previous report: November 2016 on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact and documents our progress in implementing the UNGC Principles Reporting cycle: Annual in our operations. Contact Point for Questions: Roger Keith Modder EVP and Chief Operating Officer keith@virtusa.com Materiality and Reporting Boundary A complete list of subsidiaries that comprise our reporting boundary is provided on page 162 of our 2017 Form 10K (Exhibit 21.1: Subsidiaries of Virtusa Corporation), available in the SEC Filings section of our website. Since we manage our business as one operating segment, aspects related to economic, labor practices, human rights, governance and ethics, and customer privacy are reported for all entities. Environmental data is reported only for our technology centers in India and Sri Lanka including technology centers from Polaris Consulting. Corporate social responsibility activities are reported from all entities except InSource Holdings and TradeTech Consulting. Indianapolis InSource TradeTech Polaris Material Aspects Virtusa Corp. Innovation Holdings Consulting Consulting Center Economic Environment Labor Practices and Decent Work Human Rights Governance and Ethics Customer Privacy Social Responsibility Note: Optimus Global Services Limited is a shell company without any Material and fully Reported with Not significant physical presence or ongoing business. As a result, it has been removed from reported constraints the reporting boundary. 14 Stakeholder Engagement The stakeholder groups with which we engage include clients, investors, employees, academia, suppliers, governments, NGOs and local communities. Of the listed stakeholders, clients, investors and employees have the greatest impact on our operations. Stakeholder engagement is an important aspect of our sustainability program as it provides inputs on the topics that are important for our stakeholders. The following table lists the channels of engagement we use with each of our stakeholders as well as the key concerns for each stakeholder group. Stakeholder Engagement Mode Key Concerns • Request for proposal • Business value • Client visits and meetings • Business continuity • Client Delight Index (CDI) • Corporate governance and ethics Clients • Net Promoter Score (NPS) • Labor and human rights • Client initiated surveys and audits • Environmental responsibility • Sustainability report • Media interactions • Annual general meeting • Revenue growth • Media interactions • Profit margins Investors • Corporate governance and ethics • Transparency • Internal Support Group Framework • Career growth • Open Door Policy • Compensation • Social media • Learning and development Employees • Internal Service Group Survey • Work/life balance • On-boarding Survey • Safe work environment • 5th Month Survey and 18th Month Survey • Transparency • Exit Survey • Curriculum development and advice • Internship opportunities for students • Internship program • Curriculum advice • Career guidance and awareness • Mentoring for final year projects Academia • Industrial visits • Career fairs • Social media • Media interactions • Supplier Survey • Business opportunities • Supplier Guidelines • Ethical business practices Suppliers • Supplier awareness sessions • Media interactions • Membership in sustainability associations • Corporate governance and ethics • Collaborations with government bodies on • Environmental responsibility Governments sustainability • Development of IT industry in India/Sri Lanka • Media interactions • Media interactions • Ethical business practices NGOs and Local • Conferences and public forums on sustainability • Responsible corporate citizenship Communities • Membership in sustainability associations • Job opportunities • Community development We did not undertake an engagement process specifically for the preparation of the report but have utilized the existing mechanisms. 15 In order to determine the report content, we used the matrix below to identify the issues and aspects most material to us and our stakeholders. While most aspects have remained the same, we have seen increased focus on human rights, labor standards, and modern slavery and human traficking through requests for proposals. As a result, these aspects were given more weightage when developing the matrix. Critical Ethics and Integrity Labor Practices Information Security Equal Opportunity and Diversity Client Satisfaction Learning & Development Emissions and Climate Change Health & Safety Environmental Compliance Significant to Stakeholders Collective Bargaining Human Rights Energy Child Labor Indirect Economic Impacts Forced Labor Water Modern Slavery and Social Impact Waste Human Trafficking Anti-competitive Behavior Medium Medium Significant to Us Critical KEY Economic Social Environmental We have made every effort to submit a comprehensive report with regard to dimensions of scope and boundary for the reporting period. Our goal is to improve our reporting as well as work towards obtaining external assurance. Restatements Optimus Global Consulting has been removed from the reporting boundery as it is a shell company without any physical presence or ongoing business. In FY16, we revised the methodology used to calculate energy intensity and emissions intensity from per full time employee to per employee as this provides more accurate data. 16 PARTNERSHIPS • National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) External Commitments • Sri Lanka Association of Software and Service Companies (SLASSCOM) • American Chamber of Commerce, India United Nations Global Compact We have been a signatory and a member of the United • American Chamber of Commerce, Sri Lanka Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2008. We embody and practice the 10 principles through our management approach • Information Technology & Services Industry to sustainability and sustainable business. Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITsAP) We have been on the Steering Committee of the Sri Lankan • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Network since 2010. A representative from Virtusa is on the Board of Directors of the Network and we have supported • Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka and encouraged the activation of both the Network and the UNGC principles in Sri Lanka. We also support the Network • Biodiversity Sri Lanka to organize conferences and training sessions, thus enabling the dissemination of sustainability training to corporates in Sri • Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) Lanka. UNGC Business for Peace (B4P) We are also a member of the UNGC Business for Peace (B4P) initiative. In 2013, we were featured as a case study in the UNGC’s Responsible Business Advancing Peace publication for our contribution to national reconstruction in post-war Sri Lanka. The case study highlights activities carried out through our Digital Reach and Tech Reach initiatives where we helped to build a digital learning center in the North of Sri Lanka to be used to provide IT training to war rehabilitees. Carbon Disclosure Project We respond to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate Change Program as well as the Supply Chain Program. In 2016, our performance band was “B” and we also received a “B” for the Supplier Engagement Rating, a new score introduced by CDP in 2016. This score measures an organization’s ability to engage with suppliers on climate change. Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka E-waste Management Program We are one of the first of 14 companies to sign an MOU with the Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka to properly and effectively manage e-waste. With the increase in use of electronic devices, proper disposal of e-waste is a growing problem in Sri Lanka as the country does not have mechanisms for recycling e-waste. This initiative has set up an island wide network for the collection of the e-waste from individuals and organizations in order to avoid such waste ending up in landfill and causing pollution. 17 Supply Chain Management As an information technology services provider, our operations do not consume significant amounts of raw materials, nor do we sell products that require packaging and shipping. We have a large supplier base that provides goods and services to support our operations across the following categories: workplace and facilities, transport, IT and telecom, food service providers and security services. Accountability for the execution of our procurement strategy begins with our local and regional procurement teams and ultimately resides with our Chief Financial Officer. Our policy is to depend on local suppliers at all locations of operations unless to do so would be a cost disadvantage. In order to incorporate responsible business practices in our supply chain, we utliize the initiatives described below. Supplier Sustainability Survey Our Supplier Sustainability Survey was created in 2010 to review supplier sustainability practices. In 2016, the survey was updated to include a scoring mechanism to enable us to grade our suppliers in terms of sustainable business practices. 18 Supplier Guidelines The Supplier Guidelines was formulated in 2013. The guidelines set out the standards and practices that suppliers are required to uphold in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and business ethics. These include complying with all applicable laws and regulations, ensuring that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, ensuring that child labor and forced or compulsory labor are not used in any operations and providing safe working conditions for employees. In addition, suppliers are expected to ensure the protection of the environment and follow ethical business practices. In 2016, we updated the supplier guidelines to include the prohibition of slavery and human trafficking. Supply Chain Sustainability Awareness Session This event is held annually for our Tier 1 suppliers. The intention is to share sustainability best practices and to create awareness on current sustainability issues. The session has been held at our Sri Lanka facilities since 2013, and we intend to expand the practice to other locations. We have conducted road safety awareness sessions in collaboration with the police for transport providers in several geographies. Procurement Process We have implemented a robust approval process for procurement, which includes evaluations not only on cost and quality aspects but also aspects such as user safety and climate change impact where relevant. We also include risk management aspects in the procurement process. Checks and Inspections We strive to ensure that our suppliers operate responsibly. Suppliers are required to ensure that any employees performing work on behalf of us use the correct health and safety equipment and procedures. Transport providers are required to undergo vehicle inspections, and drivers are required to provide police reports. Food service providers are required to submit themselves for inspections conducted by the Public Health Inspector (PHI). We are in the process of developing a mechanism whereby suppliers are required to confirm compliance with aspects of the Supplier Guidelines and FCPA in order to proceed with business. 19 Our Clients 191 17 86% clients net new clients of revenue from repeat business 59% 41% 195 of revenue from of revenue from perfect 10/10 client application consulting services. delight scorecards outsourcing $228.9 $29.5 million increase in million revenue revenue from from new clients existing clients was * All data is for FY17 unless indicated. 20 Our Strategy and Approach A majority of our revenue for the reporting period was generated from Forbes Global 2000 firms or their subsidiaries. Our expertise in core technology services allows us to help our clients lower total cost of ownership of their overall IT investments. We also combine industry specialization with our core services to deliver high-impact solutions in critical business functions that help our clients transform their business performance and gain competitive advantage in the markets in which they operate. Our solutions provide our clients with the consultative and high-value services associated with large consulting and systems integration firms, the cost-effectiveness associated with offshore IT outsourcing firms, and the ongoing benefits of our innovative platforming approach. We believe that our regular, direct interaction with client senior executives, the breadth of our client relationships and our reputation within these clients as a thought leader differentiate us from our competitors. The strength of our relationships has resulted in significant recurring revenue from existing clients. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, 85% of our revenue came from clients to whom we had been providing services for at least one year. Strategic Alliances We have strategic alliances with software companies, some of which are also our clients, to provide services to their customers. We believe these alliances differentiate us from our competition. Our extensive engineering, quality assurance, technology implementation and support services to software companies enable us to compete more effectively for the technology implementation and support services required by their customers. In addition, our strategic alliances with software companies allow us to share sales leads, develop joint account plans, and engage in joint marketing activities. 21 Client Engagement Account Management Our experienced account managers build and regularly update detailed account development plans for each of our clients. These managers are responsible for developing strong working relationships across the client organization, working day-to-day with the client and our service delivery teams to understand and address the client’s needs. Our account managers work closely with our clients to develop a detailed understanding of their business objectives and technology environments. We also seek regular informal and formal client feedback. Our global leadership and executive team regularly interact with client leadership, and each client is typically given a formal feedback survey on a quarterly basis. Client feedback is qualitatively and quantitatively analyzed and forms an important component of our teams’ performance assessments and our continual improvement plans. Client Delight Index Measuring and ensuring high client satisfaction is an integral part of our delivery process. The Client Delight Index (CDI) is a key performance measure that has board level visibility. Client feedback is collected each quarter from stakeholders identified for each account and a consolidated report is published for each Advanced Technology Center. The CDI helps us to identify areas of client engagement that may need attention. Internally, all negative responses require action plans from our staff, ensuring that any problems are corrected. The survey can be customized depending on the project or project phase. In FY17, we received 125 perfect 10/10 Client Delight Index (CDI) scorecards. Net Promoter Score Along with the CDI, we also gather information on the Net Promoter Score (NPS). This metric is also reviewed at board level on a quarterly basis. The average NPS for FY17 was 67%. 22 Technology and Innovation New advances in areas like internet of things (“IoT”), artificial intelligence (“AI”), machine learning (“ML”), and robotic process automation (“RPA”) are now pushing the boundaries of how technology can disrupt traditional business models and deliver significant value in several areas, including delivering new products and services, enhancing consumer experience and improving operational efficiencies of the business. We have invested in developing deep capabilities in these new areas, fostering a strong partner ecosystem and building a rich platform for nurturing innovation and rapidly constructing prototypes that use IoT, AI and/or RPA to solve specific business problems for our clients. We have created innovation centers focused on certain technologies. Virtusa’s Skylab innovation center focuses on technologies like IoT, AI, and ML, and has created a robust ecosystem for clients to participate and innovate in creating new solutions to their business challenges. Skylab has delivered award winning solutions to some of our marquee clients in healthcare, communications and insurance sectors. Virtusa’s FinTech Lab focuses on innovation for our financial services clients. Over the past year, we have augmented investments into our FinTech Lab and are currently helping some of the most innovative banking and financial services clients develop and implement solutions around blockchain and open banking API platforms. We have also replicated the success of our FinTech Lab across other industries by creating innovation labs supporting the insurance and healthcare industries. We continue to invest in our award winning developer engagement and gamification platform and are extending gamification across the software delivery lifecycle and across all roles involved in the software delivery process. We are working with several clients on adopting enterprise-wide gamification strategies. Our RPA platform, Accello, has been successfully deployed at several client sites during the year. In fact, Virtusa won the Silver Stevie for the Most Innovative Tech Company in 2016 on the strength of its innovations in these areas. Our Engineering Strategy Extreme Automation Engagement Innovation Create efficiencies across the Scale our engineering culture To be thought leaders to our SDLC through engagement clients • Shift left on defect detection • Improve Transparency and use • Help create engineering teams and prevention Gamification and Social that are aligned to customer Collaboration to create a high needs and objectives • Compress effort by abstraction, performance culture for our simplification and codemillennial+ workforce • Help Virtusa incubate future tech generation (AI, IoT, RPA) • Reduce surprises in production • Help our clients innovate with with CICD new technology thought leadership • Increase operational efficiencies through RPA Kry10 23 Recognition for Technology and Innovation Finalist at the European Software Testing Awards (TESTA) under multiple categories including retail, ﬁnance, and functional testing Won the Silver Stevie American Business Award for the Most Innovative Tech Company of the Year in 2016 Our Global Technology Oﬃce won the Silver Stevie International Business Award for IT Team of the Year for developing novel solutions to fulﬁll its mandate of driving engineering excellence and innovation Our proprietary insurance risk advisor, SARA won the Silver Stevie award for the Best New Product or Service of the Year in 2016 24 Global Innovation Process Our enhanced global delivery model is built around our proprietary GIP, which is a software lifecycle methodology that combines our experience in building platform-based solutions for global clients with leading industry standards such as rational unified process, eXtreme programming, capability maturity model and product line engineering. By leveraging GIP templates, tools and artifacts across diverse disciplines such as requirements management, architecture, design, construction, testing, application outsourcing and production support, each team member is able to leverage software engineering and platforming best practices and extend these benefits to clients. During the initial process-tailoring phase of an engagement, we work with the client to define the specific approach and tools that will be used for the engagement. This process-tailoring takes into consideration the client’s business objectives, technology environment and currently-established development approach. A dedicated process group provides three important functions: they continually monitor, test and incorporate new approaches, techniques, tools and frameworks into GIP; they advise project teams, particularly during the processtailoring phase; and they monitor and audit projects to ensure compliance. New and innovative ideas and approaches are broadly shared throughout the organization, selectively incorporated into GIP and deployed through training. Clients also contribute to innovation and improvement as their ideas and experiences are incorporated into our body of knowledge. All of our major delivery centers, located in Hyderabad, Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, Gurugram and Bangalore in India and Colombo in Sri Lanka, have been reassessed at CMMI Level 5 maturity. During our fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, as part of the CMMI re-assessment process (every 3 years), the Hyderabad (first assessed during the fiscal year 2011) and Bangalore (first assessed during the fiscal year 2014) delivery centers completed the reassessment successfully and maintained their CMMI Level 5 rating. CMMI is a process improvement model used to improve a company’s ability to manage project deliveries to ensure predictable results. CMMI’s process levels are regarded as the standard in the industry for evolutionary paths in software and systems development and management. 25 Platforming Approach We apply our innovative platforming approach across our business and IT consulting, technology implementation and application outsourcing services to rationalize IT application portfolios and reduce costs, increase productivity and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our clients' IT application environments. Platforming is a structured approach to software development that organizes discrete software components into related functions in a layered architecture of common services. This enables development teams to write code once and utilize it multiple times. Unlike in traditional enterprise application development where different applications remain isolated, replicating business logic, technology frameworks and enterprise data, platforming helps to combine common business processes and rules, technology frameworks and data into reusable application platforms that can be leveraged across the enterprise. Through platforming our clients are able to continually improve their software platforms and applications in response to changing business needs and evolving technologies while also improving business agility and realizing long-term and ongoing cost savings. 26 Governance and Ethics 4 ISO 400 standing senior employees committees of the 27001:2013 trained in board of directors certiﬁed compliance and information ethics security 7 management independent system members in the board of directors ISO 22301:2012 certiﬁed business continuity management system * All data is for FY17 unless indicated. 27 POLICIES Our Strategy and • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Approach • • Anti-Bribery Policy FCPA Policy • Whistleblower Policy Our core values – Passion, Innovation, Respect and Leadership • Business Continuity Management Policy (PIRL) – are the guiding principles in all our interactions. • Information Security Management Policy Sound governance along with strong policies have helped to • Intellectual Property Policy maintain a reputation of corporate excellence. • Equal Employment Opportunity Policy • Harassment Free Workplace Policies Instilling our business ethics and culture in our employees • Anti Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy forms an important part of people development. All • Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking employees are educated on the PIRL values and corporate Statement policies through several mediums from the on-boarding • Privacy Policy program to awareness mailers. All corporate policies are • Prevention of Alcohol, Drugs and Substance also available on our V+ platform for easy reference. Abuse Policy • Sustainability Policy As a responsible corporate citizen, we adhere to the laws • Environment, Health and Safety Policy and regulations relevant to our operations. During the • Energy Policy reporting period, there were no instances of monetary or • Climate Change Policy non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and • Waste Policy regulations related to any aspects of our business operations • Water Policy including the provision of services, anti-competitive behavior • Social Responsibility Policy and environmental regulations. CERTIFICATION • CMMI Level 5 • ISO 22301:2012 • BS OHSAS 18001:2007 • ISO/IEC 27001:2013 • BS EN ISO 14001:2004 28 Corporate Governance Board of Directors Name Age Position Committee Membership Inside Directors Kris Canekeratne 51 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Class III Director Outside Directors Izhar Armony 53 Class II Director Joseph Doody 64 Class I Director Rowland T. 70 Class II Director Moriarty Barry R. Nearhos 59 Class III Director William K. O'Brien 72 Class I Director Vikram S. Pandit 60 Series A Director Al-Noor Ramji 63 Class I Director Member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Member of the Finance Committee Chairperson Financial Expert 29 Board Structure Our Corporate Governance Guidelines set out the qualification standards for directors, their responsibilities, their access to management and independent advisors, and their compensation and training. The guidelines also describe the board structure, management succession plans, annual performance evaluation of the board and its committees, and the security holder communication with the board. Mr. Kris Canekeratne, a founder of our company, serves as our chief executive officer and chairman of the board. The board of directors believes that having our executive officer as chairman of the board facilitates the board of directors’ decision-making process because Mr. Canekeratne has first-hand knowledge of our operations and the major issues facing us, and is most capable of effectively identifying strategic priorities and leading the discussion and execution of strategy. This also enables Mr. Canekeratne to act as the key link between the board of directors and other members of management. Independence of Members of the Board of Directors Seven members of the board of directors are independent within the meaning of the director independence standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc., or NASDAQ, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Rule 10A-3(b) (1) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Furthermore, the board of directors has determined that each member of each of the committees of the board of directors is independent within the meaning of the director independence standards of NASDAQ and the Securities and Exchange Commission. To maintain effective independent oversight, the board of directors annually appoints a lead independent director. The board of directors believes the combined role of chief executive officer and chairman, together with a lead independent director is in the best interest of stockholders because it provides the appropriate balance between strategy development and independent oversight of management. Mr. Rowland Moriarty currently serves as the lead independent director. In this role, Mr. Moriarty serves as chairperson of the independent director sessions and assists the board in assuring effective corporate governance. 30 Committees of the Board of Directors The board of directors has the following standing committees: audit committee; compensation committee; nominating and corporate governance committee; and finance committee. The finance committee was formed and approved by our board on June 29, 2017. Each committee operates pursuant to a separate charter that has been approved by the board of directors. A current copy of each charter is available at the Corporate Governance section of our website at: http://www.virtusa.com/investors/corporate-governance/. Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Finance Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee • Advises the • Oversees our • Responsible for • Developing and board and the accounting and developing recommending company's financial executive to the board management reporting compensation criteria for regarding processes, policies and board and potential internal advising the committee corporate controls and board of membership. transactions, audit functions. directors with including respect to such • Administers strategic • Focuses on risks policies and enterprise risk investments, and issues administering management mergers, related to the Company’s program. acquisitions accounting, cash incentive, and internal stock option and • Identifies and divestitures, controls, and equity incentive oversees risks the company's financial and tax plans. and issues debt or equity reporting. associated with financings, • Identifies and director credit • Assesses oversees risks independence, arrangements, economic and and issues related party investments, business risks associated with transactions and capital and monitors our executive the structure and compliance compensation implementation capital policies. with ethical policies and of corporate standards and practices. governance applicable policies and our regulations. code of ethics. 31 Role in Risk Oversight by the Board of Directors The board of directors’ role in overseeing the management of the company’s risks is primarily accomplished through management’s reporting processes, including receiving regular reports from members of senior management on areas of material risk to the company, including operational, financial, legal and regulatory, and strategic and reputational risk and assessments and prioritization of such risks. The standing committees of our board of directors, pursuant to the respective charters, represent a key element of enterprise risk management. The nominating and corporate governance committee of our board of directors has been initially appointed by our board of directors to administer the enterprise risk management process as the enterprise risk management committee. The enterprise risk management committee provides oversight of the recommendations of management and associated timeline to identify and assess the severity of enterprise risks, the prioritization of such risks and development of any action plans to mitigate such risks. Our audit committee focuses on risks and issues related to accounting, internal controls and financial and tax reporting. The audit committee also monitors compliance with ethical standards, including conflicts of interest, related party transactions and adherence to standards of ethical conduct. The compensation committee identifies and oversees risks and issues associated with our executive compensation policies and practices, and the nominating and corporate governance committee identifies and oversees risks and issues associated with director independence, related party transactions and the implementation of corporate governance policies and our code of ethics. Oversight of particular risks may also be delegated to other committees of the board, such as the finance committee, as appropriate, based upon the nature of any particular risk. All of these committees are ultimately subject to oversight and direction of the full board of directors and report directly to the board of directors on these matters. 32 Communications with the Board of Directors Our stockholders who wish to communicate directly with the board of directors or an individual member of the board may do so by sending such communication by mail (including courier or expedited delivery service). Attention To: • Chairman of the Board (as a representative of the entire board of directors); • OR to the individual director or directors. U.S. Mailing Address: c/o Secretary Virtusa Corporation 2000 West Park Drive Westborough, Massachusetts 01581 USA Board of Directors’ Evaluation Program The board of directors performs annual self-evaluations of its composition and performance, including evaluations of its standing committees and individual evaluations for each director. In addition, each of the standing committees of the board of directors conducts its own self-evaluation, which is reported to the board of directors. The board of directors retains the authority to engage its own advisors and consultants. Additional Information Detailed information on corporate governance is available in the Proxy Filings on our website http://www.virtusa.com/ investors/annual-report-and-proxy-statement/. Information on the members of the board of directors and executive officers is available at: http://www.virtusa.com/ investors/corporate-governance/management-and-board/. 33 Ethics and Compliance Our Ethics and Compliance program is enforced through the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program, and the Whistleblower Policy. These policies are applicable to all our employees in all locations and are supported by ongoing training programs and annual certification requirements for employees. Overall responsibility for administering our Ethics and Compliance Program rests with our Compliance Officer who is also the General Counsel. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides the ethical and business standards all directors and employees of the company are expected to adhere to. The Code covers areas such as conflict of interest, confidentiality, fair dealing, money laundering and illicit finance, and anti-bribery. A current copy of the Code is available at: http://www.virtusa. com/compliance/policies/. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program Our Anti-Bribery Program is implemented through the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy and the Virtusa UK Anti-Bribery Act Policy. The policies set a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption and reaffirms our commitment to complying with all relevant anti-bribery legislation wherever we do business. Our Finance and Administrative systems are regulated to ensure that anti-corruption practices are maintained in all transactions performed within. Whistleblower Policy Employees and other interested parties can report any behavior that contravenes the Code of Ethics, any accounting irregularities or conduct that undermines the integrity of the company’s financial statements or the Anti-Bribery Policy using the Whistleblower Hotline, through a web-based submission tool or in writing. Complaints are forwarded to the Chairman of the Audit Committee as soon as reasonably practicable following receipt of such complaint. More information on the Whistleblower Hotline is available in the Audit Committee Complaints Procedure at http:// media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/irol/21/211246/corp_gov/complaint.pdf. Protection of Intellectual Property We have policies in place to protect intellectual property by ensuring that utilized software have proper licenses. In addition, we have non-disclosure and assignment of inventions agreements with all of our employees to ensure the confidentiality of our work product and title to work that we create for us or our clients. We also monitor and have rigorous software engineering standards designed to prevent or detect any use of software or intellectual property not properly owned or licensed to us. 34 Information Security and Data Privacy Cyber security has become a priority for businesses due to increasingly sophisticated threats. As a provider of IT consulting and technology services, cyber security is of paramount importance as we have access to sensitive client data in the course of business. As such, the success of our business depends on the protection of our clients’ data as well as the protection of our employee data. Our Chief Information Security Officer is responsible for information security. In addition, the Enterprise Risk Management Team is responsible for taking a 360 degree view on risks that could affect our business operations. The team executes an annual program to monitor the implementation of solutions for those areas deemed high risk for the company. Our Information Security Management Policy sets out the governance structures, monitoring, and compliance requirements for protecting client data. Our Information Security Management Program is certified for ISO 27001:2013. The Enterprise Security Team ensures that the annual re-certification is performed by a qualified external third party agency. The review examines our information security framework and comments on its strengths and weaknesses. Since the original certification in 2008, the external third party agency has not reported any material or significant observations. The most recent review was performed in August 2017. We provide guidelines and training to employees on how to handle sensitive client and business data as well as to protect intellectual property. The Chief Information Security Officer’s organization monitors and reports any breaches to the senior leadership, the Enterprise Risk Management Team, client representatives, relevant business unit heads, and human resources teams for corrective action. We do not report the total number of complaints as this information is governed by confidentiality agreements with our clients. 35 External Penetration Program The Penetration Testing Program is governed by our Global Penetration Testing Policy and is administered by the office of the Chief Information Security Officer. External penetration testing is performed by a selected and qualified service provider once every financial year. Penetration testing service providers are rotated to optimize the program. The program provides assurance that our external infrastructure is hardened to industry standards and safeguards in place are effective. Data Loss Prevention Industry accepted Data Loss Prevention (DLP) solutions have been implemented to ensure that business critical information including client information, financial information, personally identifiable information, and personal health information is not disclosed to external parties. The DLP program is jointly administered by the Chief Information Security Officer’s office and the Information Technology Team. Software Compliance We have a strong Software Compliance framework based on ISO/IEC SAM standard 19770‐1. A yearly assessment is carried out by an independent consulting firm for different publishers. Periodic Auditing Our Internal Audit Department (IAD) conducts periodic audits of the information technology infrastructure and the information security framework based on risks and request. IAD’s reports are provided to the Global Head of Information Technology and the Chief Information Security Officer for review and correction, and updates are provided to the Audit Committee during quarterly meetings. Risk Management Our Risk Management Team, headed by the Head of Risk Management, applies risk management frameworks to identify any risks to our operations, including risks related to laws and regulations, reputation, customer behavior and requirements, and weather/climate change. While these risks are considered at the company level, we also undertake significant advanced planning at contract, asset, and geographic location level. Risks from extreme weather conditions due to climate change such as heatwaves, drought, storms and floods are assessed under our Business Continuity Risk Assessment guided by ISO 22301. For instance, Chennai and Sri Lanka have been affected by floods in the recent past. The severe flooding that occurred in Chennai in December 2015 shut down our facilities and impacted our operations so that business continuity plans were enforced to mitigate the impact to our business and employees. In 2016, Sri Lanka was affected by floods, which did not impact our operations directly, but did impact our employees and their wellbeing. The results of risks related to climate change and the action plans are presented annually to the executive board and to the audit committee, and conclusions reported to the board of directors. Detailed information on risks and opportunities from climate change are provided in our CDP response, which is available at: https://www.cdp.net/en/ responses/20186. 36 Environmental Stewardship B 14% 10,269 Carbon Disclosure energy obtained kilograms of Project from renewable e-waste handed Performance Band sources over for recycling 12% 42% reduction in water used was 10,184 emissions per recycled kilograms of paper employee since handed over for FY13*** recycling 22% reduction in energy per employee since FY13 *** All data is for FY17 unless indicated. 37 Our Strategy and Approach The significant environmental aspects of our business operations such as emissions, energy and water usage, and disposal of waste material are managed through Code Green, our environmental management system. Since we started monitoring and measuring our environmental footprint in 2008, we have been able to consistently improve our environmental performance. Our commitment to reducing our environmental footprint and adhering to all environmental regulations is set out in the following policies: Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Energy Policy, Climate Change Policy, Waste Policy, and Water Policy. These policies were formulated in 2013 and are reviewed annually. Our environmental strategy focuses on three areas: operating energy efficient facilities that reduce our environmental footprint, reducing the environmental footprint of software developed for clients and researching on energy improvement technologies. While our Chief Operating Officer is accountable for our overall environmental strategy, the Facilities Management teams in each location manage day to day activities related to environmental management such as tracking emissions, energy and water usage, recycling activities, ISO14001 certification and aspects of environmental reporting. We seek certification to ensure transparency and adherence to international standards. Our technology centers in India and Sri Lanka, which constitute 85% of our real estate, is certified for ISO 14001 by the British Standards Institute. In addition, 35% of our real estate is certified for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). 38 Data Computational Methods Environmental data is only gathered and monitored for our technology centers in India and Sri Lanka, which account for approximately 75% of our total headcount. In FY17, monitoring and reporting on environmental aspects was expanded to six technology centers from Polaris Consulting. We follow the guidelines set by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We have used FY13 (April 2013 to March 2014) as our baseline year. Information on employee numbers is based on the employee’s current location. This provides a more accurate figure than using the headcount based on the permanent location as it takes into account employees who are working at client sites and who do not contribute to emissions in our offices. For FY17, we used the following emission factors: Location Emission Factor Unit Reference India 960 grams CO2/kWh CEA CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector (2016) Sri Lanka 721 grams CO2/kWh Sri Lanka Energy Balance 2014 To calculate Scope 3 emissions from air travel and employee commute, we used the World Resources Institute (2015) GHG Protocol tool for mobile combustion version 2.6. From 2014 onwards, we have received limited assurance under ISAE3000 from Ernst & Young for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions calculations. Since 2016, we have extended external verification to our Scope 3 emissions as well. Managing Impacts Emissions Our main source of emissions is from the usage of purchased electricity, and to a lesser extent from business travel (both air travel and road travel). Emissions from the usage of diesel generators form a minute percentage of our emissions (see Chart: Percentage Breakdown of Emission for FY17). While we have been able to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per employee by 12% from our baseline year of FY13, during the reporting period emissions per employee remained unchanged at 1.34 MTCO2eq from FY16. This was due to the inclusion of six facilities from Polaris Consulting as well as increase in emission factors. Emissions factors for India increased from 926 to 960 and emissions factors for Sri Lanka increased from 546 to 720. Emissions per dollar revenue increased by 15%. In order to further reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, future goals include purchasing renewable energy to offset 10% of our total energy consumption. We have improved the quality and scope of the transport services offered to our employees through improved shuttle services. In addition, air travel for business requirements has increased, especially due to activities related to the acquisition of Polaris Consulting. Both these factors have increased our absolute Scope 3 emissions. Measures to reduce the impact from business air travel include the use of audio and video conferencing. Measures to reduce impact from road travel include the use of an automated system to track and manage shuttle services, the use of optimized transport routes and where possible the use of hybrid vehicles for transporting employees. 39 Energy As an IT services company, approximately 70% of our emissions are generated from the use of electricity in our offices. We initiated our energy management program in April 2008. We have optimized our energy usage through space and server consolidation as well as the use of building management systems (BMS) and energy efficient products. In 2012, we implemented an initiative to convert the lighting systems in the technology centers to LED and LED lighting has now been adopted as our standard lighting and will be used for all new spaces. We also have a policy to hibernate or switchoff idle machines wherever possible. Due to the above measures, we achieved a 22% reduction in per employee energy consumption over our baseline year of FY13. The intensity of energy consumption per employee reduced from 187 kWh in FY13 to 146 kWh in FY17. However, the intensity of energy consumption per employee increased from 140 kWh in FY16 to 146 kWh in FY17 due to expansion in business operations and the inclusion of six faclities from Polaris Consulting. Water As a services company, our operations are not water-intensive. Water is used mainly for drinking, hygiene, facility operations and landscaping. However, we seek to be responsible in our water consumption, especially since we have operations in locations that face water stress. Water is obtained mainly from ground water, private suppliers and the municipal water supply. As such, we believe that our operations do not affect water sources significantly. The water management data provided in this report is for six of our technology centers in India and Sri Lanka and does not include drinking water, which we do not target for reduction. In FY17, per employee water usage increased by 4.5% to 0.69kl compared to 0.66kl in our baseline year of FY13. Total water used in FY17 amounted to 106,757.00kl. Strategies for water management include more efficient water usage in facilities maintenance and creating awareness among employees about conserving water. At present, we are able to recycle waste water only at three technology centers. In FY17, 45,218.00kl of water was recycled, which amounted to 42% of our total use. The Hyderabad Campus also has rain water harvesting facilities with two tanks of 50kl and 75kl. Waste As an IT services company, e-waste forms a large component of the byproduct of our operations. As a result, we have in place a program to hand over e-waste to a certified vendor for recycling. We are one of 14 companies to sign an MOU with the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) of Sri Lanka to properly and effectively manage e-waste. We were also the first IT company in Sri Lanka to receive a Scheduled Waste Management License from the CEA. In FY17, we also donated CFL bulbs for recycling. Another source of waste from our operations is paper. We have reduced paper usage through several measures such as duplex printing and purchasing farmed paper. All departments are encouraged to use paperless forms, notifications and reports wherever possible. Waste paper is handed over to a certified vendor for recycling. Apart from the types of waste mentioned above, no other waste was handed over for recycling during the reporting period. 40 Emissions Data 1.8 1.6 1.4 1.2 1 0.8 1.53 1.50 1.26 1.34 1.35 0.6 0.4 0.2 0 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Emissions per Employee (Metric Tonnes CO2e) 1% 26% 73% Scope 1: Fuel (Diesel) Scope 2: Grid power Scope 3: Business air travel and road travel Percentage Breakdown of Emissions for FY17 (Metric Tonnes CO2e) FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Scope 1: Fuel (Diesel) 412.151 102.981 71.51 44.38 350.12 Scope 2: Grid power 192,82.219 11,830.786 9,487.94 9,341.69 9,317.55 Scope 3: Business air travel and road travel 6,781.382 4,616.684 2,503.73 2,171.01 2,340.24 Total GHG emissions 26,475.752 16,550.451 12,063.18 11,557.08 12,007.91 Table: Total Direct and Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Weight (Metric Tonnes CO2e) FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Emissions from air travel 2,180.813 3,006.880 1,302.65 1,922.54 2,115.21 Emissions from road travel 4,600.569 1,609.804 1,201.08 248.47 225.03 Total Scope 3 emissions 6,781.382 4,616.684 2,503.73 2,171.01 2,340.24 Table: Breakdown of Scope 3 Emissions (Metric Tonnes CO2e) 41 Energy Data 200 180 22% 160 140 120 100 187 80 154 140 140 146 60 40 20 0 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Graph: Energy Consumption (kWh per employee) 6% 14% 80% Non-renewable Renewable Diesel generator Chart: Percentage Breakdown of Energy for FY17 FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Fuel consumption from non-renewable sources 5,562.503 1,389.869 965.106 598.932 4,697.784 diesel fuel Electricity from renewable sources wind 12,696.167 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Electricity from non-renewable sources 73,807.182 52,392.633 45,066.290 43,493.400 43,580.916 Total energy consumption 92,065.852 53,782.503 46,031.396 44,092.332 48,278.700 Table: Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption in Gigajoules 42 Water Data FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 Total water used 106,757.00 36,024.13 39,279.00 29,929.00 31,414.02 Total water recycled* 45,218 11,113.00 14,284.00 9,173.00 1,528.00 Table: Water Used and Recycled in Kiloliters *Water is recycled only at three technology centers. E-waste Waste FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 E-waste 10,269.42 19,520.80 9,561.96 2,314.50 7,519.50 Table: Hazardous Waste Recycled in Kilograms Paper Data FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13* Paper used 18,994 15,073 10,033 3,620 4,820 Paper recycled 10,184 10,263 4,476 2,487 4,234 Percentage recycled 54% 68% 44% 69% 88% Table: Paper Recycled in Kilograms 43 Spreading the Green Message Earth Hour Employees in all locations observe Earth Hour as an annual event. As the official Earth Hour is held on a Saturday, nonessential lights and equipment are switched off for one hour during a working day. Some locations observe Earth Hour at the official time. In 2017, we were able to save 47% of hourly energy used. Many employees also pledged to observe Earth Hour at individual level in their homes and took part in the tree planting campaigns organized at several of our offices. World Environment Day World Environment Day (WED) is an annual event that our employees across the globe observe. Activities for WED include tree planting, vehicle emission testing, walkathons, etc. 44 Cyclothon A cyclothon was organized by Virtusa Chennai on March 04, 2017. The 40km ride emphasised the theme “Go Green. Ride a Bicycle”. More than 100 Virtusans participated in the rally. 45 Carpooling In January 2016, we initiated a project to promote carpooling among employees at our Hyderabad Campus. During the reporting period, this was extended to other technology centers in India resulting in a total of 105,286.00 rides helping employees to avoid 48.3 MTCO2eq (53.3 tons). 46 Our People 17,750 80% 889K USD people across the of our workforce invested in globe* are millennials employee training and development 68% 28% average employee of workforce are 75% delight index for women target of grooming FY17 leadership from within * Does not include contract and outsourced employees. ** All data is for FY17 unless indicated. 47 Our Strategy and Approach We seek to maintain a culture of innovation by empowering our team members at all levels of our organization. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly-skilled and multi-dimensional team members. As at March 31, 2017, we had a headcount of 17,750 permanent employees as compared with a headcount of 18,226 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. We are committed to ensuring the protection of human rights and maintaining a harassment free workplace. As such, we strive to maintain a workplace that complies with all applicable laws and regulations and also have in place relevant policies and procedures. Our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy prohibits any form of discrimination based on race, color, religion, creed, national origin, ancestry, sex, age, qualified mental or physical disability, sexual orientation, genetic carrier status, any veteran status, any military service, any application for any military service and other areas protected by law. We also have geo-specific Harassment Free Workplace policies to ensure compliance with legal requirements. In addition, we have implemented a Privacy Policy to protect personal information from being disclosed by our employees. As a technology services company child labor, forced and bonded labor, slavery and human traficking are not significant risk factors in our operations. However, we are cognizant of these threats and have in place relevant policies and procedures to ensure that our business and supply chain are not complicit in such human rights abuses. As such, our Social Responsibility Policy and Supplier Guidelines prohibits the use of child labor, forced and bonded labor, and modern slavery. In addition, we implemented the Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy in April 2017 to specifically address the issues of modern slavery and human trafficking. The Global Head of HR is responsible for all labor practices with location HR leaders reporting to him. Within location HR, separate teams focus on specific areas such as recruitment, training, career development, and compensation and benefits. The HR team is also responsible for investigating any violations related to HR policies and procedures. Nurturing a Millennial Workforce More than 80% of our employees are millennials, the generation of people born after 1984, who have grown up in an environment guided by social media and mobility. Managing this “wired” generation of employees has created the need for newer ways of working. As a result, our work environment is characterized by an emphasis on collaboration, learning and innovation. Through our V+ platform, employees can learn, share and co-create with colleagues as well as clients. Learning mechanisms include activity based classroom learning, online learning, gamification, crowd-sourcing, TechTalks, learning circles, use of Yammer, and coaching to ensure a distinctive millennial experience in learning and development. Each team member has a practice and segment, which identifies the technical skills and domain skills required for the current role. Role based training is available to ensure that any team member can get the required training for the current and future job roles. Role based training runs the gamut of domain-related programs, technical upskilling, and soft skills such as professional and leadership skills. Our aim is to fulfill 65% of positions from within, and this is supported through the graduate fast tracker programs, leadership trainee programs and internship programs across locations in order to strengthen the internal pipeline with identified high potential individuals. 48 Programs for Talent Development and Learning Employee Development Programs for New Talent Leadership Grooming Programs • Virtusa Frontline Leadership • Graduate Fast Track Program • Stretch Role: Team members are Program (VFL): The program helps (GFP): The program is designed to required to perform the ‘next each Practice to develop a identify and attract high potential level job role’ for a period of six leadership pipeline and also help fresh graduates to the company. months while performing at the team members to fast track their current role. Role stretch • International Summer Internship careers. performance is extensively Program: The program is aimed at monitored and is a mandatory • Frontline Leadership Program: students studying abroad and pre-requisite for promotion. The program helps to enhance the focuses on developing potential leadership potential of the second leaders for second level leadership • Global Exposure: Team members level senior leadership tier of the positions. are provided with frequent organization. opportunities through secondments, short term • Future Architect Program: The assignments and allocation to program develops a pipeline for onsite projects to play a global technical leadership in the core role across geos. practice and recognizes participants who bring out the • Executive Mentoring: One-to-one most innovative idea at the final mentoring sessions are conducted challenge. with an allocated mentor at senior leadership level. A minimum of six • Global Leadership Program: The mentoring sessions should be program aims to attract and to completed by each individual. hire top talent globally. • Leadership Quotient Index (LQI): • The GOLD Program: The program LQI is the formal succession focuses on upskilling senior planning initiative that focuses on leadership team members. identifying and developing high • PM Future Leaders Program: The potential individuals for the next program focuses on enhancing the level of leadership. leadership capabilities and • Individual Development Plan maturity of the project (IDP): Team members who are management community through above Tier 0 and Tier 1 are learning programs, coaching, required to have an Individual individual presentations and Development Plan (IDP) available weekly delivery reviews. for themselves and for their respective successor. To ensure continued employability, we have initiatives for job rotations and track change. Job rotation opportunities are provided to ensure employees have the opportunity to cross skill in numerous job verticals, ensuring the next level of leaders are consistently groomed internally. Any employee has the opportunity to change their track by following the formal track change process. 49 Employee Engagement and Recognition Channels of employee engagement range from company-wide updates and town hall sessions to open social media forums such as Yammer. These are supplemented by multiple surveys such as the Internal Service Group Survey that allows employees to provide feedback on all service groups within the company. Employees also have the opportunity to provide their feedback through pulse check surveys conducted periodically during their career (e.g. On-boarding Survey, 5th Month Survey, 18th Month Survey and Exit Survey). The input from these surveys is reviewed to arrive at solutions to create a great place to work. None of our team members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. This is partly due to the open communication and cordial relations maintained with employees, which includes an open door policy as well as the transparent and open channels of communication that are encouraged across all levels. V+ Platform V+, our proprietary social business platform, has transformed the way employees work, learn, share and connect ultimately improving business agility, productivity and innovation. V+ creates a millennial work environment by providing a social experience akin to applications like YouTube, Google, Facebook, LinkedIn and Wikipedia. It also uses social practices such as gamification and crowdsourcing to create an engaging platform. Yammer V+ provides a vibrant platform for employee engagement through Yammer. Utilizing social media for employee engagement has proved to be a hit where employees, irrespective of role or designation, can share ideas, request for information, share items of interest, and even conduct surveys and publish company announcements. Overall, Yammer provides a transparent channel that enables intra-personal communication, a free-flow of ideas and even a forum for recognition and appreciation. CHANNELS OF EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT • Company updates • V+ (Yammer, RAVE) • On-boarding Survey • 5th Month Survey and 18 Month Survey • Internal Service Group Survey • Exit Survey • Facebook • Voice of Europe 50 RAVE RAVE is a 360 degree recognition and appreciation portal that allows employees to thank, recognize and reward contributions by their colleagues. RAVE incorporates gamification, badges and leaderboards to enhance employee recognition and morale. Employee Delight Index The Employee Delight Index (EDI) is an index of a combination of key metrics that the HR management and the business tracks based on the employee lifecycle. The direct feedback on engagement from an HR management perspective gives a snapshot of how well received the engagement initiatives have been. A series of structured employee engagement surveys measured on a quarterly basis is incorporated into an index called the Employee Delight Index (EDI). Each geographic location, Strategic Business Unit (SBU) and practice is measured quarterly on the EDI score in order to measure employee engagement. The surveys used to compute the EDI are: Onboarding Survey, Five Month Completion Survey, 18th Month Survey, Exit Survey and Internal Service Excellence Survey (for shared services). The average EDI for FY17 was 68%. Employee engagement levels are measured through a Net Promoter Score (NPS). 51 Performance Management All employees in our permanent cadre have regular performance appraisals, on which career development, compensation and promotions are based. We recruit, develop, measure and reward based on a structured, performance based approach. Our performance philosophy is deeply embedded in the achievement of business goals, competency assessments (behavioral and technical), as well as employee engagement in the case of senior managers. 360 degree assessments are conducted for the leadership (managers and above), and the input supports individual development plans and promotions. All leaders at manager-level and above are also assessed for behavioral indicators using the Harrison Assessment Test. In addition, we have also created platforms where individual achievement is highlighted, such as the Personal Excellence Program (PEP) for all our engineers to promote engineering excellence and the opportunity to recognize innovations through vInnovate. We also have leaderboards which provide transparent performance scores, visibility and ranking. They drive competition, thereby, improving overall performance and build reputation for agile revenue growth. Our compensation philosophy rewards performance by linking both variable compensation and salary increases to performance. Benefit plans vary by location, depending on legal requirements. More information on benefit plans is available on page 128 of our 2017 Annual Report (Post-retirement Benefits). We closely monitor our overall attrition rates and patterns to ensure our people management strategy aligns with our growth objectives. For the last twelve months ended March 31, 2017, our attrition rate reflects voluntary attrition of 14.5% and involuntary attrition of 12.9%, which includes 8.5% related to implementation of certain cost saving and restructuring initiatives. We follow a systemic approach to control attrition and increase retention. We have a robust tool called “Proactive Attrition Warning System” which is rigorously managed by the Business Unit HR teams. This lever enables us to stall attrition and plug it with appropriate customized developmental initiatives. Our amicable exit policy consists of a formal granular exit interview which is more than a retention discussion. 52 Diversity We value diversity in nationality, gender and the differently abled. We have in place an Equal Employment Opportunity Policy to ensure a workplace free from discrimination, harassment or any type of abuse. We aim to have a balanced ratio of men to women in the workforce even though the participation of women is low in the IT industry as a whole. At present, women comprise 28% of our overall global workforce. Women of Virtusa The Women of Virtusa (WoV) initiative was launched in March 2012 in an effort to facilitate longer, more fruitful careers for our female team members. WoV objectives are to: • Increase the gender diversity hiring ratio across levels (Fresher Middle Management Leadership) • Create a platform for women to learn, share, exchange ideas and build leadership skills • Measure the impact of gender diversity hiring and attrition data (long term strategy) WoV has a committee at each technology center and offers our female employees an opportunity to network and promotes the success of women within the company and within the IT industry. Building on the focus area for FY16/FY17, which was a study of salary ratios, promotion ratios, attrition and recruitment analysis for women at Virtusa, the focus for FY18 has been the development of the Women in Leadership Program. This program will focus on leadership skills such as smarter communication, confidence building and emotional intelligence and augment the leadership grooming programs within the company. We also have a second career initiative where women are offered to initiate a new career after a break (family reasons) of a few years. This has enhanced the retention of women and ensures long careers with us. 53 Health and Safety We strive to provide a safe and secure work environment for our employees. Our focus in FY17 was to obtain OHSAS 18001 certification for six additional technology centers in India increasing the total number of certified technology centers to eleven. The HR and Facilities teams in each location are responsible for the health and safety aspects within the organization. Training on environment, health and safety is provided as part of our on-boarding program, and all employees are assessed on their knowledge of these tools. Basic training on First Aid and Fire Safety is available to employees on a voluntary basis. Work-Life Balance We have multiple policies that support work-life balance. These include flexible time and work-from-home policies, paid maternity, extended maternity leave (on a case by case basis), and child adoption leave. Paternity leave is available as sanctioned by the legal requirements of the geo. In India, where we have the largest operational footprint, we provide paid paternity leave. Since paternity leave is sanctioned by law only for government employees in India, this provides our team members with additional time off with their families. In FY17, 282 women utilized maternity leave, while 449 men utlilized paternity leave. Note: Data on maternity leave is reported only for India, Sri Lanka and the United Kingdom, while data on paternity leave is reported only for India and Sri Lanka. We hope to extend reporting to other locations in future. Policy Against Alcohol, Drugs and Substance Abuse The Prevention of Alcohol, Drugs and Substance Abuse Policy was released October 2016. The policy seeks to ensure a safe and healthy work environment for employees, and prohibits the consumption of alcohol or drugs/substances at work or working under the influence of alcohol or drugs (other than for legitimate medical reasons). 54 Encouraging Talent in Sports Sports and extra-curricular activities are an important part of employee engagement. Cricket, rugby, football, badminton, table tennis, athletics and chess are all sports where employees take part in mercantile championships. Table Tennis • Won the Men’s Championship and the Men’s Doubles at the Inter IT Company Table Tennis Tournament • Runners up in the Women’s Championship and the Women’s Doubles • Won the Mixed Doubles Futsal • Named ‘Top Group’ at the Mercantile Futsal Tournament Badminton • Placed third in the Mercantile Badminton Association Inter-Firm Team Badminton Championships Chess • Won Bronze at the Mercantile and Government Service Chess Championship e-Sports • Champions at the Mercantile e-Sports Championships Women’s Rugby • Runners-up in the Mercantile 7s rugby tournament 55 56 People Data Total Workforce India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APMEA ANZ Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Permanent 8504 3674 1775 890 1822 278 291 50 303 75 75 13 Cadre Contract 1 138 64 211 18 37 4 15 3 1 Outsourced 265 57 33 2 208 37 36 4 21 7 6 Table: Total Workforce by Employment Contract, Gender and Region (FY17) New Hires in FY17 India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APMEA ANZ Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Under 30 1312 743 180 92 70 21 13 4 24 13 4 2 30–49 801 202 54 15 271 44 34 11 41 15 14 2 Over 50 5 1 49 3 3 3 1 1 Table: Total Number of New Hires by Age Group, Gender, and Region (FY17) EmployeeTurnover in FY17 India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APMEA ANZ Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Under 30 665 541 209 118 35 4 44 3 8 30–49 510 117 120 59 134 19 72 10 20 3 Over 50 5 1 55 9 7 1 1 Table: Employee Turnover by Age Group, Gender, and Region (FY17) Note: Data on employee turnover is only provided for regular employees and does not include data from Polaris Consulting. We hope to report this data in future. 57 Diversity India Sri Lanka US & Europe US Other APMEA ANZ Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Tier 0–Tier 1 86% 14% 86% 14% 89% 11% 89% 11% 85% 15% 100% 0% Tier 2–Tier 4 66% 34% 64% 36% 82% 18% 81% 19% 79% 21% 77% 23% Table: Percentage of Employees by Gender and Level (FY17) India Sri Lanka US Europe APAC Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Tier 0 1.04 1.00 0.96 1.00 1.10 1.00 1.10 1.00 0.98 1.00 Tier 1 1.08 1.00 1.12 1.00 1.05 1.00 1.05 1.00 0.84 1.00 Tier 2 1.05 1.00 1.18 1.00 1.04 1.00 1.01 1.00 1.04 1.00 Tier 3 1.05 1.00 1.22 1.00 1.06 1.00 1.04 1.00 1.04 1.00 Tier 4 1.11 1.00 1.09 1.00 1.16 1.00 1.06 1.00 1.20 1.00 Table: Ratio of Basic Salary and Remuneration of Women to Men at Significant Locations of Operation (FY17)* *Significant locations of operations is defined as locations where headcount is >=300 Training Data Sri Lanka US Europe Tier 0 2.0 9.4 3.7 Tier 1 6.0 7.2 3.1 Tier 2 8.0 6.0 4.6 Tier 3 6.0 3.1 5.9 Tier 4 32.0 14.1 3.5 Tier 5 4.0 9.7 Table: Average Hours of Training per Year per Employee by Employee Category (FY17) Note: Average training hours per employee in FY17 for India was 21.40 hours. A tier-wise breakdown of training data is not available for India due to the integration of data from Polaris Consulting and Virtusa. We hope to report this data in future. Legend: Tier 0 Top Management/Senior Management; Tier 1 Manager Level; Tier 2 Middle Management; Tier 3 Entry Level Middle Management; Tier 4 Executive/Engineer Level 58 Awards and Recognition for HR Practices Candidate Experience Award 2017 from the Talent Board in recognition for candidate experience excellence in North America Named as one of Britain’s Top Employers for seven consecutive years by the Top Employers Institute from 2011 to 2017 Award for Excellence in HR Practices at the SLASSCOM Awards 2016 National HR Excellence Gold Award at the National HR Conference in Sri Lanka 59 IT for Good Social Responsibility Focus Three Pillars Making talent future ready Creating a digitally-inclusive society Technology for good 60 Our Strategy and Approach We believe in using our skills and knowledge to create a digitally-inclusive society. Our strong culture of volunteerism means that many employees offer their time, knowledge and skills to drive our corporate social responsibility projects. Our corporate social responsibility initiatives fall under three pillars: Campus Reach, Tech Reach and Digital Reach. The Campus Reach initiative is an industry-academia partnership designed to support the next generation of IT professionals to be workforce ready and thereby contribute to the growth of the IT industry. Campus Reach includes support on curriculum development, an internship program, mentoring for final year projects and Academic Excellence Awards. Through Tech Reach, we use our software development and consulting expertise to contribute to projects of social benefit. Through Tech Reach, we have partnered with government and non-governmental organizations to develop software solutions that range from disaster management to school adminstration. Through Digital Reach we aim to create a digitally inclusive society by IT-enabling communities. We helped set up a Digital Learning Center (DLC) for war rehabilitees in Sri Lanka, and also set up over 70 IT labs in rural schools in India and Sri Lanka. In 2015, we set up a CSR Committee to oversee corporate social responsibility activities across our Indian operations. The committee has identified the following Youth For Seva (YFS) projects to support: • Support four Abhyasika: YFS runs 19 Abhyasikas (after school tuition centers) at several slum areas across Hyderabad reaching over 700 children and their families. We provide support for four such Abhyasikas with a student reach of 94. • Support for one Computer Center: YFS Hyderabad runs a Skill Development Center (computer training for now) for unemployed youth at various slums in Hyderabad. An additional center was started in 2016/17 with the support of Virtusa. The center has 126 students and provides courses in C, C++, Microsoft Office, online banking, cashless payments and hardware networking. • School Kits: YFS Hyderabad supports many school children by providing a school kit, which consists of a school bag, year planner, five notebooks, pens/pencils, dictionary, water bottle and a label sheet. The aim of the project is to reduce the rate of school drop-outs by providing students from under-resourced backgrounds with basic stationery. In 2016/17, we sponsored 1200 school kits. 61 62 Digital Reach Supports the SDGs Digital Reach aims to create a digitally-inclusive society by IT enabling communities in Sri Lanka and India. Digital Learning Center to IT labs in rural schools in train war rehabilitants India and Sri Lanka Sponsorship for Elizabeth Moir Support for Youth for school in the First Global Seva Computer Center Robotics Challenge Support for Audio/visual class room for Computer Shiksha Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya 70+ 200,000 IT training hours for 126 Students reached through IT labs for schools war rehabilitants YFS Computer Center 63 Tech Reach Supports the SDGs Through Tech Reach we utilize our software development and consulting expertise to contribute to projects of social beneﬁt. Tech Reach projects include the following: Rehabilitation Management System Disaster management system developed after Solution developed to expedite the the tsunami in 2004. Deployed around the re-integration of war rehabilitees in Sri Lanka world for disaster management. and manage their vocational training needs. 117 Disaster Management App Open source school management system to Solution developed to facilitate better tracking help schools manage their administrative tasks and responsiveness to requests for aid during more eﬃciently. the 2016 ﬂoods in Sri Lanka. Clean Chennai App Scalable app for the Clean Chennai initiative Phase II of RMS so that it can be re-purposed developed in collaboration with the SWM and for substance abuse rehabilitation. EDP team of Corporation of Chennai. 64 Community Outreach Projects Trail 2016 Charity Walk Team members from Virtusa Sri Lanka took part in the Trail 2016 charity walk. Team members walked a total distance of 41 kilometers over two days. Trail is a 670 km, 28-day long walk from the North of Sri Lanka to the South of Sri Lanka and aims to raise money to build a cancer treatment facility at the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital in Galle. 65 Project Management Community Outreach The Project Management Competency Excellence Group (PMCEG) at Virtusa Sri Lanka donated hampers with school supplies to Aranayake Hathgampola Vidyalaya, whose 250+ students were severely affected by the landslides in May 2016. The students from grade 1-5, lost their homes and possessions, due to the landslides which were documented as one of the worst landslides to hit Sri Lanka in the past 24 years. In October, the PMCEG and well wishers donated medicines to the patients at the National Cancer Hospital in Maharagama. 66 Indianapolis Innovation Center Team Members Give Back to the Community Team members from the Indianapolis Innovation Center took part in various volunteer activities in order to give back to the community. At the Lilly Global Day of Service, volunteers cleaned up green spaces and planted trees to improve the city’s greenways. Team members also volunteered at the Gleaners food bank, where they performed multiple jobs that included scanning incoming food donations, sorting and separating 6,000+ pounds of non-food donations, running a pallet jack in the walk-in freezer and breaking down tall pallets of cereal so that they would fit on the racks. Overall, it was a great opportunity to give back to the local community in a way that has a direct impact. Lilly Global Day of Service Gleaners Food Bank 67 In the Spotlight Virtusans Who Volunteer The backbone of our CSR initiatives has always been our employees who generously volunteer their time and skills for the betterment of society. Whether it be corporate CSR initiatives or individual commitments, their passion to make a difference shines through. Below are two inspiring individuals from team Virtusa who have been generous with their time. Michael Picard Cycles for the Pan-Mass Challenge Michael Picard, Vice President-Client Services, has been cycling for the Pan-Mass Challenge (PMC) for 12 years in support of finding a cure for cancer. The Pan-Mass Challenge is a non-profit event that raises money for life-saving cancer research and treatment at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute through an annual bike-a-thon. It is the largest athletic fundraiser in the United States and the most charitable dollar raiser single event in the country. In their efforts to fight cancer, the PMC has raised over $547 million since 1980 through the commitment of volunteer riders like Michael. Over his 12 years of riding the PMC, Michael has raised $51,000 dollars and his team, team PowerCure, has raised over $550,000 dollars. In Michael’s words, “I ride for the people I know and the ones I don’t but more importantly I train and ride in support of the PMC to do what I can to help find a cure for cancer!” Left: Michael Picard. Right Gopalkrishnan Subramaniam. Gopalakrishnan Subramanian Spearheads Sustainability Projects in the Community Gopalakrishnan Subramanian (Gopal), Head of Risk Management and Center Head Chennai, is a strong activist for achieving sustainability and has carried out multiple initiatives towards this goal. These include the restoration of a park for public use, as well as raising funds to provide GPS equipment and training to community fishermen. Gopal, together with his neighborhood society, has reduced energy consumption in his area by adopting energy efficient lighting and pumping devices, while conducting awareness sessions on how residents can use more energy efficient solutions. He is also an avid biker and runner, and participates in cycling tours and marathons and is at the forefront of CSR activities at Virtusa’s Chennai technology center. When Chennai was affected by severe floods in 2015, Gopal worked tirelessly to ensure the safety of our team members and spearheaded the flood relief activities at the Chennai technology center. 68 Awards and Recognition for Corporate Social Responsibility Sahana won the Free Software Foundation Award for Projects of Social Beneﬁt (2006) Sahana was selected as a ﬁnalist in the Secretary of State Award for Corporate Excellence (2008) RMS and Vavuniya DLC were nominated in the Computerworld Honors Program Laureate (2011) Àkura won the Digital Opportunity Award at the WITSA Global ICT Excellence Awards (2012) RMS and Vavuniya DLC were featured as a case study in UN Global Compact Responsible Business Advancing Peace (2013) RMS and Vavuniya DLC won the Special Award for Emergency Response at the 18th Annual Japan Sri Lanka Technical and Cultural Association (JASTECA) Awards (2013) Virtusa won the Excellence in Capacity Building Award at the SLASSCOM Awards (2016) 69 Global Compact Principles and GRI Indicator Mapping Category UNGC Principle GRI Indicators Page Principle 1: Businesses should support and Disclosures on Management Approach: 48, 53 respect the protection of internationally Human Rights, Diversity and Equal proclaimed human rights; and Opportunity Human Rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure G4-12, 19, 48, 53 that they are not complicit in human rights Disclosures on Management Approach: abuses. Human Rights, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the G4-11 50 freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: Businesses should uphold G4-12, 19, 48 the elimination of all forms of forced or Generic Disclosures on Management Labour compulsory labour; Approach: Human Rights, Forced Labor Standards Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the G4-12, 19, 48 effective abolition of child labour; and Disclosures on Management Approach: Human Rights, Child Labor Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the Generic Disclosures on Management 48, 53 elimination of discrimination in respect of Approach: Non-Discrimination employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a Disclosures on Management Approach: 38, 39, 40 precautionary approach to environmental Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste, Transport challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should Disclosures on Management Approach: 38-46 undertake initiatives to promote greater Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste, Transport Environment environmental responsibility; and G4-E3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4EN10, G4-15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN23, G4-EN30 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage Disclosures on Management Approach: 39, 40 the development and diffusion of Energy, Water, Emissions, Waste, Transport environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work G4-56, G4-SO4, 28, 34 Anti against corruption in all its forms, including Disclosures on Management Approach: AntiCorruption extortion and bribery. Corruption 70 GRI Reporting Framework G4 (Core): Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 3 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization 6 Full description G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 7 available at: http://www.virtusa.com/ G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations G4-6 6 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 G4-8 Markets served 7, 9 G4-9 Scale of the organization 7, 9, 57 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender 57 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 50 agreements G4-12 Desciption of supply chain 18, 19 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the G4-13 7 organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 38 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes 17 or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and G4-16 17 national or international advocacy organizations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial G4-17 14 statements or equivalent documents SEC Filings 2017 Form 10K G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries 14 (Page 162 Exhibit 21.1) G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 16 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 14 Restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the G4-22 16 reasons for such restatements Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope G4-23 7, 14 and aspect boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 15 71 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to G4-25 15 engage Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of G4-26 15 whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder G4-27 15 engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 14 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 14 G4-30 Reporting cycle 14 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 14 G4-32 The selected ‘in accordance’ option 14 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance G4-33 16 for the report GOVERNANCE Full details available in Proxy Statement Governance structure of the organization, including committees of (http://www. G4-34 29-32 the highest governance body virtusa.com/ investors/annualreportand-proxystatement/) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes G4-56 6, 34 of conduct and codes of ethics PECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 8 G4-EC1 Report the direct economic value generated and distributed 9 Available in our CDP response (https:// G4-EC2 Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change www.cdp.net/en/ responses/20186) CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 38, 40 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 40, 42 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 40, 42 Reductions in energy consumption achieved as a result of G4-EN6 40, 42 conservation and efficiency initiatives ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 38, 40 G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawl by source 43 Reported partially 72 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 40 G4-EN10 Total volume of water recycled and reused 40, 43 ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 38, 39 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 39, 41 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 39, 41 G4-EN17 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 39, 41 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity ratio. 39, 41 GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives G4-EN19 39 to reduce emissions ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 38, 40 Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste by weight and disposal G4-EN23 43 method ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 28 G4-EN29 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 28 ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 39 Significant impacts of transporting products and other goods G4-EN30 and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting 39, 41 members of the workforce CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 48-51 Total number and rate of new employee hires and total employee G4-LA1 57 turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 54 Reported partially ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 48-51 ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 54 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach. 48 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per employee by employee category 58 Percentage of employees who receive regular performance and G4-LA11 52 career development review ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach. 53 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees G4-LA12 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 29, 58 group membership, and other indicators of diversity 73 ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach. 53 Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men by G4-LA13 58 employee category, by significant locations of operation. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 48 ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 19, 48 ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 19, 48, SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 61-64 Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 61 engagement ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 28, 34 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and G4-SO4 3, 34 procedures ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 28 Total number of legal actions pending or completed during the G4-SO7 reporting period regarding anti-competitive behavior and violations 28 of anti-trust and monopoly legislation ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach. 28, 34 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonG4-SO8 28 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 21, 22 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 22 ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 35, 36 Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning G4-PR8 35 breaches of customer privacy ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 21-26, G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 34-36 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws G4-PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and 28 services 74 © 2017 All rights reserved. Virtusa and all other related logos are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Virtusa Corporation in the United States, the European Union, and/or India. All other company and service names are the property of their respective holders and may be registered trademarks or trademarks in the United States and/or other countries. Photographs on pages 12, 18, 21, 35 and 38, and all icons from Freepik.com. Photographs of Virtusa sports teams from ThePapare.com 75
