SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BEIJER ALMA 2016 Beijer Alma’s ultimate objective is to create added value ABOUT BEIJER ALMA for its customers, shareholders, business partners and employees. We must create this added value without compromising our aspirations concerning quality and sustainable development. Accordingly, environmental responsibility, social responsibility and a high level of business ethics are natural elements of our daily operations and of the Group’s long-term strategy. INVOICING PROFIT AFTER NET FINANCIAL ITEMS OPERATING MARGIN MSEK MSEK % 4,000 500 20 3,500 3,000 375 15 2,500 2,000 250 10 1,500 1,000 125 5 500 0 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 1 About Beijer Alma 22 Interview: Habia Cable CONTENT 2 CEO’s statement 23 Good examples 4 Strategy 24 Interview: Beijer Tech 5 Sustainability strategy 25 Group-wide objectives 8 Corporate social responsibility 26 People, society, ethics and the environment 10 Stakeholders 32 Sustainable development and finances 13 Interview: Torbjörn Brorson 33 Global Compact 15 Subsidiary operations 34 Glossary 20 Good examples 36 Good examples 21 Interview: Lesjöfors 38 Reporting principles GROUP OBJECTIVES ABOUT BEIJER ALMA LINK TO GLOBAL GOALS. Work on the Group’s long-term objectives continued. The objectives are linked to the UN global sustainable development goals. GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPALS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT. Beijer Alma joined the UN Global Compact in 2015. This year’s Sustainability Report includes a Communication on Progress (COP), which describes the Group’s ongoing work related to the principals for sustainable development. ENERGY AND CLIMATE ENERGY-EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT. Focus on energy and climate through energy audits and investments in LED lighting and energy-efficient equipment. 80% 339 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. Work to implement ISO 14001 continued. 80 percent of the Group’s units now hold environmental certification. The update to ISO INCREASED RESPONSIBILITY IN THE VALUE CHAIN. More than 330 evaluations of suppliers’ quality and sustainability work were carried out, an increase from 14001:2015 began. the preceding year. RISK ANALYSES RISK MANAGEMENT. Risk analyses have been conducted at many of the Group’s facilities, focusing on such areas as fire, climate impact and the environment. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT FOCUS ON EDUCATION AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. The Beijer Alma Group shows its commitment at the local and national level by supporting such initiatives as Teach for Sweden, the City Mission and other non-profit organizations as well as through its contacts with local schools and universities. 1 Sustainability integrated into strategies CEO’S STATEMENT During 2016, all of our Group companies integrated corporate social responsibility (CSR) into their long-term planning. This meant that the Code of Conduct also served as a pillar for strategic decision-making. Our CSR work is progressing according to our established plan, with a focus on energy, climate, waste and work environment. Every year, greater attention is devoted to sustainability environmental impact or develop products with a greener issues within both Beijer Alma and society as a whole. profile. The development of new, less environmentally A tangible example of this is the fact that CSR work is harmful products is one example of how environmental increasingly being integrated into our strategic planning. benefits can create business advantages. Today, the Code of Conduct also serves as a pillar for strategic decision-making. One of our aims is to avoid Importance of cooperation establishing operations in geographic areas where conThis report also provides information about our social flicts with the Group’s values may arise. Another strategic commitment. The support we provide to non-profit priority is to be able to meet customers’ and society’s organizations makes a difference – from the work of the increasing demands with respect to CSR with an ample City Mission to local sports clubs. We work together with margin. This allows us to contribute to sustainable develvarious schools, colleges and universities in order to meet opment while at the same time creating business opportuthe significant demand for know-how and future talent. nities. Our CSR work is progressing according to our estabThe Code of Conduct serves as a guide for the Group’s lished plan, including the ongoing implementation of ISO internal work. The Code applies to everyone working at 14001. During 2016, more units achieved certification for Beijer Alma, regardless of where they are in the world. their environmental management systems. In parallel with It summarizes our approach and sets clear objectives in this, all areas of the Group continued to adapt to the new various areas, such as business ethics, transparency and version of the environmental management standard. tolerance. We emphasize the importance of creating a workplace where people are not discriminated against Guiding sustainability objectives or bullied but rather are treated with respect and considDuring 2017, we will continue our efforts to achieve our eration. This respect and consideration helps to build a Group energy, climate, waste and work environment sound corporate culture, with secure employees who enjoy objectives. Alongside these environmental improvements, their work and are able to develop professionally. we will also devote greater focus to the link between environmental and business benefits. As I’ve said, the Focus on the Global Compact transition currently facing society is also creating business In terms of guidelines, we base our work on the UN Global opportunities. And Beijer Alma’s Group companies can Compact and the new UN global sustainable development help make many of these a reality. goals. The UN goals focus on such as areas as sustainable consumption and production, labor conditions and growth, and thus impact the business community. One of the 17 goals pertains to sustainable energy, an area that is also important to Beijer Alma. We are already feeling the impact of the transition to sustainable energy, which will ultimately result in fossil fuels increasingly being phased out. These changes will also create new business opportunities for industrial groups such as ours. Our companies make continuous environmental improvements within their own organizations. Several of these improvements are presented here in our Sustainability Report. The report also shows how our Group companies help customers to reduce their BERTIL PERSSON, PRESIDENT AND CEO 3 Strategy STRATEGY – ensure profitable growth Beijer Alma aims to grow profitably. The strategy pyramid shows how this is to be accomplished in practical terms. The pyramid is based on long-term ownership, responsibility and efficient governance as well as four growth criteria combined with corporate acquisitions and organic development. Long-term ownership Organic growth We create successful and industrially sound corporate We grow organically through investments in product and groups that generate high growth and profitability over market development. This results in higher quality and time. lower risk in the operations. Corporate social responsibility Corporate acquisitions We limit our impact on the environment, assume social We conduct supplementary acquisitions and purchase responsibility, and offer a secure and stimulating work entirely new operations. This strengthens our position in environment. selected markets and specific product areas or provides Beijer Alma with a broader foundation. Operational control We work closely with our Group companies when it comes Profitable growth to setting goals and exercising control, mainly with respect At Beijer Alma, growth must be linked to sustainable profito strategic development, acquisitions and investments. tability. We achieve this by focusing on the growth criteria in the strategy pyramid. High customer value Products and services are adapted to meet specific needs or are based on unique product concepts. This creates higher value, which customers are prepared to pay for, and thereby contributes to our profitability. PROFITABLE GROWTH International market coverage We work with niche products with a limited total market. To create growth, the companies must therefore engage in broad international sales. ORGANIC CORPORATE Strong market position GROWTH ACQUISITIONS We establish strong market positions by focusing on quality, a broad product range, customization and service. Diversified customer and supplier base HIGH INTERNATIONAL STRONG DIVERSIFIED CUSTOMER CUSTOMER MARKET MARKET AND SUPPLIER The Group companies aim to have a broad customer VALUE COVERAGE POSITION BASE and supplier base. This reduces their risk exposure LONG-TERM CORPORATE OPERATIONAL and dependency on individual markets, industries or OWNERSHIP SOCIAL CONTROL companies. RESPONSIBILITY 4 Sustainability strategy SUSTAINABILIT Y STRATEGY – conditions for profitable growth Sustainability is an integral part of Beijer Alma’s business strategy. This is evident in the fact that CSR is part of the foundation of our strategy pyramid. Our sustainability work contributes to a better world, creates new business opportunities, cuts costs, reduces risks and allows us meet the demands and expectations of various stakeholders. Strategy, targets and follow-up Beijer Alma’s strategy for sustainable development PROFITABLE supplements the overall Group strategy and includes the GROWTH following components: ■■ Code of Conduct. Provides our employees and stakeholders with guidance on how the company manages issues pertaining to people, society, the environment and ethics. The Code of Conduct applies to everyone working ORGANIC CORPORATE at Beijer Alma, regardless of where they are in the world. GROWTH ACQUISITIONS The Code is based on international conventions and the ISO 26000 standard for social responsibility. ■■ Key issues. Focus on sustainability issues that are important to the Group’s business strategy and signifiDIVERSIFIED HIGH INTERNATIONAL STRONG CUSTOMER cant to our stakeholders. CUSTOMER MARKET MARKET AND SUPPLIER VALUE COVERAGE POSITION BASE ■■ Sustainable value chain. A life cycle perspective on Beijer Alma’s activities, products and services. LONG-TERM CORPORATE OPERATIONAL OWNERSHIP SOCIAL CONTROL ■■ Risks and opportunities. Identifying, managing and RESPONSIBILITY minimizing risks. Capitalizing on sustainable development opportunities that create business advantages. ■■ Sustainable development objectives. Long-term Groupwide objectives in key areas. These are supplemented with detailed objectives and action plans in the various CODE OF CONDUCT Group units. ■■ Responsibility. Delegated responsibility, which entails that operational sustainability work is structured and executed by the subsidiaries’ units. TY ENVIRON OCIE ME ■■ ISO 14001. Systematic approach to making improveDS NT AN E ABLE VALUE C ments, particularly within the framework of the ISO OP AIN HA HICS L ST ET PE SU IN 14001 environmental management system. SUSTAINABLE ■■ Follow-up and communication. Regular follow-up of DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES sustainability work and transparent communication with the Group’s stakeholders. IS TIE R K SA S N D OPP OR TUNI 5 Corporate social responsibility CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Environmental responsibility, social responsibility and a high level of business ethics are natural elements of Beijer Alma’s long-term strategy and help us to achieve our ultimate objective – to create added value for our customers, shareholders, business partners and employees. Our sustainability work is based in part on the UN Global Compact, an initiative to promote CSR. Based on the Global Compact ■■ Involvement in the communities in which Beijer Alma Regardless of where we operate, considerations pertaining operates. We work at both the Group level on large-scale to environmental impact, social conditions and business projects and the local level by supporting schools, associethics are important. It is vital that we operate in areas ations and healthcare. where we can contribute to sustainable development and meet the demands and expectations of various stakeholCode of Conduct – guiding principles ders. Beijer Alma’s sustainability work is based on the Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct serves as a guide for the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, an initiative to Group’s employees and partners. By applying the Code, we promote CSR. We devote particular focus to the following ensure that: areas: ■■ We comply with legislation, the UN Global Compact, ■■ Applying sound business principles and high ethical the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and other standards. Preventing corruption is an important part of international agreements and guidelines. this work. ■■ We take the financial expectations of our stakeholders ■■ Creating a safe, positive and stimulating work environinto consideration, and create customer and shareholder ment. value. ■■ Using natural resources as efficiently as possible and ■■ CSR is integrated into the Group and practiced in relaminimizing environmental impact. Energy and climate tion to employees, customers, suppliers, owners and issues create challenges for Beijer Alma and for society other stakeholders. as a whole. ■■ We contribute to sustainable development, including ■■ Approaching our operations from a life cycle perspective health and social welfare. – raw materials, suppliers, products, services and customers. Customers and other stakeholders are showing a The Code of Conduct states that we expect our employees growing interest in environmental and social responsibito behave in an honest and honorable manner. We demand lity. Linking environmental benefits to business advantathe same from the Group’s business partners. Bribes are ges contributes to the development of the Group. prohibited. Gifts and other benefits may not exceed the ACTION PLAN – SUSTAINABILITY WORK 2014 2015 2016 ■■ Detailed Group-wide energy, climate, ■■ Participation in UN Global Compact ■■ Sustainability issues incorporated into waste, work environment and social and report on how the Group applies strategic planning. commitment objectives set. the Ten Principles. Assessment of ■■ Updated Code of Conduct. ■■ Expanded sustainability reporting on how Group sustainability objectives ■■ Continued focus on energy issues and website. Continued CDP reporting. relate to new UN global goals. the EU Energy Efficiency Directive. ■■ Continued implementation of ISO ■■ Continued work on Group energy, ■■ Sustainability, CDP and COP reporting 14001 at manufacturing facilities. climate, waste, work environment and expanded. Clearer connection to UN ■■ Proposal for incorporating social commitment objectives. global sustainable development goals. sustainability issues into strategic ■■ Expanded sustainability reporting and ■■ Continued implementation of planning. continued CDP reporting. ISO 14001. Adaptation to ISO 14001:2015 begins. 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILIT Y amounts prescribed by local practices or legislation. Management and follow-up We comply with competition legislation and apply sound Sustainability issues impact Beijer Alma’s operations in marketing principles. many ways – for example, in connection with the introduction of new technology, internal and external communicaWhistleblower system tions, corporate acquisitions, crisis and risk management, The whistleblower system allows employees to report any financial report and training. The overall focus of the suspected improprieties without a risk of harassment or Group’s sustainability work is stated in the Code of reprisal. All reports are handled by an external recipient, Conduct. Issues pertaining to the long-term strategy, overwho ensures that the reports are investigated and that all objectives, contacts with the media and investors, and appropriate action is taken. financial reporting are handled at Group level. The Group’s Board of Directors receives regular updates on the status of Integration with Group strategies sustainability work. During the year, the Group expanded its strategic sustainaEnvironmental (ISO 14001) and quality (ISO 9001) bility work and the Code of Conduct served as a pillar when management systems are important tools in this work. strategic decisions were made. In 2016, Lesjöfors, Habia Other initiatives that support sustainable development Cable and Beijer Tech identified a number of areas where include 5S, Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing (refer to the Code of Conduct has a direct impact on their decisionthe glossary). Operational responsibility is delegated to the making. This information is highly important and helps to presidents of the individual Group companies. Follow-up facilitate efforts to combat corruption as well as paving the of local objectives and plans is part of the managers’ way for further investments in new products and environresponsibilities. This work is followed up through dialogs mentally adapted technology. with the management groups of the various companies and through internal and external audits. In conjunction Long-term objectives with the preparation of the annual sustainability report, Beijer Alma’s strategies are made more tangible through an in-depth analysis is conducted of the companies’ long-term objectives established at Group level. At the compliance with legislation, fulfillment of the Group-wide local level, the companies work toward detailed objectives, objectives and development in terms of key performance mainly within the framework of ISO 14001. The recently indicators (KPI). introduced UN global sustainable development goals are The results of the Group’s work pertaining to sustainused as a compass for this work, and clearer connections able development are presented in the Annual Report and between the Group’s objectives and the global goals were a separate Sustainability Report. The Group’s climate perestablished during the year. formance is presented in a detailed report in accordance with the guidelines of the CDP. An annual report summarizing the Group’s work related to the Global Compact is submitted to the UN (refer to page 33). 2017 2018 2019 ■■ Assessment of sustainability strategy ■■ Adaptation to ISO 14001:2015 ■■ Continued work on energy, climate, and targets. completed. waste, work environment and social ■■ Update to ISO 14001:2015 continues ■■ Updated sustainable development commitment. and is to be concluded by 2018. objective developed. Review of Group ■■ Updated objective for sustainable ■■ Energy audits in accordance with the strategy for sustainable development. development introduced in the Group. EU Energy Efficiency Directive. ■■ Continued sustainability, CDP and UN ■■ Sustainability, CDP and UN reporting. ■■ Continued work on energy, climate, reporting. waste, work environment and social commitment objectives. ■■ Sustainability reporting according to new mandatory reporting law. CDP and COP reporting. 9 Responding to demands and STAKEHOLDERS expectations The Group’s sustainability work is influenced by a number of stakeholders, who impose demands and have expectations of Beijer Alma. Meeting and exceeding these expectations – and planning for anticipated future demands – is an important part of our sustainable development strategy. We have identified customers, employees, suppliers, inveWe engage in various forms of dialog with these stakeholstors and authorities as key stakeholder groups. Given our ders, including development talks with employees, regular social commitment, society is also regarded as an imporcontact with customers, meetings with investors and collatant stakeholder. boration with suppliers. STAKEHOLDER KEY ISSUES, DEMANDS AND VALUE CREATION GROUP EXPECTATIONS Customers Customer demands pertain to such Customers have become increasingly concerned with sustainable deveareas as certified management syslopment in recent years and essentially all Group companies are now tems, prohibited chemical substanexpected to comply with various requirements in the area. Customer ces, environmental product declarequirements are followed up through questionnaires and audits. During rations, product labeling, codes of 2016, follow-ups were conducted at 17 (10) of the Group’s companies. conduct and specific legislation that The outcome was positive and the results of the assessments were used must be fulfilled. to further advance the Group’s sustainability work and create customer confidence. Employees Health, safety, salaries, benefits, We conduct employee performance reviews and offer training, professocial conditions, job satisfaction and sional development and preventive care opportunities. Preventive work development opportunities. environment measures, such as incident (near miss) reporting, are considered a top priority. During 2016, Beijer Alma paid MSEK 952 in salary to its employees. Suppliers Suppliers expect Beijer Alma to imThe Group companies provide their suppliers with information about pose clear, consistent demands with Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct and expect their suppliers to share this respect to sustainable development approach. The Group also assesses the sustainability work of its and to follow up these demands. suppliers. In 2016, 314 (227) surveys and 25 (31) audits were performed. These suppliers all demonstrated an acceptable level of compliance with the Group’s demands. During 2016, Beijer Alma paid MSEK 1,475 to its suppliers . Investors Minimizing risks, creating business The integration of sustainable development into strategies and day-toopportunities and engaging in creday operations reduces risks and creates business opportunities. Beijer dible, forward-thinking sustainability Alma regularly communicates with its owners and investors through work. its sustainability reporting, CDP reporting, meetings and evaluations. Beijer Alma’s share price rose 9 percent in 2016. Authorities Beijer Alma is subject to extensive Compliance with legislation is monitored through reports to various environmental and work environment authorities and by way of internal and external inspections and audits. legislation. The introduction of new No significant violations of environmental or work environment or amended legislation impacts the legislation occurred in 2016. Group’s operations. Society Expectations that Beijer Alma should Social commitment creates a sense of trust and interest in Beijer Alma. be involved in society at both the local Providing support for non-profit organizations and establishing contacts and national level. with schools and universities helps to attract future employees. 10 KEY ISSUES Reporting Initiative (GRI) and cover a sound business ethics. Other key areas An important part of the strategy for sustainable development involves number of sustainability issues that are include environmentally adapted product focusing on issues that are important to relevant to the Group’s products and development and risk management as the Group’s business strategy and to its services. well as the potential impact of future stakeholders. Analyzing and reporting on The analysis for 2016 showed that legislative developments on Beijer Alma. issues deemed to be of key significance Beijer Alma should primarily focus on is part of the Group’s strategic work. energy efficiency, reduction of climate This is done both at the Group level and impact, increased resource efficiency within Lesjöfors, Habia Cable and Beijer (waste), creating a safe and stimulating Tech. These materiality analyses are workplace, social commitment and based on the guidelines of the Global 12 TORBJÖRN BRORSON, CSR ADVISOR AND ADJUNCT PROFESSOR : INTERVIEW: TORBJÖRN BRORSON »Sustainable development impacts companies' ability to make money« What are the most important trends affecting Beijer Alma’s CSR work? One clear trend is that climate change is now generally regarded as one of the biggest challenges facing humanity. As a result, people are realizing that we must reduce our climate impact and adapt to the changes that lie ahead. This applies to society as a whole – including companies, of course. Legal requirements and customer requirements along the value chain have long had an impact on companies’ CSR work. Now we are entering a new phase – investors and the financial market have woken up and started making demands. People have realized that the environment, CSR and ethics aren’t just “hygiene factors” and that sustainable development has a major impact on companies’ ability to make money. As a result, we are seeing greater demand for integrated reporting that combines financial, environmental and social responsibility. This is clear in the surveys and interviews the companies receive from investors and other financial players. At the same time, it can be difficult to assess a sustainability issue using traditional, financial performance indicators, but we will undoubtedly see more integration in this area. Beijer Alma has reporting systems and procedures in TORBJÖRN BRORSON place that will enable this type of reporting. CSR Advisor and Adjunct Professor at Lund University How has Beijer Alma been impacted by the UN development goals? The global goals were established in dialog with companies. The companies were involved in formulating the goals and will also play a role in ensuring they are actually achieved. Now the business community is expected to be involved – not only by following laws but also by using innovation, technology and transparency to show that they are working toward the goals. This is evident in Beijer Alma’s Sustainability Report, which links the Group’s objectives to the UN global goals. What will be the most important areas in the coming years? Mandatory sustainability reporting according the new EU legislation is one example of an issue that must be addressed. Beijer Alma is already ahead in this area. Updating the Group companies’ environmental management systems to meet the new ISO 14001 standard is another important issue. The new standard is more modern and places greater emphasis on environmental aspects from a life cycle perspective. This will involve identifying key environmental issues in the value chain – from suppliers to customers. There is also a clear stakeholder perspective based on the understanding that sustainability issues are to be an integrated part of companies’ strategic work. Companies have three years to carry out the transition, which is to be completed by 2018 at the latest. The EU Energy Efficiency Directive is another issue affecting Beijer Alma. Large companies are legally required to track their energy consumption, take a systematic approach to the energy issue, make improvements, enhance efficiency, etc. This work is already under way in the Group – for example, at Habia Cable’s plant in Söderfors. The results must then be reported to the Swedish Energy Agency. 13 LESJÖFORS SUBSIDIARY OPERATIONS Lesjöfors Lesjöfors is a global supplier of springs, wire and flat strip components. The company offers a comprehensive range including both standard products and customized components. Lesjöfors holds a leading position in the Nordic region and is one of the largest spring companies in Europe. Lesjöfors has a comprehensive offering of springs, wire ■■ High level of expertise in technology/materials. and flat strip components. Its products are used by custo■■ Cost-effective manufacturing. mer companies in most industrial sectors – in everything ■■ Efficient customer service. from household products to high-tech applications. Lesjö■■ Excellent product quality. fors boasts extensive spring expertise, including design, structure, material selection and manufacturing. Lesjöfors conducts manufacturing operations at Lesjöfors’s operations are organized into two busi24 production units in 12 countries. Two of these plants ness areas: Industry and Chassis Springs. Industry offers specialize in chassis spring manufacturing. Lesjöfors a broad range of products and manufactures specially also conducts low-cost manufacturing in Latvia, Slovakia, adapted components to meet a wide variety of customer Mexico and several countries in Asia. needs. Chassis Springs specializes in vehicle springs for the spare parts market. Its standard range is based on Lesjöfors worldwide proprietary and in-stock products. Lesjöfors is currently ■■ Sales in about 60 markets. the market leader in Europe in this area. ■■ More than 80 percent of sales are conducted outside Sweden. Spring expertise and a high service level ■■ The largest markets are Germany, Sweden, the UK and Lesjöfors’s main competitive advantages within Industry China. are its spring expertise and problem-solving ability. Within ■■ Delivery precision rate of approximately 99 percent the Chassis Springs business area, Lesjöfors competes within Chassis Springs for many years. on the strength of its broad product range, high service ■■ Some 2,000 new items are developed within Industrial level and efficient logistics. Other competitive advantages Springs each year. include: 15 HABIA CABLE SUBSIDIARY OPERATIONS Habia Cable Habia Cable is one of Europe’s largest manufacturers of customized cables and cable harnesses. Most of its products are used in various high-tech applications in harsh environments. Habia Cable develops, manufactures and sells custom■■ Global production and delivery capacity. designed cables and cable harnesses. The company is ■■ High product quality. the leading player in Europe in these areas. Its products ■■ Cutting-edge expertise in high-performance materials. are used in demanding, high-tech applications in harsh ■■ Flexible production and logistics. environments. Most of its cables are customer-specific and ■■ Ability to deliver complete cable harnesses. feature unique properties that enable them to withstand ■■ A high degree of customization. extremely high or low temperatures, radioactivity, pressure, fire, bending or vibrations. Habia Cable’s products are manufactured in China, Sweden, Habia has two business areas: Telecom and Other Germany and Poland. The plant in China is the largest and Industry. Within Telecom, the company’s cables are mainly specializes in the production of telecom cables. In Sweden, used in base-station antennas for mobile telecom, an the company manufactures customized industrial cables. area where Habia is currently the global leader. Within The German plant produces equipment wire and cables, Other Industry, the company’s cables are adapted to meet while the facility in Poland focuses on cable harnesses. customer needs and are delivered to various industries, including the nuclear power, defense, transport, offshore Habia worldwide and manufacturing industries. ■■ Sales in approximately 50 countries. More than 90 percent of sales are conducted outside Sweden. Comprehensive cable expertise ■■ Key markets include Scandinavia, Germany, the UK, Habia offers comprehensive cable expertise, covering France, China, India and South Korea. everything from design, product development and man■■ The single largest market is Germany. ufacturing to sales, distribution and customer support. ■■ Specially adapted cables account for about 80 percent of Other competitive advantages include: the manufacturing volume. 17 BEIJER TECH SUBSIDIARY OPERATIONS Beijer Tech As a specialist in industrial trading and manufacturing , Beijer Tech helps Nordic companies boost their productivity and competitiveness. The company’s offering comprises components, consumables, input goods and machinery from leading suppliers. Beijer tech’s quality products and expertise are combined Product expertise that makes a difference to create unique solutions that reduce the customer’s The company’s knowledge about how products are used in total cost – for example, by improving the outcome of customer production and maintenance processes repproduction processes, increasing the quality of products or resents a strong competitive advantage. Other competitive improving the work environment. advantages include: The operations are based on several different product ■■ Broad range. concepts that are organized into two business areas: Fluid ■■ High delivery precision. Technology and Industrial Products. Customers include ■■ Broad supplier base. companies in the engineering industry, foundries, steel■■ Purchasing partnerships with world-leading manuworks, maintenance companies in the offshore sector and facturers. retailers. Fluid Technology is operated under the Lund■■ Customization and refinement of products and services. grens concept, with its main market in Sweden. The other six concepts – Beijers, Karlebo, Tebeco, PMU, Norspray Beijer Tech in the Nordic region and Preben Z – operate in Sweden, Norway, Finland and ■■ The main market is the Nordic region, where Beijer Tech Denmark. operates in 15 locations. The product range is broad and covers the areas of ■■ Sweden is the largest market and accounts for approxfluid technology (such as hoses and couplings), industrial imately two-thirds of sales. rubber (such as gaskets and rubber products) and surface ■■ Sales are made directly to the end customer or through treatment (such as blasting and grinding). The range also retailers. includes industry-specific solutions for foundries, steel■■ Leading market positions in industrial rubber in Sweden works and the offshore sector. and surface treatment – for example, blasting and precision grinding – in the Nordic region. 18 GOOD EXAMPLES ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY In 2016, Habia obtained environTREATMENT mental certification for the expansion EQUIPMENT of its telecom operations in ChangzNew and improved treatment hou. As part of this expansion, investequipment has helped to reduce the ments are also being made in new discharge of contaminated water environmental technology, mainly at Lesjöfors’s German spring busifor the treatment of solvents from ness S & P. In 2016, the company’s production. Habia is also introducing environmental management system a new treatment technique at its other and encouraging them to become was also recertified according to ISO plant in Changzhou, which produces shareholders. Beijer Alma also spon14001:2015. industrial cables. sors the association’s golf tournament, known as “Aktieslaget.” The tournament consists of some 20 local compeNOISE REDUCTION titions and concludes with a Swedish Velleuer made several work final, where contestants compete for environment improvements during the Beijer Alma Trophy and other the year. Its shipping department awards. was remodeled. New walls were built and a new type of door was installed, creating a quieter, more comfortable BONUS FOR IDEAS work environment. The company Employees at Habia’s plant in also continued investing in technical WORK ENVIRONMENT Lubieszyn are being rewarded for devices to alleviate the strain of Lundgrens has made work environsubmitting ideas for improving the heavy lifting. ment improvements at several of its plant’s production. Several such facilities, including a reduction in suggestions have already been noise and improved lighting. At its implemented and the employees who main warehouse, the company has submitted them have received an replaced all lighting with modern extra bonus. solutions that are both fireproof and energy efficient. To help its employees feel more secure, Lundgrens no longer handles cash. All payments are now made using credit card machines, which have been installed at all THE CIT Y MISSION stores. The Uppsala City Mission helps socially disadvantaged and underSHAREHOLDER privileged individuals find a better life. By offering meeting places and MEETINGS activities, the organization creates a The Swedish Shareholders’ Associasense of solidarity and connection for tion organizes shareholder meetings people who are homeless, living with across Sweden. Companies are also addiction or facing mental illness or invited to present their businesses CERTIFICATION other social problems. Beijer Alma at these meetings. Beijer Alma’s In China, Lesjöfors has been certified has provided monetary support for President and CEO, Bertil Persson, according to TS16949 – a standard the organization’s activities for several participates in several of these events for quality management systems for years. This type of support is crucial every year, helping to increase suppliers to the automotive industry. since social disadvantage is on the people’s knowledge about the Group The aim of the standard is to achieve rise and organizations such as the continuous improvements, prevent City Mission play an increasingly faults and reduce the number of important role when government variations and losses in the supply assistance is simply not enough. chain. Under the TS16949 standard, customers can also impose specific requirements related to environmental management. 20 PETER ROSENQVIST, ENVIRONMENTAL AND QUALITY MANAGER, LESJÖFORS: INTERVIEW: LESJÖFORS »For us, environmental issues must be part of our day-to-day business focus« What are the most important environmental issues for Lesjöfors? We are focusing on energy consumption, an area where most of our plants have already established targets for reduction. To achieve such reductions, we must also improve our production efficiency. This will allow us to manufacture more products from the energy consumed. For us, it’s important that environmental issues are a clear part of our day-to-day business focus and not treated as separate activities. We are improving our processes to keep up with the competition. This is allowing us to earn more money while also reducing our environmental impact. Can you give a few examples of specific environmental initiatives in 2016? Our operations are generally strong when it comes to environmental issues. We are continuing our systematic efforts to implement improvements, which often go hand in hand with ongoing efficiency enhancement. Have you received any feedback from customers or suppliers about your CSR work? PETER ROSENQVIST We receive questions during customers’ supplier assessments – for example, Environmental and Quality Manager, about the Code of Conduct and our regulatory compliance. Lesjöfors These are addressed by the individual units. CSR issues are also often included in customer audits of the plants. Have your employees expressed any demands or feedback about your CSR work? The units conduct safety inspections, during which work environment issues are identified. The feedback we receive is discussed and may be used as the basis for improvement measures. We also conduct employee surveys, in which employees have the opportunity to express their views on CSR-related issues. And many people speak directly with their managers if they have questions. Are there any environmental initiatives you are particularly satisfied with? We’re seeing many positive trends. Things are moving in the right direction, with increased energy efficiency and less waste. VOC emissions have decreased most. This is a result of the investments in our Chinese plant. CSR also includes social responsibility. What are you doing in this area? Our companies are small with short, rapid decision-making channels. This allows information to be passed along. We put our employees first and strive to create a better work environment and social responsibility. We support local initiatives that promote sports and other social issues. For us, social responsibility means being a good employer with an open environment where employees feel they have an influence. We also expect our suppliers to assume a social responsibility. What will be the main focus of the company’s CSR work in 2017? During 2017 and 2018, we will focus on adapting to the new ISO standard. Much of this work will be centered on achieving the new certificates. We will focus on recertification under ISO/TS, a special standard for the automotive industry. 21 MARIE GREN, ENVIRONMENTAL AND QUALITY MANAGER, HABIA CABLE SÖDERFORS: INTERVIEW: HABIA CABLE »We are focuisng on waste and have reduced the volumes of waste produced« What are the most important environmental issues for Habia Cable? Plastic and metal waste and electricity consumption are key issues for us. Another important environmental aspect is the treatment of solvents at our Chinese plant, which manufactures telecom cables. We have made significant environmental investments at this plant in recent years. Can you give a few examples of specific environmental initiatives in 2016? We devoted considerable focus to waste with the goal of reducing the volumes of waste produced. We’ve made major improvements compared with the past. We measure the value of our scrap and have targets for the maximum value in relation to our invoiced products. Part of the reason we were able to achieve our goals was that we introduced a night shift during which production technicians are on site. They support the operators in their work, which has helped to reduce the volume of scrap. Have you received any feedback from customers or suppliers about your CSR work? MARIE GREN Our products have to comply with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Environmental and Quality Manager, Directive (RoHS) as well as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Habia's plant in Söderfors Restriction of Chemicals Directive (REACH). Another issue is conflict minerals – minerals whose extraction perpetuates conflicts. We must guarantee that no metals originating from the Congo or its neighboring countries are used in our supply chain. Have your employees expressed any demands or feedback about your CSR work? Our employees play an active role when it comes to work environment issues. We’ve had a reporting system in place for a few years now that encourages all of our employees to report any occurrences that could result in an injury. This works well and enables us to follow up and rectify many problems. Are there any environmental initiatives you are particularly satisfied with? Our cables are covered in plastic and a few years ago, we started sorting the waste that is produced – for example, when production starts. We can reuse the waste, but there is also a market for certain types of plastic. So now we sell this plastic to companies that recycle it. CSR also includes social responsibility. What are you doing in this area? We sponsor women’s and girls’ soccer teams. We also support the Running for Life project, which collects money for the Swedish Cancer Society. We also welcome various study visits. What will be the main focus of the company’s CSR work in 2017? We are going to perform an energy audit in accordance with the new legislation introduced in Sweden. Habia has conducted audits before, but could receive new suggestions for improvements – particularly given that electricity consumption is an important environmental aspect for us. 22 GOOD EXAMPLES Upper-Secondary School, which ISO 14001 offers a technology program. In 2016, The Lesjöfors company European Högbergsskolan applied for a permit Springs has been certified according to offer a training program for proto the ISO 14001 environmental duction technicians. Habia and other standard. This certification will enable companies in the region have a major the company’s London facility, located need for this type of technician and in the Beckenham district, to further are participating in the program. advance its environmental efforts. It will also contribute to increased resource efficiency at the plant as well WORK ENVIRONMENT ACCESSIBILIT Y as a reduction in waste and enable Lesjöfors America’s new premises in INITIATIVES IN CHINA other environmental requirements to Pittston meet the requirements of the Habia has identified the work be managed in a more comprehensive Americans with Disability Act (ADA). environment risks at its telecom plant manner. This means that the premises are in Changzhou. The goal is to prevent fully accessible, including wheelchair problems and protect the health and accessibility to kitchen facilities, well-being of its employees. The idenENTREPRENEURSHIP toilets and other public spaces. tification process looked at everything Beijer Alma is the main sponsor of from air quality and lighting to noise the Anders Wall Lecture in Entreand temperature conditions. Habia preneurship, one of Sweden’s has also made technical investments largest events for entrepreneurs. The that will improve the work environprogram includes a combination of ment. experiences from established businesspeople and ideas from new entrepreneurs. The Anders Wall Lecture ENVIRONMENTAL attracts some 2,000 guests to Uppsala FOCUS IN LAT VIA each year – from both the business Lesjöfors has also implemented community and the academic world energy-efficiency enhancements in – thereby helping to establish Beijer Latvia. Better insulation in the compaEFFICIENCY Alma’s profile. ny’s properties has resulted in more ENHANCEMENT efficient heating and reduced the Centrum B has successfully reduced need for fuel. Ultimately, this will also its air emissions by investing in a new lead to lower CO2 emissions. A switch gas purification technique. The comto LED lighting has also resulted in pany has also implemented measures major improvements in energy effito optimize its energy efficiency. In the ciency. At the same time, the company past, the plant in Slovakia was heated has improved its sorting at source using a combustion facility. Now, the and invested in less environmenfacility has been replaced and the tally harmful transportation, partly plant is instead heated using a heat through the use of electric forklifts. LED LIGHTING pump. Lesjöfors’s Swedish plant in Nordmarkshyttan has switched to LED ELECTRIC CARS lighting. LED bulbs use approximately Velleuer supplied components for 75 percent less energy than tradithe Streetscooter electric car. A small, tional bulbs, resulting in an energy compact vehicle mainly intended for saving. Moreover, the light-emitting city driving, Streetscooter is used, diodes in LED bulbs contain no heavy for example, by the German postal metals, such as mercury. This means service. The long-term aim is to furthat the company’s investment in new ther develop the concept and launch lighting will have a twofold positive SCHOOL additional Streetscooter models. environmental impact. PARTNERSHIPS In Söderfors, Habia is working together with the municipality and other businesses to attract more students and improve the quality of technology programs at the secondary and post-secondary level. This work is focused on Högbergsskolan 23 ELISABETH KRUTH, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, BEIJER TECH: INTERVIEW: BEIJER TECH »Transport and energy comsumption are the biggest environmental issues for us« What are the most important environmental issues for Beijer Tech? Supplier transport and our own energy consumption are the biggest issues for us. We don’t conduct manufacturing operations ourselves, which means that goods transport is very important for us. When it comes to our own operations, we are focusing on energy consumption at our facilities – lighting and so forth. This is also a work environment issue, since we want to have lighting that is healthy and suitable for our employees but that also saves energy. Can you give a few examples of specific environmental initiatives in 2016? A great deal of transport is carried out using trucks. Following a dialog with our suppliers, we were able to transition to rail transport, which reduces CO2 emissions. We use this alternative whenever possible and hope to make other similar changes in the future. Another issue is the company cars used by our sales personnel, which are being replaced by less environmentally harmful models. A final example is business travel, which is increasingly being replaced by Skype meetings. ELISABETH KRUTH Chief Financial Officer, Beijer Tech Have you received any feedback from customers or suppliers about your CSR work? Our customers – especially our major customers – evaluate us as a supplier, often through surveys that address sustainability issues. To meet their requirements, we must demonstrate our approach to these issues. Have your employees expressed any demands or feedback about your CSR work? The work environment is an issue that arises – areas such as lighting, noise and ergonomics, where our companies are making improvements. Beijer Tech also has a foundation where employees can apply for grants to help them improve in areas outside their normal duties, such as culture, preventive care or travel. The foundation can also support associations in the areas where we operate. Are there any environmental initiatives you are particularly satisfied with? In terms of energy consumption, Lundgrens has invested in larger, but fewer, light fittings that give better light and use less electricity. Many units are also switching to LED lighting. Beijer Industri has broadened its range to include several environmentally friendly products, including grinding equipment that allows customer companies to improve their work environment. CSR also includes social responsibility. What are you doing in this area? Once again, the work of our foundation, which supports various initiatives. What will be the main focus of the company’s CSR work in 2017? As part of its quality and environmental work, Lundgrens will conduct employee surveys in 2017. Beijer Industri will continue to introduce better, more environmentally friendly products in its proprietary range. 24 Group-wide objectives GROUP-WIDE OBJECTIVES Under the ISO 14001 environmental management expectations on the business world. These goals pertain standard, companies are required to implement specific to responsible conduct as well as the development of environmental objectives. Accordingly, the Group’s products and services that promote sustainable develcertified units have their own local environmental opment. As a participant in the UN Global Compact, it is objectives. In order to coordinate these local activities, only natural that Beijer Alma will strive to meet these new long-term Group-wide objectives for key areas pertaining goals. At present, the Group’s objectives are in line with a to sustainable development were established in 2013. handful of the UN’s global goals. The long-term aim is to The objectives have since become more ambitious. All further advance the Group’s work in the area of sustainunits are able to establish their own detailed objectives able development and thereby contribute to achieving and add additional areas. Sweden’s environmental quality objectives. The Group-wide objectives encompass areas that are The table below shows the Group’s progress in relation important for our internal sustainability work and for our to these objectives and its potential to achieve them. stakeholders. In 2015, the UN introduced 17 new global Detailed information about emissions data and KPIs is sustainable development goals that impose ambitious presented elsewhere in the Sustainability Report. OUR SUSTAINABLE CONNECTION TO GLOBAL GOALS** PROGRESS*** DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES By 2018, energy consumption is to be reduced by 10 percent (GWh/MSEK Goal 7: Sustainable energy for all. • More units and increased production resulted in a slightly higher energy use. A number of in net revenues).* energy efficiency projects were carried out. By 2018, CO2 emissions are to be reduced by 10 percent (tons/MSEK in Goal 13: Combat climate change. • Increased production in countries with fossil-dependent energy systems resulted in net revenues).* increased emissions. Partly offset by energyefficiency enhancements, the use of biofuel and purchases of green electricity. By 2018, the amount of waste generated by the Group is to be reduced by Goal 9: Sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure. • Increased production resulted in increased waste. Improved waste management through 10 percent (tons/MSEK in net revenues).* Goal 12: Sustainable consumption and a reduction in scrapping, better sorting at production. source and expanded recycling. We have a vision of zero tolerance when it comes to workplace accidents and aim Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth. • No clear downward trend was seen in terms of the number of accidents and lost worto reduce our accident frequency rate. A king days. On a positive note, systems for system for registering near misses related to reporting near misses are now in place at the work environment is to be introduced. 90 percent of the Group’s units. Certified management systems are to be in place at all production units and Goal 9: Sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure. • Three units were certified in 2016 and 80 percent of the units are now certified. wherever ISO 14001 is relevant. Four units plan to achieve certification within six to 18 months. From 2015 to 2018, we will increase our social commitment. Goal 4: Quality education for all. Goal 17: Action and global part• Cooperation with schools and universities, and social commitment in the form of nerships. financial support for education, non-profit organizations, sports activities, healthcare and cultural events. * The average figures for 2012-2013 serve as the baseline. ** The UN has established 17 global sustainable development goals. The business community is expected to participate actively in the achievement of these goals. ** Refer to the Group’s 2016 Sustainability Report for more details. • • Objective achieved. Unchanged situation. • • Positive trend, good potential to achieve objective. Negative trend, additional measures required. 25 People, society, ethics and PEOPLE , SOCIET Y, ETHICS AND THE ENVIRONMENT the environment High level of business ethics pertaining to personnel issues is decentralized. The Group As part of its sustainability reporting, Beijer Alma conducts companies are responsible for managing these issues in a an annual review of the Group companies’ work to combat manner that complies with Beijer Alma’s guidelines and the corruption and promote good business ethics. This is done legislation and culture of their particular country. in the form of a self-assessment in which the management group of each company describes the activities carried out Employees. Creating safe and stimulating work environduring the year by replying to approximately 25 questions. ments is a key component of Beijer Alma’s efforts related to The questions are based on guidelines from the Global sustainable development. An important tool for achieving Compact. this goal is the surveys carried out regularly to assess This year’s review showed a good level of commitment how the employees perceive their workplace. In 2016, among the companies and revealed no violations of the surveys were conducted at nine units. While the majority Code of Conduct. The Group’s anti-corruption initiatives of employees were satisfied with their jobs, concerns were are based on ongoing training in the Code of Conduct (with raised regarding internal communication, meal breaks, a particular focus on new employees), a zero-tolerance night shifts and the temperature at the premises. More policy towards bribery, sanction systems for violations and than 900 (800) employees participated in development guidelines on gift amounts and business entertainment. talks or other performance evaluations. Individual reward We use management systems, information, discussions systems have been established at a handful of the Group’s and financial monitoring to prevent corruption. Beijer companies, with environment and work environment Alma’s Code of Conduct is widely used to communicate the considerations being used as key criteria. Group’s values to suppliers and customers. Setting of salary rates and collective agreements. The People same rules and values apply for all of the Group’s units. Beijer Alma employs 2,340 (2,300) people in 17 (16) Salary rates adhere to legislative requirements, exceed countries with varying cultures and distinct geographic minimum wages and are entirely in line with market and political conditions. Approximately 36 percent of rates. As a result of cultural and legislative differences, the these people work in low-cost countries and 19 percent are degree to which employees are covered by collective agreeemployed in China, Singapore and Thailand. The majority ments varies by country. At half of the Group’s units, most of employees are located in Sweden, Germany and China. employees are covered by collective agreements. The Group has a strong tradition when it comes to CSR. We are convinced that this approach is important when it Human rights and equality. In accordance with the Global comes to attracting, recruiting, developing and retaining Compact, we encourage diversity and are opposed to all dedicated and skilled employees. All units work continuforms of discrimination. No irregularities, incidents or ously to instill the Code of Conduct among their employees, whistleblower incidents pertaining to human rights were particularly during the introduction of new employees. Work identified in the preparation of this year’s report. ResponNUMBER OF LOST WORK CASES NUMBER OF LOST WORK DAYS CAUSES OF WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (LWC) PER MILLION HOURS WORKED (LWD) PER MILLION HOURS WORKED Number Number 20 120 Injuries caused by 100 machinery and 16 equipment 37% 80 Falls 18% 12 Heavy lifting and 60 repetitive work 22% 8 Energy 5% 40 Other, such as cuts and transportation 4 accidents 18% 20 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 26 PEOPLE , SOCIET Y, ETHICS AND THE ENVIRONMENT sibility for equality issues is decentralized and lies with the per year. Unfortunately, we have not seen a clear decline in individual units. The proportion of female employees in the number of workplace accidents despite having taken the Group is 21 percent (33). The proportion of women on preventive action. However, it is gratifying to report that the Board of Directors is 38 percent (38). While there are no 11 Group companies reported zero workplace accidents women among the Group’s senior executives, the produring the year. portion of women among the management groups of the Beijer Alma aims to introduce systems for registering individual units is approximately 25 percent (17). A total of near misses in the work environment at all of its units. 38 (29) women are members of a management group that Progress is being made and such systems are now in place reports directly to the CEO of the company in question. at 90 percent of the Group’s units. Approximately 350 (300) near misses were reported in 2016. This is an improveSickness absence. The rate of short and long-term sickness ment, but there is still considerable work to be done before absence remained low at 2.3 percent and 2.0 percent, the system for reporting near misses is firmly entrenched respectively. within the companies. The most common near misses pertain to the same types of environmental factors arising Health and safety. The overall objective in this area is to in the Group’s accident statistics. The purpose of registering ensure that the Group’s operations do not result in any near misses is to identify risks at an early stage and take injuries or illness. Preventive measures include systematic preventive action. risk analysis, work environment assessments, training, safety inspections and investments in technical measures. Training. Training helps to ensure that employees have the Safety committees have been established at 23 units. At the knowledge needed to perform their jobs and gives them an smallest units, environmental work takes a different form. opportunity to develop their skills and gain an understandWorkplace health and safety inspections were performed ing of the Group’s fundamental values. Approximately at nearly 90 percent of the companies in 2016, including 18,400 (23,200) hours of training were completed in 2016. noise and dust measurements, general health check-ups, This corresponds to eight (ten) hours per employee, down risk analyses and reviews of chemical use. somewhat from the preceding year. The number of hours In 2016, 55 (44) workplace accidents resulting in more devoted to environmental, health and safety training than one day of absence (lost work cases, LWC) occurred. amounted to 2.0 (1.6) per employee. These injuries were caused by machinery, equipment, ergonomic factors (heavy lifting and repetitive work), falls Environment and other factors. The number of LWD due to accidents Environmental aspects. The manufacturing of springs amounted to 254 (413) days. From a five-year perspective, within Lesjöfors and cables within Habia Cable are the number of workplace accidents has fluctuated from associated with a number of key environmental aspects. 0.01 to 0.02 cases per employee per year. The number of Examples include the use of materials (metals, plastics), days with absences amounted to 0.1 to 0.2 days employee chemicals (solvents), energy and water. Other key GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES Key figures 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 OF EMPLOYEES Average number of employees 2,340 2,262 2,124 2,110 1,831 Sweden 29% Percentage salaried employees (%) 32 32 31 31 32 Denmark 3% Germany 19% Percentage production staff (%) 68 68 69 69 68 Poland 3% Percentage women (%) 21 33 33 35 34 Singapore 2% Slovakia Percentage employed in low-cost countries (%) 36 33 30 30 30 Latvia 5% Short-term sickness absence (%) 2.3 2.5 2.4 1.9 2.1 UK 8% Long-term sickness absence (%) 2.0 2.1 1.0 0.9 0.9 China 16% Other 9% Percentage employed in Sweden (%) 29 31 33 33 36 27 PEOPLE , SOCIET Y, ETHICS AND THE ENVIRONMENT environmental issues include emissions of climateduced in 1996 and the most recent update was published in impacting gases and solvents (VOC) as well as the creation 2015. The implementation of certified environmental manof waste. Within Beijer Tech, significant environmental agement systems is a component of Beijer Alma’s strategy for aspects mainly pertain to products, packaging and transsustainable development. ISO 14001 provides a systematic portation. The ISO 14001 environmental management approach to environmental work and is intended to enable system is a valuable tool used by the Group to systematicontinuous improvements. The goal is for all of the Group’s cally reduce its environmental impact. production units to be certified. ISO 14001 is also important for the major units in Beijer Tech. A total of 23 (19) units are Environmental legislation. Beijer Alma is subject to extencurrently certified. Four additional companies are preparing sive environmental and work environment legislation as to implement the environmental management system. To well as new and amended requirements that impact the meet the new requirements in ISO 14001:2015, we are curGroup’s operations. Slightly more than half of the units rently preparing to update our environmental management hold specific environmental permits for their operations. systems. A few companies have already implemented the Seven of these units are located in Sweden. Four units plan update, but most will do so between 2017 and 2018. to renew their environmental permits in the coming years. Internal and external environmental audits are part Compliance with legislation is monitored through reports of the Group’s continuous efforts to monitor and improve to various authorities and by way of inspections and envithe environmental management system. Beijer Alma ronmental audits. During 2016, 12 units were inspected employs more than 50 internal environmental auditors, by their respective supervisory authorities. In most cases, who conducted 31 environmental audits during the year. these inspections resulted in no negative remarks or only The Group’s facilities were audited by external certification minor corrective measures. No violations of environmental auditors on 22 occasions. or work environment legislation were reported in 2016. In addition to environmental permits, many of the Materials and chemicals. In 2016, approximately 26,900 Group’s companies are subject to other environmental legtons (27,000) of metal, 1,270 tons (1,260) of plastic and 175 islation, including legislation pertaining to hazardous subtons (160) of chemicals were used, primarily solvents (naphstances (REACH, RoHS, safety data sheets, etc.), product liatha) used in Habia Cable’s production processes in China bility for packaging and rules for waste management. The EU and Germany. The Group continued its efforts to replace Energy Efficiency Directive affects all of Beijer Alma’s units hazardous chemical substances and one substance was within the EU, requiring them to carry out energy audits and phased out. The Group still uses certain chemicals that are deliver reports to authorities. This work is performed within candidates to be phased out. Conflict minerals (refer to the the framework of specific rules in effect in each country. glossary) continued to attract considerable attention. Customers want a guarantee that these substances are not Environmental management system. The ISO 14001 used in the Group’s products. Seven units within Beijer standard for environmental management systems was introAlma use metals that are classified as conflict minerals. ENERGY CONSUMPTION WATER CONSUMPTION CO 2 EMISSIONS GWh GWh/MSEK m3 m /MSEK 3 Tons Tons/MSEK 100 0.020 50,000 15 20,000 5 80 0.016 40,000 12 16,000 4 60 0.012 30,000 9 12,000 3 40 0.008 20,000 6 8,000 2 20 0.004 10,000 3 4,000 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 28 PEOPLE , SOCIET Y, ETHICS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Procedures are in place to ensure that such metals do not Water. Beijer Alma’s water consumption totaled 36,700 m3 originate from countries with ongoing armed conflicts. (42,600) and primarily comprised municipal water. A previous water-intensive process in China is now carried out by Energy. Total energy consumption amounted to 57.5 GWh an external company and is one of the explanations for the (55.4). This increase was partly attributable to acquired reduction in water consumption. Systems for reusing water, units and higher production. The largest energy consumpleak detection and other measures enabled several units to tion was reported in Sweden, Germany and China. Approxreduce their water consumption. imately 78 percent (72) of this energy comprised indirect Emissions of pollutants into wastewater were very energy, primarily electricity. Direct energy in the form of limited and primarily comprised sanitary wastewater. fossil fuels (oil, natural gas, propane) is used for heating Essentially all units are connected to municipal wastein furnaces and fork lifts. The use of biofuel and electricity water treatment plants. A small number use septic tanks from renewable sources accounted for 10 percent (10) of for treating sanitary wastewater. Improved wastewater the total consumption. treatment equipment was installed at one of the Group’s The energy-saving measures taken by the Group German units during the year. included energy audits, installation of more energyefficient production equipment and other technological Emissions to the atmosphere. The Group’s CO2 emissions equipment. Other measures included more energytotaled 16,700 tons (14,200), of which 82 percent (75) comefficient lighting (LED bulbs, motion detectors), ventilation prised indirect emissions from purchased electricity. Direct and heating. Examples of implemented measures are emissions were mainly attributable to the use of propane presented on pages 23 and 38. in furnaces for processing metals for springs. The increase ENVIRONMENT AND WORK ENVIRONMENT Key figures Lesjöfors Habia Cable Beijer Tech Energy consumption, GWh (GWh/MSEK in net revenues) 40.6 (20.2) 13.6 (17.3) 3.3 (4.5) Water consumption, m3 (m3/MSEK in net revenues) 20,500 (10.2) 14,060 (17.9) 2,150 (2.9) CO2 emissions, tons (tons/MSEK in net revenues) 10,650 (5.3) 5,950 (7.6) 115 (0.2) VOC emissions, tons (tons/MSEK in net revenues) 2.5 (0.001) 9.3 (0.012) 0 (0) Amount of waste, tons (tons/MSEK in net revenues) 2,250 (1.1) 740 (0,9) 150 (0.2) ISO 14001, number of certified units 19 2 2 Workplace accidents, number of cases resulting in cases (cases/million hours worked) 37 (15.5) 13 (13.5) 5 (17.6) Workplace accidents, number of lost working days (days/million hours worked) 177 (74.0) 68 (70.5) 9 (31.7) VOC EMISSIONS WASTE Tons Tons/MSEK Tons Tons/MSEK 100 0.05 5,000 1.0 80 0.04 4,000 0.8 60 0.03 3,000 0.6 40 0.02 2,000 0.4 20 0.01 1,000 0.2 0 0 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 29 PEOPLE , SOCIET Y, ETHICS AND THE ENVIRONMENT in emissions was due to higher production and the fact The Annual Report presents information on operational that the Group has a growing number of units in countries and financial risks. When it comes to sustainability, we where electricity is primarily produced from fossil fuels. have identified a number of risks that may be of signifiAccordingly, more than 60 percent of CO2 emissions were cance for the Group’s financial position. Stricter environattributable to Germany and China. Purchases of green mental legislation, taxes, charges and other environmental electricity and the use of biofuel in Sweden resulted in requirements could give rise to substantial costs for the a reduction in emissions of fossil carbon dioxide. Other Group’s industrial operations. From a business perspective, measures to reduce emissions included energy-efficiency certain risks involving environmental and social responenhancements, train transport and purchases of fuelsibility have been identified in recent years, particularly efficient vehicles. related to manufacturing in developing countries. Beijer VOC emissions amounted to 12 tons (13). Emissions Alma regularly performs risk assessments in the countries of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and dust were very low where it operates. The objective is to identify new risks and/ and amounted to less than 0.5 tons. The installed quantity or costs associated with environmental, ethical and social of coolants (HFC/HCFC) was less than 0.1 tons. No major responsibility as early as possible. emissions of coolants were released to the atmosphere. Attitudes toward sustainable development have changed in recent years. Expectations that business and Waste. The total amount of waste during the year industry should contribute in a positive manner have amounted to 3,100 tons (2,900). Approximately 90 percent increased, creating opportunities for Beijer Alma in several of waste was recycled as materials or energy. Approxiareas. More efficient utilization of resources, reduced mately 1,800 tons of metal were recycled. About 5 perenvironmental impact, development of environmentally cent comprised hazardous waste, which was handled by friendly products and a distinct social responsibility are approved waste management companies. The most importexamples of areas in which the Group can create competant improvement initiatives focused on reducing scrapitive advantages and contribute to sustainable developping, improving sorting at source and increasing the reuse ment. of packaging materials. Initiatives such as Six Sigma, Lean Manufacturing and 5S contributed to better resource use, Environmental legislation. Beijer Alma’s production units more efficient production and reduced waste at several hold the necessary permits for their operations. No major facilities. applications for permit renewals are planned for 2017. Wherever applicable, the Group’s units meet the requireTransportation. The Group continued its efforts to reduce ments of the REACH chemical legislation, the RoHS product its environmental impact from the transportation of raw legislation, product liability for packaging waste and other materials, products and people, partly by purchasing vehirelevant environmental and work environment legislation. cles with lower fuel consumption, coordinating transporWe do not anticipate an increased risk relating to new or tation, changing routes, using videoconferences and using amended legislation in the near future. In accordance with more rail transport. A number of companies in Beijer Tech the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, energy audits must be reported a total reduction in CO2 emissions of approxicarried out at a number of production facilities. This work mately 30 tons. has commenced and will initially result in expenses. In many cases, the results of these audits create opportunities Risks and opportunities for more efficient energy use and reduced costs. Through active and well-planned management, Beijer Alma continuously minimizes its operational risks. At the Contaminated land and hazardous substances same time, we also aim to leverage the business opporin buildings. The land at one facility in Sweden is contunities associated with controlled risk assumption. The taminated by metals and oil. Beijer Alma is not financially primary components of the Group’s risk management responsible for any investigations or environmental are identification, assessment, management, reporting, remediation performed at this facility. The matter is being monitoring and control. Procedures have been established administered and financed by the County Administrative for accepting, reducing or eliminating various types of Board. Another Swedish unit is included in the official significant risks. government register of contaminated land, known as the 30 PEOPLE , SOCIET Y, ETHICS AND THE ENVIRONMENT MIFO Register, in the lowest risk category. There are a Business ethics. A lack of business ethics could harm Beijer small number of known instances of materials containing Alma’s reputation and business operations. As shown in asbestos used in buildings. These involve roofs and wall the information on page 26, we are working in various coverings and will not require decontamination measures. ways to prevent corruption and other improprieties. PCB inventories were taken and small amounts of PCB were decontaminated at a facility in Sweden. Human rights. Human rights violations in our companies or among our suppliers could harm the Group’s reputation Energy costs. There is a risk that energy costs will rise and and business operations. Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct is have a significantly negative impact on earnings. At Beijer applied in the same manner worldwide. We promote the Alma, this applies in particular to power purchases. Curprotection of human rights through information, training rently, the energy price trend is favorable from the Group’s programs, internal regulations and monitoring. perspective. However, prices will most likely rise in the long term. Higher taxes and charges for fossil-based fuel can also be expected. As part of its risk management, Beijer Alma has established a Group-wide energy efficiency objective and tangible measures are being carried out at its plants. Climate-related risks. Climate issues are important. Page 30 presents an overview of the Group’s efforts to reduce its carbon footprint. It is also important that we are adequately prepared for the potential financial impact that climate change could have on our operations. This may involve damage to plants and infrastructure as well as access to raw materials, conditions among suppliers and changes in customer behavior. Taxes, charges and mandatory emission limitations could also affect Beijer Alma. One of the Group’s plants is located in an area in which extreme weather conditions may occur, namely Changzhou in China. It is not known whether climate change will affect the situation, but we are monitoring the risk and vulnerability analyses being conducted by the authorities. Environmentally friendly products. Interest in environmentally friendly products is growing. One business risk may be that the company’s product range contains products that – for health or environmental reasons – are not accepted by customers. As a supplier, Beijer Alma has various opportunities to address this risk. Since most of the Group’s products are manufactured at the request of customers, development work must be carried out in cooperation with them. We continuously monitor the development process in order to initiate the replacement of hazardous substances, introduce more environmentally friendly components and develop new products. The Sustainability Report provides several examples of products that generate additional environmental benefits. 31 Sustainable development and finances SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCES Strong end to the year environmental and work environment measures totaled 2016 was another strong year for Beijer Alma. Invoicing MSEK 9.8 (14.2) and mainly pertained to equipment for air amounted to MSEK 3,528 (3,522) for the full year. Operapurification and measures to improve the work environting profit for the full year totaled MSEK 455 (477) and the ment. Environment-related costs totaled MSEK 6.0 (5.3). operating margin was 12.9 percent (13.6). Profit after net financial items amounted to MSEK 447 (467) and earnings Financial value for stakeholders per share totaled SEK 10.87 (11.74). Beijer Alma’s operations create financial value that is allocated to its various stakeholders, including the comEnvironment-related costs and investments pany’s suppliers, employees, shareholders, lenders and The cost for energy during the year amounted to MSEK society. Beijer Alma is a responsible company that pays 41.6 (39.1), the cost for water to MSEK 0.9 (0.9) and the cost taxes and fees in accordance with the legislation prevailing for waste management to MSEK 2.2 (2.4). Investments in the countries where the Group operates. STAKEHOLDER GROUP ALLOCATED VALUE (MSEK) COMMENTS 2016 2015 2014 Suppliers 1,475 1,477 1,410 Compensation for materials and services (raw materials and consumables) Employees 952 966 868 Salaries and benefits Shareholders 286 286 256 Dividend Lenders 9 11 11 Interest expenses Society 119 113 104 Reported effective tax for the Group INVESTMENTS IN THE ENVIRONMENT AND WORK COSTS RELATED TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND WORK ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Air purification 9% Waste management 36% Wastewater treatment 30% Administration 33% Waste management equipment 4% Fees to authorities 2% Work environment improvements 35% Operation of purification plants 9% Other investments 22% ISO 14001 16% External services 4% 32 Global Compact GLOBAL COMPACT – Communication on Progress Ten Principles for CSR Communication on Progress In 2015, Beijer Alma joined the UN Global Compact, an Organizations that are affiliated with the Global initiative to promote CSR. As a participant in the Global Compact are required to submit an annual report known Compact, we agree to adhere to Ten Principles in the areas as a Communication on Progress (COP), which outlines of human rights, labor conditions, the environment and their work in relation to the Ten Principles. Beijer Alma anti-corruption. Over the course of the financial year, we uses this information as a basis for its Annual Report and established a clearer connection between the UN global susSustainability Report in order to give an accurate picture of tainable development goals and the Group-wide objectives. how we comply with the Global Compact. GLOBAL COMPACT STATUS 2016 PAGE Human 1. Businesses should support and Information and training regarding Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct were 8–9, 26–27 rights respect the protection of internationprovided at several units. No human rights violations were reported. ally proclaimed human rights. The Group continued to improve its processes for assessing suppliers. The 10, 31 2. Businesses should make sure that number of assessments has increased compared with the preceding year. they are not complicit in human rights No human rights violations were reported. abuses. Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the The Code of Conduct lists freedom of association and the right to collec26–27 conditions freedom of association and the tive bargaining as a fundamental principle. Trade unions have been estabeffective recognition of the right to lished in all relevant countries and countries where this is customary. In collective bargaining. countries without trade unions, the company and its employees engage in other types of negotiations. 4. Businesses should uphold the All forms of forced and compulsory labor are forbidden at Beijer Alma 8–9, 26–27 elimination of all forms of forced and and among the Group’s suppliers. There are no signs that any violations compulsory labor. occurred during the year. 5. Businesses should uphold the Child labor is forbidden at Beijer Alma and among the Group’s suppliers. effective abolition of child labor. There are no signs that any violations occurred during the year. 8, 10, 26–27 6. Businesses should uphold The Code of Conduct clearly states the Group’s stance on discrimination the elimination of discrimination in and equality. No instances of discrimination were reported. Formal 8, 10, 26–27 respect of employment and equality plans have been established at 11 of the Group’s units. occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a The ISO 14001 environmental management system is a systematic tool in 9, 28–30 precautionary approach to environthe Group’s efforts to identify and prevent risks. 80 percent of the Group’s mental challenges. units are currently certified and additional certifications are planned. We are also taking a preventive approach, for example, by installing treatment equipment, phasing out hazardous chemicals and conducting risk analyses. 8. Businesses should undertake initiaThe overall environmental responsibility rests with Group management 9 tives to promote greater environmental and responsibility for the daily operations is delegated to the management responsibility. teams of the Group companies. Performance is reported to Beijer Alma’s Board of Directors on a regular bases and communicated externally through the Sustainability Report and CDP reporting. 9. Businesses should encourage the The Group offers several good examples of component/product develop23, 36, 38 development and diffusion of ment that helps to reduce environmental impact. environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work against Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct provides clear guidance regarding the pre26 corruption corruption in all its forms, including vention of corruption. All Group companies perform an annual self-assessextortion and bribery. ment about their work to combat corruption. The assessment is based on guiding documents from the Global Compact. No violations were reported or detected in 2016. 33 Glossary GLOSSARY 5S. A Japanese method for creating order in the workplace. Environmental aspects. The areas of an organization’s The 5S phases can be translated as: sort, straighten, shine, activities, products or services that impact the environment standardize and sustain. 5S is a key component of lean (ISO 14001). manufacturing. Environment-related costs. Costs attributable to meaCarbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is produced during sures implemented in order to prevent, reduce or restore all processes involving the combustion of carbon matethe environmental impact caused by an organization’s rials – for example, during fossil fuel combustion. It is operations. A corresponding term is used for costs related widely believed that carbon dioxide is a contributing to work environment issues. Environment-related costs factor to global warming (greenhouse effect). Beijer Alma may include administrative costs, in-sourcing of external reports its CO2 emissions from direct and indirect energy services, government fees, maintenance of environmental consumption. management systems, waste-related costs and costs for external inspections and audits. CDP. The Carbon Disclosure Project is a voluntary system for reporting the climate impact of companies. The initiaEnvironment-related investments. Investments aimed tive is primarily targeted at international investors, who at preventing and reducing the environmental impact of can use the information provided about climate risks when the Group’s operations. A corresponding term is used for investing in various companies. Beijer Alma has performed investments in work environment improvements. CDP reporting since 2013. Global Compact. A UN initiative in the area of CSR. ParticCode of Conduct. Guidelines for employees in the areas ipating organizations agree to adhere to Ten Principles in of business ethics, the environment, working conditions the areas of human rights, labor conditions, the environand social responsibility. The most recent update to Beijer ment and anti-corruption. Alma’s Code of Conduct took place in 2015 and 2016. Global goals. At the UN Summit on September 25, 2015, Conflict minerals. Tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold heads of state and governments from around the world originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adopted 17 global goals and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainnearby countries are referred to as conflict minerals. The able Development. The global goals and the 2030 Agenda term refers to the ongoing armed conflicts in the region, aim to end poverty and hunger, realize the human rights in which mining operations are often involved and which of all, achieve gender equality and the empowerment of have resulted in human rights violations. all women and girls, and ensure the lasting protection of the planet and its natural resources. The global goals are COP. A Communication on Progress is an annual report integrated and indivisible, and balance the three dimensubmitted to the UN that outlines Beijer Alma’s work sions of sustainable development: economic, social and related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. environmental sustainability. CSR/CR. Corporate social responsibility and corporate HCFC/CFC. Coolants such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) and responsibility are terms used to describe a company’s hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFC) have a negative effect on approach to issues concerning the environment, social the environment as a result of their ozone-depleting propresponsibility, financial responsibility and business ethics. erties and climate impact. Demand for environmentally These terms are often used interchangeably with the term friendly coolants is growing worldwide. “sustainable development.” ISO 14001. International standard for environmental Energy consumption. Beijer Alma reports both its direct management systems introduced in 1996. Some 325,000 energy use (use of fuel in its own energy facilities) and its organizations worldwide currently hold ISO 14001 certifiindirect use (purchased electricity and district heating). cation. An updated version of the standard was published in 2015 (ISO 14001:2015). Certification in accordance with ISO 14001 is a requirement for all Beijer Alma production units. 34 GLOSSARY ISO 26000. International standard providing guidance on Sustainable development. This term refers to “develophow organizations can manage issues pertaining to social ment that meets the needs of the present without comproresponsibility. The standard was introduced in 2010 and mising the ability of future generations to meet their own has provided guidance in the formulation of Beijer Alma’s needs.” Sustainable development encompasses ecological, Code of Conduct. social and economic sustainability. Lean manufacturing. Systematic method for managing VOC. Volatile organic compounds, which have a high vapor resources in an efficient manner. The purpose of lean manpressure at ordinary room temperature. The presence of ufacturing is to identify all factors in a production process volatile hydrocarbons in the air has a negative impact on that do not create customer value. health and the environment and contributes, for example, to the production of ground-level ozone (smog). Naphtha. Naphthalene is an aromatic hydrocarbon compound used as a solvent in Habia Cable. Work-related illness . Work-related illnesses may be caused by prolonged exposure to a particular work enviNitrogen oxides. Gaseous oxides (NOx) produced from the ronment factor, such as noise, dust or solvents. reaction of nitrogen and oxygen gases in the air during combustion. These substances are hazardous to the Work-related injury. The term work-related injury refers environment and people’s health and are known to cause to a sudden incident (accident) occurring at the workplace acidification and eutrophication. that causes a wound or injury. Typical workplace injuries at Beijer Alma include injuries caused by machinery and PCB. Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group of industrial equipment, falls and injuries caused by heavy lifting or chemicals that are hazardous to the environment and repetitive work. Beijer Alma defines the term workhealth. Although the use of PCBs was banned in Sweden in related injury as an accident causing more than one day of 1972, the substances are still present in the environment absence (lost work case, LWC). due to their long decomposition time. REACH. European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) is an EU regulation adopted to promote safer handling of chemical substances. Chemical substances are to be registered for a particular use. Substances of very high concern may be subject to restrictions. ROHS . The Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive is an EU regulation that limits the use of certain substances that have negative impact on health and the environment. Six Sigma. A program and philosophy for making quality improvements in companies and organizations, first introduced at Motorola in 1987. Six Sigma is largely inspired by the holistic approach to quality issues commonly adopted in Japanese industrial companies since World War II. Sulphur dioxide. Sulphur dioxide (SO2) is produced during the combustion of petroleum products and contributes to the acidification of water and land. In high concentrations, sulphur dioxide can be harmful to people’s health. 35 GOOD EXAMPLES FIELD TRIP RISK INVENTORIES ENVIRONMENT Every year, students from the EntreMany of the Group’s facilities across To minimize the risk of emissions, preneurship Program at Uppsala the world are conducting risk Lesjöfors America covers the waste in University and upper-secondary inventories. This is being done on the containers located near the facischool students from Fyrisskolan and the initiative of the Parent Company, lity. If left uncovered, rain and snow Katedralskolan in Uppsala are invited Beijer Alma, and in partnership with could carry contaminants from the to attend Beijer Alma’s AGM. This the company AON, whose operations waste to the ground and water. gives students an opportunity to learn include risk management services. more about what happens during the Based on this risk inventory, improveAGM of a listed, international group. ment measures will then be established for each unit. SOCCER Beijer Alma sponsors the “Gränslös fotboll” (Soccer Without Borders) project, an initiative started by the Sirius Soccer Club in Uppsala. The project helps to offer meaningful recreational opportunities in underprivileged areas where positive activities for PREVENTIVE CARE children and young people are often Preventive care was high on the WORK ENVIRONMENT lacking. Together with other commuagenda of several Lesjöfors compaIn foundries, excess materials are nity organizations in Uppsala, Sirius nies. The plant in Tinglev, Denmark, washed away once the foundry gathers young people to play soccer signed an agreement giving its process is complete. This work is often games on Fridays and Saturdays. employees access to a local gym. performed manually and creates a Lesjöfors Stockholms Fjäder wants to harsh work environment with dust, encourage more employees to take noise and vibrations. It is not uncomadvantage of the company’s premon for companies to bring in local ventive care contribution. All employsubsuppliers that use manpower from ees were also invited to participate in low-cost countries. Karlebo offers a local running race during the year. an automatic cleaning machine that The company paid for the employees’ helps foundries avoid work environentry fees and provided team shirts. ment problems. The machine is easy to operate and improves the results of the work carried out. TEACH FOR SWEDEN Teach for Sweden uses a new approach to recruit teachers – primarily in natural science subjects – to work QUALIT Y at schools in socially disadvantaged Tebeco’s high-quality blasting agent areas. By providing schools with is good for the environment and the leaders who make a difference in the wallet. The blasting agent is homoclassroom, the organization helps genous and longer-lasting – and more students achieve their upperthus reduces material usage. This secondary school qualifications. RACING SPONSOR quality product lasts 10 to 20 percent Beijer Alma provides Teach for Habia is sponsoring Ashwa Racing – longer than other cheaper alternatiSweden with monetary support. Some an Indian racing team from the R.V. ves. Lower material usage results in of the Group’s managers also act as College of Engineering in Bangalore. environmental gains in the form of a mentors for teachers in the organizaThe team is made up of engineering reduction in waste management and tion’s leadership program. students who build their own racing transport. This quality product also cars and compete in both India and contributes to lower maintenance abroad. Habia supplies the team costs and less downtime. with cables and technical expertise, thereby establishing connections with these future engineers, who represent an attractive target group. 36 GOOD EXAMPLES REUSE Lesjöfors America has worked together with some of its largest customers to reduce packaging use. The partnership is based on the use of certain types of packaging that are not discarded immediately after use, but rather are reused several times. NATURAL MATERIAL Beijer Industri offers a grinding wheel that features several environmental improvements. The wheel is made from the natural material hemp. It releases no dangerous particles ENVIRONMENT during grinding, thereby helping to Lesjöfors America has cut its emiscreate a better work environment. sions and optimized its energy Once the wheel has been used, it can efficiency. Its emissions have been also be burnt along with other waste. reduced through the use of electric Many other grinding wheels contain forklifts throughout the operations. substances that make waste manageThe company’s new plant in Pittston, ment more complicated. Pennsylvania, has been equipped with more efficient heating, lighting and air conditioning systems, WORK EXPERIENCE enabling consumption to be reduced. In Herrljunga, Sweden, Lesjöfors is ENVIRONMENT Motion detectors have also been part of a well-established partnership Stumpp+Schüle reduced the use of installed, allowing the lights in the with local schools. Students in the fresh water and salt in a number of premises to be turned on and off area’s upper-secondary industrial its manufacturing processes. A new automatically. program are being given an opporsystem has been installed that allows tunity to conduct their second and these raw materials to be reused third-year internships at the company. to a greater extent than in the past. Lesjöfors was involved in developing Thanks to the more efficient handling this internship program. Before selecof paper and plastic waste, wasteting an upper-secondary school, all related costs have also been reduced. year nine students are invited to visit the company and learn more about its operations. The plant also takes on ENERGY EFFICIENCY compulsory school students for practiHabia has implemented a number of cal work experience. energy-efficiency enhancements at its German plant in Norderstedt. LED bulbs have been installed throughout the plant. The transition to LED is expected to reduce electricity costs by about EUR 8,000 per year. Habia is also investing in LED lighting at the Chinese plant where its industrial cables are produced in order to improve its energy efficiency. COOL WORK ENVIRONMENT Habia has made environmental improvements at its Polish plant in RECYCLING Lubieszyn. Air conditioning has been At its plant in Söderfors, Habia ensuinstalled throughout the premises. res that all EUR-pallets are recycled, This will improve the working condithus extending their service life. Used tions in the facility, where temperapallets that are in poor condition are tures can reach 40 degrees Celsius in collected, refurbished by a partner the summer. company and resold. 37 Reporting principles REPORTING PRINCIPLES Transparent presentation of sustainability work Beijer Alma’s Sustainability Report addresses a range of environmental, work environment, social and business ethical issues. The aim of the report is to provide Beijer Alma’s employees and external stakeholders with clear information on the company’s CSR activities and how they are connected to the company’s business operations. The report is also intended to explain the Group’s work related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in accordance with the requirements of the Communication on Progress (COP). This information is also used to report the Group’s climate impact in accordance with the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) provide a basis for the Group’s reporting and choice of indicators. Most units that were part of Beijer Alma in 2016 are included in the report. Data was provided by a total of 30 units in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Latvia, Poland, Slovakia, Germany, the UK, the US, Thailand, Singapore and China. A small number of Beijer Tech’s sales offices are not included in the report. These offices employ a total of approximately 25 employees. One operation in Mexico belonging to Lesjöfors Springs America is not included in the report. The premises for the operation are rented and most of the employees belong to another company. Reporting principles Each unit has contributed quantitative and qualitative information in accordance with Beijer Alma’s sustainability reporting form. The head of each company/unit is responsible for assuring the quality of the information submitted. The Group’s performance during the year has been compared and verified against the information from the preceding year. Additional quality control is carried out through interviews and on-site visits. Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide from direct energy consumption have been measured using conversion factors based on the energy content and quality of the fuel used. CO2 emissions from indirect energy consumption – mainly electricity – are measured based on emission factors from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) and the Covenant of Mayors (EU 2010) for the countries in which Beijer Alma conducts operations. In cases where energy suppliers present specific information regarding the energy mix, the supplier’s measurement models are used. Information about VOC emissions (solvents) is primarily based on mass balance calculations. 38 Addresses ADDRESSES BEIJER ALMA AB Dragarbrunnsgatan 45 Forumgallerian Box 1747 SE-751 47 UPPSALA Sweden Telephone +46 18 15 71 60 Fax +46 18 15 89 87 E-mail info@beijeralma.se firstname.lastname@beijeralma.se beijeralma.se Strandvägen 5A, 5th floor Box 7823 SE-103 97 STOCKHOLM Sweden Telephone +46 8 506 427 50 LESJÖFORS AB Head office Köpmannagatan 2 SE-652 26 KARLSTAD Sweden Telephone +46 54 13 77 50 E-mail info@lesjoforsab.com lesjoforsab.com HABIA CABLE AB Head office Kanalvägen 18, 6th floor Box 5076 SE-194 05 UPPLANDS VÄSBY Sweden Telephone +46 8 630 74 40 E-mail info@habia.com habia.com BEIJER TECH AB Head office Radiovägen 27E Box 2120 SE-135 02 TYRESÖ Sweden E-mail info@beijertech.se beijertech.se GRAPHIC DESIGN AND PRODUCTION WALDTON DESIGN. TEXT FREDRIK LILIEBLAD. PHOTOS ©DANIEL HERTZELL (PRODUCT AND GENERAL PHOTOS, INCL. COVER), PETER PHILLIPS (PORTRAITS) AND ISTOCK. TRANSLATION THE BUGLI COMPANY. We are already feeling the impact of the transition to sustainable energy, which will ultimately result in fossil fuels increasingly being phased out. These changes will also create new business opportunities for industrial groups such as ours. Bertil Persson President and CEO
