Communication on progress 2016 I Sweden’s largest Sveaskog’s forest owner forest assets Kiruna Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner with 14% of the Kalix country’s forests. Sales totalled Luleå SEK 5.9 billion in 2016 and the average number of employees was 844, operating around the country. Sveaskog is owned Umeå Östersund by the Swedish state. Sveaskog sells sawlogs, pulpSundsvall wood, biofuel, forest seedlings and silvicultural services. Sveaskog complements Gävle supplies from its own forests with purchases from other Karlstad Stockholm ­forest owners, exchanges and imports. Sveaskog also works with land transactions and Breakdown of tree species on Sveaskog’s land develops the forest as a venue Gothenburg for fishing, hunting and other Växjö nature-based experiences. Malmö Pine 63% Spruce 29% Deciduous 8% Cover photograph taken in Djursholms Ekeby. Spruce cone production does not start until the tree is 30–40 years old and cones are then produced at 4–10 year intervals. The year in brief Net sales totalled SEK 5,922 million Operating profit from continuing operations amounted to SEK 1,128 million Dividend of SEK 800 million proposed to the 2017 Annual General Meeting Continued very high result for customer satisfaction 37th ecopark inaugurated in the area of a major forest fire in Västmanland Green bonds issued for the first time Watch our short animated films “Forestry, the Swedish way” which provide a simple presentation of Swedish forestry. Seven films, each one minute long, are available on Sveaskog’s website sveaskog.se Contents The year in brief 1 Sawlogs 26 Sveaskog’s assignment 2 Pulpwood and chips 28 Comments from the Chairman 3 Biofuel 30 CEO’s comments 4 Svenska Skogsplantor, concessions, This is Sveaskog 6 hunting, fishing and lockage 31 Vision, mission and values 8 Active forest management is Strategies for good, long-term value development 9 the basis of Sveaskog’s operations 32 Sveaskog creates significant values 10 Dividend and profit distribution 34 Targets and performance 2016 11 Risk and sensitivity analysis 35 Growing forest good for the climate 14 Corporate governance report 39 Nature conservation for increased biodiversity 16 Board of Directors 44 Culture and motivation key topics for employees 18 Group Management 46 High demands on contractors 20 Notes to the Sustainability Report 48 Innovation for increased profitability 22 Our business Lower earnings in 2016 but good future prospects 24 GRI appendix 54 and www.sveaskog.se The legal annual report including the administration report and financial statements comprises pages 6–9, 16–19 and 22–78 of the Annual Report (in Swedish). The sustainability report that has been reviewed by the auditors is on pages 10–15, 20–21 and 81–86. 1 Sveaskog’s assignment Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state. According to the state’s ownership policy, the company must have value creation as its overall objective. This means that Sveaskog must operate in the long term, efficiently and profitably, be allowed to develop and create value through sustainable business. According to the articles of association, Sveaskog owns and manages real and personal property, conducts forestry operations and forest industry as well as related business activities. The core business is forest management. Sveaskog must also be an independent player without major interests as an end user of wood raw material. The owner has an explicit dividend policy and clear financial targets for the company regarding yield and net debt/equity ratio. 2 Comments from the Chairman Sveaskog’s operations are important for Sweden The forest is one of Sweden’s most significant assets and laid the foundation for our welfare when we took the step into industrialisation. The forest is still important for Sweden both as a significant source of exports and because it creates conditions for a living countryside. “ Sveaskog owns 14% of Swedish forests grazing damage, price negotiations and which means that what Sveaskog does or road-wear taxes. The high confidence If Sweden is to does not do is significant for Sweden. The enjoyed by the company in surveys among company helps to provide 5,400 jobs – customers, contractors and suppliers, shows convert to a ­mostly in rural areas – and thereby contributhat Sveaskog is acting in a good way and sustainable society, tes tax revenues of SEK 580 million. Over has the right priorities. Although the results the last five years, Sveaskog has contributed from these surveys are good, there is scope politicians, the to our welfare by providing SEK 7 billion in for further improvement. business community dividends to our owner, the Swedish state. Our forests also create other values that are Focus on the green transition and academia must worthy of protection such as opportunities for Sveaskog has a strong financial position act together to outdoor recreation. which provides scope for being involved in Today, we know that active forest managethe development of applications for wood raw accelerate this ment is more important than ever due to the material and residual products from the forest development.” positive climate effects of the forest. Forest industry. Among other things, experiences sequestration and the use of forest products from Sveaskog’s part ownership of the reduce carbon dioxide in an amount corre­ bio­diesel manufacturer SunPine makes the sponding to Sweden’s entire fossil emissions. company well equipped to continue pushing Since the positive climate effects from the the development of both biofuels and other forest are greatest when it is growing, more high-value products. In this way long-term sustainable forest management is Sveaskog accepts active responsibility of major importance. for participation in the green transition. Sveaskog is involved in a large number of Integrated sustainability work different projects aimed to increase the use Forest owners have a responsibility to act in of wood-based products and material. It is a manner that is sustainable over time and both feasible and important for the green Sveaskog – which is Sweden’s largest forest transition to replace fossil and energy-­ owner and owned by the Swedish state – has intensive materials with wood. However, a special responsibility to set an example and Sveaskog’s involvement is not enough here. be a leading player in the industry. It is If Sweden is to convert to a sustainable therefore gratifying to note that Sveaskog society, politicians, the business community has taken major steps forward when it comes and academia must act together to identify to integrating sustainability into all of its activities and control mechanisms to activities. The company’s strategies are accelerate this development. clearly linked to sustainability aspects. Among Sveaskog has welcomed some 100 work other things, Sveaskog’s management has experience participants and summer workers placed great emphasis on the issue of during the year, both new arrivals and others, confidence, which had led to an open and in order to overcome social exclusion. These constructive dialogue with local authorities initiatives also improve long-term recruitment and other stakeholders across the country. opportunities and strengthen the company’s This in turn is a precondition for a long-term attraction as an employer. This is exemplary sustainable business. work of which Sveaskog’s employees should Sveaskog operates in a world with many be especially proud. short-term and long-term challenges. Shortterm profitability, cyclical dependence and the Stockholm, March 2017 ability to meet customer requirements must be countered with questions about everything Helene Biström from nature conservation and key biotopes, Chairman of the Board 3 CEO’s comments We create business benefits from the forest’s positive climate effects 2016 was characterised by favourable conditions in the forest. The industry announced investments and expansion at the same time as a growing number of stakeholders recognised the key role of the forest in climate work. Due to successful business collaborations and good on ambassadorship and employeeship which we will work throughout Sveaskog we achieved a favourable continue to work on in 2017 and beyond. The aim is financial result in 2016 as well. The Board has proposed to increase employees’ confidence and pride in the that the Annual General Meeting approves a dividend company. of SEK 800 million, which we are proud to be able to deliver. Innovations for increased profitability Sveaskog has a strong balance sheet and issued a Our financial strength makes it possible for us to green bond for the first time in 2016 which was well participate in innovation and development projects with received by investors. A strong balance sheet is of other players and stakeholders. We give priority to major significance for us since it gives us scope to projects that can contribute to the green transition and continue to develop our operations and be a key increased profitability. Everything that is made from oil supplier to the forest industry. can be made from our renewable raw material even when it is complicated. During the year we have seen Continued high confidence growing interest outside the company as well for the Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner and creation of business benefits from the positive climate therefore has a key role in contributing to the country’s effects of the forest. When we evaluate a project it is of economic development. This includes creating job decisive importance that we can see that this might lead opportunities in rural communities. If we are to conduct to commercialisation of new products or services. One a sustainable and profitable business over time, we example of a promising project is our cooperation with must have satisfied customers. It is therefore gratifying innovators, forest industry and the petrochemical that the autumn surveys show how satisfied they are industry where lignin and lignin oil are extracted from with us. These results are stable and at a very high the pulp mills’ black liquor. This project is now being level. This confirms that there is considerable mutual conducted as a pilot and the plan is a commercial launch confidence between us and our customers. It is for the product within a couple of years. particularly satisfactory to note that they give us the During 2016 we took yet another step in business highest grade for delivery quality which is a central development when we signed our first agreement on area for us. ecological compensation. This concept means that Our contractors comprise an extensive part of our Sveaskog provides land and maintenance to companies operations and carry out significant tasks in forest which need to acquire compensation land. Potential management, transport and other areas. A good customers include companies that operate mines or dialogue with them is essential if we are to conduct wind power plants. We believe that demand for this sustainable business. Both our contractors and concept will increase. suppliers showed high confidence in us in the autumn Another example of how we have developed the surveys which is also highly gratifying and a good business during the year is our new fishing permit and basis for continued value-creating cooperation. short-term leases for small and large game hunting. Confidence in Sveaskog and forest management is The fishing permit is valid for more than one thousand an issue that is always on the agenda. We will continue stretches of water in northern Sweden. The short-term to discuss how and why we manage the forests, hunting leases apply in some areas of the country. Both Sveaskog’s assignment and different local circum­ initiatives have been successful and we have managed stances and challenges. Last year we started an to make our land available to more people. Spurred on important internal culture-bearing initiative centred by this success, we will introduce these lease forms in 4 “ Due to successful business collaborations and good work throughout Sveaskog we achieved a good financial result in 2016 as well” more places in Sweden in 2017. tragically affected by fire. Today, the area is full of life During 2016 we also became involved in the which includes a number of red-listed species which are integration question, an area in which we have been now getting a chance to establish themselves. It is active previously. We have called our integration project fantastic that this area that was so badly damaged can “Growing Power!” and since the start in April last year become Sweden’s largest contiguous deciduous forest. we have welcomed 35 trainees and 72 young people for summer jobs in order to broaden the recruitment Reduced dependence on fossil fuels base and increase interest in working in the forest As part of contributions to the green transition and to industry. I would like to congratulate all employees and reduce dependence on fossil fuels, we are working to contractors who made this possible and hope for an reduce our own carbon dioxide emissions. Our oper­ equally good result for our integration initiatives this year. ations depend on a large number of heavy road From the customer survey we can also see that transports and they account for almost two-thirds of the customers expect us to continue to work with sustain­ carbon dioxide emissions that Sveaskog generates. We ability issues. Sveaskog wants to be the leading are therefore working intensively together with our company within sustainable forest management and to contractors to increase the use of renewable fuels and utilise and develop forest climate benefits. We therefore improve logistics. Starting in 2017, it will be possible to conduct active silvicultural activities with responsible use 74-tonne vehicles which is a welcome decision regeneration in order to ensure sustainable removals since it makes our transports more efficient and climate from our forests. Our removals are 70% of growth. One smart. We are also focusing on changing to renewable consequence of our forest management is that the fuel in the forest machines. These measures will enable forests will look different in the future. They will be us to achieve a dramatic decrease in carbon dioxide more varied with more deciduous trees and older, large emissions. trees. At the same time trees that are felled will on averTo further show our support for internationally age be younger and of smaller dimensions than today. recognised business ethical norms and our long-term commitment to sustainability issues, we have been Extensive nature conservation signatories to the UN Global Compact since 2005 and Sveaskog wants to set a good example when it comes we publish a report in accordance with the Global to nature conservation. We have chosen to set aside Reporting Initiative. one fifth of our productive forest land as nature As Sweden’s largest forest owner, our operations conservation areas. During 2016 we took yet another affect many stakeholders and we create both direct and initiative to strengthen nature protection when we significant indirect values. We play a key role in keeping agreed with the Swedish Environmental Protection rural areas alive and make forest and land available to Agency on long-term protection of valuable ancient and the public. We also have a considerable responsibility to natural forests in the Swedish counties of Norrbotten take care of the forest in a way that is sustainable over and Västerbotten. The agreement covers 41 forest time so that future generations can share the value of areas and means that some of Sweden’s largest and the forests. The right management also gives us the most valuable ancient forests from a nature conservagreatest climate benefit from the forest. In 2017 we will tion point of view will become nature reserves. The total continue to create value by working towards our vision area is approximately 47,000 hectares of our forests to be the leading forest company. including 29,000 hectares of productive forest land. Our ecoparks are part of our nature conservation Stockholm, March 2017 work. Management of the ecoparks is dictated by their ecology. In September 2016 we inaugurated the 37th Per-Olof Wedin ecopark in the area of Västmanland that was so President and CEO Operating profit from continuing operations, SEKm Performance measures 1,500 SEKm 2016 2015 1,128 Yield, % (target at least 4.5%) 4,2 4,7 1,200 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple (target 0.3–0.6) 0.40 0.41 900 Return on operating capital, % 5.8 10.3 Return on equity, % 6.0 10.6 600 Interest cover, multiple 1) 6.3 6.2 300 Equity ratio, % 52 51 Interest-bearing net debt, SEKm 7,937 8,089 0 Average number of employees 844 851 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total delivery volume, thousand m3sub 10,684 10,748 1) Operating profit before change in value of forest assets minus capital gains on property sales plus financial income divided by financial expenses. 5 This is Sveaskog Thousands of people hunt and fish in the Operates in 200 company’s forests and lakes municipalities Sweden’s largest 100% forest 844 State-owned owner average number of employees in 2016 Engages Owns 1,400 42,200 km contracting companies throughout Sweden of roads 6 For est m anag em ent From own Field purchases forests Central purchases 1,342 thousand m3sub 6,459 and imports 2,883 thousand thousand m3sub m3sub Total delivery volume 10,684 thousand m3sub Net sales SEK 5,922m Sawlogs Pulpwood & chips 48% 41% Customers: Customers: Pulp mills Sawmills Other % 2 Biofuel Svenska Skogsplantor 4% 5% Customers: Customers: Heating Forest plants owners Wood is one of the most durable CHP plants Sveaskog supplies pulpwood to construction raw materials and is also the pulp and paper industry in renewable, attractive and climate Sweden. The pulp is used for smart. Sveaskog sells timber to packaging, graphic papers, sawmills throughout Sweden and newsprint and hygiene products northern Europe. These mills primarily such as nappies, kitchen and deliver to the construction and toilet paper. furniture industries. Biofuel consists of branches and tops as well as thin The company is Sweden’s largest seedlings supplier trees and energy wood. Woodfuel is good fuel from an with approximately 4,000 customers in Sweden. environmental point of view and extraction of woodfuel Sveaskog also offers silvicultural services such as is a natural part of sustainable forestry. Sveaskog soil scarification and planting. mainly delivers to heating and CHP plants as well as pulp and paper mills in Sweden. 7 Vision, mission and values Governance of Sveaskog is based on the company’s vision, mission, strategies, shared values and objectives. Vision Values Sveaskog’s vision is to be the leading forest company. Values indicate how employees should act and react to The aim of the objectives and strategies described on each other and their business environment. All work in the next page is to achieve this vision. the company is characterised by the values Customer Focus, Innovation, Simplicity and Transparency. Mission The company works with value-driven leadership and Sveaskog’s mission is “Growing power. For generations.” employeeship. These values include how Sveaskog Sveaskog creates growing power by contributing to conducts business, how employees should act as customer competitiveness, jobs and a living countryside, co-workers and colleagues as well as the responsibility to increased forest growth and rising forest values, to managers and leaders have for developing employees employee development and a profitable company. and conducting business. The values mean among other “For generations” means that we act responsibly in a things that employees must be professional and long-term perspective and we accept responsibility for understand customer needs, take initiatives and be a green transition and increased climate benefit. innovative. Leaders have a special responsibility for creating an innovative climate and an open culture with feedback where both managers and employees learn from successes and failures. Customer Focus, Innovation, Simplicity and Transparency are Sveaskog’s values that characterise the company’s entire operations. The results from the most recent Customer Satisfaction Index survey were presented in September. Sveaskog achieved the highest grade for delivery quality. Pictured here Johanna Rovasaari, Timber Administrator, and Per Sidenmark, IT Specialist at Sveaskog in Piteå. 8 Strategies for good, long-term value development Sveaskog’s operations affect the whole of Sweden. The company has therefore chosen a broad perspective for its activities and selected strategies to create a good, profitable business based on its major forest assets. Sustainability is an integrated part of Sveaskog’s • Climate effects strategic planning. Work on strategies is based on an • Customer satisfaction analysis of the entire value chain and on dialogue with • Biodiversity stakeholders. • Equal opportunity, diversity and skills supply When the company analyses the value chain the most relevant environmental, social and economic issues are The company has set overall priorities to create studied and identified. This analysis, which is based on profitability and long-term growth in value, ensure a the state ownership policy and the company’s own high level of confidence in forest management and experience, takes into account both direct and indirect contribute to the green transition. values created by the operations. In this way the company achieves an understanding of how its Clear and measurable targets operations affect others. The six strategic areas are linked to five objectives with Ten principal stakeholder groups that either affect or their own detailed strategies and quantifiable indicators. are affected by operations have been identified. These Efforts to achieve these targets are regularly evaluated groups are customers, owner, employees, contractors, and the targets are revised annually when the business timber suppliers, tourism companies as well as hunters, plan is drawn up. The business plan provides the basis anglers, etc., reindeer herders, credit providers, for decisions on priorities and is a five-year plan. The authorities and nature conservation organisations. financial targets are yield and net debt/equity ratio. Dialogues with stakeholders are ongoing both in Sveaskog complements its financial reporting with a daily operations and at a company-wide level. These sustainability report prepared according to the Global dialogues provide insight into what stakeholders expect Reporting Initiative (GRI G4 level Core) and reviewed by from Sveaskog and the issues they consider most the auditors. Notes to the sustainability report are important for the company. provided on pages 48–53. Sveaskog’s entire GRI index Based on analysis of the value chain and stakeholder with explanation of indicators is provided on pages dialogues the company then drafted a materiality 54–55 and on the website at www.sveaskog.se. assessment which resulted in six strategic areas. These Sveaskog has been a member of the UN Global are: Compact since 2005. • Confidence • Economic performance Sveaskog’s objectives and strategies Result focus before To be the leading The most profitable Reduce emissions from volume focus ________________ forest company in the forest company Leader within sustainable forest burning fossil fuels short and long term management ____________________ High confidence in forest manageStrengthen biodiversity ment among stakeand experience values holders Customers’ pre____________________ ________________ ferred and most knowLeading in innovation and efficiency Sustainably maximise Long-term value ledgeable partner Preferred choice removals of timber from development for employees and own forests contractors ____________________ Establishing the business Improve efficiency from Manage the forest for throughout the value chain seedling to customer and highest long-term profit________________________ Develop cooperation with in supporting processes ability and increase contractors _____________________ positive climate impact Develop the supply of goods _____________________ Increase revenues and and services to increase value creation for customers Strengthen attraction earnings from land use ________________________ and increase diversity to _____________________ Deliver the right quantity ensure best possible skills Contribute to the green and the right quality at the base over time transition _____________________ _____________________ right time Establish a culture and Increase value of and working methods characconsumption of wood terised byCustomer Focus, Innovation, Simplicity and Transparency 9 Sveaskog creates significant values Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner and a leading supplier of sawlogs, pulpwood and chips. Through its business and strong market position, Sveaskog creates significant economic values. Sveaskog owns 14% of the Swedish forests and billion, also generates significant indirect values. One conducts active forest management to optimise growth. key area is the benefit the forest has for the climate by Most of the wood raw material is sold to Swedish binding carbon dioxide. The company’s forests bind sawmills and pulp mills. These in turn account for a approximately two million tonnes of carbon dioxide per substantial part of Swedish export industry with year which corresponds to approximately 120% of significant operations in rural areas and small commu­ Stockholm’s total road transport emissions. Since the nities. positive climate effects of the forest are greatest while The direct economic values Sveaskog creates include it is growing, Sveaskog creates added value through its payments to contractors and suppliers. Almost half of active forest management. The company’s aim is to operating expenses, SEK 2 billion, comprise payments optimise growth and at the same time meet its high to contracting companies. Sveaskog uses approximately ambitions for nature conservation. Among other things, 1,400 contracting companies which handle transports, Sveaskog has set aside 20% of its productive forest road maintenance and the majority of forest manageland for nature conservation. ment assignments. Most of these contractors operate in rural areas. More applications broaden the business SEK 535 million of operating expenses is used for Increased use of wood and forest land contributes both salaries and other employee benefits. At year-end 2016 to a long-term growing business and major climate the number of employees was 674. Since part of benefits. Sveaskog therefore takes part in various operations are seasonal, such as forest planting, many projects and activities designed to create new people are employed for a limited period. Including applications for wood and forest land. temporary employees, the average number of fullThe forest is an important resource for tourism and time equivalents (FTEs) was 844 in 2016. Most of for Sweden’s image. Internationally, eco-tourism is a employees work in rural areas or small communities. fast-growing area and by leasing land and water to Sveaskog estimates that the company, including entrepreneurs Sveaskog helps to increase interest for contractors, employs directly and indirectly approx­ tourism in Sweden. The basis for every cooperation with imately 5,400 people in Sweden. These people tourism companies is a long-term approach as well as generate an estimated approximately SEK 580 million sustainable and commercial business. per year in state and municipal income tax. Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest owner of private roads with more than 40,000 km of road. These roads make Strong financial position the forests accessible to both forest management, local Sveaskog’s profitability is in line with owner requireresidents and other activities, such as reindeer herding, ments and the financial position is strong which allows tourism, hunting and recreation. The company keeps the company to provide a dividend to its owner the these roads open and every year spends about SEK Swedish state. Over the past five years the company 200 million on maintaining and building new roads. The has paid SEK 7.0 billion in dividends to the Swedish forests are also important for recreation and leisure state as well as SEK 711 million in corporate tax. activities and Sveaskog tries to enable more interested The forest, which has a book value of SEK 34.4 parties to hunt and fish on the company’s lands. Breakdown by stakeholder of direct values reported by Sveaskog: SEKm Stakeholder 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Revenues From customers 6,406 6,371 6,500 6,361 6,619 Operating expenses To suppliers and contractors –4,345 –4,245 –4,411 –4,468 –4,850 Employee wages and benefits and social security costs To employees and the Swedish state –535 –526 –522 –552 –535 Net interest expenses To loan institutions –188 –207 –280 –291 –317 Tax To the Swedish state –134 –174 –155 –131 –117 Dividend to shareholder paid during the year To the Swedish state –800 –800 –450 –435 –4,473 Value retained 404 419 682 484 –3,673 Sveaskog also invests in local communities among other things with maintenance of roads and trails as well as road and information signage. The table only contains the values that can be measured and they are reported according to GRI indicator EC1. 10 Targets and performance 2016 Sveaskog measures and follow up its targets regularly using a number of different indicators. Indicator results are a central component in the annual review of business plans and strategies. The most profitable forest company in the short and long term Indicator Metric Value 2014 Value 2015 Value 2016 Target 2020 Average yield 4.5% Yield 5.0 4.7 4.2 At least 4.5 per year Confidence in Sveaskog Confidence index 78 78 78 80 The objective is to create growth in value for the owner Good ethics are essential for building confidence in both the short and long term. The owner has set a and a strong brand. The Code of Conduct sets out how profitability target of an average yield of at least 4.5% employees and the company should conduct them­ per year. selves with each other, with customers, contractors To ensure good long-term value development as well, and other stakeholders. In all procurement processes, long-term felling plans are drawn up to ensure sustain­ Sveaskog also requires contractors and suppliers to able removals from the forest. Adding to the value of comply with the Code of Conduct, the UN Global forest assets through purchases and sales as well as Compact and general sustainability requirements. exchanges of forest land also ensures a good long-term The ability to meet these requirements is monitored growth in value. Financial targets and results are shown regularly and if non-conformances are found, a dialogue on pages 24–25. is initiated and the cooperation may be discontinued if The ability to operate and create value depends on the non-conformances are not corrected. the general public, customers and employees having a Sveaskog has a whistle-blower function on the high degree of confidence in both Sveaskog and the web­site where suspected violations of the Code of industry. In order to foster increased confidence, the Conduct can be reported anonymously. Since the end of company therefore involves itself in public debate and 2015, this function has been managed and investigated participates in industry initiatives aimed at gaining by an external party. One notification was received in public confidence that the forest is being managed 2016. This matter has been investigated and closed. responsibly. Forest growth today affects raw material removals for future generations. Pernilla Forsberg, Logistician, and Jan-Erik Berglund, Felling Leader, examine growth in a young forest in Piteå. 11 11 Customers’ preferred and most knowledgeable partner Indicator Metric Value 2014 Value 2015 Value 2016 Target 2020 Satisfied customers Customer Satisfaction Index 75 –1) 72 80 sawmill customers Customer Satisfaction Index 66 –1) 64 70 pulpwood customers Customer Satisfaction Index 68 –1) 69 70 biofuel customers Satisfied suppliers Supplier Satisfaction Index 73 –1) 71 70 1 No measurements in 2015. The objective is that customers should perceive Although customer satisfaction fell slightly among Sveaskog as their preferred and most knowledgeable sawmill and pulpwood customers, levels remain very partner. Satisfied and profitable customers are the high for operations of this type. Furthermore, 43% of foundation of value-creating sustainable business. Work customers felt that their relationship with Sveaskog had on developing customer relationships is part of daily strengthened and 50% that it was unchanged since the work and includes employees developing business and previous survey in 2014. business models together with customers. The most important thing for customers is that the A customer survey to obtain a picture of how company delivers the right quantity and quality at the customers’ view the company and how well Sveaskog right time. Customers give Sveaskog the highest grade meets their expectations, is conducted every two years. for delivery quality. They also consider that work with Almost 120 interviews were conducted in September sustainable development is important and find that the 2016 and customers from all the main product range company has an open dialogue with customers, the were represented, i.e. sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel. public and stakeholder organisations. Preferred choice for employees and contractors Indicator Metric Value 2014 Value 2015 Value 2016 Target 2020 Good leadership and employeeship Employee Motivation Index 64 70 –2) 75 Leadership Index 65 73 – 2) 75 Contractor Satisfaction Index 70 –1) 72 73 felling Contractor Satisfaction Index 73 –1) 76 73 silviculture At least 30% women by 2020 Proportion of women % 20 21 22 30 1 No measurement in 2015. 2 Next measurement in 2017. Surveys show that mixed groups perform better and contractors and their expertise are therefore important therefore the target is to increase the proportion of for Sveaskog’s ability to build confidence and deliver women in the company. Greater diversity is important long-term value growth. In order to be able to work with for the ability to ensure skills requirements are met over the most motivated and skilled contractors, the aim is time and for the continued development of operations. that contractors will regard Sveaskog as their preferred During the year, Sveaskog initiated an extensive internal choice. Contractors’ opinions of the company were programme centred on cultural and leadership issues. measured during 2016 and contractors within both There was also a focus on integration and equal felling and silviculture have become more satisfied with opportunity. Sveaskog as a client. Sveaskog works with approximately 1,400 contracRead more about how Sveaskog works with its tors throughout Sweden who together provide services contractors on pages 20–21 and on employees on corresponding to 1,600 full-time employees. These pages 18–19. 12 Leading within innovation and efficiency Indicator Metric Value 2014 Value 2015 Value 2016 Target 2020 Increased efficiency, change % Total productivity +12.3 +3.2 –1.4 At least 2% per year Total productivity/volume unit +5.3 +2.5 0.0 At least 2% per year Sveaskog wants to be seen as a leading player within Sveaskog has a target to increase internal efficiency innovation and efficiency. Innovation and development and change programmes are ongoing. In order to be work focus on projects to increase productivity in able to evaluate efficiency improvements, changed forestry, reduce environmental impact and create new earnings are measured in fixed prices, so-called total applications for wood and forest land. Projects are productivity. The lower levels compared with previous conducted in close cooperation with customers and years is mainly due to lower volumes and higher other stakeholders. It is important that projects can lead investment in silvicultural measures. The target is an to commercial launches of new products or services. improvement of at least 2% per year. Read more about Sveaskog’s innovation work on pages 22–23. Leader within sustainable forest management Indicator Metric Value 2014 Value 2015 Value 2016 Target 2020 Carbon dioxide emissions to be reduced by CO2 emissions tonnes per 14.1 13.6 11.8 10.0 at least 30% in 2010–2020 delivered thousand m3sub 90% of environmental values maintained in Consideration Index 87 94 95 99 forest management without significant impact The objective to be a leader within sustainable forest measurements showed that there are some areas of the management means that management must optimise country where processes and routines for sensitive growth in the forest and at the same time ensure that biotopes and protected zones need to be improved. environmental targets are met. Long-term silvicultural In line with conducting sustainable forest managemeasures involving planting, cleaning and thinning can ment, Sveaskog has a target to reduce its own and increase carbon dioxide sequestration. contractors’ emissions of fossil fuels by using renewable Sveaskog’s nature conservation work covers the fuels and climate-smart transports. Carbon dioxide entire scale from landscape to individual trees as well emissions continued to fall during 2016. The target is to as trees and tree groups. These initiatives include both reduce carbon dioxide emissions by at least 30% by leaving areas untouched and active measures to 2020 compared with 2010. So far, carbon dioxide increase natural values. emissions have decreased by 21% since 2010. The Consideration Index measures the proportion of Read more about the major importance of the forest environmental values achieved in forestry without major for climate change on pages 14–15. Where you can also impact. The Consideration Index improved in 2016. The read more about how Sveaskog works to reduce its own improvements primarily took place in avoiding hauling carbon dioxide emissions. Efforts to maintain or develop damage and damage to ancient monuments. However, biodiversity in the forest are reported on pages 16–17. 13 Growing forest good for the climate The forest’s sequestration and the use of forest products reduce carbon dioxide by an amount corresponding to Sweden’s entire fossil emissions. It is therefore important to conduct active forest management and work to increase the use of wood and wood-based products such as wooden multi-storey buildings. Sveaskog has identified climate effects as a strate­ operations. Every year there is a total of 290,000 road gically important area which affects both priorities journeys or 795 per day. Each journey is on average and working methods. Counteracting climate change 100 kilometres which means that Sveaskog’s road demands active forest management as well as an transports cover two trips round the globe every day. increased use of wood. One stated goal is to reduce The focus in on increasing the proportion of the use of fossil fuels in our own operations. renewable fuels for transports and felling among other The global climate agreement COP21 reached by things by using biofuel, so-called HVO diesel, which is the international community in December 2015 was a made from slaughterhouse waste and forest residues. significant step for the industry since the agreement Converting to renewable biofuel in the forest machines stresses the positive climate effect of both the growing as well can dramatically reduce carbon dioxide and felled forest. Forest management is described as a emissions. success factor for preventing the Earth’s temperature A lot of effort is put into logistics to make transports from increasing by more than two degrees. more efficient and reduce emissions for example by increasing the proportion of backhauls and moving road Active forest management for the climate transports to rail. However, there is often no train that The forest provides the greatest climate benefit through can be used and so the company is contributing to the active management where mature trees are felled to be development of vehicles that can take greater volumes. used in various products and new trees are planted. The It will be possible to make transports more efficient and forest binds most carbon dioxide when it is young and climate-smart from March 2017 when the use of middle-aged since growth is then at its greatest. This 74-tonne vehicles will be permitted. Yet another activity makes high demands on long-term sustainable forest to reduce emissions is Eco driving training for both lorry management to maximise returns over time while drivers and machine operators. increasing the sequestration of carbon dioxide. One consequence of climate effects is that Innovativeness Sveaskog’s forest management must anticipate When the wood raw material is used in different changed weather conditions with storms and higher products it replaces the often energy intensive and temperatures. These preparations include adapting tree fossil resources in, for example, building materials, stocks to the tracts’ future conditions, adapting thinning packaging, vehicle fuels and energy. Sveaskog and cleaning, developing felling on ground that will not therefore participates in various development and bear forest machines and continuing work with the innovation projects and lobbies for the increased use of development of seed and plant material. wood raw material. Products that can be produced from wood include vehicle fuels and chemicals. Read more Focus on transport and logistics about innovation work on pages 22–23. Together with its contractors, Sveaskog has succeeded Sveaskog also contributes to the green transition in increasing the use of renewable fuels and improving by leasing land for wind power. Today there are some logistics. Transports account for nearly two-thirds of the 260 wind turbines producing an annual total of 1.7 carbon dioxide emissions generated by Sveaskog’s terawatt-hours (TWh) on the company’s land. 14 Sveaskog participates in lobbying to increase awareness of the forest’s significance for the countryside as well as export industry and the climate. This work includes letting children and young people get to know the forest. Sveaskog’s carbon footprint including contractors and hauliers Change on Tonnes carbon dioxide 2014 2015 2016 2015, % Forestry and felling 50,000 56,000 48,000 –14.3 Transports 84,000 69,000 65,000 –5.8 Road building 13,000 16,000 10,000 –37.5 Electricity and heating 5,000 4,000 2,000 –50.0 Travel 1,000 1,000 1,000 ±0 Total carbon dioxide footprint 153,000 146,000 126,000 –13.7 The forests’ uptake of carbon dioxide 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 ±0 Net uptake of carbon dioxide 1,847,000 1,854,000 1,874,000 +1.1 The calculation of how much carbon dioxide Sveaskog’s forests can bind is based on a study of the role of the forest in climate work (2008) by the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) and GEOpartner AG. 15 Nature conservation for increased biodiversity Sveaskog wants future generations to be able to experience varied forests with a rich fauna. Therefore, the company works with nature conservation on different scales and long-term ecological landscape planning. All activities carried out by Sveaskog in the forests can was a catastrophe for people, but not for nature. The affect biodiversity. This makes biodiversity a strategic area supports fungi and insects on the dead tree trunks key area for Sveaskog and the ambition is to set an which in turn provides conditions for other species to example regarding nature conservation. The intention establish themselves. Today many rare species have is to improve the quality of nature conservation in the found a home in the fire-ravaged area. In autumn 2016 forests while adapting forest management to outdoor Sveaskog inaugurated its 37th ecopark – Öjesjöbrännan and experience values in popular areas. – in the area. The ecopark covers 1,500 hectares and Sveaskog’s nature conservation covers everything the burnt forest is left to develop freely. from landscapes to individual forests as well as trees and tree groups. The company leaves forests un­ Nature conservation forests throughout the country touched and works with habitat management. The Sveaskog sets aside those forests that have the highest aim is to retain or develop biodiversity in the forest. natural values as nature conservation forests. These vary Activities are primarily aimed at conserving old natural in size from a half hectare to several hundred hectares forests, re-establishing or developing new deciduous and are distributed throughout the forest holdings. If the forests and saving existing deciduous forests from company discovers a new forest worthy of protection, threatened invasion by spruce. Nature conservation it exchanges this for forest with lower natural values. work increases the proportion of old forest and creates This gradually increases both the quality and nature forests that are more varied and species-rich. conservation usefulness of the set-aside forests. Sveaskog has chosen to set aside 20% or approxMost of Sveaskog’s nature conservation forests in imately 600,000 hectares of its productive forest land the northern part of Sweden are left to develop freely. as nature conservation areas. This is the level which Further south, extensive management is used to restore national and international researchers consider or reinforce natural values. necessary for forestry to be combined with retaining the forest’s diversity of flora and fauna. The company uses Selective felling three tools in its nature conservation strategy: ecoparks, Sveaskog believes that selective felling has a role to nature conservation forests and consideration for play in the future and is running a development project nature in production forests. to see how these methods can be applied and what Half of the nature conservation areas are set aside effect they have in different areas. During the year as nature conservation forests and the remaining criteria have been established to highlight the effects 300,000 hectares are landscape set-asides in the form of different types of selective felling forestry. Work on of ecoparks or consideration for nature when felling. applying these methods and evaluating the effects will All Sveaskog’s forest holdings including the nature intensify during the coming year in dialogue with various conservation forests can be found on the interactive stakeholders, especially in the three pilot areas in map on our website www.sveaskog.se. Rogberga southwest of Jönköping, Tiveden and Kulbäcksliden northwest of Vindeln. Öjesjöbrännan, the 37th ecopark, inaugurated In 2003 Sveaskog started a nationwide nature Consideration for nature when felling conservation project which has resulted in 37 ecoparks. The largest direct impact on the landscape and An ecopark is a large contiguous landscape of at least biodiversity is made by felling. Sveaskog therefore 1,000 hectares with high natural values. How the leaves key habitats for flora and fauna untouched. These ecoparks are managed depends on their ecology and areas can include edge zones, sensitive biotopes and roughly half of the ecopark areas is set aside as nature natural value trees. Also when thinning and cleaning in conservation forests. production forests, trees or tree groups, edge zones and In summer 2014 the Västmanland region was sensitive biotopes are left untouched. ravaged by the biggest forest fire seen in Sweden in One of the company’s targets is that there should be modern times. Almost 140 square kilometres were no serious hauling damage when felling. During 2016 ablaze with considerable damage as a result. The fire the outcome has been good with only a few reports of hauling damage. Sveaskog’s forests Regular follow-up Million hectares 2014 2015 2016 Sveaskog continually develops working methods to Total land area 4.04 4.04 4.01 ensure that the company meets its commitments and of which productive forest land 3.12 3.12 3.11 certifications. Compliance is regularly checked through audits and spot checks. All non-conformances are 16 All forests FSC® certified All Sveaskog’s forests are FSC® certified, which provides FSC® is an independent interna­ a guarantee that the forest is managed responsibly. All tional organisation for certiﬁcation felling is planned based on the requirements in the of responsible forestry. The aim is socially beneﬁcial, environmentally Swedish FSC® standard which take economic, environ­ appropriate and economically mental and social factors into account. The FSC® standard viable responsible forest manageis also applied when felling is commissioned by a third ment. FSC®’s logotype on products represents party. For imports the requirement is that the timber must independent certiﬁbe certiﬁed. To help both consumers and companies make cation of forestry and responsible purchases, Sveaskog has a FSC® traceability product manufacturing according to FSC®’s certificate which makes it possible to trace the origin of a rules. product. reported in the company’s environment and quality per Sami village. The management plans will be tested management system and result in immediate action. and evaluated at several Sami villages during 2017. Reported non-conformances can include hauling damage, damage to sensitive biotopes, damage to Environmental responsibility archaeological or cultural remains, inadequate planning Sveaskog has worked for a long time to reduce the compensated by a machine team, quality of thinning, use of insecticides in forestry. In the business area felled natural value trees, too high stumps and thinned Svenska Skogsplantor the company has developed an areas. eco-friendly protection against the pine weevil. The protection, which is sold under the name Conniflex, was Good audit report despite FSC® non-conformance launched in 2010 and is a protective coating consisting Following external audits, no non-conformances were of a water-based adhesive and sand. Plants treated with noted for the ISO 14000 and traceability certificates, Conniflex have a survival rate of 90–95% for the first which is considered almost unique in an audit context. two years. The survival rate for untreated plants varies For FSC® a significant non-conformance was reported depending for example on soil conditions, but is regarding quality failings in nature conservation significantly lower. planning. Work on rectifying the non-conformance was Sveaskog’s main environmental risks can be started immediately with a cause analysis and action attributed to various historical operations by companies plan. This work was coordinated with general quality in the group. Some of these operations have caused activities in nature conservation planning throughout contamination of land and water on properties which Sveaskog. The non-conformance has now been the group owns or has owned. The company can have corrected within the stipulated time and approved by a responsibility to clean up some of these areas. the FSC® auditor. More variety through consideration for nature Sveaskog’s nature consideration work will result in the forests being more varied in the future. Swedish productive forest land is dominated today by conifers but the amount of deciduous dominated forest is increasing. There will also be more older, large trees because of today’s consideration areas and set-asides. In the future more fallen tree trunks and other dead wood will be left in the forests. Species that have been long threatened with extinction will become more viable when their habitats are recreated. There will be more fish in lakes and watercourses thanks to the retention of vegetation in the edge zones. At the same time, those trees that are felled in the production forests will on average be younger and of smaller dimensions. Cooperation with reindeer herders New nature reserve. In 2016, Sveaskog reached an agreement with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for long-term protection of valuable ancient Prior to felling, Sveaskog consults reindeer herders forests and natural forests in the counties of Norrbotten and Västerbotten. A total and makes husbandry plans. In 2016 models were of 47,000 hectares of land will be protected of which 29,000 hectares are developed to produce and display management plans productive forest land. The forests will remain in Sveaskog’s ownership. 17 Culture and motivation key topics for employees Motivated employees with relevant skills equality and diversity in the company. During autumn 2016 a skills supply plan was prepared which, in addition are a prerequisite for the company to be able to general skills supply, covered succession planning, to run an efficient and profitable operation. talent processes and equal opportunity. To recruit employees with the right skills Mandatory equal opportunity training and ensure that they feel motivation and During 2015/2016 all managers were tasked with pride, Sveaskog must be an attractive leading web-based equal opportunity training for their employer. staff. The managers in turn had been prepared through a one-day course on the subject. Since 2016 this training has been part of the introduction for new In the autumn Sveaskog started a project to encourage employees. As contractors are a significant part of employees to be ambassadors for Sveaskog and Sveaskog’s operations, a pilot project has been started forest management. The ambassadorship is about where some 60 people from contractor companies representing Sveaskog both during and out of working will be given equal opportunity training. hours and having confidence in and feeling proud of the company. Some 100 employees have participated Project to broaden the recruitment base in focus groups which discussed among other things During 2016 Sveaskog ran a project to broaden the incentives for working at Sveaskog and expectations recruitment base and promote interest in working in the and demands on employeeship and leadership. This forest industry. The target was to be able every year to material will form the base of a strategy and an offer at least 25 work experience places and at least improvement action plan as well as criteria for 75 summer jobs in mixed silviculture teams. Work Sveaskog’s employeeship and leadership. experience participants are offered both forest-related One way to increase attractiveness as an employer and non-forest-related training blocks and the placeand broaden the recruitment base is to increase ments are both in the office and in the field. The aim is Customers ask for more volumes than Sveaskog can fell on its own lands. Therefore the company buys timber from other forest owners. Stefan Wiker works as a timber buyer at Sveaskog. 18 The largest personnel categories Machine operator 132 Area managers 91 Nurserymen 33 Timber buyers 29 Felling foremen 24 Other 365 Total 674 to broaden awareness of the forest industry and create interest for training for a forestry profession or continuing a professional career in the forest industry. Work experience participants must either be registered in the Swedish Public Employment Service’s establishment programme or be registered job seekers. During 2016 Sveaskog took in 35 work experience trainees. In 2016 Sveaskog increased the number of summer jobs to be able to take in more young people with an overseas background. The aim is to integrate young people and demonstrate that there is a future in forestry. A total of 72 young people had summer jobs at Sveaskog and of these 22 were born abroad. Students on forestry courses are offered summer jobs in the company and pupils from agricultural colleges are offered work experience in term time. The company also arranges such things as forest days for new immigrants and summer camps for Swedish and immigrant children to break social exclusion. The camp activities are part of the Swedish forestry sector’s and the schools’ joint programme Forest in School. Sveaskog is a partner in the project Youth Speculates where pupils in years 5–8 share their views on how the forest should be used in the future. Sveaskog worked actively with the psychosocial environment in 2016. The company has prepared measurable targets and will among other things ensure that all managers get work environment training. Since 2016 the psychosocial working environment is a standing agenda item at safety committee meetings and the company will introduce tools for safety inspections of a psychosocial nature. Annika Tegbro is an area manager at Improvement of the year For many years employees have been involved in the Sveaskog and is responsible for consultation internal campaign “Improvement of the year”. Employees nominate and vote for “Improvement of the year” in with two Sami villages in Gällivare. She has various categories associated with the company’s values. improved the process of consultation with For 2016 the improvement of the year in the category “Simplicity” was a simplification of nature conservation reindeer herders prior to felling decisions efforts in the Hornsö ecopark. In the category “Trans­ by photographing the area to be felled parency” the title went to the involvement of students from agricultural colleges which will ensure a comeback before the consultation. This improved the in the machine operator trade. Within “Customer focus” decision-making material and allowed the winner was the improved registration of interest for forest purchase and land leasing on the website decisions to be reached more quickly. In 2015 sveaskog.se. In the category “Innovation” the model for Annika Tegbro received the Improvement of integration of new immigrants was judged “Improvement of the year”. the year award in the category “Simplicity”. 19 High demands on contractors Contractors are an important part of Sveaskog’s daily operations. Every year they carry out assignments for the company corresponding to 1,600 full-time equivalents. Contractors are used for assignments in felling, silvi­­place during 2016 at two framework agreement culture, transports and roads. Contractors carry out all suppliers. In 2015 a requirement that all silvicultural assignments in the areas of roads and transports. In contractors must be PEFC certified was introduced silviculture they are responsible for 95% of assign­ and in 2016 all were certified. ments and they carry out 75% of felling assignments. Sveaskog prepares a service agreement for all During 2016 Sveaskog procured contractor services for business relations with contractors. In the service just over SEK 2 billion. agreement the contractor commits to following all laws Contractors are often small companies which operate and regulations. In addition, Sveaskog makes several locally. They are frequently family-owned and have a specific demands such as the providers’ skills and few forest machines or lorries. Sveaskog’s assignments training in aspects such as working environment and to contractors improve conditions for rural development. environmental consideration. Clear demands and ongoing checks Systematic follow-up of suppliers Ensuring that contractors deliver the high quality which Compliance with the service agreement is checked is important for Sveaskog’s customers requires good through Sveaskog or a third party making ongoing cooperation with regular dialogue. Sveaskog also follow-ups as well as field checks or on-site audits at makes clear and relevant demands as well as carrying the contractor. Checks are targeted or made as spot out ongoing follow-ups and checks. Errors and checks. During 2016 these checks were broadened and non-conformances result in immediate action from increased both in the field and at the contractors. These Sveaskog. checks have focused on working environment, terms of Cooperation with contractors is a strategic area and employment, and safety. the company wants to engage the most committed and Sveaskog also cooperates with the Swedish Tax skilled contractors. During 2016 their opinion of the Agency and UC which means that some 4,000 suppliers company was surveyed and contractors within felling are monitored daily with regard to VAT, operating licence, and silviculture were even more satisfied with Sveaskog F-tax and ability to pay. This contributes to fair compe­ as a client. tition on equal terms which favours serious companies. All contractors, just like other suppliers, must follow Sveaskog permits subcontracting at one level only Sveaskog’s Code of Conduct and the UN Global and subcontractors must be approved by Sveaskog Compact’s general sustainability requirements. For before they may carry out any work. If the contractor has suppliers, all ten new framework agreement suppliers in employees from abroad, all regulations, for example tax 2016 signed the UN Global Compact’s requirements. legislation and work permits, must be complied with for This means that 65 out of 71 or 92% (89) have signed all personnel affected. the requirements. Two follow-ups with site visits took Regular training All field personnel within silviculture must undergo training using Sveaskog’s web-based silviculture school each year. The training is followed by an exam and a pass result is needed to be allowed to carry out activities for Sveaskog. Affected personnel also receive annual training in Sveaskog’s implementation requirements for felling, for example. A priority area for Sveaskog is reduced climate impact from transports and sustainability at contractors is therefore a focus area. Transports account for almost two-thirds of Sveaskog’s carbon dioxide emissions. By reducing the use of traditional diesel, environmental impact can be significantly reduced. The rate of improvement has increased rapidly over the past three years and developments have gone from various mixtures of rapeseed methyl ester to HVO diesel which has approximately 50% lower carbon dioxide emissions To increase the number of women in forestry, some 60 people from contracting companies have received equal opportunity training organised compared with ordinary diesel. In 2016 carbon dioxide by Sveaskog. From left: Lennart Hansson, Dalfors skogsentreprenad, Lisa emissions from Sveaskog’s road transports were Liljenstrand, Sveaskog and Tomas Kolmodin, Vallsta skogsmaskiner. approximately 20% lower than in 2010. 20 Karl-Oskar Isaksson from Isakssons Terrängtransport in Morjärv is one of Sveaskog’s contractors. His focus is on efficiency and quality at work. Karl-Oskar expects increased demands on contractors to prevent hauling damage and is calling for groundwater maps as a tool. 21 Innovation for increased profitability Sveaskog works together with other stakeholders to turn innovations and developments into value-creating solutions and reduced climate impact. Innovation and development work is focused on three chemicals, material from residues, and ecosystem types of project: those which improve productivity in services. An important effort in the wood-related area forest management, those which reduce environmental is to increase the use and value of residues from the impact, and those which create new uses and added forest and forest industries such as black liquor and value for wood raw material and forest land. Projects sawdust. which contribute to the green transition and improve profitability are given priority. Timber Development projects are run in close cooperation The focus is on developing timber products and timber with customers and on many occasions stakeholders value chains for use in everything from interiors to from the value chain participate. Sveaskog places construction. This is done by such things as research great importance on working close to customers and and knowledge transfer in cooperation with sawmills, to operations. An important aim is that projects can wood products companies, sector institutions and lead to commercialisation of new products or services. knowledge centres. One example is the development Examples of efforts that can increase productivity of building systems for wooden multi-storey buildings. while reducing environmental impact are various Another is an initiative to increase the use and initiatives aimed at developing tomorrow’s forest attractiveness of pine, for example by surface treatmachines. These will impact the ground and the climate ment and improved durability. less than today’s. Sveaskog also works with breeding Sveaskog works with sawmills to increase the yield seedling material to get better growth and survival. An and value of the wood raw material. An example is that example of this is the new micro-plants which give Sveaskog works together with a sawmill group to better plant quality and mean that fewer greenhouses systematically x-ray timber. This allows the sawmill’s are needed for propagation thus reducing energy final quality yield to be associated with the timber’s consumption. tract and the raw material flow can be steered more To increase the use of wood and forest land, efficiently to customers which improves resource usage Sveaskog has identified four areas on which activities and increases customer value. will be concentrated. These are: timber, green fuels and SunPine in Piteå has expanded at lightning speed through extracting fuel from the pulp mill residue raw tall oil. Experience from participation in SunPine has prepared Sveaskog for continuing the development of both biofuels and other higher-value products. 22 Since 2010 Svenska Skogsplantor has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions from heating greenhouses by 70%. This success­ful result was obtained using new biofuel and innovative cultivation methods that reduce fuel consumption. Green fuels and chemicals as forest residues, sawdust and wood powder for rapid Together with other stakeholders Sveaskog is devel­ prototyping of building material such as insulation, oping processes to produce biofuels from forest raw stucco and surfaces. A test-bed project was started material and forest industry residues. in autumn 2016. Another project is focused on the The extraction of lignin and lignin oil from the pulp material for 3D printers itself and the technology for mills’ black liquor is an area where Sveaskog co­ producing it. operates with innovators, forest industry and the Another area where residues are used is the petrochemical industry. The project has left the production of fish food. Sveaskog has been involved laboratory stage and is running on a pilot scale with for several years in developing fish food from forest the aim of commercialisation within a couple of years. residues. In 2016 the project has reached a stage where Experience from participation in SunPine has commercialisation of the product is being investigated. prepared Sveaskog for continuing the development of both biofuels and other higher-value products. SunPine Ecosystem services is world leader in production of renewable vehicle fuel. In spring 2016 Sveaskog made its first agreement on The company produces some 100,000 m3 of raw tall oil ecological compensation. Ecological compensation diesel annually which corresponds to 2% of all diesel should compensate for loss of natural values caused sold in Sweden. The raw ingredient is tall oil, a residual by various types of operations such as mining and product from kraft pulp mills which is completely wind power. Sveaskog has developed a model for fossil-free and carbon dioxide neutral. In 2016 SunPine compensation land and expects the demand for this inaugurated a new resin production facility in Piteå. The to increase. The model means that Sveaskog provides target is production of 24,000 tonnes of resin annually. both land and management to someone who needs Resin is a raw material with adhesive qualities that is to acquire compensation land. used for making glue, printing ink and paint. During 2016 Sveaskog together with other stake­ holders studied how a Swedish habitat banking system Material from residues for ecological compensation might be designed. Habitat An area which is judged to have considerable potential banking is a market-based environmental solution to is work on 3D printing from wood-based material such compensate for loss of valuable nature. 23 Lower earnings in 2016 but good future prospects In 2016, Sveaskog’s deliveries of wood raw material decreased and prices were lower than in the previous year. This led to a lower operating profit from continuing operations. This, combined with a changed discount rate for the value of forest assets, meant that Sveaskog did not achieve its yield target in 2016. Net sales decreased by 3% in 2016 to SEK 5,922 Net financial items amounted to SEK –174 million million (6,078). Delivery volumes fell by 1% and prices (–214). Profit before tax amounted to SEK 1,457 million by an average of 2%. The lower delivery volumes had a (2,586). Tax amounted to SEK –267 million (–569). negative impact on sales of SEK 122 million and the Profit for the year decreased by 41% to SEK 1,190 lower prices reduced sales by SEK 34 million. Demand million (2,017) due to lower operating profit from for sawlogs and biofuel decreased during the year while continuing operations and change in recognised value delivery volumes of pulpwood and chips rose. The weak of standing timber. development for biofuel continued for the third consecutive year. Change in operating profit from continuing operations, SEKm Lower operating profit from continuing operations Full year Operating profit from continuing operations decreased 2015 1,280 by 12% to SEK 1,128 million (1,280). Earnings were Price own wood raw material –33 negatively affected by a 2% reduction in deliveries from Delivery volume and stock level, Sveaskog’s own forests and an average price fall of 2%. own wood raw material –34 In addition, impairment losses of SEK 16 million were Processing storm-damaged forest –20 recognised in the forest seedling operations due to a Silvicultural costs –26 predicted increase in obsolescence. Increased silviculNon-recurring items* –39 tural ambitions as well as additional costs for process­ Other 0 ing storm-damaged forest had a negative earnings impact of SEK 26 million and SEK 20 million respec­ 2016 1,128 tively. Earnings were positively affected by a one-time * Non-recurring items refer to a combination of: payment of SEK 60 million from the Swedish EnvironVAT remission (2015) –36 mental Protection Agency in conjunction with the Permanent tenure, Environmental Protection Agency (2016) +60 establishment of a nature reserve. Earnings for 2015 Stock impairment forest seedling operations (2016) –16 included positive non-recurring items totalling SEK 83 Capital gain from sale of development land (2015) –47 million. Non-recurring items –39 Capital gains from the sale of properties relating to forest land and standing timber amounted to SEK 131 Cash flow million (78). Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK Operating profit before change in value of forest 789 million (909). The decrease is due to lower assets decreased by 4% to SEK 1,312 million (1,368). operating profit. Change in value of forest assets amounted to SEK 319 Investments in property, plant and equipment million (1,432). The lower level is mainly due to the amounted to SEK 183 million (329) and mainly discount rate used when calculating the value of comprised forest machines. Investments in shares standing timber which was reduced from 6.25% to amounted to SEK 1 million (1). Sales of property, plant 5.95% in 2015. Operating profit after change in value of and equipment, primarily forest properties, amounted to forest assets amounted to SEK 1,631 million (2,800). SEK 298 million (234). Cash flow includes a dividend Total delivery volume, Net sales, SEKm Operating profit from continuing thousand m 3sub operations, SEKm Thousand m3sub SEKm SEKm 12,000 8,000 1,500 10,684 10,000 1,200 1,128 5,922 6,000 8,000 900 6,000 4,000 600 4,000 2,000 300 2,000 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Deliveries solid under bark (sub) decreased Net sales decreased by 3% in 2016 due to Operating profit from continuing operations fell by 1% in 2016. lower delivery volume and average prices. by 12% in 2016. The decrease was due to lower deliveries from own forests and price falls. 24 from the associate company Setra Group AB of SEK 5 Parent Company million (32). Sveaskog AB (publ.), 100% owned by the Swedish state, owns and manages forest properties and shares Strong financial position in subsidiaries and is responsible for Group-wide Interest-bearing net debt decreased during the year by financing. Operating income for Sveaskog AB (publ.) SEK 152 million to SEK 7,937 million (8,089) at in the year amounted to SEK 65 million (15), of which year-end. At year-end, the loan portfolio mainly capital gains from property sales amounted to SEK 53 comprised loans issued under Sveaskog’s MTN million (2). Profit after net financial items was SEK –196 programme as well as a Swedish commercial paper million (–316). The Parent Company’s costs mainly programme. The loan volume under the commercial comprise interest expenses. The company has no paper programme amounted to SEK 2,270 million employees. (2,720) which is refinanced regularly. Under the MTN programme the outstanding volume at 31 December Number of employees was SEK 4,990 million (4,290). The lowest average The number of employees at year-end amounted to fixed interest period during the year was approximately 674 (688). The average number of employees during 30 months. The net debt/equity ratio amounted to 0.40 the year was 844 (851). (0.41). Interest cover amounted to 6.3 (6.2) and the gross borrowing cost was 1.80% (1.86). Share of profits of associates Sveaskog owns shares in companies where a group Dividend relationship does not exist. The holding in the wood The dividend to be proposed to the Annual General products company Setra Group AB is the largest Meeting amounts to SEK 800 million (800). During the holding where Sveaskog owns 50% of the shares. years 2011–2015 Sveaskog has paid dividends totalling 50% of Setra Group’s profit is recognised as share of SEK 7.0 billion to its owner the Swedish state. profits of associates in Sveaskog’s income statement. Setra Group’s net sales decreased by 4.2% to SEK Financial targets 4,043 million (4,218) and operating profit amounted to Sveaskog’s owner, the Swedish state, has set the SEK 153 million (47). Sveaskog’s share of profits following financial targets for the company: amounted to SEK 53 million (10). • Yield to amount to an average of at least 4.5% per year. Yield in 2016 amounted to 4.2% (4.7). Yield is Market outlook affected to a considerable extent by the valuation of Sveaskog’s opinion is that the market outlook for 2017 standing timber. Since the target was set in 2014, the is good value of standing timber and therefore of operating capital have increased due, among other things, to a Condensed income statement, SEKm change in the discount rate. This increase has had a negative impact on yield of 0.3 percentage points. 2016 2015 % • Net debt/equity ratio 0.3–0.6. For 2016 the net debt/ Net sales 5,922 6,078 –3 equity ratio was 0.40 (0.41). Operating profit from • Over time the ordinary dividend to correspond to continuing operations 1,128 1,280 –12 65–90% of profit after tax excluding non-cash Change in value of forest adjustments in value of standing forest after tax. A assets 319 1,432 –78 dividend is paid provided the capital structure target Operating profit 1,631 2,800 –42 after the dividend falls within the target interval and Profit before tax 1,457 2,586 –44 taking into account implementation of the Group’s Profit for the period 1,190 2,017 –41 strategic and investment requirements. The dividend Cash flow from operating payout ratio for the proposed dividend for the 2016 activities 789 909 –13 financial year is 85% (89). Net debt/equity ratio, multiple Yield,% Assets, equity and liabilities Times % SEK billion 0.6 6 40 Cash and cash equivalents Other liabilities 35 Other assets 0.5 5 Deferred tax Target Target 0.3–0.6 4.2 4.5 30 0.40 4 0.4 25 Forest land Liabilities 0.3 3 20 and standing timber 2 15 0.2 10 Equity 0.1 1 5 Operating 0.0 0 0 capital 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Assets Equity and liabilities The target was decided by the 2014 Annual The target was decided by the 2014 Annual The majority of the assets comprise standing General Meeting. The target is a net debt/ General Meeting. Yield is to be an average of timber which is valued in according with equity ratio of 0.3–0.6. This metric specifies at least 4.5% per year. Yield shows return on international accounting principles, IFRS. net interest-bearing liabilities in the company operating capital where capital gains from in relation to equity. property sales and change in value of forest assets are excluded. 25 Growing market for sawlogs Sawlogs is the largest product area measured by sales. Sveaskog is a reliable supplier thanks to close cooperation throughout the chain from felling to final delivery. Sawmill customers are pleased with Sveaskog and appreciate most of all the high delivery quality. Sveaskog has a wide range of sawlogs to satisfy Market customer requirements for volumes, species, grades The market for sawlogs is above all dependent on the and dimensions in an even ﬂow throughout the year. state of the construction market. Nearly 70% of Swedish The range includes timber from spruce, pine and sawn timber is exported, which creates significant various deciduous trees such as beech, oak and birch. dependence on the international construction market Sales can cover everything from standard deliveries and the exchange rate for the Swedish krona. to complex customer-specific orders. To meet customer The four largest export countries for Swedish sawn demands Sveaskog can exchange timber with other wood products are the UK, Egypt, Germany and Norway. forest owners or sell less common species such as Nearly 20% of Swedish exports in 2015 were to North maple and ash. The company also complements timber Africa. The trend is that exports to North Africa and the from its own forests with bought-in volumes. Middle East are decreasing which negatively affects the demand for pine, while exports to East Asia are Customers increasing. There are some 130 sawmills in Sweden each The world’s largest exporters of sawlogs are Canada ­producing at least 10,000 m3 annually. Sveaskog and Russia, followed by Sweden in third place. In 2016 supplies about 70 of these. Customers are privately-­ the Canadian sawmills benefited from stronger demand owned family companies or global groups, often based from the US and the Russian sawmills had the advan­ in Sweden. They deliver in turn to primarily the tage of a weak rouble and a strong Chinese market. In construction and furniture industries. Europe, demand grew during the year as a result of a In 2016 Sveaskog surveyed customer satisfaction strong construction market. and sawmill customers are the most satisfied. They The Swedish sawmills as a whole had a high level of place highest value on the company’s ability to deliver production during the year. At the same time, the supply the right quantity and right grade at the right time. of sawlogs was good. For Sveaskog the increased To achieve such a high rating Sveaskog has worked supply on the market has meant that delivery volumes consistently at being a reliable supplier which listens in 2016 fell by 2% to 4,607 thousand m3sub (4,713). to its customers and constantly improves. Since Sveaskog’s value creation together with the Outlook sawmill customers begins out in the forest, close The global demand for sawn wood products is expected cooperation throughout the production chain is key to rise. Construction activity in Europe continues to to guaranteeing quality and delivery reliability. The increase, but there is little sign that the markets in North company therefore encourages close and intense Africa will recover in the near future. Swedish demand is contact between machine operators, hauliers, felling expected to remain good with a strong increase in foremen and other professional groups. With wise and construction. prudent felling, Sveaskog will be a reliable supplier. Demand for sawlogs is good due to increased construction. Above all, the use of wood in apartment blocks has risen significantly. In the next few years there are plans to invest a total of SEK 800 million in factories in Sweden for industrialscale wood building systems. 26 The refuge hut at the 2,000-metre summit of Kebnakaise is the highest located building in Sweden. It was designed by Murman Arkitekter. Martinsons, one of Sweden’s leading wood processing companies, produced and delivered the wood for the hut which was ready in August 2016. Martinsons is one of Sveaskog’s largest sawlog customers. Delivery volumes sawlogs, thousand m 3sub Share of total Share of delivery volumes net sales Thousand m3sub 5,000 4,607 4,000 3,000 43% 48% 2,000 1,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sveaskog’s deliveries of sawlogs decreased by 2% in 2016. 27 Good demand for pulpwood and chips Pulpwood is the largest product area measured by volume. Customer satisfaction is at a high level and demand has been good during the year. The major investments being made in the Nordic pulp and paper industry are positive for future demand for pulpwood. Sveaskog delivers pulpwood to the pulp and paper therefore dependent on the global economic climate and industry. The company has a wide range of pulpwood exchange rates. which comes both from its own forests and purchases In 2016 deliveries of pulp increased and Swedish from other forest owners as well as imports. The production remained at a high and even level. Demand offering also includes cellulose chips from Sveaskog’s for cartonboard for packaging, packaging paper and own sawmill customers. hygiene products continued to rise while demand for graphic papers weakened. The strong demand for Customers packaging and hygiene products compensated for falling Sveaskog has some 20 pulpwood customers in Sweden volumes for graphic papers. Increasing global welfare which manufacture pulp for export or for use in Sweden has also led to growing demand for packaging and for packaging, graphic papers and newsprint. Pulp is hygiene products. also used for hygiene products such as nappies, kitchen The price reductions for pulpwood in recent years paper, toilet paper and feminine care products. levelled out in 2016 and the supply of pulpwood and Pulp­wood from Swedish forests has qualities that make chips was good during the year. Swedish pulp mills it especially good for packaging with high demands have imported pulpwood, primarily from Norway. For such as liquid cartons for milk and juice. Sveaskog, this development meant that delivery In 2016 Sveaskog surveyed customer satisfaction volumes increased by 2% to 5,298 thousand m3sub and pulpwood customers’ satisfaction remains high. (5,167). One of Sveaskog’s competitive advantages is that the company has the capacity to offer a wide range of fresh Outlook pulpwood and cellulose chips. Another strength is long Global market forecasts predict continued increased use experience of working with pulp and paper customers of cartonboard for packaging, packaging paper and as well as an understanding of the industry’s processes hygiene products. Growth is driven primarily by the Asian and the international end market. One focus area has markets led by China. Demand for graphic papers will been to develop product logistics together with continue to fall. Considerable investments in the pulp customers. industry are being made in the Nordic area. More than half the ongoing or planned increases in softwood pulp Market production are being made in the Nordic area which is About 80% of Swedish pulp is exported, mainly to positive for forest owners in the region. Europe, followed by Asia. The industry’s demand is The largest volumes of pulpwood come from thinning and regeneration felling and consist of trunks that are too thin or have quality defects which mean that they cannot be used as sawlogs. 28 Sveaskog’s pulpwood is processed for subsequent use as raw material for such things as nappies. A baby uses roughly 4,500 nappies and about 500 million are used every year in Sweden. Delivery volumes pulpwood and chips, Share of total Share of thousand m 3sub delivery volumes net sales Thousand m3sub 6,000 5,298 5,000 4,000 3,000 50% 41% 2,000 1,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sveaskog’s deliveries of pulpwood and chips increased by 2% in 2016. 29 Biofuel meeting fierce competition The market for biofuels has been tough for several years due to competition from other combustible material. In the longer term the market is expected to recover due to increased demand for renewable energy, Biofuels consist of branches and tops (felling residue), Customers thin trees and energy wood. The fuel comes from The Swedish biofuel market is local since lengthy cleaning, thinning and regeneration felling in transports incur increased costs which weaken the Sveaskog’s own forests and through purchases competitiveness of biofuel. Sveaskog therefore delivers from other forest owners. primarily to customers in Sweden. Woodfuel is good from an environmental aspect. The Sveaskog has some 50 customers, primarily heating carbon dioxide which is released at combustion is the plants, CHP plants and pulp and paper mills. In 2016 same amount as the tree absorbed when it was growing Fortum’s CHP plant at Värtan in Stockholm was and therefore woodfuel does not increase carbon commissioned. The plant is Europe’s largest bio-fuelled dioxide in the atmosphere. combined heat and power plant and runs on chips, bark, Woodfuel extraction is a natural part of sustainable branches and twigs delivered by Sveaskog and others. forestry and is carried out with consideration for nature The plant is expected to reduce carbon dioxide and culture based among other things on FSC® ­emissions by 650,000 tonnes annually. certification. Market The market for biofuel has been weak since 2013 due to competition from other combustible fuels such as garbage and waste wood. Other factors that have contributed to weak market development are more efficient production and distribution of energy as well as low electricity prices. In 2016 demand for wood-based biofuels was good in southern Sweden but declined steadily further north in the country. This led to slight price increases in southern Sweden and a levelling off of prices further north. Sveaskog’s delivery volumes continued to fall in 2016 and decreased by 10% to 780 thousand m3sub (868). Outlook The market for biofuels has been tough in recent years due to competition from other combustible material. In the short-term demand is expected to continue to be weak. In the longer term the market is expected to grow due to increased demand for among other things renewable energy, The carbon dioxide released at combustion of biofuel is the same amount as the tree absorbed when it was growing. Delivery volumes biofuel, thousand m 3sub Share of total Share of delivery volumes net sales Thousand m sub 3 1,600 1,200 780 800 7% 4% 400 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sveaskog’ s deliveries of biofuel decreased by 10% in 2016. 30 Svenska Skogsplantor, concessions, hunting, fishing and lockage Sveaskog is the Sweden’s largest landowner and therefore has a special responsibility to offer hunters and fishermen without their own land opportunities for hunting and fishing. In 2016 the number of products for hunting and fishing has increased which has been much appreciated. Sveaskog is more than just forestry and trade in wood among other things new destinations. raw materials. The company sells tree seedlings as well At year-end 2016 there was a total of 7,600 leases as silvicultural services and leases land for fishing, (7,600) and other concessions. Concessions for hunting hunting, wind power, etc. Sveaskog also operates and fishing dominate. The number of hunting rights Mörrums Kronolaxfiske (salmon fishery) and the amounted to 3,081. A total of about 25,000 hunters Hjälmare Canal. hunt on Sveaskog’s land. At year-end 2016 Sveaskog had 1,495 fishing rights. Svenska Skogsplantor Among other concessions are rental contracts and Sveaskog cultivates and sells tree seedlings under the leases for such things as farming, peat, gravel and rock brand Svenska Skogsplantor. The company is Sweden’s quarrying as well as wind power and telecom equiplargest seedling supplier with approximately 4,000 ment. During 2016, 20 wind power plants (25) were customers. Svenska Skogsplantor also offer silvicultural commissioned and in total some 260 wind power services such as soil scarification and planting for plants have been built on Sveaskog’s land with an ­external customers. annual production of 1.7 terawatt-hours (TWh). Operations consist of six nurseries, a seed pro­ cessing unit and about 110 seed plantations. During Mörrums Kronolaxfiske and Hjälmare Canal 2016 sales amounted to 118.1 million plants (117.6) of Sveaskog owns Mörrums Kronolaxfiske (salmon fishery) which 41.6% (37) were delivered within the company. which was visited in 2016 by 250,000 tourists The bulk of the range is evergreen seedlings. (250,000) from some 20 countries. Hjälmare Kanal AB is also owned by Sveaskog and Concessions – fishing, hunting, wind power, etc. is Sweden’s oldest navigable canal. The canal is 14 Through various types of concessions the forests kilometres long and runs between the lakes Hjälmaren are made available for both recreation and business and Mälaren. activities. Holders of concessions include companies in the energy and construction industries, tourism, private individuals, associations, municipalities and telecom companies. During the year Fiske Nord was introduced. This is a fishing permit which is valid for over a thousand stretches of water in northern Sweden and it was a success. Another new initiative was small game hunting in Ånge and large game hunting for a short time at specific places. These products have attracted new customers and Sveaskog’s online sales of hunting and fishing permits doubled in 2016. Increased availability of the forest and fishing is also positive for rural tourism. The fishing season at Mörrum starts in March with During 2017 the offering will be extended further with a chance to catch sea trout. Svenska Skogsplantor’s Hunting, fishing and other share of total net sales business’s share of total net sales 5% 2% 31 Active forest management is the basis of Sveaskog’s operations To get the most value out of the forest it must be managed in a planned and thoughtful way. It must be regularly cleaned and thinned and felled in an intelligent manner. The Swedish forest covers an area larger than Great that the age of final felling is decreasing. This trend is Britain. Sveaskog owns 4.01 million hectares or 14% also driven by increased demand for smaller timber of the total forest area in Sweden. The company has dimensions. chosen to set aside one-fifth of its productive forest land for nature conservation. Work with nature High economic values in the forest conservation and increasing biodiversity is described The value of the forest assets is calculated every quarter on pages 16–17. according to the international accounting standard IAS The forest that has not been set aside for nature 41 and reported in the financial statements. On 31 conservation is managed so as to generate the highest December 2016, the value of the forests amounted to long-term profitability and increased positive climate SEK 34.4 billion (34.1). The calculated fair value of impact. The forest is planted, cleaned, thinned and Sveaskog’s forest assets has a signiﬁcant effect on regeneration felled. Cleaning is a prioritised activity and the reported operating proﬁt but does not affect cash in general the company tries to carry out cleaning early ﬂow. Calculations and changes in value as well as in newly planted and young forests. assumptions and a sensitivity analysis are found in Every year Sveaskog carries out thinning and Note 15. regeneration felling on some 40,000 hectares of its The forest also has an economic value for concesland. Removals from own forest are the parameter sions for hunting, tourism, wind power and ecosystem which has the greatest effect on the financial result. services which are not included in the valuation. Felling levels are maximised in the long term so that Further, the valuation does not consider the high levels do not need to be reduced in future. Felling levels indirect values which the forest contributes. The forest is are lower than growth in the forest. In 2016 felling of considerable significance in creating positive climate amounted to 70% (71) of growth on managed land. effects through the growing forests’ sequestration of For each tree which the company fells, an average of carbon dioxide. Silviculture creates jobs in rural areas three new ones are planted. Sowing as a regeneration and smaller towns. Sveaskog’s active nature conser­ method is also being used more frequently. In 2016 vation work contributes to biodiversity and creates Sveaskog scarified, sowed, planted, cleaned and forest with higher recreational values. fertilised 81,408 hectares (77,375) of its own land. The An important target for Sveaskog is to make the forest land consists of conifers to just over 90%. Pine structure of its forest holdings more efficient and adapt accounts for over 60% followed by spruce at just under it to the customer structure. The company is therefore 30%. The company is working in increasing the one of the key players in the market for buying, presence of deciduous trees in the forests. exchanging and selling forest land. Sveaskog also fells on assignment from other forest In accordance with a parliamentary decision, owners. When felling on other’s land, the same Sveaskog must divest 10% of the land area the demands are made on nature conservation as when company had at its formation in 2002. Sales must be felling on own land. made under market terms and aim to strengthen private Felling is carried out by the company’s own personnel forestry. During 2016, 10,730 hectares (9,323) ware and machines or by contractors. Sveaskog’s own felling sold. A total of 350,202 hectares or 8.03% has been organisation consists of some 30 machine teams with a sold in 2,133 deals. total of 132 operators (143). Age of final felling is changing The age spread in the Swedish forests is uneven which Sveaskog’s forest assets will affect future felling. At the end of the 19th and 2014 2015 2016 beginning of the 20th centuries management methods Book value according to IAS 41, led to the forests being sparse with low productivity. SEKm 32,518 34,097 34,377 After 1950 restoration of the forest was started which Taxable value, SEKm 64,196 64,149 64,668 led to large areas with high growth but which are not Total deliveries, thousand m3sub 10,838 10,748 10,684 yet ready for felling. The challenge is to be thrifty with Deliveries from own forest, thousand m3sub 6,561 6,570 6,459 the older forests while keeping felling levels up until the Timber extraction as proportion planted forests from the 1950s and later grow to an of net growth on own land, % 72 71 70 age when they can be final felled. A consequence is 32 Green bonds At the beginning of 2016, Sveaskog issued a green bond for SEK 1 billion. The Norwegian certification company DNV GL assessed Sveaskog as a pure-play green company which means the proceeds can be used to finance general operations. In order to be designated as a pure-play green company, more than 90% of revenues must be derived from operations that are considered to have a clearly positive environmental impact. DNV GL examined, among other things, Sveaskog’s sustainable forest production, certifications and nature conservation programme. Considerable emphasis was also placed on forest climate benefits. The bond attracted considerable interest from investors and Sveaskog reports back to them every year through the company’s annual report and sustainability report. Forest land age classification for the whole of Sweden, Sveaskog and all owners, % Sveaskog’s certificates FSC® – forestry certificate own forest and group 25 FSC® – traceability certificate 23 22 22 22 PEFC – traceability certificate 20 PEFC – forestry certificate group 20 ISO 14001 17 Sveaskog Sveaskog AEO customs simplification/security and protection All Allaowners ägare Sveaskog’s FSC licence number is FSC-C008344 15 10 10 10 9 9 7 7 7 6 5 5 4 0 0-19 20-39 40-59 60-79 80-99 100120140+ 119 139 Age classification in the Swedish forests is uneven which will affect future felling. 33 Dividend and profit distribution The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting a total dividend for 2016 of SEK 800 million (800), which corresponds to SEK 6.76 (6.76) per share. in the industry or risks inherent in conducting business Proposed profit distribution, SEK activities. The company’s and the Group’s dependence Unappropriated profit available to on business cycles do not differ from those otherwise the Annual General Meeting: occurring in the industry. The Board’s opinion is that after the proposed distribution of profit the company Profit brought forward 9,123,293,439 will have sufficient restricted equity in relation to the Profit for the year –8,156 size of its operations. Total 9,123,285,283 The Board has taken into account the company’s consolidation needs through a comprehensive assessThe Board proposes that profit ment of the company’s financial position and ability to be distributed as follows: meet its commitments over time. The company’s Dividend of shareholder 800,000,000 financial situation is disclosed in the Annual Report. Carried forward to new account 8,323,285,283 Here it is disclosed that the Group’s net debt/equity ratio is 0.4. Sveaskog’s adopted target for the net debt/ Total 9,123,285,283 equity ratio is 0.3–0.6. The Group’s financial position is therefore strong. The proposed dividend does not jeopardise the Following the Board’s dividend proposal, the company’s ability to make any necessary investments. Board of Sveaskog AB (publ) hereby makes The company has financial resources to meet un­ the following statement pursuant to Chapter 18 expected events and temporary variations in payment Section 4 of the Swedish Companies Act. flows to a reasonable extent. The company’s financial position does not give rise to any assessment other According to current financial targets, the ordinary than that the company is able to continue its operations dividend over time shall correspond to 65–90% of the and that the company is expected to meet its commitGroup’s profit after tax excluding non-cash adjustments ments in the short and long term. in value of standing forest after tax. A dividend is paid The Board has taken into account the position of the provided the capital structure target after the dividend Group and the company in other respects. The Board falls within the target interval and taking into account has therefore taken into account known circumstances implementation of the Group’s strategic and investment that might be significant for the company’s financial requirements. position and which have not been taken into account The Board proposes to the Annual General Meeting within the framework of the assessment of the that the total dividend for 2016 be SEK 800,000,000, company’s consolidation requirements and liquidity. corresponding to SEK 6.76 per share. The dividend, Among such circumstances taken into account by the which comprises 85% of the dividend base, is proposed Board can be noted such events and circumstances to take the form of a cash distribution. about which the company has provided information in Provided the 2017 Annual General Meeting resolves the Administration Report, including those attributable in accordance with the Board’s proposed profit distributo the period after the 2016 financial year was taken tion, SEK 8,323,285,283 will be carried forward to new into account. account. Full coverage exists for the company’s With reference to the above, the Board is of the restricted equity after the proposed distribution of profit. opinion that the dividend is justifiable in view of the The nature and scope of the company’s operations demands that the nature, scope and risks of operations are specified in the Articles of Association and the place on the size of the company’s and the Group’s published Annual Report. The operations conducted equity, as well as the consolidation requirements, in the company and the Group do not entail risks in liquidity and position in general of the company and addition to those that exist or can be assumed to exist the Group. 34 Risk and sensitivity analysis One important aspect for creation of long-term values is to understand and be able to manage the risks that exist in operations. The entire company is involved in risk management and this is part of business planning. Significant risks are reported in the system for operational monitoring and planning. Since the forest is regularly felled and replanted, Sveaskog has stable cash flows. Public opinion This means that Sveaskog’s economic risks 5 risks are limited. There are, however, other risks that are systematically inventoried by Financial Sveaskog. Sveaskog is exposed to financial, risks 4 legal, market-related, operational, public Social I mpact if r is k occu rs risks opinion and social risks. The forests are also exposed to biological risks as well as weather Operational risks and climate risks. 3 Weather, Market The extensive storm fellings in recent climate and risks environyears have highlighted the weather and mental risks climate risks. At the same time, Sveaskog’s forest holdings are spread throughout 2 Biological Sweden which evens out weather risks and risks biological risks. The forests are also insured against major extra costs. Sveaskog works to develop new products 1 and businesses such as biofuel and eco­ system services. The company also increases revenues from the forest by granting leases 1 2 3 4 5 Probab i lity that r is k mate r ialis e s for hunting, fishing, eco-tourism and wind power. These activities provide a broader income base but can also involve risks. Responsibility of probability and consequence on a five-point scale. Sveaskog’s Board is responsible for the company The result of this evaluation provides the total risk value managing risks correctly and ensuring compliance with as illustrated in the above risk matrix. adopted principles for financial reporting and internal The identified risks are evaluated and prioritised on control. The CEO has overall operational responsibility the basis of the total risk value. Subsequently remedial and has delegated to the CFO to conduct the risk actions are identified for assessed risks. Each remedial management process. Operational responsibility rests action is evaluated on the basis of its effect and how with each profit unit and staffs and is followed up at timeand cost-demanding the action is. Remedial management level. actions are prioritised on the basis of what generates the greatest benefit per activity. These are carried out Risk management process at Sveaskog according to priority and available resources. Once an Risk management is an integrated part of annual action has been taken, an assessment is made of business planning in the company and includes both whether it was sufficient to manage the risk concerned profit units and staffs. All significant risks are identified, and the benefits of the action. The system for reported and compiled in the company’s system for ­monitoring and reporting provides support for followoperational monitoring and planning. Reporting includes up throughout the entire financial year. a description of the risk and actions taken as well as How Sveaskog manages its key risks is shown on who is responsible. Each risk is assigned an evaluation the next two pages. Identification, revision Prioritising Reporting/registration of Implement, follow-up and evaluation of risks remedial actions risks and actions actions 35 Biological risks Risk Management Spruce bark beetle Insect pest that has grown in number in the north of Fast processing of storm-felled timber and recently Sweden and the control area has been extended. In attacked standing trees. the south, attacks have subsided leading to a reduced control area. Shortage of Problems with spruce cone rust continue. Flowering Collection of stand seeds and/or external purchases. has been absent for several years. Shortage of spruce seeds processed seed in Norrland can result in growth losses. Root rot Value of standing forests decreases, trees die. Prevent attacks by treating stumps with spores during felling. New pests become If, for example the nun moth, the mountain pine Monitoring. beetle or other pests become established in Sweden, established large-scale destruction could result. Game grazing Game which graze on trees and seedlings reduce Hunting, measures to increase access to feed, forest growth. increased knowledge of game populations. damage Game grazing damage is a fact and amounts to approximately SEK 250 million per year on Sveaskog’s land. An increase of 10% affects operating profit from continuing operations by SEK 25–50 million. Financial risks Risk Management Financial risks Assets are partly financed by external loans. This A well-diversified loan portfolio of lenders and constitutes a risk if a large borrowing requirement investors with good flexibility and competitive arises in a tight credit market. pricing. Interest rate risk The risk that Sveaskog is exposed to a disSveaskog’s policy is an average fixed interest term advantageous interest rate situation with a large on the loan portfolio of 12–48 months. loan portfolio. Credit risk The risk that a counterparty is unable to fulfil The finance policy regulates maximum credit obligations. exposure in the investment portfolio. For commercial credit exposure some major customers are exempted, otherwise credit insurance is taken out for other customers. Regular credit committee meetings and information to the Board. Sveaskog’s financial risks are described in detail in Note 28. Operational and legal risks Risk Management Loss of Lack of quality in silvicultural activities and Documented routines and work processes in all consider­ation for nature as well as deficiencies parts of the business, internal and external audits FSC® certification in work and follow-up of social responsibility, can as well as training for continual improvements. result in Sveaskog losing its FSC® certificate, which would have a significant impact on the timber business. Forest management The impact of various EU directives (at present Follow and be present and influence the debate. primarily the Habitats Directive) on forest manageNote interpretations made. impact of various ment as well as uncertainty in interpretation by EU directives national authorities. Urbanisation Sveaskog’s operations are represented in rural areas Profiling of Sveaskog as an attractive employer. to a considerable extent. Urbanisation makes it Cooperation with educational programmes. difficult to recruit new labour and restricts access Working to achieve a functioning supplier market to contractors. with healthy competition. Increased integration initiatives. Impact of political National and EU directives, interpretations from Follow, participate in and influence debate. authorities and their impact on forest management. Monitor interpretations. decisions IT-related risks Interruptions, computer hacking, virus attacks. High IT security and reliable backup routines. Information and training. 36 Market risks Risk Management Sawmill industry At times poor profitability leads to sawmill closures Active selection of customers and credit insurance. and credit losses for Sveaskog. Restructuring Priority given to cooperation with customers with may lead to fewer customers in local areas for long-term survival and profitability potential. Sveaskog’s forest holdings. Prioritise product development and innovation. Pulp and paper A few, dominant companies means a lack of Expand market and customer capital. More efficient competition and few alternative business and logistics and increased exports. Biofuel increases industry marketing opportunities. market outlets. Prioritise product development and innovation. Energy sector Increased competition from substitutes and low Be an efficient supplier of advanced, customerenergy prices lead to limited market outlets. oriented business concepts that provide added Elimination of companies and customers within value and increased profitability for all parties. Sveaskog’s traditional markets. Prioritise product development and innovation. A change in the average price of wood raw material from own forests of 10% affects operating profit from continuing operations by approximately SEK 300 million. A change in delivery volume from own forests of an average of 10% affects operating profit from continuing operations by approximately SEK 200 million. Weather, climate and environmental risks Risk Management Climate change Changed climate can increase the risk of storms, Tract adaptation, adapted thinning and clearing, cause changes in precipitation, worsen forcing developed forcing in poor conditions and work with conditions and change vegetation boundaries. processed seed and seedling material. Insurance. Storm felling Direct economic loss through lower operating Silvicultural measures that reduce risks: thinning, profit, reduced value of forest assets, cleaning up planting, increased proportion of deciduous trees, puts a strain on the organisation, damage from final felling at economic maturity. Good crisis bark beetle. organisation and logistics. Ability to move felling resources to storm-felled areas. Insurance against damage. Contaminated Responsibility for contaminated land from earlier Inventory, strategy and action plan for management possible pollutants. and ongoing operations and possible treatment. land In 2005 the storm Gudrun caused gross damage of SEK 750 million. Given today’s insurance cover, a similar damage would affect operating profit from continuing operations by approximately SEK 450 million. Sveaskog’s insurance cover is described in detail in Note 26. Social risks Risk Management Timber imports Purchases from, for example, Russia and the Sveaskog’s Code of Conduct as well as certification Baltic countries can present risks linked to illegal and clear guidelines for tracing and documentation of from undesirable felling, corruption and labour law. purchased raw material, which govern the company’s origins actions and follow-up. Contractors Contractors which fail to meet commitments can Code of conduct, guidelines for procurement of constitute a risk linked to working environment, contractors as well as follow-up and control of health, safety and labour law. compliance reduce risks. Corruption Unclear guidelines and routines lead to a risk of Continuous training and dialogue, Code of Conduct, bribes, bribery and corruption. clear guidelines, internal control, possibility to report violations anonymously. Public opinion risks Risk Management Opinions about Opinions about the use of the forest which restrict Active participation in the forest debate. forestry can affect profitability and the value of the forest forest land. Reduced confidence The brand and confidence in the company can Code of conduct, internal routines, active be affected and thus customer relations and information work and ongoing dialogue with cooperation. stakeholders. 37 Sveaskog offers trainee positions to reduce exclusion. Rickard Brink and Destalem Fiseha had summer jobs at the Lugnet nursery in 2016. 38 Corporate governance report Sveaskog is a limited company owned by the Swedish state. Governance of Sveaskog is based on the Swedish Companies Act, the State ownership policy, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code) as well as applicable Swedish and foreign legislation and regulations. This corporate governance report has been prepared as According to the State ownership policy, guidelines part of Sveaskog’s application of the Code. The report for companies with state ownership and the articles of has been reviewed by the company’s auditors. association, members of parliament are entitled to In accordance with the State ownership policy and attend and ask questions at Sveaskog’s general guidelines for state-owned companies, Sveaskog has meetings. The meetings are also open to the public. deviated from the Code in three instances: • Preparation of decision on nomination of the Board Nomination process and auditors, which means that Sveaskog has not The State ownership policy and guidelines for state-­ appointed a nomination committee. owned companies specify a different nomination • With regard to reporting of Board members’ indepenprocess than that prescribed by Code with regard to dence in relation to the state as a major owner, which the Board and auditors. Nomination of the Board is is not reported since the Code in this respect focuses coordinated by the Government Offices of Sweden. The on companies with a diverse ownership base. Government Offices of Sweden also submit a proposal • Date and location of the Annual General Meeting for the Chairman of the Board and chairman at the shall be stated on the company’s website in conjuncAnnual General Meeting. Nomination of members of the tion with the interim report for the third quarter. Here Board is presented in the notice of the meeting and on Sveaskog has chosen to comply with Nasdaq Sveaskog’s website. Stockholm’s rules for issuers and therefore provided The Government Offices of Sweden is responsible for details of the planned date of the Annual General election of auditors and a decision on this is made at Meeting in the year-end report. the Annual General Meeting. A proposal for election of auditors is presented in the notice of the meeting and Assignment on Sveaskog’s website. Auditors are appointed with a Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state. According to mandate period of one year. The practical work of the state’s ownership policy, state-owned companies procurement of auditors is handled by the Board’s audit must have value creation as their overall objective. This committee together with the company and owner. means that the companies must operate in a long-term manner, efficiently and profitably, be allowed to develop Board of Directors and create value through sustainable business. The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation According to the articles of association, Sveaskog and management of the company’s affairs. According to owns and manages real and personal property, the articles of association, the Board shall consist of a conducts forestry operations and forest industry as well minimum of five and a maximum of nine members. In as related business activities. The core business is addition, there are two employee representatives with forest management. Sveaskog must also be an two deputies. The articles of association do not contain independent player without major interests as an end any regulations on the appointment or dismissal of user of wood raw material. The company can also Board members. The company’s legal counsel is the conduct related activities if these contribute to higher secretary to the Board. returns. Sales of land on market terms shall enable reallocation of land holdings and add-on purchases for Composition of the Board private forestry, particularly in rural areas. Sales of land Seven Board members were elected at the 2016 Annual shall be carried out until 10% of the land area owned by General Meeting. Leif Ljungqvist, Annika Nordin and the company at its formation in 2002 has been Sven Wird were elected as new members of the Board. divested. Operations shall be conducted on a commer­ Johan Hallberg and Birgitta Johansson­-Hedberg cial basis and generate a market return. resigned as members of the Board. Following the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the Board comprises four Annual General Meeting women and three men. The Board also has two The Annual General Meeting is Sveaskog’s highest employee representatives and two deputies for them. decision-making body. The Annual General Meeting of the Parent Company Sveaskog AB (publ) was held on The work of the Board 26 April 2016 in Stockholm. The 2017 Annual General The work of the Board is governed by the Board’s Meeting will be held on 26 April 2017. More information formal work plan. The Chairman of the Board shall about the 2017 Annual General Meeting is provided on ensure that the work of the Board is conducted page 91 in Sveaskog’s Annual Report with Sustain­ability efficiently and that the Board meets its commitments. Report 2015 (in Swedish). According to the formal work plan the Board shall 39 normally hold eight meetings per year, in addition to In addition, there are special instructions for the its statutory meeting in conjunction with the Annual property committee and the audit committee. Issues General Meeting. The formal work plan stipulates which examined by the committees are minuted and reported issues should be examined at each meeting and which at the next Board meeting. specific issues should be submitted to the Board. The work plan also states that the Chairman, on behalf of Remuneration Committee the Board, shall consult with representatives of the Prepared issues related to remuneration and terms of owner on matters of decisive significance to Sveaskog. employment for senior executives. The Remuneration The work plan also contains details of the Chairman’s Committee consists of Helene Biström (chairman) and role in the Board and on assignment of responsibilities Eva Färnstrand. and tasks between the Board and the CEO. Every year the Board evaluates the work of the Board and monitors Property Committee the work of the CEO on an ongoing basis. At least once Prepared issues relating to property acquisition, a year the work of the CEO is evaluated without any management and divestment. The Property Committee member of group management being present. consists of Helene Biström (chairman), Eva Färnstrand, The Board held nine meetings in 2016, including two Leif Ljungqvist and Sofia Gilliusson. The Property strategy meeting. In addition to processing standing Committee is convened as required. items on the agenda, the Board made a decision to issue green bonds, received a presentation of the Audit Committee sawmill market and conjunction with this discussed Tasks include preparing the Board’s work on quality Sveaskog’s holding in Setra Group AB, examined assurance of the company’s financial reporting, regular ­sustainability issues and the definition of sustainable meetings with the company’s auditors in order to be forest management as well as Sveaskog’s environ­ informed of the focus, scope and result of audits as well mental risks. as to discuss coordination between external auditors and internal control activities and approach to the Board committees company’s risks. The Audit Committee consists of The Board’s committees prepare issues ahead of a Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson (chairman), Leif Ljungdecision by the Board. Guidelines for the work of the qvist and Sture Persson. committees are found in the Board’s formal work plan. Board Meetings 2016 28 January • Reports from committees 8 December • Review function • Reports from committees • Year-end report 2015 • Financial report • Auditors’ review • Budget • Financial targets • Decision on policy document • Evaluation of Board work • Sustainable forest management • Decision to issue green bonds • Decisions on acquisition and divestment of properties • Strategic HR and communication issues 11 March ber Janu • Reports from committees cem ary De • Financial report 26 October Fe • Annual accounts including r be br • Reports from committees review of auditor’s opinion on • Financial report m the company’s risks • Property issues No y • Auditors’ information to the • Audit plan ve uar Board without the presence • Auditors’ review of group management • Review of the company’s • Ahead of the Annual General environmental risks ER Meeting ch • Interim report • Business plan process OcTOB MAR • Strategy for holding in Setra Group 26 April 2016 • Reports from committees • Financial report Septem 8 September • Interim report • Reports from committees il • Financial report Statutory Board meeting • Decision on acquisition and Apr after Annual General divestment of properties Meeting 26 April • Strategy be r • Business plan including review of significant risks and their impact • Review of the company’s risk map Au g u ay st M 16–17 June • Reports from committees Jul e • Financial report y Jun • Managing challenges 15 July • Forest policy and sustainable forest • Financial report management • Interim report • Strategy 40 Principles for remuneration to the Board Herman Sundqvist, Linda Andersson and Karin Fees to the Board are decided by the Annual General Eriksson left their positions as SVP Forestry, SVP Meeting. Fees to Board members on committees are Communications and SVP HR respectively in 2016. also decided at the Annual General Meeting. In 2016, Inger Thorén Emilsson has been appointed as SVP HR remuneration to the Board totalled SEK 1,256,722. The and Communications. The former SVP North Market Board does not have a bonus or incentive programme. Area, has been appointed as SVP Forestry. Anette Employee representatives on the Board and the Waara has been appointed as SVP North Market Area. member employed by the Swedish Government Offices Lena Sammeli-Johansson, formerly head of Svenska do not receive a fee. Skogsplantor, took up a newly established position as Eva Färnstrand, Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson, SVP Sustainability in July 2016 and Roger Johansson Annika Nordin and Sven Wird invoiced fees through was appointed as the new head of Svenska Skogs­ their own companies. An additional charge has been plantor. made for social security contributions. This arrangement is cost neutral for Sveaskog. SYSTEM FOR INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT IN CONJUNCTION Corporate structure WITH FINANCIAL REPORTING Sveaskog’s operations are organised in three geo­ The Board’s responsibility for internal control is graphical market areas and Svenska Skogsplantor. The regulated in the Swedish Companies Act and in the divisions into market areas is based on forest assets, Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Internal customer structure and trade flows. The market areas control is intended to provide reasonable assurance have customer, production, and delivery responsibility regarding the reliability of external financial reporting in for the wood raw material as well as responsibility for the form of year-end reports, interim reports and annual leases. The operating activities are supported by reports. Control shall also include external financial group-wide staffs. reporting and that this is prepared in accordance with Sveaskog also owns shares in companies where legislation, applicable accounting standards and other there is not a Group relationship, where the holding in requirements on a limited company. the wood products company Setra Group AB is the largest. Framework for internal control A description of how internal control is organised in CEO and management relation to financial reporting is provided below. Sveaskog’s CEO is responsible for ongoing management of the company in accordance with the Board’s Control environment instructions. The CEO gives presentations at meetings The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining an of the Board. The CEO is responsible for ongoing effective system for internal control and risk managebusiness activities and contacts with the Chairman and ment. The Board has appointed an audit committee external stakeholders. The CEO also leads the work of which prepares matters related to risk assessment, group management. Group management consists of six internal control, financial reporting and audit. The men and four women. The CEO’s assistant is a co-opted Board’s risk management has been given greater scope member of group management. in recent years. Organisation and governance • Owner guidelines • Owner policy Owner • General Meetings • Articles of Association Board • Policies • Property Committee • Remuneration • Group Organisation Committee • Audit Committee CEO • Governance of operations (Targets and governance Group Management principles) • Risk management • Internal control External HR & Communications Forest Management • Reporting Audit ACCOUNTING, IT, LEGAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT • Roles, responsibilities and controls systems AFFAIRS AND PROPERTIES AND INNOVATION Market Area Market Area Market Area Svenska North Central South skogsplantor 41 Responsibility for maintaining an effective control Monitoring environment and day-to-day work with risk management Monitoring is regulated in the Board’s formal work plan and internal control relating to financial reporting is and instructions to the CEO. delegated to the CEO. Managers at different levels in the company have corresponding responsibility within Swedish review function their respective areas. The most significant parts of The Board considers that Sveaskog’s significant risks the control environment relating to financial reporting and risk areas are covered by the risk management are handled in the governing documents relating to process applied by the company. The CFO unit is accounting and financial reporting and in the assigned by the CEO to be responsible for risk accounting handbook which is published on inventories and con ducting the risk management Sveaskog’s employee intranet. processes. The CFO unit is also responsible for a number of central controls combined with local Risk assessment and control structures follow-up. Operational responsibility rests, however, The Board is responsible for ensuring that the company with the market areas and other operating areas. The manages its risks in the right way and that adopted Board believes that there is no need for a special review principles for financial reporting and internal control are function in the company. The CFO unit is headed by the complied with. Risks in connection with the financial Deputy CEO who is also the CFO and comprises the reporting are loss or misappropriation of assets, finance and accounting staffs, IT staffs as well as legal unlawful benefit of another party at the company’s and property staffs. expense and other risks relating to material misstatement in the financial statements, for example relating to AUDIT recognition and measurement of assets, liabilities, The task of the auditors is on behalf of shareholders revenues and expenses or discrepancies in disclosure to examine the company’s annual accounting and requirements. accounting records as well as the administration by the These issues are prepared by the audit committee Board and the CEO. The Board communicates with the before consideration by the Board. A number of items in auditors through the audit committee, by auditors the income statement and balance sheet have been attending Board meeting at which issues ahead of identified where the risk of material misstatement is annual accounts and annual report are examined. At significant. These risks can mainly be attributed to least once a year the auditors meet the Board without measurement of standing forest, accruals and the IT the CEO or another person in group management being systems which support operations. present. The auditors participated all seven meetings of the Audit Committee. Remuneration to auditors is Information and communication specified in Note 6 of the Annual Report (in Swedish). Sveaskog has information and communication channels designed to promote the completeness and accuracy in SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS financial reporting. For external communication there Sveaskog has an integrated sustainability perspective are guidelines designed to ensure that the company throughout its operations. Sveaskog’s objectives for meets the owner’s requirement that reporting is carried sustainable business are broken down into strategies out in accordance with Nasdaq Stockholm’s listing and operational targets which are regularly monitored. agreement. This work is supported by a number of policies and Board attendance and remuneration 2016 Attendance Attendance Attendance Attendance Remuneration Property Audit Remuneration, SEK Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Board Committees Board members Helene Biström 9/9 2/2 2/2 415,000 20,000 Eva Färnstrand 8/9 2/2 1/1 157,500 30,000 Thomas Hahn 9/9 157,500 – Leif Ljungqvist (elected 2016) 6/6 1/1 4/4 – – Annika Nordin (elected 2016) 5,5/6 109,000 – Sven Wird (elected 2016) 6/6 109,000 – Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson 9/9 7/7 157,500 40,000 Employee representatives Sofia Gilliusson 9/9 2/2 – – Sture Persson 9/9 6/7 – – Thomas Esbjörnsson (deputy) 7/9 – – Lars Djerf (deputy) 8/9 – – Board members who resigned at the 2016 Annual General Meeting Johan Hallberg 3/3 1/1 3/3 – – Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg 3/3 48,333 12,889 42 Inauguration of the 37th ecopark in the fire-ravaged area of Västmanland started with a hike. The area can become Sweden’s largest contiguous deciduous forest. guidelines which are available on Sveaskog’s intranet Sveaskog has a Code of Conduct that applies to all and website. employees. Anyone concluding an agreement with Sveaskog appointed a SVP Sustainability during the customers, suppliers, contractors and consultants must year. Sustainability initiatives are monitored on an ensure and monitor that these comply with the Code of ongoing basis both internally and externally. The CFO Conduct. Sveaskog’s managers shall ensure that the and CEO have regular business follow-ups with the Code of Conduct is complied with in daily operations. market areas and Svenska Skogsplantor. The Board The Code must always been gone through with new submits the sustainability report and the Audit Com­ employees, at performance reviews, procurements, mittee prepares work with the report. operational follow-up, etc. The Code of Conduct is Cooperation with local contractors and suppliers is included as an appendix to business and cooperation important for Sveaskog’s development. The Code of agreements. Conduct, general sustainability requirements linked to In order to ensure compliance with the Code there is the UN Global Compact and detailed requirements for a special reporting system for non-conformances or contractors control assessments of contractors. violations. This whistle-blower function is available on Follow-up takes the form of self-assessments and the website and provides guaranteed anonymity. The internal audits. Non-conformances are reported in the function is external which means that the information is business management system. There is also an annual managed and investigated by an external party. One follow-up of framework agreements with external notification was received in 2016 which has been suppliers. processed. The external review consists of auditors reviewing the Under the leadership of lawyers and HR specialists, Annual Report and the Sustainability Report. There is regular meeting are held in the different profit areas also an external audit according to ISO 14001 of the where questions about the Code of Conduct, entertainintegrated business management system. There is an ment guidelines and other ethical issues are discussed. external audit of the FSC® certificate and regular surveys for customers, employees, contractors, If you wish to read more: suppliers and the brand. State ownership policy www.regeringen.se/regeringens-politik/bolag-medVALUES AND CODE OF CONDUCT statligt-agande/sa-styrs-bolagen/ Sveaskog’s values must permeate the corporate culture and help all employees to adopt a common approach. Sveaskog’s Articles of Association Sveaskog’s values: www.sveaskog.se/om-sveaskog/bolagsstyrning/ • Customer Focus bolagsordning/ • Innovation • Simplicity Sveaskog’s Code of Conduct • Transparency www.sveaskog.se/om-sveaskog/uppforandekod/ The values cover: Swedish Companies Act • How Sveaskog conducts business www.regeringen.se Employees must be professional and understand customer needs, take initiatives and be innovative. Swedish Code of Corporate Governance • How employees should act as employees and www.bolagsstyrning.se/ colleagues Employees must be led by the vision, goals and Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers strategies and show respect for the integrity and www.business.nasdaq.com/list/Rules-and-Regulations/ knowledge of their colleagues. European-rules/nasdaq-stockholm/index.html • How managers and leaders take special responsibility Managers and leaders must create an innovative climate and an open culture with feedback. 43 Board of Directors Eva Färnstrand Helene Biström Leif Ljungqvist Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Thomas Hahn Annika Nordin Sven Wird Sofia Gilliusson Thomas Esbjörnsson Sture Persson Lars Djerf 44 Helene Biström Annika Nordin Chairman of the Board. PhD Forestry. Born 1968. Elected 2016. MSc.Eng. Born 1962. Elected 2014. Chair of the Assignments: Professor of Forest Ecophysiology at the Remuneration and Property Committees. Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. Programme Assignments: Chair of Cramo Oyj, Board member of leader for the Future Forests research programme. The Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) and Pöyry PLC. Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Agriculture and Forestry, Kungliga Skytteanska Samfundet and Previous experience: CEO of Norrenergi AB. Various board member of the Forestry Research Institute of senior positions at Vattenfall 1983–2010, including Sweden. Deputy CEO from 2009 responsible for overall activities within nuclear power, wind power, technology and Previous experience: Vice Dean of the Faculty of business development. Forestry Science at the Swedish University of Agri­ cultural Sciences, board member of the Berzelii Centre Eva Färnstrand for Forest Biotechnology and a member of the Swedish MSc.Eng. Born 1951. Elected 2008. Member of the Environmental Research Advisory Board. Remuneration and Property Committees. Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Assignments: Member of the Royal Swedish Academy MSc.Econ. Born 1956. Elected 2006. Chairman of the of Engineering Sciences (IVA). Chair of Infranord AB Audit Committee. and Inlandsinnovation AB. Board member of Saminvest AB. Assignments: CEO Lulebo AB. Deputy Chair of Svenska Kraftnät. Board member of Dedicare AB among others. Previous experience: Plant Manager Södra Cell Mönsterås, CEO Tidningstryckarna AB, Business Area Previous experience: CEO Företagarna, authorised Manager SCA. Chairman of Profilgruppen AB. Board public accountant and manager PwC, Healthcare member of Indutrade AB, Domsjö fabriker AB, Södra Director Stockholm County Council, County Council Cell AB, Handelsbanken Regionbank Stockholm City Director Norrbotten, CEO Piteå-Tidningen and Director and Schibsted Trykk AS, among others. of Roads. Directorships in companies, hospitals, universities, foundations and organisations. Thomas Hahn PhD Agronomics. Born 1964. Elected 2007. Sven Wird MSc.Eng. Born 1951. Elected 2016. Assignments: Researcher at Stockholm Resilience Centre. Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Assignments: Board member of Melodea Ltd, Rise Agriculture and Forestry. Involved in The Millennium Research Institutes of Sweden AB and SP Technical Ecosystem Assessment and the Intergovernmental Research Institute of Sweden. Platform for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Previous experience: Technology Director Holmen AB. (IPBES). Leading positions at SCA, Norske Skog France, Modo Previous experience: Secretary to the Committee of AB and Modo Paper AB. Previously chairman of the Inquiry on the Value of Ecosystem Services, Board board of SunPine AB and Board member of Innventia member of the Nuclear Waste Fund. Chairman of AB. Economists for the Environment. Sofia Gilliusson Leif Ljungqvist IT Architect. MSc.Eng. Born 1973. Elected 2015. MSc.Econ. Born 1971. Elected 2016. Member of the Employee representative, appointed by SI/Naturvetarna. Property and Audit Committees. Member of the Property Committee. Assignments: Company Manager and Deputy Director of the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation’s corporate Sture Persson governance unit. Board member of Apoteket AB, Harvest operator. Born 1957. Elected 2003. Employee Samhall AB and Statens Bostadsomvandling AB. representative, appointed by the Swedish Forest and Wood Trade Union. Member of the Audit Committee. Previous experience: Board member of Akademiska Hus AB, AB Svensk Bilprovning, Vasallen AB and AB Thomas Esbjörnsson Bostadsgaranti. Previously equity analyst at Kaupthing Logistician. Born 1962. Elected 2015. Employee Bank, Nordiska Fondkommission and Hagströmer & representative, deputy, appointed by the Association of Qviberg. Managerial and Professional Staff. Lars Djerf Harvest operator. Born 1966. Elected 2010. Employee representative, deputy, appointed by the Swedish Forest and Wood Trade Union. 45 Group Management Roger Johansson Per-Olof Wedin Viveka Beckeman Nina Arkeberg Per Matses Inger Thorén Emilsson Eva Karlsson Berg Tommy Nilsson Jan Wintzell Anette Waara Fredrik Klang 46 Per-Olof Wedin Eva Karlsson Berg President and CEO. SVP Central Market Area. MSc.Eng. Born 1955. MSc.Eng. Born 1959. Employed 2011. Assumed current position 2011. Employed 2015. Assumed current position 2015. Previous experience: CEO of Svevia AB. Head of Stora Previous experience: Senior positions within Stora Enso, Enso business area Uncoated Magazine Paper and Pulp Chair of Svenska Pappersoch Cellulosaingeniörs­ as well as the Transport and Distribution Division. CEO föreningen (SPCI). of Grycksbo Pappersbruk. Senior management Other assignments: Board member of Högskolan positions at SCA and Modo. i Gävle. Other assignments: Board member of Setra Group AB and Mesta AS. Chairman of The European State Forest Fredrik Klang Association (Eustafor). SVP South Market Area. MSc Forestry and PhD from SLU. Born 1970. Per Matses Employed 2000. Assumed current position 2012 Deputy CEO, CFO. Previous experience: Regional Manager and Head MBA. Born 1958. of Production Sveaskog Götaland, District Manager, Employed 2010. Assumed current position 2010. Head of Silviculture, AssiDomän Forestry. Previous experience: Executive Vice President, CFO and Administrative Director at Apoteket AB, Finance Tommy Nilsson Director at Postgirot Bank AB and Finance Director at SVP Forestry. Posten AB. MSc Forestry. Born 1954. Employed 1999. Assumed current position 2016. Other assignments: Board member of Setra Group AB and Praktikertjänst AB. Previous experience: Forest Manager at Domänverket (The Swedish Forest Service), Managing Director for Nina Arkeberg sawmills, responsible for customer relations at Assi­ PA to the CEO, co-opted member of Group ManageDomän, Market Area Manager Sveaskog North. ment. Other assignments: Board member of Shorelink AB MSc Business Administration & Management. Born and Efficient Forest Fuel Supply Systems. 1967. Employed 2011. Assumed current position 2011. Previous experience: PA to CEO of Svevia AB and Inger Thorén Emilsson Grycksbo Pappersbruk. SVP Human Resources and Communications. BA HR and Psychology. Born 1965. Viveka Beckeman Employed 2016. Assumed current position 2016. SVP Legal Affairs and Property. Previous experience: Leading positions at Telia, Stora LLB. Born 1971. Enso and Akademiska sjukhuset i Uppsala, among Employed 2012. Assumed current position 2012. others. Previous experience: General Counsel at Aditro Holding AB, lawyer at Advokatfirman Vinge, Clerk at the Court Anette Waara of Appeal and law clerk at Helsingborg District Court. SVP North Market Area. MSc Forestry. Born 1969. Other assignments: Deputy Chair of SunPine AB. Employed 2002. Assumed current position 2016. Roger Johansson Previous experience: Head of Production Västerbotten SVP Svenska Skogsplantor. market area, head of Västerbotten profit area. MSc Forestry, MBA. Born 1972. Employed 2002. Assumed current position 2016. Jan Wintzell SVP Business Development & Innovation. Previous experience: Senior positions within sawmill MSc Forestry. Born 1961. industry and Sveaskog, including Deputy Head of Employed 2013. Assumed current position 2013. Forestry and Head of Marketing. Previous experience: Leading positions within Pöyry Management Consulting. Lena Sammeli-Johansson Took up the position of SVP Sustainability in 2016. Until then she was SVP Svenska Skogsplantor and a member of Group Management. 47 Notes to the Sustainability Report Note S1 | About the Sustainability Report Sveaskog as a company and which are most significant for Sveaskog’s external and internal stakeholders to take into account, the work is based on a materiality assessment carried Sveaskog describes its sustainability work and reports its out and decided upon by the Sustainability Council. First, all performance against objectives for sustainable business in a aspects of GRI’s requirements were analysed on the basis of sustainability report which is published in March each year and how important they are for the work with sustainable relates to the period 1 January–31 December. From 2014 the development which Sveaskog has identified as significant report is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting and where each aspect’s effect is greatest, within or outside Initiative’s guidelines (GRI G4) and externally assured. The the company. Based on the identified aspects the various report thereby adheres to the owner’s guidelines for external indicators were analysed and a decision taken in the reporting. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a networkSustainability Council as to which should be reported. based organisation working in cooperation with the UN The report includes a total of 20 of GRI’s indicators which Environment Programme. The organisation has drawn up are listed with page references in the GRI index published on global guidelines for how companies report information related www.sveaskog.se. All GRI’s profile disclosures are reported. to sustainable development. Detailed information about GRI and its regulatory framework is available at www.globalreporting. org. Boundaries Sveaskog complies with GRI’s guidelines and reports The information applies to the whole of the Sveaskog Group, the results achieved for the reporting period against the unless stated otherwise. The Group includes the wholly owned background of the undertakings, strategies and sustainability subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. The sawmill group Setra governance. The intention is to present, measure and accept Group AB, which is owned to 50% by Sveaskog AB, is not responsibility towards stakeholders, both within and outside included in the sustainability report except for that part of the the company, for what has been achieved in work towards financial result for Setra Group AB which affects Sveaskog sustainable business. The 2016 sustainability report, which Förvaltnings AB’s earnings. Sveaskog has two members on comprises pages 10–15, 20–21, 81–86 of Sveaskog’s Annual Setra Group AB’s board and is thus able to influence Setra’s Report with Sustainability Report 2016 (in Swedish) and the sustainability work. GRI Index on www.sveaskog.se, meets the requirements for criteria according to Core GRI G4 and is reviewed by the audit Global Compact firm Deloitte AB. GRI guidelines are implemented in internal Sveaskog has supported the UN Global Compact initiative work with sustainability issues and the information in the since 2005 and thereby takes a clear stance on issues related indicators meets GRI’s criteria in the indicator protocol. The to human rights, social conditions, environmental responsibility, Board’s signature of the 2016 Sustainability Report and the freedom of association and anticorruption. The Global Auditors’ limited assurance report will be found on page 78 in Compact is derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Sveaskog’s Annual Report with Sustainability Report 2016 (in Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development Swedish) and on page 87 respectively. which means that Sveaskog commits to working proactively to minimise environmental risks throughout the company, the Scope of the report ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Sveaskog’s ambition is to provide a comprehensive report of Work and the OECD’s principles and guidelines for how sustainability initiatives, where both negative and positive multinational enterprises should conduct responsible business. development is clearly stated. Sustainability work is based on More information about the Global Compact is available at the code of conduct and the policies and guidelines which www.globalcompact.org. Sveaskog works to substantiate how govern operations. The undertakings resulting from certific­a­ these principles are reflected in the business. Each year a tion and various memberships, including FSC® and Global “Communication on Progress” (CoP) report is submitted to the Compact, are of major significance for sustainability work. Global Compact presenting the GRI indicators associated with To support the issues that have the most effect on the principles. 48 Note S2 | Materiality assessment Every year, the company performs an analysis of the entire value materiality assessment is an aggregate of the issues that chain in order to identify and work with the most relevant Sveaskog regards as strategically important and the issues environmental, social and economic issues. This provides the that stakeholders regard as most important. The order of the company with an understanding of how it affects others. The aspects within each of the four fields has no significance. Hunting, fishing and outdoor activities Confidence Local work and assignment providers Economic performance Coexistence Climate effects High Customer satisfaction Biodiversity Equal opportunity, diversity and skills supply Significance for stakeholders Occupational health and safety Discrimination Research and development Low Use of land and water Low High Significance for Sveaskog and opportunities to influence Note S3 | GRI aspects and indicators as well as where influence occurs For the most significant areas within sustainability the GRI aspects and indicators as well as where influence mainly occurs are specified below. The entire GRI index with explanations is available at www.sveaskog.se. Identified Influence mainly GRI aspects occurs GRI indicators Confidence Supplier assessments relating to environ­ Outside the company EN32, LA14, SO9 ment, labour practices, human rights and impact on society Economic Economic performance Within and outside the EC1 performance company Climate effects Energy, Emissions, Economic Performance Outside the company EN3-4, EN15-17, EC2 Customer satisfaction Labelling of products and services Within the company PR5 Biodiversity Biodiversity Within and outside the EN12-13 company Equal opportunity, Employment, Occupational health and Within the company LA1, LA6, LA9, LA11-13, HR3 diversity and skills safety, Training and education, Diversity and supply equal opportunity 49 Note S4 | Stakeholder dialogues Sveaskog has structured and documented stakeholder dialogues. This overview shows the key issues for the ten principal stakeholders. Issues 2016 What is Sveaskog doing? Dialogue opportunities Customers Product quality, efficient logistics, FSC® certification, measures delivery Survey Customer Satisfaction Index, renewable vehicle fuels, technical precision, participates in development business development discussions development, FSC® and traceability, of new fossil-free fuels, timber reliability, long-term relationships traceability, market prices, Code of Conduct Owner Market return, profitability and Financial targets and targets for General meetings, Board meetings, sustainable business sustainable business, corporate govdialogue with the Chairman of the ernance report, sustainability report Board Lending Financial targets, stable financial Reports financial targets, financial Company presentations, business institutes, flows, sustainable business, new policy, prioritises long-term business discussions credit providers business opportunities relationships and customers with profitability potential, issues green bonds Employees Skills development and supply, Internal training programmes, Performance reviews and employee confidence, equal opportunity, supports job rotation, active recruitdays, employee surveys, leader days, occupational health and safety, ment, work environment efforts and leader programme, trade union cooper­ organisation develops the organisation, and project ation, workshop on ambassadors for ambassadorship Sveaskog, workplace meetings Contractors Developed and long-term cooperation, Long-term cooperation, partner Contractor Satisfaction Index, renewable energy, sustainable forest contractors, cooperation projects, business development discussions, management, contract/ remuneration information and evaluations evaluations issues, training and working environment, attractiveness of forest industry, traceability and certification Timber Ability to pay, market prices, renew­ Good liquidity, market prices, FSC® Supplier Satisfaction Index, FSC® suppliers able energy, quality of felling assignplanning for felling assignments, cooperation, forest days ments, skills supply, sustainable forest participates in development of new management, information about fossil-free fuels, information activities services, technical development Tourism Grants land concessions, lease prices, Leases, investments in recreation Elk management meetings, hunt companies, forest and land for outdoor activities areas and ecoparks, roads and signs, leader meetings, consultations, hunters, as well as grazing damage maps and information on the website business discussions anglers, etc. Reindeer Considerate silvicultural measures Formalised consultations, better Consultations about silvicultural herders and concessions that do not affect maps, projects to develop land usage measures, cooperation within Swedish reindeers’ winter grazing – co­ FSC® existence Authorities Swedish Forestry Act, national Annual audits, business management Consultations regarding ecoparks and environmental objectives system, follow-up of targets and key inaugurations, general meetings, indicators Nature Biodiversity, nature conservation Targets for sustainable business, Excursions, cooperation conservation environmental objectives and organisations targets, FSC® membership, nature conservation strategy 50 Note S5 | Environment and nature conservation Nature conservation can take the form of formally protected areas ways: ecoparks, nature conservation forests and so-called consideration or voluntary set-asides. Sveaskog has chosen to manage 20% of its for nature which is left untouched in the production forests. ­productive forest land as nature conservation areas. The 20% objective The ecoparks comprise a total of 145,000 hectares below the montane applies to forest fellow the montane forest region. In montane forests, forest region. An additional 30,000 hectares of ecoparks are located in Sveaskog has set aside more than half the forest, or an additional the montane forest region. approximately 100,000 for nature conservation. This is achieved in three Nature conservation areas below the montane forest region: Definition Status 31 Dec 2016 Size 3rd party measurement Cooperation 37 ecoparks 37 ecoparks inaugurated. Ecopark agree80,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, 50-year agreements with the ments with the Swedish Forest Agency County Administrative Swedish Forest Agency and WWF are in place for 34 of these ecoparks Board Nature conservation Reported at www.sveaskog.se 300,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, WWF, Swedish Forest Agency, County Adminis­ forests County Administrative trative Boards and the Swedish Society for Nature Board Conservation (deciduous forest restoration) Nature consideration Control self-assessments 220,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency’s Method development with the Swedish when felling follow-up, FSC® audit Forest Agency Sveaskog’s total nature 600,000 ha conservation area below the montane forest region Nature conservation in the montane forest region: Definition Status 31 Dec 2016 Size 3rd party measurement Cooperation Sveaskog’s montane Nature reserves and ecoparks formed 100,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, Dialogue with the Swedish Forest forest region boundary is and quality assurance of nature County Administrative Agency based on the Swedish conservation forests underway Boards, FSC® audit Forestry Act and FSC® Sveaskog’s total nature 700,000 ha conservation area including montane forest region Restoration: Definition Status 31 Dec 2016 Size 3rd party measurement Cooperation Restoration of wetlands The objective of 100 restored wetlands – – Swedish Wetlands Foundation, and aquatic landscapes achieved. Five aquatic landscapes Swedish Ornithological Society identified Note S6 | Environmental data 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Production Emissions to air * All deliveries, thousand m3sub 10,721 10,807 10,838 10,748 10,684 Fossil CO2, ktonnes 134 138 153** 146 126 Deliveries from own forests, Of which direct emissions, ktonnes 14 13 16 14 13 thousand m3sub 5,962 6,255 6,561 6,570 6,459 Of which indirect emissions, Biofuel deliveries, Scope 2, ktonnes 0.056 0.051 0.052 0.052 0.049 thousand m3sub 1,479 1,359 999 868 780 Of which indirect emissions, Scope 3, ktonnes *** 120 125 137 132 113 Energy consumption Land Non-renewable fuels, TJ 1,781 1,806 1,752 1,519 1,374 Total land area, million ha 4.1 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 Renewable fuels, TJ – 109.1 80.5 233 243 Of which productive Indirect energy forest land, million ha 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 consumption, MWh 9,509 9,254 9,222 9,136 8,528 Proportion of total unfelled growth, % **** 39 40 35 36 36 * Sveaskog reports the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide and complies with the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. ** Starting with 2014 reporting both production and distribution of fuel are included in the emissions calculation which means that carbon dioxide emissions have increased. *** Scope 3 includes felling, transport by road, sea and rail, road building, silviculture and business travel. **** Included uncultivated forests. 51 Employee data Relates to the entire Sveaskog Group unless otherwise specified. All Note S9 | Breakdown of employees employees included in the data have employment contracts with the Group. Since the number of contractors hired during the year varies, these are not included in the audit. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Women, %* 19.9 19.7 19.8 21.0 21.6 Note S7 | Number of employees Men, %* 80.1 80.3 80.2 79.0 78.4 Women/men on the Board, %** 50/50 43/57 50/50 67/33 57/43 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Women/men in Group Management, % 30/70 36/64 36/64 45/55 40/60 Permanent employees 702 693 678 688 674 Women managers, % 27 26 22 24 24 Average number of employees incl. temporary employees* 949 899 877 851 844 * Average number of employees. ** Elected by Annual General Meeting. Number of wage-earners 288 293 287 282 240 Number of salaried employees 414 400 391 406 434 Year of birth of Board members and members of Group Management specified in the presentations on pages 44–47. Proportion of part-time/ permanent employees, % 1.3 2.2 1.6 1.3 1.5 Proportion of full-time/ permanent employees, % 98.7 97.8 98.4 98.7 98.5 Note S10 | Relation between men’s and women’s Number of HR managers 93 95 91 96 95 salaries Average age, years 48 48 48 48 47 Employees within different 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 age groups –29 97 94 89 92 95 Wage earners 30–49 403 384 369 336 344 Women/men 16/252 21/250 18/248 23/241 19/203 50– 449 421 419 423 407 Women’s median salary in relation to men’s, % 91 86 85 87 85 Proportion recruited internally, % 79 60 61 64 70 Proportion of employees with Salaried employees non-Swedish background , % 3.3 Women/men 113/285 108/277 103/274 115/279 128/294 * Total number of hours worked/1,650. Women’s median salary in relation to men’s, % 99 99 99 97 97 The comparison does not take into account that different requirements are made for different positions but only provides an overview of salary structure per agreement area. Salary information and number of employees refer to permanent employees in Sweden (excluding foreign subsidiaries). Note S8 | Number of permanent employees by market area Note S11 | Employee turnover Market area/region 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 North* 239 214 207 215 180 Total, % 5.9 6.2 4.6 5.5 7.0 Central* 233 257 249 247 250 South* 139 131 135 141 158 Women/men By age group By market area Stockholm** 55 54 52 55 56 Joined Left Joined Left Joined Left Latvia/Lithuania 33 34 34 29 29 23/37 7/40 –30: 21 2 North 16 15 Finland 3 3 1 1 1 30–50: 28 15 Central 26 15 50–: 11 30 South 14 14 * Including employees in staffs stationed within the market area. Stockholm 4 3 ** Stationed at the head office in Stockholm. Latvia 0 0 Note S12 | Proportion of employees receiving regular evaluations and monitoring of their performance and career development A good basis for participation is well-executed performance reviews. all managers are offered training in performance reviews. Support doc­ These reviews also allow the manager to identify the employees’ needs uments and checklists are available to help with implementation of these for skills development in their position as well as any preferences for reviews. further development. According to the most recent employee survey, VIS 2015, a total of 96% Sveaskog’s objective is that all permanent employees shall have at least of all permanent employees had a performance review during the past one performance review during a 12-month period and that the discussion 12-month period. should be of a high quality. In order to provide conditions for good quality, 52 Note S13 | Sickness absence 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sickness absence total, % 2.1 2.6 2.7 2.5 2.7 Sickness absence women, % 3.4 3.1 3.4 3.4 3.2 Sickness absence men, % 1.8 2.5 2.6 2.2 2.6 Long-term sickness absence % of total sickness absence 36.1 49.7 45.4 34.5 45.6 Long-term health, %* 43.3 44.4 41.3 36.1 35.2 Notified work-related injuries** /1,000 average employees 9.5 4.4 6.8 3.5 5.9 Notified work-related injuries, according to GRI*** 11.5 5.4 8.3 4.3 7.0 Total absentee days (working days) due to work-related injuries**** 261 33 128 14 41 Sickness absence due to work-related injuries, % 0.13 0.02 0.10 0.008 0.02 * Proportion of employees employed for at least three years with no sickness absence during the past two years. ** Work-related injuries: accidents, travel accidents, work-related illnesses which on reporting date are expected to lead to absence. Also includes minor injuries at a first-aid level. Contractor’s accidents are not included. Work-related injuries are reported in SKIA, the forest industry’s information system for working environment operated by AFA Insurance on behalf of the industry. Injuries are not reported by region, but follow-up takes place in the local safety committees within each market area. There were no fatal accidents during the year. *** Total number of injuries divided by hours worked x 200,000. **** All absentee days (of planned working days) commenced within two days of the work-related injury. Note S14 | Average number of training hours by employee and year breakdown by employee category* 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of training hours, wage earners, average 37 46 37 52 48 Number of training hours, salaried employees, average 41 45 33 35 31 Key number of training hours/employee, days 4.9 6 4.4 5.4 4.9 Key number of training hours/employee, hours 39 46 35 43 39 * Average number of employees. Note S15 | Proportion of workforce covered by a collective agreement In Sweden, 100% of employees are covered by a collective agreement. Those not covered by a collective agreement are employed in the subsidiary SIA Sveaskog Baltfor registered office in Riga, Latvia. The proportion of employees covered by collective agreements is therefore 96%. 53 GRI index The below index provides an account of Sveaskog’s reporting according to Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines GRI level Core and where the information can be found. All page references below refer to Sveaskog’s Annual Report/Sustainability Report 2016, in Swedish W = www.sveaskog.se Content index Standard disclosures Where to find information Comments Strategy and analysis Indicator G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainability for the organisation and its strategy 4–5 Organisational profile Indicator G4-3 Name of the organisation Cover G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 3, 6–7, 10 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Back cover G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of countries where the organisation has significant operations 69 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 3, 6, 39, 59 G4-8 Markets served 26–30 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 6, 9, 25, 49, 85 G4-10 Number of employees by employment contracts, employment type, region and gender 19, 85 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 86 96% G4-12 Description of organisation’s supply chain 12, 20 G4-13 Change regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain 39–43 G4-14 How the precautionary principle is approached 10, 13, 16–17, 42, 81 G4-15 List of externally developed economic, environmental and social principles 5, 9, 11, 20, 42 Global Compact, Haga other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it supports initiativet, BioInnovation G4-16 Membership of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations 5, 9, 11, 17, 20, Sveaskog is a member of 30, 33, 42–43 several industry organisations: The Forestry Research Institute of Sweden, IVA, Svebio, Forest Stewardship Council, UN Global Compact, Eustafor, SLA, Forest Based Sector Technology Platform, PEFC Identified material aspects and boundaries Indicator G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements 81 G4-18 Process for defining the report content (materiality assessment) 10, 81 G4-19 Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 10, 82 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation for each material aspect 82 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation, for each material aspect 82 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 11–13, 14–15, 84 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries 81 Stakeholder engagement Indicator G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 10, 82–83 G4-25 Basic for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 81 G4-26 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement 10, 82–83 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has 10, 82–83 responded to these key topics and concerns Report profile Indicator G4-28 Reporting period 81 G4-29 Date of most recent report 81 G4-30 Reporting cycle 81 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 91 G4-32 GRI content index www.sveaskog.se G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance Indicator G4-34 Governance structure for the organisation 39–43 Ethics and integrity Indicator G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and code of ethics 8–10, 18–20, 42–43 54 Report content Specific standard disclosures Material aspects Governance (DMA) Where to find information Comments Economic impact Economic performance G4 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 4–5, 35–37, 42–43, W 10 G4 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s 4, 35–37, 42–43, W 35–37 activities due to climate change Environmental impact Energy G4 EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 14–15, 16–17, 84 35–37, 42–43, W G4 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation -”84 Biodiversity G4 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in -”16–17, 84, W protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4 EN13 Habitats protected or restored -”16–17, 84, W Emissions G4 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) -”13–15, 84 G4 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) -”13–15, 84 G4 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) -”13–15, 84 Supplier environmental assessment G4 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 10, 20, 35–37, 42–43, W 20 Social impact – labour practices and decent work Employment G4 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 18–19, 35–37, 42–43, W 85 gender and region Occupational health and safety G4 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and -”86 Sveaskog deviates and does total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender not report work-related injuries by region and gender 1) Training and education G4 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category -”86 Sveaskog deviates and does not report training days by gender 2) G4 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, -”18–19, 85 Sveaskog deviates and by gender and employee category does not report performance reviews by gender and employee category 3) Diversity and equity opportunity G4 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category, -”44–47, 85 Sveaskog does not register according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity employee minority group membership or ethnicity. G4 LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, -”85 by significant locations of operation Supplier assessment for labour practices G4 LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria 10–11, 20, 35–37, 42–43, W 20 Social impact – Human rights Non-discrimination G4 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 10–11, 35–37, 42–43, W 10–11, 43 Social impact – organisation’s role in society Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4 SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 10–11, 35–37, 42–43, W 20 Social impact – product responsibility Product and service labelling G4 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 10–12, 35–37, 42–43, W 12, 82–83 1) Since this applies in so few cases which means that anonymity cannot be guaranteed. 2) Sveaskog will examine the feasibility of also breaking down this information by gender in future. 3) Sveaskog will examine the feasibility of also breaking down this information by general and employee category in future. 55 Sveaskog AB Reg. no. 556558-0031 SE-105 22 Stockholm Tel +46 8 655 90 00 Visitors’ address: Torsgatan 4 Mail: info@sveaskog.se www.sveaskog.se Contact: Lena Sammeli-Johansson lena.sammeli@sveaskog.se Tel: +46 582-68 69 75. 56
