2016 Sustainability Report Passion for Energy. Commitment for Future. OMV Petrom Resourcefulness 2016 Sustainability Report Introduction CSR Projects – 10 Years of Responsibility 44 for Romania Letter from the CEO 3 Human Rights 48 Supply Chain Management 49 OMV Petrom Innovation 52 OMV Petrom Company Profile 5 Business Model and Value Chain 7 Performance in Details OMV Petrom at a Glance 8 Economic Performance 54 Corporate Governance 9 Environmental Performance 55 Risk Management 11 Social Performance 59 Product Responsibility 12 Sustainability at OMV Petrom Appendix Report Profile: Methodology, Definitions 70 OMV Petrom Sustainability Strategy: 15 & Principles Resourcefulness Abbreviations and Definitions 71 How We Manage Sustainability 16 Membership 72 Our Commitment to SDGs 17 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Reporting on Materiality 19 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index 74 OMV Petrom Matters Health, Safety, Security and Environment 21 Employee Development and Diversity 36 Business Ethics 39 Community Relations and Development 41 Introduction 2016 Sustainability Report Introduction Letter From the CEO line value projects for our community, training more than 5,000 people and supporting over 100 hotspot communities within OMV Petrom’s social responsibility platform “Andrei‘s Country”. I have the pleasure to share with you our first Sustainability Report elaborated in conformity with the Global Reporting Health, Safety, Security and Environment Initiative framework – G4. This report presents our actions taken for achieving the objectives established in OMV Petrom’s Health, Safety, Security and Environment represent the most sustainability strategy – Resourcefulness. Focusing on important material aspects reflected within this report on which three key areas – Eco-Efficiency, Eco-Innovation and Skills we relentlessly work to improve our performance. Within to Succeed – it brings together the company’s responsible all our operations, we have established a strong and well commitments on HSSE, diversity, business ethics, human rights structured HSSE management system, which paves the way and stakeholder engagement. to a better performance, ensuring safer working conditions for all our employees and contractors and ultimately, to a Economic Sustainability reduction of the impact on the environment with a more efficient usage of the natural resources. OMV Petrom is preoccupied We are operating in a dynamic and volatile environment to prevent losses by calling to industry best practices in which in recent years presented us with major challenges that project management and design and also to reduce oil spills have tested our ability to maintain and improve our long-term and leakages by implementing maintenance programs for business sustainability. In 2016, the business context in which enhancing pipeline integrity. Due to these programs, in the we operated was characterized by declining prices and refining second half of 2016 we registered a decline in the number of margins that impacted the entire oil and gas industry. leaks. Also, with the Petrobrazi refinery modernization and the Under these circumstances, OMV Petrom demonstrated energy efficiency projects implemented, we have succeeded to Message from Mrs. Mariana Gheorghe CEO OMV Petrom fairly resilient results due to cost savings and improved reduce the company’s overall GHG intensity, by 5.9% in 2016 contributions from all business segments. Also, during this year versus 2015. we conducted a revision process of our strategy, establishing ambitious goals for the 2021 horizon. According to the Strategy With all our accomplishments thus far, we have demonstrated Update 2021+, OMV Petrom is proposing to realize investments that OMV Petrom is capable of creating value for shareholders of approx. EUR 1 bn on average, annually, for the period 2017and for the entire community even under challenging conditions, 2021. by implementing robust strategies that deliver performance. We are committed to continue conducting our business in a Social Responsibility responsible way, deeply integrating sustainability in the entire value chain. For the past 10 years, we have been addressing the needs of the community in which we are operating, investing only in 2016 Mariana Gheorghe more than 4,000,000 euro by developing efficient combination Chief Executive Officer of large-scale CSR projects vocational and entrepreneurial education, as well as infrastructure development, volunteering and environmental initiatives. We continued to deliver bottom GRI G4: G4-1 3 OMV Petrom 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom OMV Petrom Company Profile OMV Petrom S.A. is a joint stock company founded in accordance with Government Emergency Ordinance 49/1997 OMV Petrom Group and the parent company of all companies consolidated within the OMV Petrom Group which is one of the largest integrated oil and gas group in Southeastern Europe and the leading industrial company in Romania. The company is part of the OMV Group, also an integrated, international oil and gas player, and unfolds its activity either directly or through its affiliates. Petrobrazi Filling Refinery Stations DOWNSTREAM OIL Onshore Onshore Offshore UPSTREAM Oil Natural Gas Oil & Gas DOWNSTREAM GAS Brazi Gas-fired Dorobanțu Power Plant Wind Park Note: in this report, “ the Company” and “OMV Petrom” are used to make reference to OMV Petrom S.A. Instead, “OMV Petrom Group” is used to make reference to OMV Petrom S.A. and its subsidiaries. GRI G4: G4-3, G4-4, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8 5 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom OMV Petrom Company Profile OMV Petrom Group is organized in three operationally Shareholding structure 2016: integrated business segments – Upstream, Downstream Oil and Downstream Gas. At the end of 2016, OMV Petrom had the following shareholding structure: 51.0% – OMV Aktiengesellschaft, 20.6% – Romanian Upstream State (via the Ministry of Energy), 12.6% – Fondul Proprietatea S.A. The remaining 15.8% represents the free float, traded as The Upstream business segment explores for, develops and shares within the Premium category of the Bucharest Stock produces crude oil and natural gas in Romania, including in the Exchange and as GDRs within the Standard category on the Romanian part of the Black Sea, and Kazakhstan. main market of the LSE. Downstream Oil As of the end of 2016, around 520 legal entities from both Romania and abroad held approximately 13.8% of the free float The Downstream Oil business segment’s activities include shares, with the remainder (2%) held by almost 456,600 private processing and refining crude oil in Petrobrazi refinery with a individuals. capacity of 4.5 mn t/y and selling refined products (gasoline, diesel, kerosene/jet fuel, heavy fuel oil, LPG, petroleum coke etc.) to retail consumers under two brands, OMV and Petrom, throughout South-Eastern Europe (Romania, Moldova, Bulgaria 20.6% Romanian State and Serbia), as well as to business customers, including via Ministry of Energy industrial companies, airlines and freight companies. 12.6% Fondul Proprietatea S.A. Downstream Gas 15.8% Free float The Downstream Gas business segment is active in various 51.0% OMV stages of the gas value chain and comprises our gas and Aktiengesellschaft power lines of business. We are an important player in the Romanian gas market, with a focus on supplying gas to industrial customers. The Downstream Gas business segment’s activities also include power production, our asset portfolio comprising the 860 MW Combined Cycle Power Plant (gas fired) Brazi and the 45 MW wind park Dorobanțu, which cumulatively generated 2.9 TWh of power in 2016. We sell the produced power (in Romania) on the platforms managed by OPCOM S.A., as well as to final clients. Note: on 20 July 2017, OMV Petrom announced signing the contract for the sale of the OMV Petrom Wind Power S.R.L. („Dorobantu Wind Park”). The completion of the transaction is subject to customary conditions precedent, including approval from the Competition Council, and is expected by end of 2017. GRI G4: G4-4, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8 6 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Business Model and Value Chain Onshore and Offshore Exploration & Production of Oil and Gas Upstream Refining Storage Transportation & Distribution Sales Activities Downstream Oil Wholesale Retail Customers Customers Sales Activities Downstream Gas Power Production Industrial Wholesale End-users Customers GRI G4: G4-12 7 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom OMV Petrom at a Glance Economic: Environment: Social: 2016: 2,575 2016: 45.8 2016: 5,324 2015: 3,895 2015: 2,480 2015: 45.8 Capital expenditure (RON mn)* 2014: 6,239 People trained in personal 2014: 3,750 Energy consumption 2014: 42.5 and professional (PJ) development 2016: 60.66 2016: 48,233 2016: >4 CO2 2015: 55,660 2015: 4.5 2015: 61.90 2014: 62.57 2014: 76,337 2014: 3.8 Total hydrocarbon Hydrocarbons vented Contribution in communities production in Romania (t) (mn Euro) (mn boe) 2016: 4.4 2016: 2,000 2016: 29 % 2015: 4.4 2015: 1,800 2015: 25% 2014: 4.4 2014: 1,400 2014: 42% GHG (direct, scope 1) (mn t CO2 eq) Volunteers involved in CSR projects Reserve replacement rate in Romania (single year) 2016: 0.058 2016: n.m. 2015: 0.061 2015: 4% 2014: 0.029 GHG (indirect, scope 2) Gearing (%) 2014: 6% (mn t CO2 eq) 2016: 17.59 2015: 18.23 2014: 19.94 Water withdrawal (mn cbm) * Figures at OMV Petrom Group level Note: the data for 2016 include Kazakhstan 8 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Corporate Governance Our governance system allows us to carefully pay attention Company law), consisting in an individual personal assessment to all material economic, social and environmental aspects done by the relevant Supervisory Board member, followed by that influence our success and the relationship with our an external assessment. Following such evaluation, by the end stakeholders. of 2016 three members from the current Supervisory Board met all the independence criteria. The Company adhered to the Corporate Governance Code issued by the Bucharest Stock Exchange in 2010 and continues to apply its principles, ever since then, complying with almost all of the provisions set forth in it. More details on Company’s compliance status with the principles and recommendations stipulated under the Corporate Governance Code are presented in the corporate governance statement of the 2016 Annual Report. Two-tier governance system In terms of management system, since 2007, we have implemented a two-tier governance system composed by a Supervisory Board, appointed for a 4 year mandate by the GMS and an Executive Board. The Executive Board manages the daily operations of the Company, while the Supervisory Board monitors, supervises and controls the activity of the “Given the importance of our business, at Executive Board. national and international level, and the complexity of the environment in which Supervisory Board we operate, we consider fundamental to foster a governance system that The candidates for the positions in the Supervisory Board are guides our activities, based on principles nominated by the existing members of the Supervisory Board embraced at European level and on or by the shareholders of OMV Petrom, in line with the the best international management provisions of the Romanian Company law no. 31/1990. practices”. The Supervisory Board consists of nine non-executive members with an average age of 54 in 2016. In order to ensure a certain Filip Neagu level of independence of the Supervisory Board, yearly and at Legal Department Director least on the occasion of each (re)appointment of its members, we conduct an independence evaluation based on the independence criteria provided by the Corporate Governance Code (which are substantially similar with those provided by the GRI G4: G4-34, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40 9 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Corporate Governance The Company also has in place a Supervisory Board SelfEvaluation Guideline providing the purpose, criteria and Our governance system allows frequency of such an evaluation of the Supervisory Board. The aim of this self-evaluation process is to assess and if necessary to improve both the efficiency and the effectiveness of the Supervisory Board work, as well as to ensure that the Supervisory Board is capable of fulfilling its responsibilities us to carefully towards shareholders and other stakeholders. pay attention Based on this Guideline, the Supervisory Board underwent a self-evaluation process for the business year 2016, under the to all material leadership of the President of the Supervisory Board. As per the evaluation for 2016, the Supervisory Board members consider economic, social that the composition regarding experience and qualification, diversity, number of members and also presence is satisfactory. and environmental aspects that Supervisory Board members also appreciated the good collaboration with the Executive Board, the organization and conducting of the Supervisory Board meetings and the quality of the documents provided for and during the meetings. influence our Executive Board success and the The Executive Board of the Company is composed of 5 members with an average age of 53 in 2016, appointed by the relationship with Supervisory Board for a mandate of 4 years. The Executive Board reports to the Supervisory Board on a regular basis on our stakeholders. all relevant issues concerning the course of business, strategy implementation, risk profile and risk management of the Company. In 2016, the Executive Board met 54 times in person and passed resolutions by circulation on 16 other occasions in order to approve all matters requiring its approval in accordance with the Articles of Association and the Company’s internal regulations, as well as to allow the members of the Executive Board to be aware of all matters concerning the Company and to inform each other about relevant issues of their activity. More information about our corporate governance system can be found in this report at p. 39 – 40 and in the Annual Report at p. 60 – 82. GRI G4: G4-34, G4-44, G4-49 10 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Risk Management OMV Petrom has implemented a risk management system that Board’s Audit Committee an overview of OMV Petrom Group’s is ensuring a robust control environment, enabling the company risk profile for midterm horizon, as well as the risk management to identify the threats before they materialize and/or to reduce activities and initiatives undergone for mitigating the Group’s the adverse effects of events which happen are outside of its risk exposures. influence. Risk management organization As per the Code of Corporate Governance, OMV Petrom’s Supervisory Board’s role is to adopt strict rules and obtain OMV Petrom has four levels of risk management roles in a assurance, via its specialized Audit Committee, that the pyramid-type risk organization: company has an effective risk management system in force. On 1. risk owners represented by managers from all areas of the other hand, the Executive Board is continuously executing activity; oversight and steers the company’s risk management system 2. risk coordinators who facilitate and coordinate the risk by close involvement in the risk management process and its management process in their division; development. 3. risk management department which coordinates the entire risk management process assisted by the specialized corporate Risk and Insurance Management Department functions (HSSE, Compliance, Legal, Controlling); 4. OMV Petrom’s Executive Board which steers and approves To assess the risks associated with OMV Petrom’s entire consolidated risk profile in accordance with the company’s portfolio of operations, the Executive Board has empowered objectives and risk appetite. a dedicated Risk and Insurance Management Department with the objective to lead and coordinate the company’ risk management related processes. “Risk Management is something we do every day; it is embedded in our Enterprise Wide Risk Management professional and personal life and drives us into taking the right decisions, The OMV Petrom Enterprise Wide Risk Management (EWRM) weighting the risks and opportunities. system follows the ISO 31000 standard and has been Risk Management is key to reach assessed via external benchmark as in line with best practice at objectives and implement the strategy international level. in a sustainable manner. Making it part of the company-wide decision The risks within OMV Petrom’s EWRM system are organized making process, makes OMV Petrom in the following categories: market and financial, operational successful!” and strategic. These categories include among others: market, financial, project, process, health, safety and security, Irina Dobre tax, compliance, personnel, legal, regulatory, ethical and Financial Director reputational risks.The Risk Management function reports twice per year to OMV Petrom Executive Board and Supervisory More information about how we manage risks can be found in OMV Petrom Annual Report 2016 at p. 55 – 59. GRI G4: G4-2, G4-14, G4-45, G4-47, G4-49, G4-EC2 11 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Product Responsibility Our objective is to provide products that meet our customers’ In 2016, we blended 72,000 t biodiesel into diesel and 46,000 t quality and cost requirements, taking into account the bioethanol into gasoline fuels for bio-fuels. environmental, health and safety aspects, being integral part of managing product quality throughout the manufacturing and sales process. Product Quality We manage the product quality and safety in accordance with our internal policies as well as with international and national regulations and standards. We use standardized processes, quality testing across the supply chain and a highly developed traceability system to ensure the quality and safety of our products. Every product that we manufacture, market or distribute complies with relevant legislation. We provide partners and customers with detailed information about our products. 100% of the fuel distributed is subject to product information and labeling requirements, such as the sourcing of components of the product or service, content, safe use, as well as disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts. “At OMV Petrom, we are committed to offering the best products and services Safety Data Sheets to our customers. From large-scale initiatives that reduce our environmental Safety Data Sheets for our fuels are available on our website impact, to creating a reliable network of or in the filling stations for consultation, together with other responsible filling stations partners and documents such as conformity certificates, authorization and to everyday practices, we are taking licenses or delivery specifications. important steps toward sustainability”. These documents are regulated under REACH (EU regulation no. 1907/2006) and include comprehensive Adrian Nicolaescu information on potential health, safety and environmental Retail Manager Romania – hazards, as well as informing customers and employees to Downstream Oil safely handle and use our products. We are preoccupied to produce sulphur-free diesel and gasoline (sulphur content <10 ppm) in our Petrobrazi Refinery. GRI G4: G4-DMA PR, G4-PR3, OG8, OG14 12 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Product Responsibility Also, in 2016, OMV Petrom and Electrica signed an agreement of cooperation for the installation of fast charging stations for Mitigation of environmental impacts of our products is also of great importance for our company. Thus, in the last couple The partnership between OMV electric vehicles in our filling station networks. The first charging of years we focused on investment projects to reduce the station installment was done in January 2017. A pilot project environmental impact of our products and services. will continue with fast charging stations for electric vehicles to be installed in four OMV filling stations in Bucharest and at the headquarters of OMV Petrom and Electrica. In this respect, one of the major pillars of our current mitigation strategy capitalizes on potentials with impact on energy savings Petrom and OMV filling stations customer satisfaction programs. Nevertheless, we give great importance to determine and improve our client’s level of satisfaction. Electrica was very satisfied 6 65 In this respect, Customer Satisfaction Studies were largely established for 5 27 conducted, having in target measuring customer satisfaction on major range of products and services categories, per brands. the installation 4 5 of fast charging 3 2 stations for electric 2 1 vehicles in our not satisfied at all 1 0 Top two boxes: 92% filling stations Petrom filling stations customer satisfaction network. very 6 56 satisfied 5 31 4 11 3 1 2 1 not satisfied at all 1 0 Top two boxes: 87% GRI G4: G4-DMA PR, G4-PR5, G4-EN27 13 Sustainability at OMV Petrom 2016 Sustainability Report Sustainability at OMV Petrom OMV Petrom Sustainability Strategy: Resourcefulness Preserving and securing the natural resources needed We do this as efficiently and in safety as possible. Our strategy Resourcefulness pillars for the future generations are our main preoccupations is focusing on implementing specifics activities that help us to while we are creating economic and social value for all our increase our level of energy efficiency, to reduce our carbon stakeholders. footprint and our total water withdrawal and energy. EcoEcoWe are focusing on the development of modern and cuttingÂEco-innovation Innovation Efficiency edge methods to preserve and valorize the natural resources, We invest in research and development of new technologies kehol Sta agemder to secure reliable energy supply for society, to operate in a safe, and energy sources. We use our core skills to tap into g en En t efficient and responsible manner, to create an organizational alternative energy sources and new revenue opportunities. culture with HSSE ambition goals of ZERO Harm – NO Therefore, we have formed a group of specialists that will Losses and to support long term economic growth through consolidate the company’s strategy on long-term ecoResourcets Righ • fulness Busines an sity HS s E community led initiatives. In this process, we are driven by the innovation. 10 principles of UN Global Compact and the SDGs. m iver SE t Furthermore, the Company owns ICPT Campina that is part Hu • D cs Our approach to Sustainability responds to the necessity to of Upstream Division. With a vast experience in oil industry hi combine the specific needs of our relevant stakeholders and research, ICPT perform complex laboratory analysis, technical our business objectives. This has empowered us to consider support and expertise at a high level of quality and efficiency, the role of our business, in the society, as catalyst of economic, covering the needs of exploration and production activities. Skills social and environmental development. to ÂSkills to Succeed Succeed Resourcefulness We acknowledge that one of our main responsibility is to stimulate a sustainable economic growth in the communities The apex of this process is represented by our sustainability impacted by our operations. In this sense, we are committed long-term strategy Resourcefulness that is leading us in the to provide the necessary skills to the people and to develop integration process of Sustainability into our development local economy through specific activities that involve vocational strategy, creating economic and social value. Resourcefulness training, local employment and supplier development. incorporates the aspects of health, safety, security, environment, diversity, business ethics, human rights and All these activities are carried out through our social stakeholder engagement and is expressed by three main pillars: responsibility platform “Andrei’s Country” and are meant to support people’s education generating a long-term impact. ÂEco-efficiency Considering our activities, a performing environmental management is essential in order to minimize our negative impact on the environment and to optimize the use of the natural resources we need. Thus, our objective is to produce more with fewer resources. GRI G4: G4-15 15 2016 Sustainability Report Sustainability at OMV Petrom How We Manage Sustainability OMV Petrom Resourcefulness Steering Committee measureable enable us to take the best decisions for our company, environment and our stakeholders. Therefore, we Employees Implementation of our sustainability strategy Resourcefulness developed a set of KPIs for all Resourcefulness areas (Ecoperception regarding is managed and overseen by a robust governance mechanisms Innovation, Eco-Efficiency, Skills to Succeed, Stakeholder and through a dedicated committee, OMV Petrom Engagement, HSSE, Business Ethics, Human Rights, Diversity) the Sustainability Strategy: 80% Resourcefulness Steering Committee (PRSC) established that helps us steering sustainability throughout the organization. in 2014. This Committee is accountable to the Executive Board OMV Petrom. Led by the company’s CEO, the PRSC is formed by representatives from across the business and also key stream leads from Corporate Functions as topic owners for strategic Resourcefulness matters. PRSC meets several times per year. Its main task is to maximize sustainability performance according to company’s overall strategy and develop synergies throughout business units and corporate functions. declared that all employees should The Committee also acts as a content alignment and approval instance for sustainability projects and is the main body be involved in the ensuring an overall sustainability planning, approved by the implementation of Executive Board at the beginning of the year. Furthermore, the committee has the duty to analyze and the Resourcefulness complete the Sustainability Report that is realized on yearly Strategy. basis. Afterwards the report is approved by the Executive Board. Sustainability Department At operational level, responsibility for the implementation of sustainability strategy, projects and reporting holds on the Sustainability Department that reports directly to the CEO. In this regard, between May and July 2016, we conducted an internal survey in order to evaluate our employees’ perceptions & opinions regarding the company’s sustainability strategy – Resourcefulness. The information collected through 1,568 questionnaires will be used to better shape the internal communication strategies of our Resourcefulness strategy. Methods and tools to make the effects of Resourcefulness Workshop for the identification of vocational education needs. GRI G4: G4-35, G4-36, G4-37, G4-42, G4-43, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-48 16 2016 Sustainability Report Sustainability at OMV Petrom Our Commitment to SDGs 2015 is a year of reference for Sustainability at global level. 193 Members States of UN, including Romania, approved and adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in order to achieve a more equitable and inclusive society. Being aware of our role and our duty to ensure economic growth while respecting natural and environmental resources, in OMV Petrom, we strongly support the 17 SDGs. Our support is transposed in a planning of specific projects and activities for medium and long period in congruency with our development strategy. Thus, in 2016, we have organized together with the Global Compact Network Romania a supplier event, “Sustaining Partnership” with the participation of more than 110 persons. During the event we promoted the 10 Principles of UNGC and we have prioritized the UN SDGs that shall shape future sustainability strategy. Additionally, in 2016, an analysis was conducted for identifying the SDGs on which we will focus our efforts. 100 internal stakeholders and 100 external stakeholders were involved in this process through an on-line questionnaire. At the end, we identified the 5 most important SDGs, best connected with our activities: GRI G4: G4-2, G4-15, G4-26, G4-27 17 2016 Sustainability Report Sustainability at OMV Petrom Stakeholder Engagement Considering the intricacy of our value chain and the influence OMV Petrom Capital market authorities Investors Analysts Shareholders Banks of our activities on different categories of stakeholders we are conducting extensive stakeholder engagement activities, Stakeholder Map The Presidency respecting international sustainability frameworks, guidelines and standards, like: GRI G4, the AA1000 Principles Standard and the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard. Government (Prime External Suppliers and Consortium Minister, PM Cabinet, Customers consultants contractors partners Peers Ministers and related Win-win relationship officials) One of our main concern is to develop and maintain a winGovernment (technical and win relationship with a wide range of stakeholders including operational bodies) employees, local communities, business partners, central and local administration and capital markets. Universities/ Business Schools The Legislative Science & Partners (Parliament) Stakeholder identification process Research Capital markets Since 2009, we are conducting a stakeholder identification Research institutions Central regulatory process, based on employees’ consultation and assessment Central authorities administrations of risks and opportunities at company level. The result of Society these activities is an up-to-date database that for 2016 listed a number of 6,400 stakeholders and a Stakeholder Map which NGOs & NPOs Central controlling helps us to prioritize our stakeholders. Associations Competitors authorities Mass As a consequence, we have created a network of Community media Employees Intelligence Based Organizations in our hot spot areas steered by local departments & Foundations Intelligence authorities, formal and informal local key opinion leaders, agencies inhabitants and representatives of OMV Petrom or other Local community Professionals´ companies as a platform of dialogue and engagement for the associations development of those communities. Political parties Local or National media International territorial media media County administrations Local Local Other Employees Representatives Employers´ (County councils, administrations controlling community of employees associations Prefectures) (Communal councils, authorities members Municipal councils, Town Halls) GRI G4: G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G-27 18 2016 Sustainability Report Sustainability at OMV Petrom Reporting on Materiality Being able to concentrate our actions and efforts on what really OMV Materiality Matrix matters is the concept behind our materiality process. This means to identify those economic, social and environmental high High importance • Health and Safety aspects that are crucial for our business success and • Oil spills for maintaining a mutual beneficial relationship with our • Security • Business ethics and stakeholders. corruption Importance to internal stakeholders • Energy efficiency Materiality analysis • Regulatory environment • Employee attraction, retention and training Our starting point to define the content of this report were the • Impact on climate change Moderate importance • Governance findings of the materiality analysis conducted in 2014 at OMV • Water management • Community engagement Group level and reviewed each year, in accordance with the • Renewable energy • Diversity • Supply chain management • Human rights GRI G4 guidelines and the oil and gas sector supplements. • Research and development In 2016, we have conducted a reduced consultation process, Low importance targeting both our internal and external stakeholders, in order to • Unconventional energy identify if the materiality matrix valid at group level requires any sources adjustments that could be specific for OMV Petrom. • Biodiversity low The results have confirmed the 18th material issues aspects low Importance to external stakeholders high identified by the Group. OMV Petrom Matters Therefore the material aspects were clustered for the purpose of reporting in six major categories: Health, Safety, Security and Environment; Employee development and Diversity; Business Ethics; Community relations and development; Supply Chain Management and Innovation. Debate with stakeholders on vocational education needs. GRI G4: G4-18, G4-19, G4-27, G4-47 19 OMV Petrom Matters 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Health, Safety, Security and Environment HSSE represent some of the most important material aspects In terms of HSSE records for 2016, for example around 110,000 on which we relentlessly work to improve our performance. unsafe conditions and behavior reports were collected in our Our Vision “Zero Harm – No Losses ” guides our behavior, reporting system. action and decisions ensuring a safe and comfortable work environment for all our employees and contractors. Also a new group-wide Personnel Transportation standard has been issued in order to provide guidance on how to HSSE management system implement best practice in road safety in each operational area according to national laws. We are constantly striving to Within all our operations, we have established a strong and raise the awareness of HSSE issues among our employees well-structured HSSE management system, based on specific and contractors. In 2016, we have delivered 216,638 training and up-to-date methodologies and instruments, allowing us to hours in HSSE. Within the Company, for each divisional implement the HSSE policy and to improve our performance. In work point, exist a Health and Safety Committee composed the same time, a constant activity of HSSE Risk Management by the employer or its legal representative, representatives of is implemented allowing us to timely identify possible threats the employer with health and safety responsibilities, workers’ that can negatively affect the security and well-being of our representatives with specific responsibilities in the field of health employees and, also, our reputation. and safety and the Doctor of Labor Medicine. In this sense, we conduct annually HSSE assessments and audits throughout all our operations, including also our Despite all our efforts and constant preoccupation to ensure a contractors. The HSSE performance is closely monitored, safest as possible working environment in Romania, in 2016 we with a special focus on monthly and quarterly monitoring at have lost a colleague. These tragedies are clear reminders for OMV Petrom level and Business Division level. All incidents, everyone at OMV Petrom to integrate the “safety first” principle findings/hazards, action items, assessments are reported and in all of our activities. “Building a mature health, safety, security tracked internally through two central reporting tools in order and environment culture is not about to establish the necessary measures for further HSSE culture meeting regulatory requirements only. improvement. It is about building a responsible way of living. We put the life of people, Think Ahead: CARE is a tracking tool for managing all our own employees, collaborators, aspects of risk regarding Health, Safety, Security & Resilience, communities where we are operating and Environmental Management and Community Relations & Social the healthiness of the environment as Affair and to follow-up all associated measures, within the one of the main pillars in our company’s company. strategy”. CARE|Monitor is a reporting and data management Irinel Tilea tool implemented for the collection of HSSE data (mainly HSSE Department Director performance indicators) and allows for a group-wide consolidation of data. A user friendly integration and interface of these systems helps avoiding double reporting. Planning & Performance Monitoring Team. GRI G4: G4-DMA LA, G4-LA5 21 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Health OMV Petrom´s HSSE Policy outlines our commitment to maintaining and promoting personal health. employees’ physical and mental wellbeing. Group-wide, we are looking to rollout and harmonize high standards of health care, PetroMed implement health promotion campaigns and systematically assess and reduce health risks. The PetroMed services consist mainly of legally required occupational health examinations, general medicine We strongly believe that wellbeing and health of our employees consultations, medical emergency support, as well as are key factors for job satisfaction, engagement within the work preventive medicine consultations. place and productivity and therefore drivers for a successful company performance. In line with our Health Management strategy and proactive approach, we have gradually increased over the last years Health Management Department the number of preventive medicine consultations, mainly through offering to our employees specific screenings (e.g. For this reason, our company allocates significant resources cardiovascular) and vaccination campaigns. in this area: we have a dedicated Health Management Department, within the Corporate HSSE Department, responsible for the development of the Health Strategy and integration of health services. We also have a range of programs and an internal provider (PetroMed) responsible for the delivery of operative Health Services, through a network of 24 workplace clinics. “Our vision is to promote health as an essential value, protected through Health:ON platform individual responsibility, but powered by OMV Petrom as a responsible Since 2014 the Health:ON platform is offered to our employees employer. We integrate the needs of by the Health Management Department. The platform integrates our employees, we filter them through in one concept all the health programs offered by OMV Petrom. a medical perspective and create programs which offer added value to Through an attractive and interactive communication, the people”. platform is encouraging the voluntary utilization of the company’s health programs. Mihnea Samoilă Manager of Health The Health:On platform has a key role in supporting our vision – to build a stronger health culture at all company levels and to promote a change in the attitude of our employees: from consumer to co-producer of health and wellbeing, focusing on 22 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Health Health Benefits The highlights for 2016, regarding the activities implemented by the Health department are the following: Besides PetroMed services, other significant health benefits offered to our employees are: corporate health promotion and ÂPassport for Health contest rolled out company-wide over a awareness campaigns, private health insurance for employees 4 months period; over 1,200 employees from all divisions have and their families, subscriptions at the main private medical submitted valid passports (valid = 10 healthy activities fulfilled), networks, financial support offered through a Maecenas grant to 70 winners awarded. employees or family members with severe health issues. Â“Win Health on” contest (based on Health knowledge) held in Health Surveys Petrom City with 135 participants from all divisions. In order to continuously improve our Health Offer, we are Â4 workshops on health topics held with Level 1&2 managers rolling out annual Health Surveys to measure Employees’ from all divisions. Health literacy and their perception in relation to the company’s approach as well as the customer satisfaction in relation to the ÂHealth ON platform winner at the 2016 PR Award of a health services they receive. As a responsible company, we Gold award for excellence in communication of products and are strongly involved through the Healthcare taskforce of FIC medical services and a Silver award for excellence in internal to the main public and private stakeholders of the Romanian communication. Healthcare System. During 2016, as representatives of the FIC Healthcare taskforce, we have coordinated the development Â4,200 persons have benefited of private health insurance. 4,200 of the PNPS 2017-2020. The PNPS is part of the National Health Strategy 2014-2020 and was developed considering as Âover 11,000 employees screened for cardio-vascular risks, model the concept of the OMV Petrom Health:ON platform. over 8,000 employees screened for hepatic risks and over 9,000 employees screened for diabetes. Preventive consultations ratio 3.0 (number of consultations/employee/year) Âover 3,000 employees vaccinated for flu. 2.6 2.5 Â15 employees have received financial support for severe persons have benefited of health issues. private health insurance. Over 28,000 2.0 1.7 1.5 1.3 Âover 1,000 employees have been offered First Aid trainings. 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.9 Âover 100 medical emergency exercises. 0.5 employees screened for various 0.0 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 health risks. 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 23 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Safety A Safety Culture has always been one of the most important themes debated in our company. Considering the statistics of the industry in which we operate, most of the work-related incidents which are occurring have as underlining cause the human behavior. In the same time, the majority of the monitored and reported HSSE-related facts is mainly referring to working processes and conditions and less to the human related causes. Therefore, we identified the need to develop specific long term programs with the purpose to understand and influence people’s behavior towards a sustainable safety culture. Safer together The behavior based safety concept “Safer together” was launched relying on the following main pillars: Leadership Commitment, Responsibility for Safety, Hazard Awareness & Risk Assessment, Communication, Intervention & Recognition, Performance Monitoring, Competency and Training, Contractor Management. Dedicated core team and operational multipliers “We believe that an excellent company is by definition a safe company. Since For the program implementation, a dedicated core team and we all at OMV Petrom, are committed operational multipliers were trained in order to assess and to excellence, its fulfillment entails further facilitate knowledge transfer within our operations. especially to minimize risks to our The training sessions were structured to reflect the principles people, plants, products and local of behavior based safety, being concentrated on hazards communities. That is why their effective awareness and positive intervention, recognition and promotion management is inseparable from all of safe behaviors for a continuous improvement. Likewise, other company business objectives”. within the program, several behavior related assessments Mihai Frăsineanu were performed for a selection of our Operations: OMV Petrom Sr. Department Manager Upstream Workover & Well Intervention (WO&WI) in Assets IV, V, VI, VII and the entire activity of Asset VIII, as well as in OMV Petrom Downstream Oil – a pilot in Depot Bacău. The aspects in focus of these behavior assessments were selected in congruency with the program main pillars. Safety Culture Program Core Team 24 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Safety F CUS To further support the cultural change in Safety, our program Âupdating and monitoring of existing risk records at the “Safer Together” will continue in 2017 with more complementary installation level; Safety Culture Program activities, among which: a campaign on Safe Behavior, aiming Âfunctional safety management and assessment risks to increase awareness especially that of frontline staff and program. in OMV Petrom make them understand that their own safety is a priority; Hence, one year after the launching specific follow up sessions on the business units, where of this program in OMV Petrom, we safety culture assessments and actions plans where already take this opportunity to communicate implemented; extension of safety culture assessments, with the following undertaken actions and customized learning workshops, for more business units and for results, which aimed at improving the main contractor companies, aiming the development of at least working behavior towards Safety: 1,000 persons. ÂTrain the Trainer sessions for 23 Tier 1 and Tier 2 Process Safety events multipliers During 2016, we have recorded 5 Tier 1 process safety events Â9 training sessions for the and 12 Tier 2 process safety events, classification defined by management team in all Onshore API RP 754. In order to prevent possible accidents that can Upstream Assets and one Downstream affect the integrity of our assets and the safety and security of site, with practical site observations our processes we have identified and implemented different and group exercises improvement actions in both Upstream and in Downstream divisions. For example, In Upstream division, we have already Â38 training sessions for middle implemented the following: managers and blue collars, in all onshore assets, delivered via local Âan integrity assessment of the electrical equipment; multipliers network. Âa Plant Integrity Program: inspections, repairs, replacement Contractors’ Forum 2016. of equipment’s (tanks, static equipment and pipelines); All these sessions were summing over Âpipeline integrity programs (RBI,PIMS); 700 employees trained. ÂSCE management: performance standards, task lists and maintenance and inspection programs; Âspecific process safety trainings for operators as part of the OMV Petrom Training Program, along with specific equipment type training and TPM. In the same way, in Downstream divisions we have implemented: Âinspection and maintenance programs for equipment and pipelines; GRI G4: G4-DMA SO, OG13 25 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Safety 2,700 Other important safety-oriented activities Petrom, like testing locations, collection parks and access ways were captured, allowing an easy and fast graphical display. We continued to implement several important programs and The Road Risk Maps project has added more features to the measures aimed to promote a safety culture among all our already existing GIS database, such as hazard locations along employees and contractors, like: the way. Âmore than 2,700 employees completed legal safety and emergency trainings through the internal e-learning and testing Moreover, besides the possibility to be informed about the potential/probable hazards on a road, people using the system employees trained for platform Link2Learn; can also benefit from a report with all the data relevant to the safety and emergency Âthe Contractors Safety Forum organized in 2016 by OMV Petrom was dedicated to improve the safety performance of route. situation trough the maintenance operations and enhance the safety partnership After the completion of the maps of all production areas, e-learning courses. between OMV Petrom and its contractors; except the offshore one, two training sessions were organized Âon the 12th of October 2016, we organized the HSSE Day with for future users and the system was available starting with the aim to bring the people together for sharing their thoughts December 15th. and actions, for asking and learning more about HSSE, for building up the culture of an integrated HSSE. Road Safety in Petrom A presentation on OMV Petrom practices and methodologies regarding work-related vehicle accident reduction was delivered with the occasion of the “2016 Romanian National Health and Safety Conference”. We also shared our Group experience and successful collaboration results with Romanian relevant authorities and other big companies, with the purpose to stimulate, influence and improve the national road safety culture, a very important duty as result of the award received by OMV Petrom Group from EU Road Safety Council in Brussels, in 2015. In addition, in HSSE Upstream Division, an initiative named “Road Risk Maps” was implemented referring to a solution to record the risks faced by employees as they travel across the various roads in production areas. Through a GIS application various geographic characteristics of the areas owned by OMV 26 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Security and Resilience Considering the specific characteristics of our business, one the results of the SRA, the Security team evaluates the current of our main responsibility is to prevent and manage possible mitigation measures in place and makes necessary adjustments negative events that can affect the continuity of our operational ensuring an efficient and cost effective approach. Mitigation activities and to undermine the security conditions in which our measures range from security agents with fit-for-purpose employees and contractors run their daily duties. operating procedures, to vehicule patrols and technological solutions. In 2016, 9 overarching business processes were Quality Management System assessed and mitigation measures were proposed in alignment with the business. In order to continually improve the effectiveness and the efficiency of our own processes, ensuring the provision of Security contractor’s activities are monitored on a regular professional and reliable security services across the entire basis and plans are reviewed and updated on a monthly basis. company, the OMV Petrom Group Security & Resilience Each Security contractor is also subject to an annual audit by organization has implemented a Quality Management System the Security team and any non-conformities that are identified according to the ISO 9001:2015 requirements. are subject to positive action to resolve them in an acceptable timeframe. The Resilience team plan and attend annual Security & Resilience Department exercises with the objective of identifying areas of development and issue reports at the end of each exercise with a list of In our company, the Security & Resilience Department is actions to ensure continuous improvement. 2016 comprises responsible for designing and implementing processes, the best annual results in terms of increased efficiency of regulations and tools to protect people, assets, information security services seen through the lowest recorded number of and reputation from malicious and-or intentional threats across reported security incidents across all Upstream locations. the entire company. The Security team ensures integration “We are fully committed to ensuring that of security best practices at OMV Petrom level and supports the domain of Security & Resilience business, not only through the delivery of its strategic shall be widely recognized within OMV objectives, but also on an operational basis. The Resilience Petrom Group as an essential resource team ensures the effective recovery of operations and the for the protection of people, assets and preservation of OMV Petrom brand in case of a significant reputation against internal and external incident, minimizing potential negative impacts on our business threats ”. and our people. Darren Murray Security Risk Assessments Head of Security & Resilience Department To efficiently manage the possible negative events linked to security and resilience, we periodically conduct assessments, Security Risk Assessment (SRA), that allow us to identify and manage security. Over 2,500 SRA have been conducted across OMV Petrom identifying the key threats to business units. Using More information about our security and resilience system can be found in the OMV Petrom Annual Report 2016 – p. 22 27 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Environmental Performance We strive to operate in a safe, efficient and responsible manner OMV Petrom’s EWRM, the control and mitigation of identified to create sustainable value for the company and for all our and assessed risks take place at all organizational levels by stakeholders, now and tomorrow, embedding UN SDGs. using clearly defined risk policies and responsibilities. In this Environment & Eco-Efficiency is a strategic objective supporting sense, environmental risks and opportunities cover regulatory, the long-term growth of our company. operational, reputational and financial drivers. We aim at minimizing the environmental impact at all times, particularly in the areas of oil spills, waste, energy efficiency, GHG emissions and water management. We promote environmental culture by increasing awareness and awarding performance. Environmental Management System OMV Petrom’s operations are required to maintain an environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001 and an energy management system certified according to ISO 50001. The monitoring of environmental KPIs is embedded in our standardized, regular reporting processes. Group-wide environmental regulations, management and reporting tools enable us to improve environmental performance. In 2016, the following business operations held “The responsible use of natural certification according to ISO 14001: resources, the energy efficiency and the management of the environmental impact ÂOMV Petrom S.A., Maintenance and Logistics activity become key to face the current and future in Upstream; challenges of our company”. ÂOMV Petrom S.A., Refining Business Unit; ÂOMV Petrom Marketing S.R.L. / Downstream Oil, OMV filling stations; Grațiela Sandu ÂOMV Petrom S.A., Supply, Marketing and Trading activity; Sr. Department Manager ÂOMV Petrom Gas S.R.L.. Environmental Risks and Opportunities Taking into account the impact extent of our activities, we are constantly monitoring and managing the possible environmental risks and opportunities along our value chain. According to the GRI G4: G4-2, G4-14, G4-DMA EN, G4-EC2 28 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Environmental Performance F CUS We have evaluated and planned or implemented countermeasures to reduce the potential impact of identiﬁed Shaping environmental environmental risks. These include the use of economic values through performance instruments, such as emissions trading and carbon portfolio management, the integration of the climate change and In order to promote the environmental water related issues in our strategy and other key business culture, we have run yearly the processes, and operational and engineering measures. Program “Shaping environmental values through performance”on the Environmental Risk Assessment Methodology occasion of the World Environmental Day, since 2014. The operational environmental aspects, impacts and risks are assessed at asset level in a bottom-up process using a This conveyed key messages to raise standardized framework and Environmental Risk Assessment environmental awareness and awarded Methodology, followed by the development of treatment plans. the best environmental performers The framework meets ISO 14001 requirements and ensures across the company. the consistent qualitative assessment of operational risks and impacts related to the environment. Environmental Risk Register EUR 43.09 The resulting environmental risk register includes information on existing controls of environmental risks, as well as further actions required. In 2016, we continued to roll-out the framework methodology and reached 100% coverage for working points in Upstream Romania. Environmental Costs million investments in In 2016, our total environmental costs amounted to EUR environmental projects. 206.85 mn, of which EUR 38.33 mn on integrated prevention. Environmental investments out of the total environmental costs accounted for EUR 43.09 mn in 2016 (2015: EUR 79.68 mn). OMV Petrom Environmental Awards 2016. GRI G4: G4-EN31 29 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Oil Spills Oil Spills represent a critical environmental aspect to our Number of hydrocarbon spills industry. We concentrate our efforts to consolidate our 2300 t 2,285 infrastructure in order to reduce the number of spills on yearly basis. 2200 t In 2016, we continually enhanced the Pipeline Integrity 2,105 Software and 2,613 km of high volume / high consequence of 2100 t failure pipelines now have high accuracy data within GIS and PODS. The maintenance program implemented for pipelines 2,017 led to a significant downward trend in the number of leaks 2000 t during the second half of the year. 1900 t Process Safety HAZOP The Process Safety HAZOP (Hazard and Operability) Program 1800 t is achieved with 60%. It will commence its penultimate year 14 20 15 20 16 20 for high risk facilities with a total of 123 completed to date and 80 will be completed during 2017 and 2018. We continued to perform emergency drills, including pollution scenarios, in 8% Upstream’s assets to strengthen our response to oil spills and reduce the potential environmental impact. The spills decreased by The spills number decreased by 8% in 2016 compared with 2015. We had 1 significant hydrocarbon spill in Asset IV (Romania) where a crude oil pipeline cracked due to corrosion, so that 39,000 liters of oil were spilled, which affected an area of around 2,000 m2. Oil spill response activities were started immediately so that around 38,000 liters could be recovered. Also, we had 2,104 minor releases, comparing to 2015 when we had 2,282 respectively. These were the result of process in 2016 compared safety incidents, primarily caused by corrosion of aging with 2015. infrastructure. Total hydrocarbon spillage was 97,590 liters, comparing to 2015 when we had 72,641 liters. The volume increased mainly due to a significant pipeline failure. GRI G4: G4-EN24, G4-DMA EN, OG13 30 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters GHG Management Our industry is energy-intensive, with energy accounting for a Upstream, we have conducted various site visits with GHG intensity significant share of our operational costs. By improving the environmental experts from head quarter level. 0.390 way we use energy, we can cut costs as well as reduce OMV Petrom is committed to phase out routine flaring GHG emissions. according to World Bank global initiative “Zero routine 0.370 flaring by 2030”, endorsed by OMV Group. Regarding vented 0.350 * + 1.4% vs. 2013 • state-of-the-art In 2016, we have implemented different successful initiatives gas, in 2016, we reported a reduction in Upstream by 15% and reduced the overall GHG Intensity by 5.9% comparing to compared to 2015. 0.330 2015. 0.310 GHG Intensity in Downstream Oil 0.290 GHG Intensity in OMV Petrom Upstream -19.3% In Downstream Oil we have obtained remarkable results 0.270 In OMV Petrom Upstream, in 2016, we continued to implement by implementing energy projects at the Petrobrazi Refinery -20.6% 0.250 initiatives to reduce the GHG Intensity, such as: reduced targeting the reduction of energy consumption: gas consumption (improved Low Temperature Separation Âheat integration in Naphta Hydrotreater, Gas Fractionation 0.230 2013 2014 2015 2016 technology at Calacea in PEC Timiș); reduced flaring and and Ethyl-Tertiary-Butyl-Ether Units by installing a new heat venting (PEC Țicleni) due to improved facility integrity; park exchanger; Brazi Power Plant Brazi Power Plant Brazi Power Plant optimizations (Upstream Asset 2Bustuchin, PEC Timiș and Ârecovery of condensate by installing new pump in Gas (t CO2/MWh el) (t CO2 eq/toe) (t CO2/t crude) PEC Turnu). Desulfurization and Sulphur Recovery Unit; * 2014 lower production (under installed capacity) due to market conditions. Âincrease the energy efficiency by replacement of trays in ** Change of Global Warming Potentials in 2016 Also, we implemented different projects aimed to obtain Catalytic Reforming Unit. electricity (G2P) or electricity and thermal energy (CHP) out of The above projects will result in annual energy saving of around Note: Kazakhstan not included gas. Since 2009, we have built in total 31 G2P and CHP power 140,000 GJ and over 8,600 t CO2 eq. plants, out of which 3 were built in 2016. The total G2P/ CHP installed capacity is now 65 MW, producing more than Our 860 MW Combined Cycle Power Plant located at Brazi 1,400,000 MWh since the beginning of the Program. is equipped with state of the art emissions reduction equipment that allows it to rank under EU average of CO2 emissions. The performance achieved in 2016 is based also on effects of In 2016, the power production increased by 0.278 TWh and projects implemented in previous years such G2P at Amara, the GHG intensity decreased by 0.9 %. Gornet and Cobia. Through G2P projects we managed to ensure around 50% of the annual electricity consumption of our Since 2011, we operate a 45 MW wind farm at Dorobanțu. Upstream’s onshore assets and around Euro 36 mn operated In 2016, this plant delivered 0.083 TWh to the national grid, expenditure savings in 2016. We expect to improve these which resulted in a saving of 25,000 t CO2 eq. emissions results in 2017. based on the average national grid factor of 0.299 t/MWh in Romania. The Power Plant in OMV Petrom City decreased Another important aspect to manage GHG in our industry the thermal and the electricity production by 2% in 2016 vs. is related to flaring and venting. In order to perform in the 2015. Its operation was optimized and the efficiency target was reduction of flaring and venting, especially in OMV Petrom achieved. GRI G4: G4-EN18, OG6, G4-EC2 31 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters GHG Management F CUS Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) We are subject to the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). Nine of our operating installations were under EU-ETS at the Prevent venting by G2P We have updated our reporting methodology to align with the end of 2016. Around 50% of our direct GHG emissions come project at Park 448 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel from these EU-ETS installations. on Climate Change. This has involved updating the way we Drăgăneasa. calculate the GWP of the GHG we emit. In spite of higher GWP In 2016, we deployed the Upstream Emission Inventory, The Energy Efficiency Program within and higher electricity production of CCPP, our total direct GHG an IT Tool started in 2015, aiming to support the automatic Projects & Engineering Department emissions (scope 1) were relatively stable in 2016 vs. 2015 calculation of GHG and other air emission data. This tool is fully of Upstream Division implemented a and accounted for 4.4 mn t of CO2 eq. Projects implemented in integrated with the existing production database of PIMMS. project aimed at exploiting the energy Upstream resulted in GHG emission’s overall saving of 324,000 of the associated gas and preventing t of CO2 eq during 2009 – 2016. The energy efficiency and Other than GHG, our most significant air emissions include SO2, venting due to lack of appropriate optimization initiatives in Downstream Oil/Petrobrazi Refinery NOx, NM-VOCs and particulate matters that are presented in infrastructure. resulted in savings of over 526,000 t CO2 eq. during 2009 – more details in chapter “Performance in details Environmental 2016. Petrobrazi Refinery achieved the greatest GHG intensity performance”. The G2P power plant at Park 448 reduction of 23% in 2016, vs. 2012 among all OMV Petrom’s Drăgăneasa (see photo) consists of business divisions. one Generator set of 1 MW installed capacity, one step-up transformer and Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) one gas treatment skid. We forecast that this G2P power plant will use Our indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) are those related to the approximately 16 mn Nm3 of gas and production of the energy we purchase (electricity and heat) for will deliver around 64,000 MWh by the our operations. In 2016, our indirect GHG emissions totaled end of 2025. 58,375 tons CO2 eq. An amount of around 118,000 tons CO2 eq indirect GHG emissions were avoided in 2016 due to energy generated by G2P and CHP units in Upstream. Total direct GHG emissions – Total indirect GHG emissions – Decreased overall GHG intensity by 5.9% scope 1 (mn tons CO2 eq) scope 2 (mn tons CO2 eq) 6 0.1 5.2 5 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.4 4 0.061 0.058 3 0.05 2 0.029 1 in 2016 compared 0 20 12 20 13 20 14 20 15 20 16 0.0 14 20 15 20 16 20 with 2015. GRI G4: G4-DMA EN, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN19, G4-EC2 32 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Water Management F CUS Increasingly recognized as a critical sustainable development In Upstream, we continued carrying out preventive issue, water is an important resource for our industry and is maintenance and repairs to reduce water loss, as well as New water treatment plant used for multiple processes in our Upstream and Downstream optimizing fresh water supply systems and parks modernization operations. We have committed to reducing our water /downsizing. As part of Water Supply Optimization Project, the The new water treatment plant at withdrawal as well as the impacts of our operations, while also following works were finalized by end of 2016: 18 water wells, working to improve our water efficiency. 5 water retains, 1 pumping station, 4 water treatment stations, Suplacu de Barcău oil field (see photo) During 2016, we continued to implement, at all operated sites, 2,000 meters of new pipeline and 3,000 meters of relined is planned to be finalized during 2017. our Water Management Plans. According to this, reduction pipeline. Therefore, 7 water stations were closed, 1 water The construction works are completed targets were established for 70% of the sites and all the station is in final process of closing down and for 1 water station while electrical, mechanical and civil relevant sites across our company are subject to regular the project continues with obtaining permits, detail design and works are in progress. monitoring and reporting. Furthermore, we conduct high-level execution for 2,000 meters of new pipeline. water-related risk screening at every five years and Quarterly This new plant replaces the existing and Annual Monitoring of Water Withdrawal Intensity. In 2016, our Upstream operations generated 46 mn m3 of one and incorporates the latest formation water – 48.3 mn m3 in 2015 (a by-product of oil available technology. It is provided In 2016, our total Water Withdrawal decreased by 56% and gas production). Following treatment, over 96% of it was with physical, chemical and biological compared to 2010, and 3.5% compared to 2015. We withdrew reinjected in the underground. The remainder was treated and treatment units, as well as with 17.59 mn m3 of water (2015: 18.23 mn m3), out of which 38% further discharged to surface water bodies, in accordance with activated carbon filtration system for was groundwater. We were successful in further achieving the provisions of our environmental permits. water polishing before discharging to an overall reduction of the Freshwater Intensity of 6.2% in Barcău river. 2016 vs. 2015 (15.9% in 2015 vs. 2014, 11% in 2014 vs. 2013 In Downstream, the Petrobrazi Refinery maintained its and 17.6% in 2013 vs. 2012). This was based on Freshwater lowest Freshwater Intensity in the last years as a result Intensity reduction of 10% in Upstream, including PECs, 3.2% of the projects previously implemented (e.g. recovering reduction in Downstream Oil (excluding Power Plants) and condensate, upgrading steam tracers’ batteries, reducing 5.4% reduction in Power Plants (CCPP Brazi, OMV Petrom City purges and optimizing the drinking water network). Power Plant). Water withdrawal by source (mn cbm) Reduced total water withdrawal by 56% 9.7 9.73 10 9.04 9 8.43 8 7.13 7 6.6 6 5 4 Water from public 3 2.47 supply system 2 1 1.4 1.26 Ground water in 2016 compared 0 Surface water with 2010. 2014 2015 2016 GRI G4: G4-DMA EN, G4-EN8, G4-EN9, OG5, G4-EN22 33 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Waste Management In order to minimize the negative environmental impact, we In Upstream we no longer use diesel based drilling fluids and have developed a rigorous approach to waste management strive to select the most environmentally friendly solutions. based on hierarchy of priorities: prevent waste where possible; Wherever technically feasible, we use water-based drilling then reuse, recover and recycle it; and only as a last resort, fluids with a 65% water cut. Where technical requirements do dispose of it safely. not allow this, such as in extended-reach wells, we use nonThe main waste categories produced are solid and liquid, aqueous drilling fluids (NADF). We reuse drilling mud wherever including oily sludge, waste chemicals, spent catalysts and practicable, treat and dispose cuttings as required by law and construction debris. In 2016, we continued to implement our best available technology. Waste Prevention and Reduction Plans across all our operations. We conducted waste audits and defined actions intended to improve performance. The total amount of waste generated in 2016 was 812,360 t. Compared to 2015, there was an increase of 17% on account Biodiversity of the one-time non-hazardous waste from demolition works in Doljchim. We recycled / recovered 62% of the total waste We undertake environmental impact assessments and generated during the year. evaluate biodiversity impacts before launching new projects or establishing new operations. Where our operations are carried The Hazardous waste mainly included contaminated concrete out in protected areas or where protected species are present, and soil from wells and facilities abandonment in Upstream, we closely monitor the ecosystem so that our activities cause whereas non-hazardous waste included scrap metals and no or minor disturbance of such ecosystems. clean concrete from the decommissioning activities. From the contaminated soil treated in our bioremediation plants, in 2016, Also, we are respecting an environmental management 38% resulted as clean soil for use as backfill material and standard established with specific requirements inserted on 62% resulted as non-hazardous soil waste that qualified for biodiversity. In 2016, we developed a Biodiversity Monitoring landfill disposal. Plan and Report for the Field Re-Development Project at Total waste management by pathway in 2016 (%) Burcioaia site in Upstream, in “Lunca Siretului Inferior”, sites Recycled/recovered 62% 1.4% of community importance. We also conducted a drill at a well operating in the Natural Park “Balta Mică a Brăilei”. 20% 17% For the future, we plan to carry out a review of the company’s operations and activities in order to identify challenges relating to biodiversity in different business areas. Observed or 62% Recycled predicted direct and indirect impact on BES are described and analyzed within the environmental impact assessment. In case Other treatments of significant observed or predicted impact, action planning of the total waste Landfilled gives priority to avoidance and minimization over restoration generated in 2016. Incinerated and impact offsetting. GRI G4: G4-DMA EN, G4-EN11, G4-EN13, G4-EN23, OG4, OG7 34 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Energy Management We are firmly committed to improving our energy performance seeking the best and most innovative solutions to improve our across all business segments in which we operate. energy performance and reduce the impact of our operations on the environment. A strong company culture of energy management, meaning that all employees make energy efficiency a personal responsibility, In 2016, we obtained remarkable results by implementing is what helps us set ambitious goals and achieve them. energy projects in Upstream and Downstream Oil that will result in annual savings more than 10,000 tep/year, such as: Energy Management System Âcompressors replacement at Mădulari and Slăvuța; We are continually working to improve the Energy Management System, implemented and unitarily certified in 2014 according to ÂLED lighting project; ISO 50001 requirements. Âimproving the performance of furnaces in the DAV plant; The Energy Management System enables an organization to achieve its policy commitments, take action as needed to Âoptimization of utility networks; improve its energy performance and demonstrate the conformity of the system to the requirements of this International Standard: Âinstalling a counter-pressure turbine and generator in the SR EN ISO 50001:2011. cogeneration plant. Since 2014 OMV Petrom is certificate ISO 50001 with TUV Karpat the branch of TUV Thuringen in Romania. “An energy management culture is the Energy Efficiency Academy power of our individual actions”. Recognizing that people are our most valuable resource, we Mădălin Apostol have a bi-annual event dedicated to the energy managers in Sr. Dept. Manager Special Projects all business segments, the Energy Efficiency Academy. We have reached out to over 5,500 employees that have Energy savings in 2016: 10,000 concluded an online training which is periodically updated to reflect new internal norms, national legislation or best practices in the field. Reducing our energy intensity helps us maintain our competitiveness and contributes to securing energy supply. Energy projects tep/year in Upstream and We are conducting regular energy analyses and continually Downstream. GRI G4: G4DMA EN 35 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Employee Development and Diversity The dedication and the professionalism of our people are attending practical activities, specific to a certain business area. the liaison between the performance of OMV Petrom and a Open4U is our company’s very successful internship program, sustainable business strategy. For this reason we are always through which, in 2016, 31 students undertook a two-month grateful for our people’s involvement and preoccupation to paid internship. For the next years, we are looking forward to respect the commitment we have made when we decided to increase the number of students attending the program. make OMV Petrom an employer of choice. Performance Review To achieve this, we are continually focusing to create for them attractive and safer jobs, career development programs and Annually, our people are engaged in a performance review, remunerations at competitive level. As a company that is action that aims to strengthen the bound between employees encouraging diversity at all organizational levels, we are proud and their supervisors, emphasizing positive performance that among our workforce at Group level we have more than 36 indicators and establishing steps ahead in order to achieve different nationalities. better results for the next evaluation timeframe. In 2016, 5,034 employees received a performance and career OMV Petrom also aims to attract the best students through development review, structured as follows: 4,226 operative successful internship programs, allowing them to acquire the staff and 808 management. necessary competencies to access the labour market. Only in the last five years, more than 500 people were involved in these programs. Training Programs “Adapting to our fast changing business We are implementing every year various training programs, like market, requires our company to pursue learning lab, facilitation tool and HSSE, in order to upgrade the also behavioral shifts supporting our skills of our employees according to their development needs. business aspirations and company’s At the same time, we ensure the participation in different open sustainability. Next focus of Human training programs and specialized conferences. During the Resources is to reflect company’s new reporting period, 172,351 hours of training were delivered to the principles in all processes starting with OMV Petrom employees. how we attract and recruit talents, to performance and reward management Open4U – our internship program and leadership development”. Considering the increasing average age within our company Carmen Capruci (reaching 47 in 2016), OMV Petrom is focused on providing Sr. Project Manager HR knowledge transfer programs and ensuring succession for critical (technical) positions. We aim to attract the best students and offer them the opportunity to complete formal education by GRI G4: G4-DMA LA, G4-LA9, G4-LA11 36 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Employee Development and Diversity Remuneration at competitive levels Thus, one of the main obligation of OMV Petrom is to inform Average number of employees and consult employees’ representatives on developments in the Another focus of our human resources management is to company’s activity which may affect their interests, in line with 18,000 17,861 ensure for our employees remuneration at competitive levels applicable legal provisions. relevant for the oil & gas industry. 17,000 In case of dismissals on grounds non-attributable to the This includes: a fixed based remuneration, other fixed payments employees (either individual or collective) the company has the 16,000 (such as fixed bonuses and special allowances according to the obligation according to the collective bargaining agreement to 15,581 Collective Labor Agreement), other statutory and non-statutory provide a notice period of 30/60 calendar days (depending on benefits (such as private insurance system, holiday indemnity employees’ age). 15,000 / special days off and, depending on the assigned position, 14,380 a status car, or a status car compensation or a functional As well, in case of transfer of undertaking or parts thereof, 14,000 company car) and short term (quarterly and / or annual) minimum notice period is of 30 calendar days to employees and performance-related component. their representatives, in line with applicable legal provisions. 13,000 Informing and consulting our employees 14 15 16 20 20 20 Having in view that one of the main pillars of our company is represented by our employees, OMV Petrom is paying 5,034 great attention to the respect of their rights, as well as to the fulfillment of its obligations, according to the specific legislation, individual labour contracts and the collective bargaining agreements. Breakdown of employees per employee category 2,82% 0,27% 2,87% employees received performance and career development review. Top Management 94,04% Middle Management Other Management Operative Staff GRI G4: G4-DMA LA, G4-LA2, G4-LA4 37 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Employee Development and Diversity F CUS Diversity Equitable gender choice for maternity and paternity Women Leadership Cross Achieving gender balance has always been a challenge in the We also believe that equitable gender choice for maternity and industry we operate. paternity leave, and other leave entitlements, can lead to the Companies Mentoring greater recruitment and retention of qualified staff, and boost Program By being part of OMV Group, we have acceded in 2013 to employee morale and productivity. the Group diversity strategy, striving to meet the Group key The program matches women in performance indicators: 30% women in top management In 2016, the total number of employees that were entitled to middle management positions (women positions and 35% women in upper management positions parental leave was 13,853, out of which 19 men and 71 women with potential, early in a leadership by 2020. took it, during reporting period. position or at the mid-stages of their This proves strong and long run commitment in supporting career) with highly experienced leaders women in top management positions. from other companies, with the aim to provide them with the knowledge Women in managerial positions and the attitude they need to act as organizational leaders and assume As regards the company’s corporate bodies while there are no corresponding roles. female members in the Supervisory Board of our Company, we have two women in the Executive Board: Mariana Gheorghe, CEO and President of the Executive Board and Lăcrămioara Diaconu-Pinţea, Executive Board member in charge with Downstream Gas. Moreover, at the end of 2016, around 38% of the first line directors reporting to the Executive Board were women, whilst the percentage of women in upper management in total (directors and head of departments) was around 29%. In 2016, the The proportion of women at Group level, as a whole, increased percentage of women above 25% by year end. in upper management per total was 29% Promoting parity and eliminating gender bias OMV Petrom is committed to promote parity and eliminating gender bias, by offering learning opportunities in diversity and by making available to all employees the PetrOmbudsman services, to which they may raise work related issues, including More information on employee development and diversity can be read in section 6 gender one. of this report and also in the OMV Petrom Annual Report 2016 at p. 24 and 69. GRI G4: G4-DMA LA, G4-LA12 38 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Business Ethics OMV Petrom believes that trust and integrity are among the interests, gifts & invitations, intermediaries, donations and most important assets a company can possess. We consider investment in local communities, competition law, sanctions the reputation for ethics demonstrate that our company is a and embargoes and establishes the rules in order to avoid trustworthy business partner, a respectable employer and business ethics risks. The Code also provides information on a responsible player for the authorities and the society. By the whistleblowing channels in place. acting legally and ethically we build customer loyalty and gain valuable business partners. It also contributes to retaining good Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Business Ethics employees and creating a positive business environment based apply to all employees, business partners and suppliers and on fairness and team spirit. are available on company intranet and internet web page, in Romanian and English, in order to reach all stakeholders. Compliance Management System Training on business ethics and anti-corruption Towards this approach, at OMV Petrom we implemented a business ethics compliance management system, aiming For employees of managerial level, the every two-year training to prevent, detect and respond to business ethics threats. The on business ethics and anti-corruption is mandatory. system is developed and updated based on a risk assessment In addition, all employees in higher risk areas (e.g. employees approach and encompasses internal rules, guidelines, training working in procurement or dealing with government bodies) and monitoring systems. The Corporate Affairs & Compliance must undergo business ethics and anti-corruption trainings at Department, led by OMV Petrom Corporate Compliance least every 2 years. Besides the mandatory training, ad-hoc Officer, is in charge with the business ethics compliance sessions are conducted as well, upon managers’ requests. management system. The effectiveness of our compliance management system in the area of business ethics is assessed Training is provided in the form of interactive lectures held by “2016 was the year when we start through a combination of mechanisms and methods, including: staff of the Corporate Affairs and Compliance Department’s re-thinking our compliance awareness self-assessment, employee surveys, analysis of number and staff or online. To secure compliant behavior from an early stage strategy, focusing on activities and types of requests for advice, as well as engagement of a third onward, new employees undergo an initial training, as part of events seeking to influence people’s party to provide an independent assessment. The auditing the New Employee Orientation Program (NEO) established at behaviors and attitudes towards ethics, process of our compliance management system is conducted organization’s level. In 2016, our organization’s anti-corruption integrity and compliance with laws”. according to international standards (IDW PS 980). In 2016, policies and procedures were communicated to all employees. we initiated the re-certification of the system. Total number of employees that received training on Livia Dumitrescu anticorruption during reporting period is 702. Director of Corporate Affairs & Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics Compliance Department Corporate Affairs and Compliance Department The overarching document, which describes our company’s business principles, is the Code of Conduct. In the area of Our company requests that any employee must report concerns business ethics, these principles are further developed in the about unethical behavior and matters related to organizational Code of Business Ethics which is addressing the topics of integrity to the line manager and to the Corporate Affairs and bribery, facilitation payment and embezzlement, conflict of Compliance Department. GRI G4: G4-56, G4-57, G4-DMA SO, G4-SO4 39 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Business Ethics F CUS Our external stakeholders are informed about the availability transaction is regularly reported to the market via the stock of counselling services and instruments for reporting concerns exchange and our company’s website. Business Ethics Events about unethical behavior and matters related to organizational integrity through the Code of Business Ethics brochure, on OMV Criteria for granting sponsorships Our company shares its experience Petrom’s internet web page. The level of availability/accessibility with aspects related to business to counseling services on ethical and lawful behavior and on Our sponsorship strategy establishes the criteria for granting ethics and corruption with peers in the reporting instruments on concerns about unethical or unlawful sponsorships, including the fact that the involved partners Romanian industry by involvement of behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity are (people & companies) have to be clear of any negative the Corporate Compliance Officer as detailed in section “Performance in details – Social association that could create a bad connotation to our company active participant in various external Performance, p. 66 and 67”. and the avoidance of awarding sponsorships to political parties workshops and initiatives. or with the scope of promoting political parties.The complex Conflict of interests process of offering sponsorships implies analysis of the project to be sponsored, approvals of the competent functions In 2016, we were involved in debates The Code of Business Ethics contains also clear requirements according to internal rules. Both the charitable donations and about the National Anti-corruption for employees to disclose any conflict of interests, rules sponsorships are being monitored by the Compliance Officer Strategy and, as part of working group, regarding investments in communities and rules regarding in the Electronic register of donations respectively the made proposals for amendment of the donations, such as the interdiction to make a donation to private Electronic register of sponsorships. For the reporting period Strategy. accounts or to organizations which are not compatible with the there were no administrative or judicial sanctions levied against Code of Conduct, interdiction to make donations which give our organization for failure to comply with corruption laws or Also, three top-level events were rise to a potential conflict of interests that could affect a material regulations. Also, we have not identified any substantiated organized in 2016 at OMV Petrom contract decision and the interdiction to make a donation to a complains regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses premises, with special guests such political party. of customer data. as Mr. Martin Kreutner (Dean of International Anticorruption Academy), Moreover, employees with managerial responsibilities are Mr. Davon Mahoney (FBI Agent) and required to sign a conflict of interests’ declaration. representatives of top lawyer firms. Similar disclosure requirements apply to third parties linked to organization’s activities. For example, suppliers are required by contract to disclose any conflict of interests, once they become aware of it. All the same, filling station dealers must sign a “compliance declaration” containing conflict of interest disclosure requirements, which is part of their contract. Likewise, we have internal regulations providing for the responsibilities of the members of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board, as well as for the working procedures and the approach to conflicts of interest, which imply immediate disclosure and refraining from participating in debates and voting on such matters. Information on related parties’ Investigation Workshop. GRI G4: G4-41, G4-DMA SO, G4-SO6, G4-SO8, G4-PR8 40 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Community Relations and Development Generating local value Community Screening Community Engagement is a key aspect for OMV Petrom, Identifying local needs is a common process in our company integrated within our day-to-day business behavior, supporting which is the result of the community screening, including us to fulfill our long-term sustainability commitment towards the socio-demographic data (no. of population, villages and ~ 350 communities where we operate. ethnic structure, education services, economic activities & infrastructure). Our community engagement approach focuses on stimulating economic growth through sustainable community development The process we are following is based on procedures, initiatives, generating local value and win-win solutions by directives, frameworks, KPIs dashboards and management fostering leadership, entrepreneurship and engagement, processes at OMV Group level, such as: Community Relations supporting vocational training and professional qualifications/reand Community Development Standard, Stakeholder qualification for unemployed people. Engagement Process, Upstream stakeholder management process related to community engagement and sponsoring Community Based Organizations projects, Resourcefulness – Sustainability Strategy, Resourcefulness KPI Dashboard or Grievance Mechanism Working side by side with our stakeholders through dialogue Directive. and social commitment, we strive to achieve progress, local economic growth and increase employability. Our operational areas are mainly small urban and rural sites where there is a high unemployment rate and OMV Petrom is in most of the cases the only employer. “The challenge of Sustainability in OMV Petrom in 2016 was to take a new step Through our pro-active involvement we are striving to minimize – looking beyond business, seeing the our negative impacts (accidental pollution, dust, noise, land big picture and working for a better, more issues, unemployment etc.) and increase the positive impacts sustainable solution in environmental (economic growth, local taxes, employment, suppliers support performance, safety, education, local etc.) that we are generating. As a solution we developed in employment, both for us and for the our 9 operational Assets, 11 local NGOs (Community Based communities in which we operate”. Organizations) in order to encourage transparent dialogue between our local operations and local people and to empower Mona Nicolici communities in developing projects for their needs. Head of Sustainability Having all local stakeholders within the same organization, we helped the Community Based Organizations members to find common solutions and to access other external funds (e.g. European Funds) in order to become long-term self-sustainable. GRI G4: G4-DMA SO, G4-SO1 41 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Community Relations and Development Social and business impact system available in every Operational Asset. For example, in 2016, the total number of grievances about As an internal tool for monitoring and measuring both OMV environmental impacts filed through formal grievance Petrom social and business impact in local communities, mechanisms was 705, out of which 619 were solved. we use the Risk Map (see p. 27), 26) tracking several indicators such as: negative media, facilities risks, security incidents, People Trained for Employment land/ properties related issues, socio-economic profile, natural hazards, the relation with local authorities and CARE incidents We assess our results based on the KPI for Skills to succeed 21) (see p. 22). pillar from sustainability strategy – “People Trained for Employment”established and aligned for each project at the For the socio-economic indicator we are considering 40% beginning of the year and evaluated bi-annually. We measure risk from Average Income per Person and 60% risk from the number of beneficiaries trained and certified for new Unemployment Rate registered at county level and split on jobs as well as those prepared to become employable (focus our geographic operational areas*. Other indicators included on soft skills & guidance). Aside from this strategic KPI, we when identifying local needs are: local authorities’ involvement also establish for each project specific KPIs based on initial in community development and the number of OMV Petrom benchmarking analysis, in order to measure our results at the employees at local level. Once the screening is complete end of the implementation (e.g. the abandonment rate for 3 resulting a clear picture on the community needs, social years in Boldești Scăeni Community Center). Details about the and operational impact, the process is continuing with the measures generating impact are presented also in section prioritization of the specific activities. Annually, within the 350 CSR Projects. operational communities we are operating, we cover around 100 local villages in which we develop community projects, based on our business reasons prioritization. The most common identified needs for a large number of communities are: increasing the employment rate, improving the education system, decreasing the rate of school abandonment especially OMV Petrom operational in Roma communities, and increasing local economic growth. communities. Sustainable mitigation measures In 2016, we continued to identify the local communities’ needs and implement sustainable mitigation measures, using all our specific tools and respecting our internal standards and procedures in community engagement, that are ensuring the process efficiency. For mitigating the issues with local stakeholders we implemented a grievance mechanism local villages covered by *Note: data is collected quarterly from INS/ National Statistics Institute of Romania Meeting at Boldești Scăeni Community Center. community projects. GRI G4: G4-DMA EC, G4-EC8, G4-DMA SO, G4-SO2, G4-SO11, G4-EN34 42 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Community Relations and Development F CUS Awards and recognitions First Public Policy Report on All these projects have contributed in receiving prestigious awards and recognition for our company reflecting the work and Vocational Education the preoccupation for the community in which we are operating: in Romania Sabre Awards – Gold Sabre Award in the “Balkans” category for “Vocational Romania” project; Romanian CSR Awards – In 2015, our studies showed that the 1st place, in “Education” category for “Vocational Romania” craftsmen’s sector faces an imminent project; Wall-Street Gala – People and businesses that change crisis. 7 out of 10 employers have Romania – “Investment in Romania’s future” for OMV Petrom’s difficulties in finding good craftsmen. sustainability programs; Romanian Building Awards – 1st Only 2 out of 10 parents would send their place for the “Community Resource Center (CERC) Boldești children to a vocational school Scăeni“. and 75% of Romanians think that being a craftsman is not a respectable job. Enhancing access to basic services Thus, we made a commitment to make a change. Apart from specific Likewise, OMV Petrom is engaging in initiatives that are initiatives, such as educational projects addressing infrastructure and local development needs, by and working sessions on vocational building and maintain transport links and enhancing access to education, in 2016 we made a bigger basic services like water and electricity in communities affected step. by its operations. In the past years, we have implemented various projects which covered a shared-used infrastructure, For the first time in Romania, we allowing other stakeholders from the local community to use the developed a Public Policy Report infrastructure built for its operations. on Vocational Education, together with the Romanian Academy and These initiatives were mainly targeting rehabilitation and the Research Institute for Quality of consolidation of roads and bridges with access to operating Life. The report is a comprehensive locations, which now serve public use as well, but also ensuring analysis from the perspective of flood protection in various river crossing locations. different stakeholders of education – employers, policy makers, students, In 2016, our company’s investment in infrastructure trade unions, non-governmental sector, development included the rehabilitation and equipment of 14 teacher – and includes challenges and educational institutions (with an investment of 225,086 EUR recommendations that contribute to a 1,227 students and teachers will benefit from better educational long-term development of the vocational conditions), rehabilitation of 6 hospitals and the development education strategy in Romania of playgrounds, parks, day centers, homes for disadvantaged families or book clubs (with and investment of 86,210 EUR). GRI G4: G4-EC7 43 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters 2016 Sustainability Project Map 44 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters CSR Projects – 10 Years of Responsibility for Romania Andrei’s Country Since 2016, “Vocational Romania” is part of the Presidency’s program – “Educated Romania”. The project “Oilmen’s School” is a project to support postsecondary public education institutions in the preparation of “Andrei’s Country” is our social responsibility platform that is qualified workers. It is implemented in 3 education institutions central to our long-term strategy to place OMV Petrom as the from Moinești, Pitești and Târgoviște, where we created 6 most responsible company for tackling socio-economic aspects classes with 2 specializations: well operator and extraction and in Romania. Over the last 10 years, since „Andrei’s Country” transport gas operator. In 2016, we offered 168 scholarships for was launched, OMV Petrom supported projects that inspired the the students enrolled in these classes. Romanian communities to take action and change their lives in key domains: creating new jobs, accessing the non-formal Within “Vocational Romania” OMV Petrom implemented the education and nurture the citizenship. Andrei’s Country’s values “Vocational Summer Camp” initiative aiming at developing are the civic spirit, the entrepreneurial spirit, the (non-formal) personal and professional competences of teachers and education and innovation. students in IX-XI grades from 21 vocational high schools in Gorj County and the 3 high schools from “Oilmen’s School” Romania Meseriașă project through the organization of specific workshops. In Vocational Romania 2016, the project addressed the following fields: oil and gas, mechanic, electric, constructions and tourism and food. Students from Oilmen School. The summer camp includes a series of practical activities The program started in 2015 and aims to find solutions for designed to help the students to be better prepared for the labor sustaining and improving the vocational training system, market after finishing their studies. For one week, students consisting of the following initiatives: participated in an intensive program combining vocational profiling, personal development courses and practical Âimplementing 2 vocational training projects: “Oilmen’s workshops, specific for the profession they are studying. School” and “Vocational Summer Camp”; During the personal development courses, the students learnt Âsetting up a task force of stakeholders involved in the the basics about communication, teamwork, entrepreneurial vocational training program to identify problems and the spirit, employability and also civic responsibility. At the end adequate solutions; of the project, 40 out of the 270 participants, best students, received a monthly scholarship for 2016-2017 school year. Âorganizing workshops with thematic debates and creating an action plan; Also, 40 teachers received trainings and recognized diplomas offered by The National Center for Human Resources Âdeveloping a Policy Report on Professional Education Development Eurostudy (CNDRUE – Centrul Național pentru System in Romania. Dezvoltarea Resurselor Umane Eurostudy). Vocational Summercamp 2016. GRI G4: G4-DMA SO 45 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters CSR Projects – 10 Years of Responsibility for Romania Made in Andrei’s Country specialized trainers from the Leaders Romania Foundation, in a training module divided into two levels: Level 1 (leadership aspects) and Level 2 (communication aspects). This project is the social businesses competition organized by Examples of leaders from the community and from OMV OMV Petrom together with NESsT Foundation. The objective Petrom, mentoring and vocational guidance sessions, with an is to develop 10 social businesses in the local communities in authorized vocational – orientation software JVIS (Jackson which we operate. The finalists received trainings on marketing Vocational Interest Survey), are included in the program. research, feasibility studies & business plan writing, business development and mentorship. Also, the winners received grants OMV Petrom Olympics Program of total value of 350,000 EUR and one year business incubation support. The new social businesses created jobs for 21 people, Within the program are involved children whose parents out of which 16 were part of the disadvantaged groups. are working in oil and gas industry, are having the opportunity to meet teachers from Harvard, Stanford or Berkley Ideas from Andrei’s universities from who they can learn about on leadership and Country (ITLA) entrepreneurship development. Aspire Academy Program “Ideas from Andrei’s Country” is the grant competition where we support the sustainable development of Romanian The program is the only leadership and entrepreneurship communities. More than 170 projects entered in the programs in Romania where Harvard and Stanford professors competition in 2016, and 150,000 EUR grants were offered teach and inspire. The program is dedicated to students, high for 13 winning projects. Eight projects are aiming to develop school students and young professionals. vocational education by equipping laboratories, training teachers and providing practice hours for the future graduates, Since 2010 we have a long-term public-private partnership while the other five are managing environmental problems with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Bucharest City Hall, through greening, use of non-polluting transportation, selective Romanian Gymnastics Federation and “Casa Campionilor” collection and recycling. Foundation in order to support women’s gymnastics. Under this partnership, we undertook to financially support by now Leadership Authentic Program 2.5 million EUR the women’s national gymnastics team trainings and the development of a national selection program. The program aims to identify and select the high-school students from our communities in order to train them for Under the national program, at the beginning of the academic developing leadership potential and communication skills. year 2016-2017, 125 children aged between 8-11 years Additionally, the program is comprising a professional were still attending the training program at the gymnastics orientation component. For 9 months, beneficiaries from facilities within sport clubs in: Bucharest, Deva, Onești, 10 local communities participated, under the guidance of Timișoara, Constanța, Ploiești, Focșani, Bârlad and Arad. Winners of “Made in Andrei’s Country” competition. GRI G4: G4-DMA SO, G4-EC7 46 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters CSR Projects – 10 Years of Responsibility for Romania Community Based Organizations (CBOs) find solutions for community development through a projects competition offering grants for volunteering initiatives. “10 years of CSR in OMV Petrom In 2016, our company continued its dialogue with local More than 1,600 employees supported over 220 NGOs within stakeholders by strengthening the 11 CBOs, created starting the 2% Campaign. 400 employees donated gifts to 400 children with 2008. These 11 local NGOs, which are active in several from underprivileged families, through the “You can be Santa counties in Romania* are annually stimulated to grow their skills and potential by attending a projects competition having as final Claus” campaign. means 10 years of results local community development activities such as: challenges, driving Âcivic engagement and participation of community members in local councils decisions, increasing volunteering in their through changing community (Galați/Schela); Âimprovement of education quality and diminishing school times and targeting abandonment via “school after-school” programs (Teleorman/ Talpa); to responsible business”. Mona Âraise employability opportunities by stimulating local economic potential and improving people’s technical skills through certified trainings (Bacău/Zemeș); Âsupport youth involvement in local development through associations or initiative groups, public speaking programs etc. Nicolici – Head of (Bacău/Moinești, Gorj/Bustuchin, Prahova/ Băicoi). Sustainability. A total of 855 persons benefited from these projects implementation. Also, 28 jobs were generated by the initiatives. Volunteering program Initiated 10 years ago, the internal program is meant to engage our employees as volunteers for the development of company’s operational communities. More than 5,000 volunteers, out of which 4,000 OMV Petrom employees and employees from Petrom and OMV stations, participated in 2016 in over 170 volunteering projects as: greening, cultural and prevention activities, renovation of playgrounds and parks or donations. The Volunteering Championship has funded 12 community *Note: Oradea – Suplacu and Marghita; Gorj – Bustuchin; Olt – Poboru; Teleorman – Talpa, Poeni, Siliștea; Dâmbovița – Mănești; Prahova – Băicoi, Telega, projects initiated by our employees. They are challenged to Boldești; Bacău – Moinești and Zemeș; Galați Schela; Dolj – Ișalnița GRI G4: G4-DMA SO 47 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Human Rights F CUS One of the important pillars of our company’s Resourcefulness supported the human rights activity. More information about our Strategy is protecting human rights, aspect that we integrate in PetrOmbudsman Department can be found at page 11 49 of this Human Rights e-Learning Tool the way we behave and conduct our business activities. report. Human Rights Matrix In 2016, at Group level, a human rights e-learning tool was elaborated. Having in view our endorsement to UN Global Compact since The instrument is available in three 2013, we believe that human rights issue is among the main languages, including Romanian, elements of sustainability management. In this sense, we have and is extremely useful in guiding prioritized human rights responsibilities and tailored them in a our employees through norms and matrix valid for all the Group. situations relating to human rights.In Furthermore, the fact that our CEO was Global Compact only 30 minutes, in a highly interactive Network Romania Representative, is the guarantee that manner, different human rights cases the UN Global Compact ten principles are not only promoted are presented to the users. The training in our company and to our stakeholders, but also among the using this new tool started in the first part entire local business community, motivating and influencing the stakeholders of each and every company to create long-term of 2017. effects. PetrOmbudsman workshops Human Rights Policy In order to promote employee’s To demonstrate our commitment, we have integrated the UN abilities to support their own opinions Global principles into our human rights policy and Code of and learn how to amiably resolve issues Conduct. Also, we require to our business partners (suppliers of their concern, PetrOmbudsman and sub-contractors) to respect our company’s policy and organized in 2016 voluntary workshops encourage them to develop similar standards. regarding conflict management. In 2016, we conducted a pilot audit to one of our subThe topic of change management was contractors, on subjects related with compliance, human also approached in other workshops rights, quality, stakeholder engagement and HSSE in order to provided by this Department, so as to cooperate and mutual proclaimed human rights throughout our help the employees to ease through value chain. adaptation periods in the fast pacing environment of 2016. Around 1,800 The PetrOmbudsman Department employees and managers were interested and participated in this Moreover, 2016 was the third year when our company workshops. benefited from the services of the Ombudsman Department that GRI G4: G4-DMA HR, G4-HR1, G4-HR2, G4-HR11 48 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters PetrOmbudsman This was the third year when the company benefited within the territory has reached about ~5,000, out of which from the services of the Ombudsman Department, called ~1,800 benefited from Ombudsman workshops in 2016. PetrOmbudsman – a company’s corporate governance initiative. The existence of this department – the first of Our projects its kind in a Romanian oil and gas company – proves our management’s interest in the employees’ comfort and wellA “Strategy for prevention of litigation” was implemented in being and also reflects the degree of maturity our governance order to offer an option for employees to approach a friendly system has reached. alternative to resolve a case before opening a litigation. Given the role of an Organizational Ombudsman department within OMV Petrom’s model a company, PetrOmbudsman tried to promote the importance of having such a structure and also Petrom’s model, as a The department represents an additional and informal pioneer in the field, through interviews (“Legal Magazine” and communication channel between the company and its “The Voice “) and by participating to events of the kind outside employees, alongside the other traditional and formal channels the organization (e.g. Labour Law Forum). A pilot project for which already function within all companies. The department fillings stations, launched in 2015, was developed in 2016, in acts in accordance with the International Ombudsman which PetrOmbudsman extended its scope of work to OMV Association’s Code of Ethics and Standards of Practice, and Petrom filling stations within the country, having a different based upon principles of independence, impartiality and approach, appropriate for filling stations. neutrality, confidentiality and informality. Equally, it takes into consideration the principles and values of the company. In order to provide additional safety and confidence to all those who wish to contact this new additional communication channel, the “2016 was a year in which the maturity members of OMV Petrom’s Executive Board signed a “Nonof our Ombudsman activity was attained, Retaliation Policy”. By identifying problems and then agreeing the number and complexity of cases upon mutually acceptable resolutions with all interested parties, handled by PetrOmbudsman increasing PetrOmbudsman Department aims to bring positive changes considerably and proving the high level within the organization, both at individual and systemic level. of the department’s integration within the company”. PetrOmbudsman benefits from the help of an Advisory Committee that is composed of managers from each division in Prof. Univ. Dr. Mihai Berinde OMV Petrom, and representatives of trade unions.They ensure Director of PetrOmbudsman the support which the department needs in implementing its Department recommendations for changes in the organization, given the informality of the Ombudsman structure. Furthermore, they act as the department’s ambassadors and also as facilitators in the divisions or departments they belong to. In 2016, the total number of people contacted during the department’s visits 49 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Supply Chain Management An efficient and responsible management of our supply chain allows us to lead our activities relying on trustful partners who share our values and impulse the communities’ development in which we operate by building a win-win relationship with local suppliers. OMV Petrom can pursue its objectives in relations with suppliers only complying with applicable regulations and its standards. Therefore, our suppliers must comply with both legal requirements and our HSSE standards. Code of Conduct To ensure the suppliers’ adherence to OMV Petrom principles and to mitigate the risk of forced labor, slavery and human trafficking, OMV Petrom’s supply chain partners have to assume the OMV Petrom’s Code of Conduct or to demonstrate that they have their own regulation in accordance with our principles. OMV Petrom reserves the right to terminate the Sustaining Partenership Event in OMV Petrom. relationships with suppliers, if issues of non-compliance with applicable policies are discovered, or non-compliance is not addressed in a timely manner. In 2016, 98% of our A-suppliers “OMV Petrom aims to deliver sustainable signed up to our Code of Conduct. value creation and attractive shareholder returns. We replicate this objective also Suppliers’ Assessment at Procurement Department level, where we constantly improved over the years OMV Petrom uses tools, such as 360-degree feedback, the rate of spend with local suppliers, to supplier evaluations and audits to assess and monitor a support local value creation”. supplier´s adherence to the principles outlined in OMV Petrom’s Code of Conduct. Where a supplier does not act with integrity Adriana Voicu or does not have suitable controls in place, OMV Petrom will Head of Operational Procurement consider whether it can work with it to implement improvements Petrom or terminate the relations with the supplier. OMV Petrom also has a process in place aimed at ensuring the sanctioned parties (by EU and United Nations) are not accepted as business partners for our procurement activities. 50 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Supply Chain Management F CUS All suppliers ranked as HSSE high risk are audited once in two years by OMV Petrom experts and a set of corrective measures is defined, if needed (e.g. in 2016 in Upstream The Audit Process Division 20 high risk contractors delivering services, have been audited related to the level of implementation of the HSSE In 2016, we started an audit process Management System). through which companies can prove how they address sustainability Encouraging local procurement challenges and how they integrate sustainability in their activities. We encourage local procurement in order to create shared value in our local communities. 94% of the total purchase order Thus, in March, a team from OMV volume was placed with local suppliers, representing more Petrom paid a visit to a medium term than 800 mn EUR. (2015: 93%). Furthermore, we support partner of OMV Petrom, and during local suppliers by improving their capabilities to meet higher a week, we exchanged experience technical, HSSE and business standards. on different issues (quality, business ethics, human rights, risk management, In order to create engagement with suppliers and other financial, HSSE). businesses along our supply chain, we adopt different methodologies and instruments. The final report was presented to the top management. One of our main goals in 2016 in this field was to develop a shared mindset on sustainability issues with our suppliers, to 94% understand which is their vision, strategy and performance regarding the sustainability and to establish a close cooperation with them on specific and shared sustainability priorities. of the total purchase order volume was placed with local suppliers. GRI G4: G4-12, G4-DMA EC, G4-EC9 51 2016 Sustainability Report OMV Petrom Matters Innovation Implementing the newest technologies and innovations from In 2016, the most important events in respect to Research and extractive and energy industry, OMV Petrom is increasing Development activities were: Eco-Innovation Forum and New production, reducing costs and improving work conditions. Technologies Forum (events that are the basis of selection for innovative technologies), Meeting for prioritization of proposed Institute of Research and Technological technologies for testing, Rollout meeting and Focal Points Design Câmpina (ICPT) monthly meeting. Since 2005 ICPT Câmpina has benefited from a large Our framework for research and development activities is the investment program that aimed to modernize and refurbish ICPT Câmpina, owned by OMV Petrom and is part of Upstream the laboratories. As a result of this program, the laboratory’s Division. With a vast experience in oil industry research, ICPT infrastructure was modernized and latest generation equipment performs complex laboratory analysis, technical support and were purchased, which led to the improvement of the quality expertise at a high level of quality and efficiency, covering the of the services and the efficiency of institute’s activity. Thus, needs of exploration and production activities. In most cases, in 2016, research and development activities in ICPT reached the projects implemented by the institute cover areas such as 43% of the entire working capacity. The research program IOR* / EOR**, Drilling and Cementing, Geology, Materials and covered a total of 31 projects, out of which 21 were directly Corrosion. led by ICPT Câmpina specialists, while in the other 10, the institute was involved in different stages of analysis or Management of new technologies laboratory experiments. During reporting period, 14 projects were finalized, with other new proposals being accepted and In our company, the management of new technologies introduced in the R&D portfolio for 2017. follows 4 main directions: maximizing the success of “From initiatives to projects and results.” exploitation activities, production optimization and recovery optimization and offshore. The process of implementing a Alexandru Dragomir new technology involves 4 stages: Identification – presenting Eco-Innovation Responsible and prioritizing the identified technologies, Development – research activities to adjust and adapt the technology, Pilot test – testing the technology and Implementation. This process is 2 accredited laboratories from managed through a dedicated program, aiming to support the ICPT Câmpina were re-evaluated development of innovative technologies. The entire process is also influenced by a potential change in the list of technologies in 2016 by LGC Standards, VSL of great importance, which can be generated by changes in – Dutch Metrology Institute and company’s strategy or major changes occurring on the market. Collaborative Testing Services The tested technologies are evaluated and classified as ready Inc. USA. to be implemented, based on the Final Testing Report. This stage has no dedicated budget, rollout activities being included in general business process. *Improved Oil Recovery; **Enhanced Oil Recovery ICPT Câmpina team. 52 Performance in Details 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Economic Performance (RON mn) 2016 2015 2014 Profit / (loss) before tax 1,052 (697) 2,543 Sales 12,594 13,952 16,537 Direct Economic Value Generated (DEVG) 1 13,593 15,218 17,269 Economic Value Distributed (EVD) 2 12,563 16,426 16,309 Economic Value Retained 1,030 -1,207 960 Financial Assistance Received from Government Tax relief 11 17 6 Tax credits 15 18 16 Investment grants (*) 203 1 2 Reserves Total proved reserves in Romania as of December 31st (mn boe) 582 625 671 Total hydrocarbon production in Romania (mn boe) 60.66 61.90 62.57 • thereof crude oil and NGL production (mn bbl) 26.34 27.43 27.98 • thereof natural gas production (bcm) 5.25 5.27 5.29 *SOP IEC – Axis II, Title: Increasing the research and development capacity of the Institute of Research 1 DEVG = sales and other operating revenues, financial revenues. and Technological Design Câmpina – OMV Petrom SA. 2 EVD= value distributed to stakeholders (suppliers, governments, capital providers, *Finanicing contract for the investment in the Combined Cycle employees, shareholders, society). Power Plant located at Brazi. GRI G4: G4-9, G4-EC1, G4-EC4, OG1 54 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Environmental Performance Environmental Indicators Unit 2016* 2015 2014 Energy consumption PJ 45.8 45.8 42.5 Wind Energy MWh 83,868 81,931 83,131 Water withdrawal mn m 3 17.59 18 20 • thereof groundwater mn m 3 6.6 7.13 8.43 • thereof surface water mn m 3 9.73 9.70 9.04 • thereof from public supply systems mn m 3 1.26 1.40 2.47 Emissions GHG (direct, scope 1) mn t CO2 eq 4.4 4.4 4.4 CO2 mn t 3.3 3.3 2.9 CH4 t 44,304 52,137 71,306 N 2O t 24 25 25 GHG (indirect, scope 2) mn t CO2 eq 0.058 0.061 0.029 Other air emissions SO2 t 679 643 731 NOx t 3,218 3,178 3,098 Non-methane-volatile organic compounds (NM-VOC) t 6,958 6,545 8,229 Particulate emissions t 63 63 138 GHG intensity GHG Intensity Petrobrazi Refinery1 t CO2 eq/t crude 0.251 0.258 0.272 GHG Intensity Upstream t CO2 eq/toe 0.263 0.277 0.329 GHG Intensity CCPP 1 t CO2 eq/MWh 0.366 0.369 0.374 Comments to GHG Intensity: GHG Intensity Index Petrom 2 % -5.9 -9.4 -4.7 1 – CO2 verified emissions 2 – Weighted average of GHG Intensity variation from Business Divisions * Data including Kazahstan GRI G4: G4-EN3, G4-EN6, G4-EN8, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN19, G4-EN21, G4-EN18, OG3 55 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Environmental Performance Environmental indicators Unit 2016* 2015 2014 Waste water emissions Chemical oxygen demand (COD) t 598 512 564 Hydrocarbons t 13 11.8 14.1 Total nitrogen t 38 11 27 Waste Non-hazardous production waste t 568,419 370,351 237,443 Hazardous production waste t 243,941 321,215 196,945 Total waste t 812,360 691,565 434,388 Spills number 2,105 2,285 2,017 Spills Volume Liters 97,590 72,641 44,960 Flaring and venting Hydrocarbons flared t 22,189 25,655 27,400 Hydrocarbons vented t 48,233 55,660 76,337 * Data including Kazahstan Freshwater withdrawal intensity Unit 2016* 2015 2014 Freshwater Intensity Upstream cbm/toe 0.71 0.82 0.96 Freshwater Intensity Downstream Oil 1 cbm/t throughput 1.82 1.88 2.44 Freshwater Intensity Power Plants cbm/MWh 1.12 1.18 1.22 Comments to Freshwater Withdrawal Intensity: Freshwater Intensity Index Petrom 2 % -6.2 -15.9 -11.0 1 – Excludes Power Plants 2 – Weighted average of Freshwater Withdrawal Intensity variations from Business Divisions * Data including Kazahstan GRI G4: G4-EN23, G4-EN24, OG5, OG6 56 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Environmental Performance Waste management by type Unit 2016* 2015 2014 Hazardous Landfill thousand tons 39.77 86.48 48.38 Hazardous Recycling thousand tons 97.86 62.58 40.89 Hazardous Incineration thousand tons 11.05 2.51 7 Hazardous Other Disposal thousand tons 95.26 169.64 100.67 Non-hazardous Landfill thousand tons 99.09 132.16 57.71 Non-hazardous Recycling thousand tons 405.9 178.28 127.86 Non-hazardous Incineration thousand tons 0.17 0.53 0.51 Non-hazardous Other Disposal thousand tons 63.26 59.38 51.36 * Data including Kazahstan Total direct GHG emissions Unit 2016* 2015 2014 Upstream mn t CO2 eq 2.32 2.39 2.88 Downstream Oil 1 mn t CO2 eq 0.99 1.03 1.02 Downstream Gas 2 mn t CO2 eq 1.08 0.99 0.48 Total direct GHG emissions mn t CO2 eq 4.4 4.4 4.38 Comments to total direct GHG emissions: 1 – Excludes Power Plants 2 – Includes Power Plants * Data including Kazahstan GRI G4: G4-EN15, G4-EN23 57 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Environmental Performance Environmental operational expenditure** Unit 2016 2015 2014 Waste mn EUR 13.13 14.15 12.75 Soil and groundwater mn EUR 61.45 69.30 66.50 Air and climate mn EUR 11.27 9.80 18.10 Wastewater mn EUR 2.90 3.11 13.52 ** Environmental related operating costs (incl. end-of-pipe and Environmental Management mn EUR 16.68 13.54 13.34 integrated-prevention costs; excluding research & development and depreciation costs; excluding investments/ revenues Total environmental protection expenditure** mn EUR 105.43 109.9 124.21 as well as Costs related to Product Oriented Prevention Measures latter amounting to EUR 8.31 mn). Number of grievances about environmental impact Number of Number of Total number grievances grievances Compensation for land contamination – Natural Persons of grievances analyzed solved Compensation for land contamination – Legal Persons 675 675 595 30 30 24 GRI G4: G4-EN31, G4-EN34 58 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance Health and Safety Performance 2016 2015 2014 OMV Petrom Employees Fatalities 1 1 2 Lost workday injuries 6 6 14 Lost work days (Calendar days) 490 548 751 LTIR per one mn hours worked 0.25 0.23 0.47 TRIR per one mn hours worked 0.60 0.50 0.90 Contractors Fatalities 0 0 1 Lost workday injuries 10 7 12 Lost work days (Calendar days) 400 589 505 Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR) per one mn hours worked 0.19 0.13 0.21 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) per one mn hours worked 0.33 0.31 0.56 Combined (OMV Petrom employees and contractors) Lost-Time Injury Rate (LTIR), per one mn hours worked 0.21 0.16 0.30 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR), per one mn hours worked 0.43 0.38 0.68 GRI G4: G4-LA6 59 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance Total number of employees at 31.12.2016 13,853 out of which women 2,951 With ILC, undetermined period, full time 13,689 out of which women 2,909 With ILC, undetermined period, part time 3 out of which women 1 With ILC, determined period, full time 161 out of which women 41 With ILC, determined period, part time 0 out of which women 0 Standard benefits for employees Benefit Details – Significant location of operation / Beneficiaries Motivation Kindergarten subsidy All employees with kids below 6 years old Attraction / parity committee Changing the current working point with another for Relocation over 60 Km further without commuting possibilities Attraction / retention / standard Canteen facility with preferential prices Working points with canteen facilities Attraction Parking facilities Petrom City Attraction Kitchen facilities & free coffee, tea, water Petrom City and Multigalaxy Attraction IT International Support OPGS Attraction / CLA Changing the current working point at the company’s request Attraction & safety reason / Commuting with another for over 60 Km further with commuting possibilities relocation standard Employees having domicile/residence for over 10 Km further than Reimbursement of home transport the working point without shuttle transportation possibilities Attraction / CLA GRI G4: G4-9, G4-10, G4-LA2 60 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance Standard benefits for employees Benefit Details – Significant location of operation / Beneficiaries Motivation Idea management bonus Upstream, Downstream oil Engagement program Performance (Asset) Award Upstream Engagement / competition program Best Paper Award Upstream Engagement / competition program Holiday and treatment subvention All under CLA conditions Engagement / parity committee Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Senior Management L0 + L1 Engagement / OMV program MBO bonus Management Engagement / guideline Sales MBO bonus OPM Engagement / guideline IT On-call OPGS Engagement / standard Mark Program Upstream Engagement / program & standard Mark IT Program OPGS Engagement / program Continuity Program Key employees of OMV Petrom Group of companies Retention / program Interest subsidy for house loan For relocated employees Retention / standard Pension allowance All Separation / parity committee Non-compete clause Senior management / senior experts Separation / addendum to ILA CLA, employees’ health protection Petromed Internal Health Service provider, network of workplace clinics / all employees and promotion, attraction CLA, employees’ health protection Private insurance All employees and promotion, attraction CLA, employees’ health protection Maecenas Financial support for employees having severe health problems and promotion GRI G4: G4-LA2 61 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance The type and purpose of the implemented programs and the assistance provided to upgrade employees’ skills Type of program Name of the Program Skills acquired through the program Learning Lab Written communication skills; Presentation skills Facilitation tool Skills to facilitate knowledge sharing sessions HSSE Curriculum Occupational Health and Safety Internal Programs Blue Collars Curriculum Technical knowledge and skills Conference Various objectives / skills, depending on the conference specificity External Programs Open Programs Various objectives / skills, depending on the conference specificity The percentage of total employees, by gender and by employee category, who received a regular performance and career development review in 2016 % of members of the organization who received performance review 36.34% % of women who received performance review 63.23% % of employees with ILC, undetermined period, full time, who received performance review 35.63% % of women with ILC, undetermined period, full time, who received performance review 62.84% % of employees with ILC, determined period, full time, who received performance review 97.52% % of women with ILC, determined period, full time, who received performance review 92.68% GRI G4: G4-LA10, G4-LA11 62 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance Parental leave during 2016 Women Men Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended 20 4 Number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended, who were still employed twelve months after their return to work 18 4 The percentage of individuals within the Supervisory Board Percentage of women 0% Percentage of individuals under 30 years old 0% Percentage of individuals between 30 – 50 years old 33.3% Percentage of individuals over 50 years old 66.7% The percentage of individuals within the Executive Board Percentage of women 40% Percentage of individuals under 30 years old 0% Percentage of individuals between 30 – 50 years old 20% Percentage of individuals over 50 years old 80% The percentage of women and men employees per employee category* Top Management Middle Management Operative Staff Percentage of women in the organization 0.51% 6.85% 92.65% Percentage of men in the organization 0.20% 5.37% 94.43% * The percentage is calculated by reference to the total number of women / men and not from the total employees number. GRI G4: G4-LA3, G4-LA12 63 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance Ratio of remuneration of women to men by employment category Ratio Employees with ILC, undetermined period, full time 1.30* Employees with ILC, determined period, full time 0.55 Employees under 30 years old 1.10 Employees between 30 – 50 years old 1.54 Employees over 50 years old 0.99 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employment category Ratio Employees with ILC, undetermined period, full time 1.23 Employees with ILC, determined period, full time 0.67 Employees under 30 years old 1.09 Employees between 30 – 50 years old 1.40 Employees over 50 years old 0.98 * The company has more men in the blue collars category, where wages are lower (67 %), meanwhile 74% from the women are white collars with higher wages. GRI G4: G4-LA13 64 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance New employees hired by age group and gender Age Group Number of new employees Out of which women <30 years old 31 9 30 – 50 years old 54 16 >50 years old 6 0 Employee turnover by age group and gender Age Group Number of employees Out of which women <30 years old 58 21 30 – 50 years old 559 97 >50 years old 655 152 Products and Services Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling – Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications – Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 125,050 RON GRI G4: G4-LA1, G4-PR4, G4-PR7, G4-PR9 65 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance Frequency of training sessions on Code of Business Ethics Category to whom document is applicable Frequency of training sessions Employees on managerial levels Every 2-years Employees working in sensitive areas Every 2-years New employees Once in the year of employment Other employees By request Filling station dealers Every 2-years Suppliers Occasionally Level of availability/accessibility to counseling services on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity Stakeholders for which the Availability of the service Availability of the service The language in which the Type of counseling services service is available [Nº hours/day] [Nº days/week] service is available Advice via direct contact with the Working hours Corporate Compliance Officer or Internal & External (8.5 hours from Monday to Monday to Friday Romanian; English representatives of the Corporate Affairs Thursday; 6 hours on Friday) and Compliance Department Advice via dedicated e-mail address Internal & External 24 hours 7 days Romanian; English Advice via intranet platform „Questions to Compliance Officer” Internal 24 hours 7 days Romanian; English GRI G4: G4-56, G4-57, G4-SO4 66 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance Total number of requests for advice, including the percentage of requests that were answered during the reporting period Description of the type Number of requests Type of counseling services Type of request of request Number of requests that were answered • Conflict of interests Request for advice • Ethics clause in contracts Advice on business ethics-related with clients and suppliers 123 120 (97.5%) topics • Gifts and invitations • Tenders & contract related • Sale of Real Estate * Information available at Group level. Level of availability/accessibility to reporting instruments on concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity Stakeholders for which the reporting mechanism is Availability of the mechanism Availability of the mechanism The language in which the Type of reporting mechanism available [Nº hours/day] [Nº days/week] mechanism is available Dedicated e-mail address Internal & External 24 hours 7 days Romanian; English Business ethics helpline Internal & External 24 hours 7 days Romanian; English GRI G4: G4-57, G4-58 67 2016 Sustainability Report Performance in Details Social Performance Status of the antitrust legal actions ongoing in 2016 Type of incident Entity that reported the incident Status of the incident Under investigation in 2016. Case finalized in 2017 Infringement of competition rules Bulgarian Commission for the Protection of Competition without a sanctioning decision for OMV Bulgaria. Infringement of competition rules regarding agreements Under investigation in 2016. Case finalized in 2017 between competitors Bulgarian Commission for the Protection of Competition without a sanctioning decision for OMV Bulgaria. Case closed. Appeal accepted by the Supreme Court Appeal of decision for cartel allegations Romanian Competition Council and reduction of the fine applied to OMV Petrom S.A. Case closed. Appeal accepted by the Supreme Court and Appeal of decision for cartel allegations Romanian Competition Council reduction of the fine applied to OMV Petrom Marketing SRL. * Information available at Group level. GRI G4: G4-SO7 68 Appendix 2016 Sustainability Report Appendix Report Profile: Methodology, Definitions & Principles Our company is registered with the Romanian Commercial Reporting period: Disclaimer regarding forward-looking Registry under number J40/8302/1997 having sole registration January 1st 2016 – December 31st 2016. statements code 1590082 and we have our headquarter in Bucharest, Romania, 22 Coralilor Street (“Petrom City”), 1st District, Reporting cycle: This report may contain forward-looking statements. Bucharest, postal code 013329, Romania. Annual. The last Sustainability Report was published in 2015, Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of terms such as “outlook”, “believe”, reporting the results of OMV Petrom Sustainability performance “expect”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “plan”, “target”, This report covers the operations of OMV Petrom in of 2014. “objective”, “estimate”, “goal”, “may”, “will” and Romania. Where the scope of the disclosed information similar terms, or by their context. These forwardis different, mention on the subject can be found in the Date of publication: looking statements are based on beliefs, estimates specific sections. The environmental performance data 01.11. 2017 and assumptions currently held by and information for 2016 are at OMV Petrom Group level, excluding the currently available to OMV Petrom. By their nature, environmental protection expenditures that doesn’t include Sustainability context: forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, because Kazakhstan Upstream. All the information disclosed in the report reflects the whole they relate to events and depend on circumstances sustainability context in which OMV Petrom operates. This that will or may occur in the future and are outside OMV Petrom Sustainability Report 2016 has been realized in approach follows industry best practice examples and is the control of OMV Petrom. Consequently, the conformity with the International Guidelines Global Reporting aligned with IPIECA oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary actual results may differ materially from those Initiative – G4 in accordance “core” option and GRI’s G4 Oil and sustainability reporting and OMV Group Sustainability 2016. expressed or implied by the forward-looking Gas sector supplements. statements. Therefore, recipients of this report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these Report content: forward-looking statements. The reporting process respects the GRI-G4 principles to The content of the report has been defined in congruency Neither OMV Petrom nor any other person assumes define the contents – Materiality, Stakeholder inclusiveness, with the internal methodology and on the basis of materiality responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of Sustainability context and Completeness – and the principles analysis, conducted at OMV Group level, respecting GRI any of the forward-looking statements contained in to ensure the quality of information – Balance, Comparability, principles for defining report content and the principles for this report. OMV Petrom disclaims any obligation Accuracy, Timeliness, Clarity and Reliability. defining report quality. and does not intend to update these forwardlooking statements to reflect actual results, revised assumptions and expectations, and future With this sustainability reporting framework in mind, the 2016 Assurance: developments and events. report represents our commitment to disclose on our economic, The content of the report has not been audited by a third party This report does not contain any recommendation social and environmental performance. We focus our disclosure through an assurance process. or invitation to buy or sell securities in OMV on the issues that resulted material to our business through a Petrom. Where this report quotes any information stakeholder consultation and materiality process, conducted at Contact point for Sustainability Issues: or statistics from any external source, it should OMV Group level and industry best practice. 22 Coralilor Street (“Petrom City”), 1st District, Bucharest, not be interpreted that the company has adopted postal code 013329, Romania. or endorsed such information or statistics as being accurate. This report and its contents Each chapter and sub-subchapter contains information Tel: +4 021 40 22201, E-mail: csr.office@petrom.com are proprietary to OMV Petrom and neither this about the Disclosure Management Approach (DMA) and the document nor any part of it may be reproduced performance indicators for each material aspect. Referent person in charge for Sustainability: or redistributed to any other person. In drafting the report, OMV Petrom has benefited from the Mona Nicolici support of an external consultant, INNOVA Project Consulting Head of Sustainability. Note: the OMV Petrom Group subsidiaries are presented at p. 172 of OMV Petrom Annual Report 2016. GRI G4: G4-5, G4-17, G4-18, G4-20, G4-21, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-33 70 2016 Sustainability Report Appendix Abbreviations and Definitions American API Petroleum Institute Cubic m3 meter Biodiversity BES and ecosystem services Million mn boe Barrel oil equivalent Megawatt MW CCPP Combined Cycle Power Plant Megawatt MWh hour CEO Chief Executive Officer Nm3 Normal cubic meter CHP Cogeneration or Combined Heat Power NM-VOC Non-Methane Volatile CO2 Carbon Dioxide NOx Nitrogen oxide CO2 eq Carbon dioxide equivalent OPCOM S.A. Romanian Gas and Electricity Market Operator EOR Enhanced Oil Recovery OPEX Operating expenses European EU Union PEC Production Enhance Contract EU ETS European Union Emissions Trading Scheme PIMMS Production Information Management and Monitoring System EWRM Enterprise Wide Risk Management PIMS Pipeline Integrity Management System FIC Foreign Investors Council Petajoule PJ G2P Gas to Power PNPS National Multiannual Integrated Plan for Health Promotion GDRs Global Depositary Receipts PODS Pipeline Open Data Standard Greenhouse GHG Gas POS CCE Sectoral Operational Programme “INCREASE OF ECONOMIC GHG Scope Direct emissions from operations that are owned or controlled COMPETITIVENESS” by the organization ppm parts per million GHG Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions resulted from the generation of purchased PRSC OMV Petrom Resourcefulness Steering Committee or acquired electricity, heating, cooling or steam RBI Risk Based Inspection GIS Geographic Information System REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction Gigajoule GJ of Chemicals GMS General Meeting of Shareholders Recommended RP Practice GRI Global Reporting Initiative SCE Safety Critical Elements GWP Global warming potential SDGs Sustainable Development Goals HSSE Health, Safety, Security and Environment SO2 Sulfur dioxide ICPT Institute of Research and Technological Design Câmpina Security SRA Risk Assessment ILC Individual Labor Contract Tons t IOR Improved Oil Recovery t/y Ton(s) / year ISO International Organization for Standardization TPM Total Productive Maintenance KPI Key Performance Indicator TRIR Total Recordable Injury Rate LTIR Lost-time injury rate Terawatt TWh hour LSE London Stock Exchange UN United Nations Square m2 meter WO&WI Work Over & Well Intervention 71 2016 Sustainability Report Appendix Membership ÂAspen Institute Romania; ÂRomanian – German Chamber of Commerce & Industry; ÂAssociation of Electricity Suppliers in Romania; ÂRomanian Association Chamber Pattern of Attorney; ÂAustrian Business Club; ÂRomanian National Committee of the World Energy Council; ÂBritish – Romanian Chamber of Commerce; ÂRomanian Petroleum Association; ÂBucharest GeoScience Forum; ÂRomanian South African Business Association; ÂCentral and South East European Business ÂRomanian Standards Association; Forum for Energy; ÂSociety of Petroleum Engineers (SPE Rom); ÂChambre de Commerce, d’Industrie et d’Agriculture Francaise en Roumanie; ÂThe National Association of Energy Consumers in Romania. ÂCONCAWE; ÂConcordia Employers’ Confederation (through Oil & Gas Employers’ Federation); ÂEmployers Organization “Gaz” (OPG); ÂEPI – Institute of Professional Representatives before the European Patent Office; ÂForeign Investors Council; ÂOil & Gas Employers’ Federation (through Petrogaz); ÂRomanian Association for International Numbering of Articles; ÂRomanian Association for Promoting Energy Efficiency; ÂRomanian Association of the Petroleum Exploration and Production Companies; ÂRomanian Black Sea Titleholders Association; GRI G4: G4-16 72 GRI Content Index 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosures General Standard Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Disclosures Information related to Standard Disclosures In exceptional cases, Omission(s) Omission(s) Indicate if the Standard required by the ‘in accordance’ options may if it is not possible to In exceptional cases, In exceptional cases, Disclosure has been already be included in other reports prepared disclose certain required if it is not possible to if it is not possible to externally assured. by the organization. In these circumstances, information, identify the disclose certain required disclose certain required the organization may elect to add a specific information that has been information, provide the information, explain If yes, include the page reference to where the relevant information omitted. reason for omission. the reasons why the reference for the External can be found. information has been Assurance Statement in omitted. the report. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 3 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-2 11,17, 28 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 5 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-4 5, 6 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-5 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-6 5, 6 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-7 5, 6 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-8 5, 6 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-9 54, 60 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-10 60 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable The majority of our employees (92%) are G4-11 members of trade unions organizations. Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-12 7, 51 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable GRI G4: G4-32 74 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index General Standard Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Disclosures Omission(s) Omission(s) ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-13 Annual Report 2016 p. 9 and p. 172 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-14 11, 28 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-15 15, 17 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-16 72 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-18 18, 19, 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-19 19 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-20 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-21 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-22 There is no significant changes from previous Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable reporting periods, having in view this report is the first one elaborated in conformity with GRI G4 guidelines, in accordance “core” option. G4-23 There are no significant changes from Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable previous reporting periods, having in view this report is the first one elaborated in conformity with GRI G4 guidelines, in accordance “core” option. In conclusion, the company does not report the effect of any restatement and it is not the case to report any changes regarding the scope and aspect boundaries. GRI G4: G4-32 75 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index General Standard Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Disclosures Omission(s) Omission(s) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 18 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-25 18 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-26 17, 18 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-27 17, 18, 19 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable REPORT PROFILE G4-28 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-29 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-30 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-31 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-32 74 – 86 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-33 70 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable GOVERNANCE G4-34 9, 10 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-35 16 G4-36 16 G4-37 16 G4-38 9 G4-39 9 GRI G4: G4-32 76 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index General Standard Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Disclosures Omission(s) Omission(s) GOVERNANCE G4-40 9 G4-41 40 G4-42 16 G4-43 16 G4-44 10 G4-45 11, 16 G4-46 16 G4-47 11, 16, 19 G4-48 16 G4-49 10, 11 G4-51 Annual Report 2016 p. 69 –70 G4-52 Annual Report 2016 p. 69 – 70 and p. 78 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 39, 66 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable G4-57 39, 66, 67 G4-58 67 GRI G4: G4-32 77 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index Specific Standard Disclosures CATEGORY: ECONOMIC DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Annual Report 2016 p. 14 – 25 G4-EC1 54 G4-EC2 11, 28, 31, 32 G4-EC3 Annual Report 2016 p. 129 and p. 144 G4-EC4 54 MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA 42 G4-EC7 43, 46 G4-EC8 42 MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA 51 G4-EC9 51 MATERIAL ASPECT: RESERVES G4-DMA Annual Report 2016 p. 14 – 16 and p.33 OG1 54 GRI G4: G4-32 78 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA 35 G4-EN3 55 G4-EN6 55 OG3 55 MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA 33 G4-EN8 33, 55 G4-EN9 33 MATERIAL ASPECT: ECOSYSTEM SERVICES INCLUDING BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA 34 G4-EN11 34 G4-EN13 34 OG4 34 GRI G4: G4-32 79 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA 32 G4-EN15 32, 55, 57 G4-EN16 32, 55 G4-EN18 31, 55 G4-EN19 32, 55 G4-EN21 55 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA 30, 33, 34 G4-EN22 33 G4-EN23 34, 56, 57 G4-EN24 30, 56 OG5 33, 56 OG6 31, 56 OG7 34 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA 28 OG8 12 G4-EN27 13 GRI G4: G4-32 80 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA 28 0 significant fines and total number of nonG4-EN29 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the environmental laws and regulations MATERIAL ASPECT: OVERALL G4-DMA 28 G4-EN31 29, 58 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA 28 42, 58 4.25% of the total grievances were formulated by legal persons. G4-EN34 The total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed prior to the reporting period, which were resolved during the current reporting period, was 77. GRI G4: G4-32 81 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUBCATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA 36, 37 G4-LA1 65 G4-LA2 37, 60, 61 G4-LA3 63 MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA 21 G4-LA4 37 G4-LA5 21 G4-LA6 59 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA 36 G4-LA9 36 G4-LA10 62 G4-LA11 36, 62 MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES G4-DMA 38 G4-LA12 38, 63 GRI G4: G4-32 82 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA 37 G4-LA13 64 MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA 36, 37, 38 7 grievances about labor practices were filled, G4-LA16 addressed, out of which, 6 were resolved. During previous reporting period, there were no grievances which had to be resolved. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-DMA 48 G4-HR1 48 G4-HR2 48 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA 48 G4-HR11 48 MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA 48 During the reporting period there were no G4-HR12 grievances about human rights impacts GRI G4: G4-32 83 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA 41, 45, 46, 47 G4-SO1 41 G4-SO2 42 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA 41, 40 G4-SO4 39, 66 MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY G4-DMA 39, 40 G4-SO6 40 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA 39, 40 G4-SO7 68 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA 40 G4-SO8 40 GRI G4: G4-32 84 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA 42 G4-SO11 42 MATERIAL ASPECT: ASSET INTEGRITY AND PROCESS SAFETY G4-DMA 25 OG13 25, 30 SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA 12, 13 G4-PR3 12 G4-PR4 65 G4-PR5 13 MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA 12, 13 G4-PR7 65 MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA 12, 13 G4-PR8 40 GRI G4: G4-32 85 2016 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index GRI Content Index DMA and Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Omission(s) Omission(s) MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA 12, 13 G4-PR9 65 MATERIAL ASPECT: FOSSIL FUEL SUBSTITUTES G4-DMA 12, 13 OG14 12 GRI G4: G4-32 86 OMV Petrom Your feedback is important to us. Petrom City 22 Coralilor St. You can email the corporate reporting team at 1st District csr.office@petrom.com 013329 Bucharest OMV Petrom Call Center Tel: +40 (21) 40 22201 E-mail: office@petrom.com www.petrom.com www.taraluiandrei.ro www.facebook.com/PetromRo www.facebook.com/taraluiandrei.ro OMV Petrom Resourcefulness
