Better Energy Better World Sustainability Report 2017 GAS h KO t , wi rgy e En Next Better Energy Better World About this Report KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 KOGAS pursues to position itself as an energy corporation that grows along with stakeholders through corporate management activities to fulfil social responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Such management activities of sustainability management and the corresponding performance are transparently disclosed through yearly publication of the report. This report is KOGAS’ 10th Sustainability Report. Reporting Scope and Period This report was written based on sustainability performance data from January to December 2016. Data of the first half of 2017 on some quantitative performance considered to be of significance for disclosure is included in the report. Some quantitative performance of the past three years since 2013 has been disclosed to identify the trends, and there was no critical change in the corporate scale, corporate governance, or the ownership structure during the reporting period. The scope of this report encompasses KOGAS’ headquarters, regional business locations, and R&D centers. Performance and information for overseas business were also included, if necessary. Changes from the Previous Year If there were any changes in disclosed data in the previous report, the reasons for the change were indicated on the relevant page. Even some performance and information where there has been no change after the previous reporting were explained again for readers to better understand the content. Writing and Assurance Standards for the Report This report was written in accordance with the Core option of the international standard of GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) G4. To secure credibility and quality, independent third-party assurance was conducted and the result is contained in the Appendix. Additional Information of the Report More detailed information is available on KOGAS’ website, and the contact information below is available for inquiries regarding KOGAS’ sustainability activities and feedback on this report. Website http://www.kogas.or.kr Address 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea (41062) Department Future Strategy Team E-mail jinah@kogas.or.kr Tel +82-53-670-0208 Fax +82-53-670-0249 CONTENTS 02 About this Report 04 CEO Message 06 KOGAS Business 13 KOGAS at a Glance 14 KOGAS Profile 16 Vision & Strategy NEXT Energy with KOGAS 20 Neo_New Future Energy World Management of Sustainable Energy Business 25 EXcellent_Excellent Future Energy World Excellent People, Vibrant Organizations 32 Trust_True Energy World for the Future Stable Supply, Safe Sites Shared Value with KOGAS 40 Healthy Industrial Eco-system 45 Innovation in Customer Service 48 Responsibilities to Local Community 54 Creation of Environmental Value KOGAS Sustainability Management 62 Corporate Governance 64 Risk Management 66 Ethical and Integrity Management 68 Stakeholder Engagement 70 Materiality Test Appendix 73 Performance Summary 79 Prizes and Awards/Memberships 80 Human Rights Management at KOGAS 82 Supply Chain Management 84 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 86 GRI Content Index 88 Sustainability Initiative 91 Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 4 CEO Message KOGAS will create a better energy world through sustainability management. Dear distinguished stakeholders, I would like to express my heart-felt gratitude to you for showing your generous interest and support for KOGAS at all times. As a result of our endeavors to promote energy welfare for the past 33 years, we have positioned ourselves as an eco-friendly energy corporation for the public by installing pipeline infrastructure network of 4,572km and 69 storage tanks of 10.66 million㎘, achieving the natural gas distribution rate of 90.8% to local governments nationwide. We also conduct 24 gas and crude oil projects in 13 countries worldwide. Such efforts enable us to acquire overseas resources, contribute to stable supply and demand of energy and create added values with higher technological values. As such, we raise our prestige as a global energy corporation. And yet, stagnant demand, higher volatility, and accelerated competitions at home and abroad as the domestic natural gas industry enters a maturity stage requires us to transform our fundamentals. We are committed, internally, to rising higher again as a trusted corporation by stakeholders by establishing a culture of ethics and integrity and reshuffling our corporate culture. To this end, respect for human rights is reflected in our corporate management to befit the global standard based on the Charter on Human Rights Respect we have formulated. We diversify partnership models with suppliers by jointly advancing into overseas projects without being confined to the scope of the existing gas business in Korea. Our cooperation with the shipbuilding industry for a long period of time, in particular, has contributed to the development of the Korean shipbuilding industry driven by the spill-over effects of related industries, ranging from LNG carriers to FLNGs to LNG bunkering business. At the same time, we strive to reduce sustainability risks in the supply chain with diverse suppliers by formulating and operating the Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Seeking to take the initiative in fulfilling corporate social responsibilities, we provide natural gas infrastructure in a broader scale in islands and mountain areas with little access to energy including Jeongseon-gun, Goseong-gun and Jeju Island. We also keep our eyes on projects that improve the quality of life for local residents in countries with the presence of KOGAS: providing a playground for children in Uzbekistan and sponsoring the construction of a technical training class for youths in Mozambique. We will take the lead in achieving growth in the gas industry in the future and creating new values. Specifically, we will expand our roles in the new era of the eco-friendly hydrogen-powered transport fuel and establish a fuel cell-based distributed power network in order to address environmental problems such as micro dust under the new climate scheme of Post 2020. We will also launch new energy projects in a self-driven manner including LNG bunkering and LNG cold energy business to respond to stronger regulations in the maritime environment. Distinguished stakeholders, Driven by our cherished mission of ‘Creating a Better World through Better Energy’, we will do our utmost to make the next 100 years for a world with new, excellent and genuine future energy’ under the new vision of ‘Next Energy, with KOGAS’. Thank you. July, 2017 Seung-Hoon Lee, CEO and President of KOGAS 5 6 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 KOGAS The natural gas industry is segmented into upstream, midstream and downstream depending on the scope Business of activities: upstream prior to liquefaction, midstream for the liquefaction and transportation stage, and downstream for the post-transportation stage. KOGAS has established the entire business scope, covering from overseas resource exploration and development, and introduction and transportation of natural gases to Korea to their production, supply and sales. Supply and Demand Management for Natural Gases Import Volume for 2016 LNG Import and Transportation The amount of our LNG import has increased on a yearly basis up to 31,847,000 tons in 2016 since we 31,847 imported LNG from Indonesia for the first time in Korea in October 1986. Given the nature of LNG being thousand tons imported under a long-term contract of over 20 years, we conduct accurate demand prediction by using scientific models for statistical analysis. In order to secure stability in supply by acquiring the volume on time in line with increases in the domestic demand, KOGAS is seeking to diversify exporters in Brunei, Qatar, and Oman besides Indonesia and Malaysia. Nigeria Qatar LNG 4,241 (13.3) LNG Import Volume 11,819 ● ‌Amount of import (1,000 tons)/ (37.1) data in the bracket: portion (%) (As of December 31, 2016) 247 (0.8) Oman 7 Since LNG carriers are required to transport a large amount of LNG which is compressed and liquefied at -162℃, the manufacturing process is extremely challenging and requires sophisticated shipping Korean Flagtechnologies. In order to foster the domestic shipbuilding and shipping industries, we have proceeded registered LNG Carrier with a business policy on flag-registered LNG carriers, and utilized flag-registered carriers for LNG transport since 1994. KOGAS placed orders for 21 flag-registered carriers up to date, and LNG flag-registered carriers 21 in operation, built by five shipping companies have transported LNG to Korea from six countries – Indonesia, Malaysia, Qatar, Oman, Yemen and Russia (Sakhalin). 6 carriers under construction Russia Others Malaysia 1,863 (5.9) Brunei Australia Total 3,823 (12.0) Papua New Guinea 520 (1.5) 31,847 (100%) 1,362 145 3,138 (4.3) (0.5) ※ ‌Other countries for import: Algeria, Peru, Equatorial Guinea, U.K. Singapore, Norway and (9.9) India 4,689 (14.7) Indonesia 8 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Production and Supply of LNG LNG imported through LNG carriers from natural gas producing countries from all over the world is unloaded in terminal divisions, stored in storage tanks, gasified again, and delivered to the nationwide LNG Storage Capacity pipeline network. We run four terminal divisions of Pyeongtaek, Incheon, Tongyeong and Samcheok, and 10.66 million ㎘ have a total of 69 storage ranks of 10.66 million㎘ – the world’s largest storage facility capacity for a single corporation. Regional divisions that are supplied with natural gases gasified from each terminal division securely supply natural gases, which go through each governor station (4~0.85MPa) up to pipelines of power plants and general city gas producers. Since our first natural gas supply from Pyeongtaek Power Plant in 1986, we Total Extension of Pipeline Network have supplied natural gases to 48 power plants and 32 city gas producers nationwide as of 2016 through the nationwide pipeline network stretching up to 4,672km, and the city gas distribution rate of KOGAS 4,672 km (supply rate of local governments) stands at 90.8%. Current Status of KOGAS’ Terminal Divisions and Pipeline Network (as of January 2017) Operational pipelines (4,672km) Goseong Construction pipelines for non-supply projects (643km) Regional divisions Production terminal divisions Sokcho Pocheon Chuncheon Gunnae Ilsan Uijeongbu Hongcheon Gangneung Seoul Pyeongchang Yongin Jeongseon Incheon Wonju Ansan Suwon Jecheon Waseok Eumseong Samcheok Wonnam Yeongwol Taebaek Pyeongtaek Gwesan 본사(대구광역시) Danyang Bonghwa Cheonan Asan Yeongju Uljin Cheongju Jochiwon Boryeong Andong Songgok Daejeon Yeongdeok Headquarters (Daegu) Boeun Sangju Buyeo Okcheon Gunwi Nonsan Maecheon Gimcheon Pohang Geumho Gunsan Headquarters Hotan Saemangeum Dalseong Gyeongsan Muju Wedong Jeonju Buan Hwayang Cheongdo Jinan Goryeong Gochang Gimjae Hapcheon Ulsan Sunchang Hamyang Masan Yeonggrang Jangseong Imsil Sancheong Gimhae Jeonggwan Namwon Okgwa Seungju Current Status of Management Sites in 9 Busan District Divisions and Major Pipeline Supply Gwangju Gwangyang Geojae Yeosu Seoul District Division 38 management sites 412.132km Jangheung Tongyeong Mokpo Beolgyo Incheon District Division 18 management sites 269.570km Goheung Gyeonggi District Division 45 management sites 526.470km Haenam Gangwon District Division 64 management sites 637.847km Chungcheong District Division 34 management sites 463.679km Jeonbuk District Division 28 management sites 433.659km Aewol Gwangju Jeonnam District Division 47 management sites 575.248km Doryeon Jeju Daegu Gyeongbuk District Division 67 management sites 786.994km Hanlim Busan Gyeongnam District Division 42 management sites 566.501km Seogwipo 9 Construction of Terminal Divisions and the Supply Chain We have carried on construction business to expand terminal divisions and the supply chain so that benefits for the public could increase through stable gas supply over the long haul. Along with the extension of LNG Sales Volume in 2016 production facilities at Incheon and Samcheok Terminal Divisions, a terminal division is under construction at Aewol Port in Jeju. A construction project for natural gas supply facilities began in Jeju in June 2016. We will 32,773 strive for balanced regional development and energy welfare by continuously constructing pipeline networks thousand tons and distributing natural gases to areas neglected in the supply of natural gases. Sales Business The sales volume of natural gases has increased about 24 times for 30 years since their first supply in 1987(based on the maximum amount of sales, 2013) as people’s awareness of clean energies has expanded. Natural gases taking up 10.0% of the entire domestic energy consumption are sold in various sectors for household, industrial and power generation usages. The sales volume of LNG in 2016 stood at 17,384,000 tons for city gas producers, and 15,389,000 tons for power generation companies, totaling 32,773,000 tons. Incheon Terminal Division Operating Status Construction Status • ‌The world’s largest delivery capacity as a single terminal division • ‌1 gasification facilities in Phase 3: st • ‌Storage tanks: ‌100,000㎘ capacity×10 units, 140,000㎘ combustion-type 120 tons/hour×6 units (~ May 2018) capacity×2 units, 200,000㎘ capacity×8 units • ‌2nd storage tanks in Phase 3: • ‌Port facilities: ‌1 berth of 75,000 ton capacity, above ground-type 200,000㎘ tank×3 units (~ July 2020) 1 berth of 127,000 ton capacity • ‌3rd gasification facilities in Phase 3: • Gasification ‌ and delivery capacity: 5,070 tons/hour combustion-type 120 tons/hour×3 units (~ June 2018) Pyeongtaek Terminal Division Operating Status Construction Status • The ‌ world’s largest storage capacity as a single terminal division • Storage ‌ tanks: ‌100,000㎘ capacity×10 units, 140,000㎘ capacity×4 units, 200,000㎘ capacity×9 units • Port ‌ facilities: ‌1 berth of 75,000 ton capacity, 1 berth of 127,000 ton capacity • Gasification ‌ and delivery capacity: 4,636 tons/hour Tongyeong Terminal Division Operating Status Construction Status • Storage ‌ tanks: ‌140,000㎘ capacity×13 units, 200,000㎘ capacity×4 units • ‌Port facilities: ‌1 berth of 75,000 ton capacity, 1 berth of 127,000 ton capacity • Gasification ‌ and delivery capacity: 3,030 tons/hour Samcheok Terminal Division Operating Status Construction Status • Storage tanks: 200,000㎘ capacity×9 units • ‌Storage tanks: ‌Above ground-type 270,000㎘ tank×3 units • Port facilities: 1 berth of 127,000 ton capacity (~ June 2017) • Gasification and delivery capacity: 1,320 tons/hour Jeju Aewol Division Operating Status Construction Status • Storage tanks: Above ground-type 45,000㎘ tank×2 units • ‌Gasification and delivery capacity: ‌‌ air-type 30 tons/hour×4 units, combustion-type 30 tons/hour×2 units 10 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Overseas Business At a time when the overseas dependence of domestic energies stands at 96%, KOGAS carries out overseas resources development business to secure stable supply and demand of natural gases. We have steadily tapped into not only upstream business including exploration and development of natural Umiak Minefield Development Project, North Pole of Canada gases and crude oil but also LNG liquefaction, operation of overseas LNG terminals, construction and operation of overseas city gas pipelines and distillation and infrastructure business. This shows how we have taken an active part in the entire Horn River/West Curbank Development Project, Canada business scope. LNG Canda Project, Canada KOGAS in the World Manzanillo LNG Terminal Project, Mexico KOGAS’ overseas projects (as of 2016-end) 24 Development and Exploration Projects Exploration of Infrastructure production of LNG projects resources projects resources • Krueng Mae Sea-based Minefield, Indonesia • E Sea-based Minefield, East Timor • Sea-based Minefields #2, 3 and 9, Cypress 3 9 8 4 11 Exploration Projects Resources Development and Production Projects LNG Projects Overseas Infrastructure Project CNG Gas Station Project, Uzbekistan Surgil Gas Field Development and Production Project, Uzbekistan CNG Cylinder Project, Uzbekistan Mansuriya Gas Field Development and Production Project, Iraq • Sea-based Minefields #2, 3 and 9, Cypress Akkas Gas Field Development and Badra Oilfield Development and Production Project, Iraq Zubair Oilfield Development and Production Project, Iraq Production Project, Iraq RASGAS Project, Qatar LNG Project, Oman A-1/A-3 Development and Production Project, Myanmar LNG Project, Yemen Krueng Mae Sea-based Minefield, Indonesia DSLNG Project, Indonesia Senoro Toili Development and Production Project, Indonesia E Sea-based Minefield, East Timor LNG Project, Mozambique Maputo Pipeline Project, Mozambique Prelude FLNG Project, Australia GLNG Project, Australia Resources Development and Production Projects LNG projects Overseas Infrastructure Project • Horn River/West Curbank Development Project, Canada • GLNG Project, Australia • Manzanillo LNG Terminal Project, Mexico • ‌Umiak Minefield Development Project, North Pole of • Prelude FLNG Project, Australia • Maputo Pipeline Project, Mozambique Canada • DSLNG Project, Indonesia • CNG Gas Station Project, Uzbekistan • A-1/A-3 Development and Production Project, Myanmar • RASGAS Project, Qatar • CNG Cylinder Project, Uzbekistan • ‌Senoro Toili Development and Production Project, • LNG Project, Oman Indonesia • LNG Project, Yemen • ‌Zubair Oilfield Development and Production Project, Iraq • LNG Canda Project, Canada • Badra Oilfield Development and Production Project, Iraq • LNG Project, Mozambique • ‌Mansuriya Gas Field Development and Production Project, Iraq • ‌Akkas Gas Field Development and Production Project, Iraq • ‌Surgil Gas Field Development and Production Project, Uzbekistan 12 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Research and Development KOGAS continuously strives to raise technological competitiveness in energy, and apply the technologies that are fostered to each industrial site. KOGAS Research Institute conducts comprehensive research on future energies: upstream to perform exploration, development and production of natural gases; distillation to research contain system for LNG carriers, storage tanks and liquefaction; downstream in charge of stable supply of natural gases; and future energies including new and renewable energies and alternative energies. Key Research Areas Exploration and Development Liquefaction and Supply of Natural Gases Clean Energies of Natural Gases Transport of Natural Gases • E&P of oil & gasfields • Design of storage tanks • Intelligent Pigs • Hydrogen fuel cell • CBM • Containment system(KC-1) • Gas quality and metering • ‌Natural gas-powered • Shale/Tight gas • ‌Liquefaction plant and • Risk and safety diagnosis vehicles • GM/Polar resources liquefaction process • ‌Methodology and pipeline • LNG bunkering soundness • Synthetic natural gas • DME • GTL 2025 Future Solution Portfolio Key Next-Generation Promising Technologies Current Key Technologies Technologies for the Future • ‌Design of LNG storage tanks and • ‌Shale gas production technologies • ‌Designing of gas field production terminals •‌ Pipeline gas importation technologies systems • ‌Design of liquefaction plants • ‌Technologies to create a demand in • ‌Technologies for evaluation of oil/gas • ‌Safety analysis and risks assessment new natural gases fields and production promotion of gas facilities • ‌Establishment of manufacturing/ • ‌Smart Gas Grid supply-based hydrogen infrastructure • ‌Alternative natural gas technologies Current Status of R&D Investment Unit: KRW 100 million 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 320 347 383 436 453 443 468 425 719 Current Status of IPRs and Technology Transfers Unit: number of cases Industrial property rights 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Patent application 32 46 24 40 30 27 35 50 35 Patents Registration 21 23 22 28 28 48 31 13 46 Program 21 3 5 8 2 7 10 6 0 Technology transfer 3 2 4 2 2 2 13 KOGAS We have contributed to enhancing benefits for people’s livelihood and realizing welfare in energy by at a Glance supplying natural gases securely and stably to the public in pursuit of ‘Better Energy, Better Tomorrow’. Driven by endless changes and innovation for the past 30 years, KOGAS has positioned itself as Korea’s representative energy corporation equipped with the world’s largest LNG storage facilities, having established pipeline networks for natural gas supply in Korea. We broaden our horizons of energy beyond Korea through exploration and development of oil/gas fields, LNG terminals and pipeline network business. As of December 31, 2016 LNG import volume Amount of LNG sales Current status of overseas projects LNG 31.847million tons 32.773million tons 24projects in 13countries Total extension of the main pipeline Storage facilities 4,672km 69units, 10.66million ㎘ Nationwide city gas distribution rate* Number of Employees R&D investment 90.8% 3,626 KRW 71.9billion * Based onsupply rate of local governments 14 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 KOGAS Company Outline Profile KOGAS is Korea’s representative energy corporation established to enhance benefits for people’s livelihood and realize energy welfare for them through safe and stable supply of natural gases. As of December 2016 Company Name Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) Type of Corporate Body Corporation CEO Seung-Hoon Lee Sales KRW 21.1081 trillion Establishment Date August 18, 1983 Net Income KRW △673.6 billion Credit Ratings Foundation for Korea Gas Corporation Act KRW -7,740 (for common stock) Earnings per Share Establishment (No. 3639, enacted in December 1983) KRW -7,740 (diluted earnings per share) Location 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea Number of Employees 3,626 ※ Financial items are based on the Consolidated Financial Statements under K-IFRS. S&P Moodys FITCH Key Business Areas AAAa2 AAProduction/supply of city gas and refinement/sale of byproducts Construction/operation of bases and supply networks for natural gas Development, transport, and ex/import of Development and ex/import of Liquefied natural gas Petroleum Gas Projects on new/renewable energies, clean synthesis Projects commissioned by the national or fuel, and climate-friendliness using natural gas or local governments its byproducts Research/Technology development on city Exploration/development projects for oil resources gas-related projects and auxiliary projects and related projects Overseas projects related to the above projects Organizational Composition KOGAS has seven divisions: Corporate Planning Division, Support Division, Marketing Division and Overseas Business Division under the Vice President of Management; and LNG Terminal Division, Trunk Line Division and Technology Division under the Vice President of Technology. Under the divisions are 24 units (headquarters, departments, and teams) and 13 divisions (terminal divisions and district divisions). CEO Board of Directors Secretariat Audit Committee Office of the Auditor Sr. Executive Vice President of Management Sr. Executive Vice President of Technology Office of EHSQ Office of Management Cooperation Center for KOGAS Economics & Management Office of Central System-Control Corporate Planning Overseas Business Support Division Marketing Division LNG Terminal Division Trunk Line Division Technology Division Division Division • ‌Strategy Planning Dept. • ‌General Affairs Dept. •‌ Demand Management •‌Overseas Business Dept. • ‌Terminal Operation Dept. • ‌Trunk Line Operation • ‌Chungcheong District • ‌Facility Technology • ‌Corporate Management • ‌Human Resources Dept. • Marketing Dept. •‌ E&P Business Dept. • ‌Terminal Construction Dept. Division Dept. Dept. • ‌Integrated Security •‌ LNG Business Dept. Dept. • ‌Trunk Line Construction • ‌Jeonbuk District Division • ‌Resources Technology • Finance Dept. Dept. • ‌Pyeongtaek Terminal Dept. • ‌Gwangju Jeonnam Dept. ‌Office of Security & Division • ‌Seoul District Division District Division • ‌Technology Business Emergency • ‌Incheon Terminal • ‌Incheon District Division • ‌Daegu Gyeongbuk Group Division • ‌Gyeonggi District District Division • ‌KOGAS Research • ‌Tongyeong Terminal Division • ‌Busan Gyeongnam Institute Division • ‌Gangwon District District Division • ‌Samcheok Terminal Division Division 15 KOGAS History 1980’s Base Building 1990’s Aug. 1983 Establish‌ment of KOGAS Oct. 1986 First import of LNG Nov. 1986 Commencement of natural gas distribution to power plant operations (Pyeongtaek) Feb. 1987 Apr. 1987 Commencement of city gas supply to the Seoul metropolitan area Completion of terminal and distribution facilities at Pyeongtaek ▼ Expanding Growth May 1990 Establishment of the R&D Center Jul. 1993 Commencement of city gas supply to the mid region (Daejeon, Cheonan, Cheongju) Jun. 1994 Commission of the first LNG national flag carrier Nov. 1995 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Yeongnam and Honam area 2000’s Dec. 1996 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Busan area Jan. 1997 Establishment of KOLNG Oct. 1997 Commencement of operations of the Incheon terminal Oct. 1999 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Seohae area Becoming a World Class Dec. 1999 Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange ▼ Dec. 1999 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Southern area Mar. 2000 Signing an MOU for the development project of a gas field in the East Sea Nov. 2000 Korea, China, and Russia reached an agreement for the co-development of the Irkutsk gas field development Oct. 2002 Commencement of operations at the Tongyeong terminal Nov. 2002 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Kangwon area 2010’s Mar. 2003 Completed sales contract with Australia Liquefied Natural Gas for mid-term LNG Jan. 2004 Reaching 10 million for the number of households using natural gases Aug. 2005 Investing in equity for the A-3 Minefield in Myanmar Better Energy, Better World Jul. 2006 The number of natural gas-powered buses exceeding 10,000 ▼ Dec. 2007 Declares 2017 Vision Feb. 2008 Signing an agreement to establish a joint investment company for Jan. 2010 ‌Incheon LNG Terminal surpassed the 100 million tons mark in the Surgil Project in Uzbekistan accumulated production of natural gas Sep. 2008 Signing an MOU for natural gas supply between KOGAS-Gasprom Jan. 2010 Landed the development and production rights for the oil and gas Dec. 2008 Inception of the LNG pipeline expansion project fields in Zubair and Badra, Iraq Jan. 2009 Signed a business partnership MOU with AMEC Oct. 2010 Gained access to the Akkas and Mansuriya Gas Fields in Iraq Oct. 2009 Gained interest in the offshore and onshore pipeline for Myanmar Mar. 2011 Named as the World's 4th Most Admired Energy Company by Fortune gas field Jan. 2013 Agreement signed for the E&P project on three blocks in Cyprus Sep. 2013 Additional Discovery of a Gas Well in Area 4 of Mozambique, Secured 87 Tcf in Total Sep. 2013 Being incorporated into the DJSI Asia Pacific Level and ranking first in the gas sector ▼ Dec. 2013 Completion of a nationwide extensive natural gas distribution project, a total of 4,065 km of a pipeline network Feb. 2014 Being selected as the institution of excellence for seven consecutive times in the Customer Satisfaction Evaluation for Public Organizations (Ministry of Strategy and Finance) Mar. 2014 Hosted the Gastech 2014 at Kintex Oct. 2014 Won the bid to host the 2021 World Gas Conference in Daegu Oct. 2014 Relocation of Headquarters to Daegu from Seong Nam Oct. 2015 Commencement of operations in GLNG, Australia Jan. 2016 Declares 2025 Vision (‘NEXT Energy, with KOGAS’) Jan. 2016 Consecutively incorporated into DJSI Asia Pacific Level 4 Oct. 2016 Awarded with the Prime Ministerial Award on the World Standards Day 2016 Oct. 2016 921 cases of in-house standardization and patent applications (630 cases) Oct. 2016 Organizing Asia Pacific Gas Conference (APGC) 2016 in Daegu 16 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Vision & KOGAS 2025 Strategy In order for KOGAS to become a public corporation with clean energy contributing to livelihood of the public through save and stable supply of natural gases, KOGAS established and announced ‘KOGAS 2025’, a new mid-and long-term management plan in January 2016. KOGAS 2025 consists of three strategy directions and nine strategy tasks based on the slogan for the vision, ‘NEXT Energy, with KOGAS’ meaning that KOGAS will be with public for a new, outstanding and reliable future energy world. We will make ‘Better Energy, Better World’ under KOGAS 2025. KOGAS 2025 Management Motto Better Energy, Better Tomorrow Responsibility Change to the Challenge to the Core Value Trust in People for the Society Future World Management Measures Focus on communication Substantiation Pursuit of innovation Points of Pursuit A sense of public duty to serve the public, growth potentials as a global company, efficiency in internal management Vision Slogan NEXT Energy, with KOGAS Strategy Directions Establishing Reliable Status of Securing Competitiveness in the Setting a Performance Oriented Public Enterprise (Trust) Gas Industry (Neo) Management System (EXcellent) Strategy Tasks 4. ‌Perform successful international 7. ‌I‌mprove stability of the financial 1. Reinforce social responsibility business structure 2. ‌Operate facilities stably and 5. Grow as a Global Provider 8. Raise the technological value safely 9. ‌Establish a vibrant 3. Create customer value 6. Create new demand organizational culture Strategy Goals Improving the Consumer Achieving Goals about Fortify the Organizational Confidence Index New Growth Engines Competency Index • ‌Achieving the first rank in • ‌Gaining 100% rate in acquiring • ‌Debt ratio below 200% Customer Confidence Index competencies for minefield • ‌Net income of KRW 1.5 trillion ‌Ranked first in customer management technologies • ‌Setup of technical standards for satisfaction • ‌Continuously pursuing packageoverseas and new business ‌Safety culture index type (terminal division + • ‌Organizational Effectiveness ‘World Class’ pipeline) business Index of 100% Ranked first in mutual growth • ‌Generating hydrogen-based ‌Ranked first in the degree of demand integrity • ‌Intensifying low-carbon manage‌Ranked first in information ment including LNG bunkering security • ‌New marketing supply of 8million tons • ‌Revenue of KRW 47 trillion Vision Slogan NEXT Energy, with N EX T with KOGAS KOGAS Neo Excellent Trust KOGAS will be with the public Securing new growth engines to be Strengthening technological Providing benefits to the public Ensuring shared growth along with For a new, outstanding and genuine newly pursued competencies and establishing and growing into a reliable stakeholders through creation of future energy world! a lively corporate culture that company with integrity social value generates performance 17 Sustainability Management Strategies KOGAS is responsible for minimizing the impact of global climate change and ecological footprint in supplying energy safely and seamlessly as Korea’s largest supplier of natural gases. We respect and listen to our stakeholders throughout the world, including the public, community, government, customers and suppliers in implementing sustainability management. Against this backdrop, we suggest ‘Global KOGAS With people, with the Planet’ as a vision for sustainability management, and establish a relevant strategy system. The Future Strategy Team is in charge of matters on sustainability management, and strategy setting and performance of strategies are periodically reported to the Sustainability Management Committee, which reviews key agenda, then makes decisions. System for Sustainability Strategies Vision Global KOGAS with People, with the Planet ▲ Mission Sustainability Excellence: DJSI World Level Governance Economy Environment Society Strategic Directions Securing leadership for sustainable Minimizing environmental impacts Carrying out sustainable business by Creating a corporate culture that management by strengthening the by adopting leading environmental supplying energy in a stable manner prioritizes people foundation for management management Core Issues • ‌Strengthening the efficiency of the • ‌Expanding the rate of independent • ‌Intensifying policies and systems for • ‌Strengthening the operating system Board of Directors and accountability development of energies environmental management for ethical management in sustainability • ‌Developing a new demand and • ‌Boosting reliability in internal and • ‌Advancing human rights and labor practices • ‌Intensifying independent risk business for gas external environmental policies • ‌Strengthening the performancemanagement • ‌Strengthening the demand manage• ‌Strengthening the system for response based compensation system • ‌Establish an integrated form of ment for stable supply to climate change • ‌Enhancing the safety and health system stakeholder management • ‌Intensifying the development of • ‌Upgrading the win-win cooperation • ‌Intensifying the analyzing and alternative energies infrastructure sharing system for issues related to • ‌Establishing an anti-monopolistic • ‌Reinforcing social contribution stratestakeholders prevention system gies and performance management • ‌Strengthening the customer management System Major Tasks • ‌Management of the Board of Directors • ‌Expansion of Energy Assets and the • ‌Intensifying policies and systems for • Ethical Management ‌Increase the independence and Independent Development Rate environmental management ‌Upgrade ethical management policies efficiency of the BOD Identify ‌ supply restraints and set up ‌Redefining the procedure and guideRaise management transparency ‌Raise the BOD’s accountability for peak oil strategies line for environmental management sustainability management ‌Expand investments in overseas E&P ‌Establishing policies and strategies • Talent Management for biodiversity ‌Revamp human rights and labor • Risk Management • Demand Management practices ‌Systematizing corporation-wide risk ‌Raise efficiency on the demand side • ‌Boosting reliability in internal and ‌Strengthen performance-based management ‌Set up plans to cooperate with external environmental policies remuneration systems ‌Devising measures for prior industries ‌Improving the system for managing Develop global talent identification of risks environmental pollutants • Developing New Business • Managing safety and health ‌Continuously disclosing information • Stakeholder Management ‌Operate LNG facilities and develop ‌Managing sites free of accident/disaster on the amount of emission for ‌Manage stakeholders’ issues on an transport businesses ‌Continuously maintaining the environmental pollutants integrated basis Reinforce business networks healthcare management system ‌Increasing transparency in cost for ‌Communicate issues internally and Create a hydrogen-based demand ‌Preventing industrial accidents for environmental activities externally suppliers/supporting their safety ‌Establish an integrated form of • ‌Strengthening the system for management activities stakeholder management response to climate change ‌Putting in place a low-carbon • Win-win Cooperation management system ‌Support SME’s sustainability ‌Contributing to the national GHG management reduction target ‌Initiating competency build-up for SMEs ‌Continuously exploring GHG reduc• ‌Management for Customer Satisfaction tion business Analyze VOC and customer feedback ‌Heighten privacy protections for customers • Social Contribution ‌Improve the management of social contribution activities ‌Implement strategic social contribution programs Next Energy with KOGAS N eo New Future Energy World ‌‌Management of Sustainable Energy Business EX cellent Excellent Future Energy World ‌Excellent People, Vibrant Organizations T rust ‌True Energy World for the Future Stable Supply, Safe Sites 20 NEXT Energy with KOGAS New Future Energy World N EO N Management of Sustainable Energy Business 21 Business of Natural Gas Procurement and Sales 23 Overseas Business 24 Exploration of New Business NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 21 Neo_New Future Energy World Business of Natural Gas Supply and Demand Management System for Natural Gases Procurement and Sales The development and production of natural gases require a period of 5 to 10 years, and generate investment costs of over USD 10 billion. They are covered by a long-term contract of over 20 years under the pre-sales and post-production scheme. They cannot be stored for long, and their transportation vessels and storage facilities are limited, so making elastic responses to demand is challenging. KOGAS is striving to stably respond to uncertainties in demand by recognizing the importance of supply and demand management, and establishing a corresponding management system, thus intensifying the responsive capabilities to fluctuation in supply and demand. The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy established the Gas Supply and Demand Plan for over 10 years according to Article 18.2 of the Urban Gas Business Act and publicizes it every two years. Long-term supply and demand plans for natural gases classify them into some for city gas and others for power generation, thereby raising accuracy in predictability in consideration of the economic growth rate, population growth rate, the industrial structure and basic plans for the supply and demand of electricity, etc. Driven by management experiences and competencies, KOGAS suggests development strategies in the natural gas industry by dynamically spearheading the long-term natural gas supply and demand plan, that is, a long-term national energy policy. We analyze the supply and demand records on a daily basis, predict demands for each scenario on a monthly basis, and forecast the supply and demand accordingly. The purpose is to manage the integrated supply and demand management system for timely identification of the rapidly changing supply and demand for stable management on both sides. Monitoring results on factors for changes in the demand including temperature, GDP, and electricity usage are reflected in the demand forecast. We have also adopted and operate a big data statistical system for scientific demand prediction. Integrated Supply and Demand Management System for Natural Gases PLAN DO Check & Act Procurement System Procurement strategies Procurement plans Demand forecasting Calculation of shortages Midto long-term management in volume by year procurement plans Midto long-term Short-term procurement Planning System procurement strategies contracts Pro Short-term Spot purchase and Demand forecast Demand Demand forecast Demand procurement strategies swap trade of city gas prediction of Korea Power Dema ent management nd rem producers model of KOGAS Exchange Comprehensive cu control system for supply and Demand forecast for Demand forecast for city gas power generation demand Facility Setup System Shortto long-term supply and demand plans Procurement for natural gases Facilities management Program for the calculation Program for pipeline of storage tanks (LNGSIM) analysis (STONER) Calculation of storage Calculation of pipeline tanks and annexed facilities including pipeline facilities pressure Facility management Facility planning and construction Current Status of Natural Gas Procurement  Unit: 1,000 tons Current Status of Natural Gas Sales Unit: 1,000 tons 36,332 City gas For power 31,410 31,847 Type Total Residential/ For general For industrial Heating, Ventilation, For Total of geneOthers Office heating usage usage Air-Conditioning(HVAC) transport city gas ration 2016 7,883 1,539 5,710 554 950 748 17,384 15,389 32,773 2015 7,482 1,478 5,756 478 953 782 16,929 14,527 31,456 2014 7,502 1,484 6,867 472 978 877 18,180 16,993 35,173 2014 2015 2016 22 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Business of Natural Gas Procurement Management of LNG Supply and Demand Achieving ‘Short-Term Supply and Demand Balance’ in Response to a Rapid Rise in Demand It has been required for KOGAS to devise strategies for stabilizing short-term supply and demand because the demand for LNG used for power generation to cater to the peak power depends upon tapping on the base load (nuclear power, coal). Breakout of unpredictable factors including climate abnormalities and earthquakes are also external influencers. KOGAS responds to the short-term fluctuation in demand by planning for a short-term and winter-time demand volume in April and October, respectively, and figuring out a volume to stabilize supply and demand based on the ‘routine forecast of demand’ by organizing six meetings by the Supply and Demand Measure Team and two by the Advisory Council. Ensuring ‘Mid-Term Stability in Supply and Demand’ through Multifaceted Efforts Fluctuation in demand has been picking up as the level of demand for electricity is slowing down and base-load power plants are expanded. KOGAS has further sophisticated the mid-term demand prediction, using a predictive model reflecting the recent records in demand and policy variables. We aim to secure stability in supply and demand for the next five years, reviewing the related situations post to the 12th long-term plan for supply and demand and considering market changes. Furthermore, stability in supply and demand has been driven by higher reliability in demand prediction based on multi-level consultations among the government, Korea Power Exchange, KEPCO and power generation companies, etc. Initiating ‘Long-Term Optimization of Supply and Demand’ through Stronger Competencies in Proactive Supply and Demand KOGAS seeks for measures to optimize supply and demand by specifying business strategies for LNG trading because the global LNG market continues to witness an excessive supply of LNG, and the shortterm trading volume grows from 19% in 2010 to 27% in 2016. Using a subsidiary in trading can help maintain a supply-demand balance by enabling KOGAS – the parent corporation – to procure LNG through the subsidiary, if necessary, and save procurement cost thanks to optimized transport. That is why KOGAS plans to establish a trading subsidiary in the second half of 2017. Its flexibility in handling volumes and function as a supply-demand buffer is expected to fundamentally ease potential supply-demand imbalances resulting from changes in the domestic demand in the future. Ensuring Stable Transport of LNG KOGAS induces stability in transport by systematically managing flag-registered LNG carriers. A difference in the amount of a fare paid and a normal fare upon operating flag-registered carriers might lead to a dispute on the fare with the shipping company thereof. KOGAS minimizes possibilities of such disputes by managing the error rate in the transport fare by minimizing it. In addition, we maintain safe performance of carriers by conducting on-dock repair 10 times due to higher possibilities of safety accidents upon operating obsolete flag-registered carriers. KOGAS’ error rate in transport fare in 2016 improved by 0.3%p to 0.3% compared to the previous year, and achieved ‘zero’ dispute on fares and 255 accident-free ship operations. Conducting Sales Management Business As the roles of natural gases increase to improve the level of micro dust and achieve GHG reduction goals along with the needs for them, KOGAS achieves management goals by disseminating and selling natural gases to cater to national energy policies. We facilitate the sales of natural gases for cooling as a way to ease the power peak in summer time. We have established long-term strategies for cooling to come up with effective measures to boost sales, and expanded institutional support including payment of allowances for gas cooling and stringent measures for the obligatory ration for gas cooling in public institutions, etc. As a consequence, the sales volume for natural gases for cooling reached 260,000 tons, up 18% from the previous year, contributing to the growth of 2% in the power reserve rate during the peak time. Meanwhile, we seek for and initiate ways to expand the sales of compressed natural gas (CNG) for transport as a countermeasure against micro dust. Ways to increase the CNG sales are: payment of subsidies for CNG, expansion of CNG-powered wide-area express buses, pilot business of CNG-powered chartered bus and expansion of recharging stations for long-distance vehicles, etc. We have devised a scheme to obligate the usage of CNG to new routes of metropolitan wide-area buses while securing applicable laws, based on which we plan to raise the future sales of CNG-powered vehicles. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 23 Neo_New Future Energy World Overseas E&P Business Business KOGAS has continuously initiated business on overseas resources development to induce stability in supply and demand in domestic natural gases and intensify energy security. We have raised efficiency in business operation by raising profitability through efficient business management and systematically respond to the business environment which is worsened by uncertainties. The development and production business of oil & gas fields in Zubair, Iraq is to provide technical services and acquire crude oil. Increases in the capacity of crude oil treatment facilities led to a higher production of crude oil, resulting in the net income of KRW 98 billion, up 16% from the previous year. Recovery rate compared to the accumulated investment cost reached 96%. The business reduced the number of days for drilling by modifying the design for production wells, and increased the amount of crude oil by securing the facility capacity of the maximum product target with the extension of crude oil facilities. Meanwhile, Annual Production Volume the development and production business of gas fields A-1/A-3 achieved the sales rate of 115%, which is  Unit: 10,000 tons much higher than the initially planned sales volume through stable sales management despite concerns over shrinkage in demand due to the recent economic slowdown. 476 LNG Business 284 226 KOGAS’ overseas LNG business has grown to the extent of driving the entire business of exclusive development and operation in 2016 after starting off in the form of equity investment in 1996. We have established the management right-driven strategies for LNG business execution, aiming to initiate the 2014 2015 2016 production of commercial operation in 2025 in order to prepare for shortage of volume due to the closing of the overseas business contract and tap on to opportunities in new markets including the U.S. and Iran. This business model is expected to bring about stability in supply and demand, and also in price through sufficient supply of volumes in demand in Korea, generating profits through sales in the global market. LNG Development and Procurement Volume  Unit: 1,000 tons LNG Trading Business Model Investment KOGAS LNG Project Procurement 1,393 KOGAS Domestic/ Sales 930 Trading Co. Overseas Global LNG Marketer Procurement 667 Sales 2014 2015 2016 Natural Gas Infrastructure Business The natural gas infrastructure market encompassing the business of the Floating Storage and Regasification Unit (FSRU) and business aligned with LNG supply, and is expected to grow up to approximately KRW 150 trillion for the next decade. KOGAS launched the ‘Overseas Advancement Council for Natural Gas Technological Self-sufficiency Infrastructure Business’ – a private-institutional-public body – in order to establish a close cooperation system with EPC companies and financial institutions in the hopes of expanding overseas business in  Unit: % response to such market changes. We cooperate with domestic companies on joint business development 79.3 60.3 68.0 to advance into the global market together. We also cooperate on calculation of investment cost, feasibility study, sharing of package projects, site inspection and technical review on six projects in Indonesia, India, Morocco, South Africa and Bangladesh. 2014 2015 2016 Acquisition of Business Competencies KOGAS prevents illegitimate investment and strengthens the management of investment performance by continuously improving the system to proceed with overseas projects. Tasks for improvement were Amount of Resources Secured identified to sophisticated the system, and expertise and transparency in making decisions were raised by  Unit: million tons obligating the third-party feasibility study and developing a checklist for risk analysis. We also established 269 a cross-department cooperation system for efficient management of business, and train specialized 260 252 personnel required for business development and management led by KOGAS. The year-on-year level of technical competencies went up by 11.3% thanks to intensification of core technologies for E&P needed for exclusively managing mine fields in 2020. We plan to focus our management resources on especially core business in running overseas business, and steadily bring up technological prowess for resources development – an area where there is a big gap between KOGAS and major global energy companies. In addition, we will dramatically raise efficiency in investment, considering 2014 2015 2016 the nature of resources development business including high cost and high risks. 24 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Exploration of New Launch of the Promotion Team for Hydrogen Convergence Alliance Business As the domestic gas market has entered a mature stage, the distribution rate of natural gases has become stagnant, and the increase rate of the demand is gradually dropping. Against this backdrop, KOGAS is seeking for various measures for demand development in order to secure new growth engines. As the hydrogen automobile market is forecast to expand especially driven by intensified environmental regulations and countermeasures against micro dust after the Paris Agreement was signed in 2012, we are to create a new demand by leading the era of hydrogen usage for transport. As such, we launched the ‘Promotion Team for Hydrogen Convergence Alliance’ as a part of our efforts to disseminate natural gas reformation*-based hydrogen vehicles. In August, 2016, we launched the ‘Hydrogen Convergence Alliance’ as a private-public council with the participation of three government institutions, three local governments and 16 enterprises/academic institutions. They have explored policy tasks including the privately-led dissemination of hydrogen-powered vehicles and facilitation of recharging infrastructure setup. In February 2017, the ‘Promotion Team for Hydrogen Convergence Alliance’ came into being as an official standing body, which is expected to specifically implement policy tasks, while seamlessly supporting activities of the ‘Hydrogen Convergence Alliance’. The ‘Promotion Team for Hydrogen Convergence Alliance’ plans to establish a roadmap for each step to spread the hydrogen energy within this year, while supporting to improve policies and systems to foster related industries. Other activities planned include the expansion of hydrogen-powered vehicles and installation and management of hydrogen recharging stations. * reformation: conversion of a natural gas into hydrogen Background Strategy Tasks To create new sources of demand by preparing for the era of hydrogen-driven economy Needs Expanding the number Strengthening Requiring to expand new of recharging stations for Preparing for the era of environmental regulations sources of demand for hydrogen-powered vehicles hydrogen-driven economy including the Paris natural gases as a countermeasure with future growth engines Agreement against micro dust Composition and Roles of the ‘Promotion Team for Hydrogen Convergence Alliance’ Policy Planning Support Foundation Support Technological Development International Cooperation Division Division Support Division Support Division Supporting policies to Supporting the management Supporting hydrogen-powered Engaging in promotion of facilitate the spread of of supply and demand of electric vehicles, hydrogen safety for the public, and hydrogen-powered electric hydrogen needed for hydrogenrecharging stations, hydrogen supporting technical standards, vehicles and hydrogen powered electric vehicles as technologies and pricing international cooperation and recharging stations, and well as smooth dissemination industries associated with the foster industries related to of such vehicles and hydrogen hydrogen energy sustainable hydrogen energy recharging stations Export Contract for LNG Fuel for LNG Bunkering Ships The International Maritime Organizations (IMO)’s regulations on the emission of sulfur oxides for ships has been made more stringent from 3.5% by 0.5% by 2020 to be applicable to all oceans, which spotlights attention to LNG as a new fuel for ships which can replace the existing fuel for ships. Accordingly, the global demand for LNG bunkering is expected to increase up to 3 million tons in 2020 and 22 million tons by 2030. We pave the way to establish related systems and infrastructure so that we could create a new demand for natural gases through the development of LNG bunkering business. KOGAS laid the foundation for installing gas storage facilities within ports by improving related laws and regulations including the Port Act, and the enforcement rules of the Urban Gas Business Act. We strive to facilitate LNG bunkering by establishing the basic facility for ship bunkering in Tongyoneg LNG Terminal and installing the LNG bunkering function on one carrier for Jeju from September 2019. In addition, we have strengthened business activities for LNG-powered ships for major ship owners to facilitate the dissemination of LNG fuel-powered ships, and also strive to exchange information and conduct joint business with advanced companies abroad. Plans are underway to continuously establish infrastructure to make preemptive responses to LNG bunkering business by devising related laws on shipto-ship bunkering in the future. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Excellent Future Energy World EX CELLENT EX Excellent People, Vibrant Organizations 26 Talent Management 29 Corporate Culture 30 Innovation Activities 26 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Talent Principles in Talent Management Management Ideal Talents KOGAS has re-defined desirable talents to achieve its vision together as follows: ‘talents with integrity in pursuit of principles and honesty’, ‘trusted talents who practice consideration and cooperation’, ‘talents with a challenging spirit for changes that can lead organizational growth’ and ‘creative global talents that can open up the future’. These have become the criteria for recruitment, personnel management, evaluation and talent development at KOGAS. Ideal Talents Talents with a challenging Talents with integrity in pursuit Trusted talents who practice Creative global talents that spirit for changes that can of principles and honesty consideration and cooperation can open up the future lead organizational growth Respect for Human Rights Having joining the UN Global Compact in 2007, KOGAS has thoroughly fulfilled 10 principles for four items – human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In 2015, we had diagnosis on 38 specific items in 10 areas after conducting the ‘self-inspection on human rights management’ in accordance with the guideline of the National Human Rights Commission. Overall results have been ‘favorable’ and ‘satisfactory’, but areas of comparative weakness were institutionally complemented. In February 2016, we launched a department solely in charge of human rights management which oversees policies and performance indicators of human rights management, and performance and activities of human rights management. In 2017, we formulated ‘KOGAS Charter on the Human Rights Management’ and the CEO has officially declared it, expressing strong commitment for human rights management. The charter consists of the following 10 major provisions: support for international human rights policies and international human rights norms; prohibition of discrimination based on race, religion or disability, etc.; guarantee of the freedom of association and collective bargaining; prohibition of forced labor; prohibition of forced Status of Employees* (by gender) labor; creation of a safe and hygiene working environment; win-win development with suppliers and  Unit: Number of employees protection of human rights for their suppliers; protection of human rights of local residents; environmental Total protection and protection of human rights for consumers. After formulating and declaring the ‘Charter 3,605 on Human Rights Management’. KOGAS implemented a ‘pledge to comply with the human rights charter for all employees’ to form consensus on human rights management of employees and create a culture of respecting human rights in April, 2017. We also conducted proactive internal and external promotional activities on our website, internal portal, email and SNS and through newspaper coverage. We plan to proceed with formulation of a guideline on the human rights management while developing assessment 3,215 390 on impact of human rights to practice human rights management in a more systematic manner. Our efforts to rescue victims of human rights violation will be boosted through efforts to prevent human rights * Regular employees, as of 2016-end violation in advance and the scheme to handle grievances. Talent Recruitment We employ excellent human resources fairly without limitations on academic background, age, major, or region. Transparent recruitment is conducted without disclosing the credentials of interviewees including Status of Employees* (by age bracket)  Unit: % (number of employees) their name, hometown, and academic background. We evaluate candidates’ job performance capabilities instead of educational/career background and select customized talents that are suited for the work of Employees in Employees KOGAS by adopting the National Competency Standards (NCS). the 50s or aged 30 and Employment Principle above below 19(701) 37(1,347) Open Abolition of Fairness and transparency-based employment Employment In-depth restrictions on Employees competition Principle interviews academic backin the 40s testing ground or age Merit-based employment 44(1,578) * Total employees as of 2016-end NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 27 EXcellent_Excellent Future Energy World Strengthening Talent Competencies Human Resources Development Strategies KOGAS established and operates a competency-based talent development system aligned with its vision and strategic directions to select and develop top talents with expertise in the gas industry. We continue to implement training courses by realigning a system to develop human resources embodying Vision 2025 and compatibility, and exploring the needs for competency development of the organization and its members. Human Resources Development System Talents with integrity in Trusted talents who New Talents with a challenging Creative global talents that pursuit of principles and practice consideration Ideal spirit for changes that can can open up the future honesty and cooperation Talents lead organizational growth Three Strategy Directions for HRD Strengthening specialized competencies Intensifying performance management Forming a desirable corporate culture to to strengthen competitiveness in in developing human resources to raise form consensus on core values the gas industry the executing capabilities for strategies Per-capita Average Training Budget 10 Strategy Tasks for HRD  Unit: KRW 1,000 • Embodying KOGAS-style core values • ‌Expanding the development of core talents • ‌Intensifying mid-and long-term strategy 3,390 • ‌Facilitating policy-type training to to bring up competitiveness in the gas execution capability through systematic 3,083 2,916 contribute to the nation industry planning on HRD • ‌Spreading the practice of a corporate • ‌Sophisticating the convergence-driven global • ‌Establishing a corporation-wide integratculture focusing on innovation and talent development system ed talent development infrastructure collaboration • ‌Upgrading site-oriented HRD based on job • ‌Strengthening performance management • ‌Strengthening the basic training for competencies for developing talents sustainable growth 2014 2015 2016 Fostering Female Leaders and Specialists KOGAS is making multifaceted efforts to foster female talents. Such programs as the female talent development course and the long-term commissioned training course were designed to foster female Number of Trainees  Unit: Number of employees employees as female leaders and specialists. We have paved the way for female employees to be advanced to high-ranking positions by promoting managerial positions for women and expanding the 75,770 positions in major departments. Female judges have been mandatorily allocated to strike a balance in 66,728 57,557 making judgment for the promotion review of positions in Grade 3 or above to expand and foster female managers. In 2016, we generated the first female employee to be promoted to the position of Grade 1, and expanded the appointment of female managers to key positions in essential business, including the head of the Facility Technology Department and the director of the Maritime Base Business Team. 2014 2015 2016 Talent Development Programs KOGAS has established a balanced talent development roadmap touching upon organizational competencies (core values and leadership) and personal competencies (job competencies and global competencies) in each stage from joining KOGAS until leaving it in order to foster competent talents. Satisfaction level for training* The dual track for career development has been established and is up and running – KOGAS-led and  Unit: number of points self-led tracks – including a specialist track and a manager track. In the area of boosting organizational ■ Before the change ■ After the change competencies, we created and operate the following directions and action strategies for education and 96.02 training: building up a corporate culture by internalizing core values; raising leadership competencies of 93.62 82.3 83.4 executives through continuous support for management activities and fostering competent specialized personnel to take the initiative in realizing KOGAS’ vision; improving the system for evaluation of actions for HRD programs based on performance; and running programs to boost public benefits. We have also adopted the self-led learning system whereby employees can design and implement training they want to intensify individual competencies, supporting to practice continued self-development. In particular, we run 2014 2015 2016 the Global Leader Training Course to continuously foster personnel to lead overseas business. Meanwhile, KOGAS implements an in-house program to validate qualifications to technically systematize the management and remuneration areas for safe and stable supply and also to devise a system to objectively * ‌The survey on the satisfaction level for training up until 2015 targeted individual training courses, but for post-2015 evaluation, the survey has newly calculated validate job competency. A total of 743 employees acquired certifications as facility operation specialists, on results by adopting an evaluation procedure and measurement techniques on the entire education and facility maintenance and machinery specialists and facility maintenance and E&I specialists from 2010 to training content and its management. 2016, for which the government approval has been made for the internal qualification validation system. 28 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Fair Evaluation and Remuneration KOGAS conducts fair and transparent efficiency rating based on employees’ performance and capabilities, and the results are reflected in personnel appointment and remuneration. All employees excluding executives are, in principle, subject to goal-based performance evaluation. All employees set goals for their achievement and competencies at the beginning of a year, and have them approved by their manager. They are subject to year-end performance evaluations based on their individual yearly performance. For high achievers, incentives are provided to enhance their organizational immersion by differentially paying the bonus and the base salary and by giving benefits in a review to select employees to be dispatched outside. For low achievers, meanwhile, we seek higher performance by supporting competency development through training or job rotation. Furthermore, chief officers (excluding executives), KOGAS’ Performance-Based Salary intermediary managers and candidates to be promoted among the manager level among team members are subject to multi-dimensional evaluation. Results of the evaluation are finally assessed in ranking based 3.7% 7.8% on comparative analysis among employees in the same rank that are subject to evaluation. Additional Job-based salary Meanwhile, KOGAS induces long-term performance generation by aligning evaluation results with annual salary remuneration. All wage items are broken down into basic, job, and performance-based under the pay-forperformance scheme, except for statutory benefits (paid leave). Accordingly, the base salary taking up 56.3% of 32.2% 56.3% the entire salaries are divided into five grades depending on competency evaluation for a differential increase. Performancebased salary Base salary Differential payment is made so that the maximum and the minimum amounts could differ by over two times by converting 32.2% of the entire salary into a performance-based one. Work-Life Balance Flexible Working Hours We run the flexible working hour system to make the forms of working more flexible to create a working environment with a work-life balance. We gather opinions of employees through a satisfaction level survey and a survey on the demand for the convertible part-time system and improve the operation system in order to facilitate the usage of employees’ flexible working hour system. We have broadened the options through various schemes including alternative work scheduling, compressed working and smart working. In 2016, working types of the working-hour selection scheme were added to enable the operation of the flexible working hour system which transcends stereotyped working time and space. Performance of the Flexible Working Hour System Unit: number of people Type 2014 2015 2016 Part-time work system 28 48 61 Flex-time work, etc. 914 1,107 961 Flexible work system Alternative work schedule 747 1,389 Compressed working 1 Remote work system Smart working 3 Total 942 1,902 2,415 Maternal Protection and Family-Friendly Management We create an environment for maternal protection for female employees during their pregnancy based on their needs. Their working hours are shortened, their job can be changed, and in-house married couples are appointed in workplaces in the same area. Moreover, the duration of maternity leave has been expanded for three years to prevent career interruption of women due to childbirth or childcare. The maternity leave after childbirth is 120 days for women with multifetal pregnancy. The number of working hours on weekdays was shrunk from 15 to 30 hours a week during pregnancy and childcare to guarantee a work-life balance as much as possible. Upon returning to work after using the childcare leave, their preference for job positions is fully embraced so that their existing job career can continue. We boost Ministry of Gender Equality and Family female employees’ job satisfaction and immersion by managing nursing rooms and in-house childcare Certification as an centers in five sites and guaranteeing lactation hours during work. Meanwhile, we create a corporate Excellent Institution culture that strongly recommends and is thoughtful of male employees when they are to take a child leave with Family-Friendly Programs by guaranteeing the prior replacement with alternative personnel, thereby easing the burden for them to (first certified in 2015) use the leave. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 29 EXcellent_Excellent Future Energy World Corporate Advancement Strategies for Labor-Management Relations Culture Forming advanced labor-management relations of win-win cooperation is critical to continuously generate a favorable management performance. Aiming to establish desirable labor-management relations, pending agenda in the relations have been analyzed and labor-management relations strategies have been realigned based on internal diagnosis. Moreover, four strategy directions and eight strategy tasks were established based on the strategy goal of ‘building cooperative labor-management relations based on principles and trust’. We form a desirable labor-management culture and establish a vibrant corporate culture in pursuit of joint future values of the labor and the management driven by such strategies. Advancement Strategies for Labor-Management Relations Vision Next Energy, with KOGAS Core Values Trust Responsibility Change Challenge Trusted KOGAS ▲ Vibrant corporate culture Strategy Goal Building cooperative labor-management relations based on principles and trust Four Strategy Developing and Strengthening Expanding laborDirections practicing advancement management competencies Rationally improving management cooperation strategies for laborfor facilitating collective agreements Number of employees joining the labor union activities for trust recovery management relations communication Eight Strategy Tasks ① ‌Developing and ③ ‌Labor-management ⑤ ‌Intensification of ⑦ ‌Raising effectiveness practicing activities for recovery communication and in collective 86% labor-management of public trust harmony bargaining strategies ④ ‌Innovation of a ⑥ ‌Buildup of ⑧ ‌Rationally improving (3,186) ② ‌Managing laborcorporate culture competencies for collective agreements management with vibrancy crisis response and relations focusing on management each site Strengthening Communication Between the Labor and the Management Approximately 86% of all employees at KOGAS have joined the labor union, maintaining a high rate of unionists. This is why communication between the labor and the management is somewhat challenging although communication among unionists is easy. Not only that, workers in gas facilities in sporadic remote places nationwide might find it challenging to engage in communication, which requires smooth and diverse communication channels due to the diversity in interests among work forms, between headquarters and sites, and among job categories. Having identified such a communication environment and nature of the labor-management communication, we have established and efficiently utilized the ‘4-Way Communication Channel’ through role-sharing by the subject of communication (led by the institution/the head of the institution), and function (bottom-up/site-oriented), thereby facilitating labor-management communication. In 2016, we formed a strong consensus between the labor and the management on conflicts within the organization thanks to facilitated corporation-wide communication including imbalances in promotion, wage gaps and labor-management conflicts as well as management agenda. We share the process of making improvement and rationally solve problems throughout the course. 4-Way Communication Channel Communication channel Key topics Communication channel Key topics Negotiating on the performance-based annual salary ① ‌Collective Led by the Using KOGAS’ first anonymous online system and revision of the wage system & wage Bottom ⑤ La Plaza Bargaining institution communication and discussion channel (94 times) increase rate, etc. (15 times) up ② Labor⑥ ‌‘Blind’ of the Engaging in honest feedback and discussions on Agreeing on forming a task force to improve wage Management Public Institution KOGAS’ corporate culture and vision (55 times) gaps among different work forms (29 times) By communication topic Council 4-Way Communication By function Channel Communication channel Key topics Communication channel Key topics Organizing luncheon meetings on pending ⑦ ‌Seminar on the Explaining the government’s guideline on the ③ ‘Talk Talk’ management agenda for unionists at the Performanceperformance-based system and that of KOGAS (draft) Meeting headquarters (45 times) Led by the Based Pay (management executives, 14 times) Sitehead of the ⑧ ‌Seminar on Explaining management agenda and discussing ④ Dialogue Time Explaining management agenda for employees on oriented institution Management the seamless operation of facilities (head of sites, with the CEO sites and listening to their suggestions (7 times) Agenda 65 times) 30 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Innovation Specialized Research-Based Technological Innovation Activities KOGAS Research Institute The KOGAS Research Institute continues to conduct research to develop clean energies and future energy resources to create basic, yet core technologies and new growth engines in the entire process in the gas industry – exploration and development of natural gases, LNG transport and storage, and supply of natural gases. As of 2017, about 100 researchers are passionately involved in research and technological development to lead future gas technologies with investment of approximately KRW 110 billion in a total of 82 projects. We will further strive to undertake R&D to foster the domestic gas industry and develop future energy industries. Korean-style LNG Cargo Containment System KC-1 The Korean-style LNG Cargo Containment System KC-1 started as a national research project to ease the dependency on overseas technologies and loyalty burden in 2004. We proprietarily developed the LNG Cargo Containment System KC-1 with domestic technologies after a decade of joint research with Korea’s three shipbuilding companies (Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering, Samsung Heavy Industries, and Hyundai Heavy Industries). Two out of six flag-registered LNG carriers adopted in Sabine Pass of the U.S. are expected to be equipped with LNG Cargo Containment System KC-1 to be delivered in September KC-1 2017. This is expected to bring about the royalty replacement effect of KRW 250 billion and the production inducement effect of over KRW 1.1 trillion. Furthermore, we are working on installing LNG Cargo Containment System KC-1 is to small LNG carriers in Aewol Terminal Division in Jeju. LNG Storage Tank with the World’s Largest Capacity Amid increases in the natural gas import volume and demand, scale-up of LNG storage tanks to store natural gases has been emphasized as a core technology in the LNG industry. KOGAS developed a nextgeneration ultra-large LNG storage tank by fully leveraging LNG storage tank localization technologies and construction know-how gained through the existing R&D efforts. The storage tank touts a ultra-large capacity of 270,000㎘. Comprehensive review took place on the tank on the thickness of the steel sheet that can be constructed, the occurrence rate of evaporation gas in the storage tank, and seismic load270,000㎘ LNG Storage Tank driven design possibilities. In particular, the seismic scale in the design was upgraded from 6.5 to 7.0 to enable an optimized design that is safe and economical. The safety of the ultra-large LNG storage tank was verified by an external verifier. The technology developed was successfully applied to the Samcheok Terminal Division (LNG (Incheon, Samcheok, Tongyeong, and Pyeongtaek) Terminal Divisions). KOGAS was also engaged in the SLNG extension project in Singapore, successfully concluding a turnkey contract with the 270,000 ㎘ storage tank technology. Smart Pipeline Management – Intelligent Pigs The pipeline facility can be used semi-permanently, but continuous management is needed to prevent gas leakage including pipeline cracking. Intelligent Pigs are the cutting-edge pipeline management technology which accurately diagnoses the status of pipelines by penetrating inside the pipeline where gas flows. The pigs are applied with latest technologies including the data storage system, monitoring system, wireless reception/transmission system, and inertial measurement unit. It does not merely remove impurities within the pipeline, but detects abnormalities by identifying the pipeline thickness based on the measurement of Intelligent Pig magnetic flux changes. Accurate positioning is identified by being equipped with the inertial measurement unit, and the pipeline can be numerically mapped. As of June 2017, Intelligent Pigs are testing 2,391kmlong pipelines for 46 sections, contributing to stable supply of pipelines for natural gas supply, and we are carrying out robotic development projects for 16-inch pipeline inspection. Korea Single Mixed Refrigerant (KSMR) Technology KOGAS developed Korea Single Mixed Refrigerant (KSMR) – an exclusive liquefaction process for natural gases – by intensively focusing on core technologies in the business of natural gas liquefaction plants as KOGAS’ strategic core business. This technology is competitive in aspects of process simplification, easiness of operation and efficiency in production compared to the existing commercialization process in other countries. A verification test is to be conducted in the first half of 2017 as a test bed has been currently set up. We also plan on ‘development of small-scale liquefaction plant process technologies’ in Korean-style Liquefaction Process tandem with recent diversification of global demands for gas. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 31 EXcellent_Excellent Future Energy World Management Innovation – Driver of Sustainable Growth BP (Best Practice) Contest KOGAS organizes the annual BP Contest to select best practices and share them among business sites, contributing to higher management efficiency. In addition, we continue to foster corporate competencies through on-site innovation activities engaging working-level employees, and induce the interest of employees by using the brand of ‘Best & First (BnF)’. Best & First(BnF) Achieving innovation earlier than others to be top-notch Activities of ‘First’ Discovering excellent tasks and ideas in and outside KOGAS and achieving sophistication of knowledge management (Internal) Community of Practice – CoP KOGAS creates excellent collective knowledge through activities of CoP (Community of Practice), a voluntary learning community and shares the performance through a knowledge management system, thus seeking higher efficiency in work, stronger productivity, and higher technological competitiveness. In 2016, we intensified strategy-based CoP activities to concentrate our competency on core tasks aligned with management strategies. (External) KOGAS’ Open Innovation Contest Excellent CoP KOGAS has organized ‘Open Innovation Contest’ to sophisticate knowledge management since 2016.  Unit: number of cases We have strived to explore new business and technologies and improve irrational systems by acquiring technologies and ideas externally beyond our boundary. We have awarded prizes to excellent projects 140 following the first stage of document screening and the second stage of presentation evaluation in 112 future energy business and eco-friendly green business under the title of ‘Contest on Ideas for New 108 Energy Business’. Activities 2014 2015 2016 of ‘Best’ Financial Effects of Innovation Activities  Unit: KRW 100 million Spreading and sharing best practices derived from ‘First’ activities throughout the corporation 2,544 BP Contest 1,587 856 KOGAS shares performance in excellent knowledge management activities aligned with its vision and strategies at the end of each year, and organizes a contest to discover best practices. By doing do, we are spreading motivation among members on management performance with encouragement and rewards for strong performance. We review if award-winning best practices are applicable to similar sites after 2014 2015 2016 the contest so that it does not remain a one-time event, and apply them throughout the corporation. 32 NEXT Energy with KOGAS True Energy World for the Future T RUST T Stable Supply, Safe Sites 33 Production and Supply of Natural Gases 34 Safety Management 37 Information Security NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 33 Trust_True Energy World for the Future Production and Supply of World-Class Management of the Loss Ratio of Natural Gases Natural Gases The natural gas loss ratio, that is, the ratio of the actual supply volume to the total amount of procurement is directly linked to KOGAS’ revenues. Thus, KOGAS strives to ease the burden of natural gas fees for the public by minimizing the loss ratio and strengthening the revenue base. We have installed 16 metering stations by continuously adopting ultrasound metering stations which excel in accuracy, maintenance and operability compared to their counterparts. We have increased the level of expertise in the metering area by implementing calibration through authorized test institutions for the existing 3,451 metering stations and launching the Metering Management Team, and also run an exclusive business unit for efficient management. In 2016, the loss ratio for natural gases in 2016 stood at 0.056%, which was slightly up from the previous year, but the level has been continuously higher than that of overseas LNG terminal divisions of the identical level*. * ‌Company S in Italy with 0.045%> KOGAS 0.056%> Company E in the U.S. with 0.5%> Company D in the U.K. with 1.05%> Company N in Natural Gas Loss Ratio  Unit: % Australia with 3.50% Timely Expansion of the Production Facility Infrastructure 0.055 0.056 0.016* 2014 2015 2016 Facilities need to be expanded in a timely manner for a stable supply of natural gases. KOGAS is making preemptive responses by planning for midto long-term facility construction. Under a plan to increase the storage ratio by 20% by 2029, KOGAS completed the phase 1 construction project for the Samcheok * ‌Data for 2015 have been modified based on the findings of the accounting verification in 2017. LNG Terminal Division and started the send-out, opening up the era of production from four terminal divisions along with the ones in Pyeongtaek, Incheon and Tongyeong. Construction is underway for the LNG terminal division at Aewol Port in Jeju under the construction project for facilities to supply natural Natural Gas Distribution Rate to Local Governments gases to Jeju. Accordingly, construction of Aewol Terminal Division is to be completed in August 2019  Unit: % whereby the 20-inch main pipelines which are 81.9km long and eight supply management stations are to be constructed. Once completed, it is expected to supply natural gases of 150,000 tons per year throughout 90.8 Jeju. Once convenient and economical natural gases are supplied in Jeju, it will contribute to higher 87 84 convenience and benefits for local residents and self-sufficiency in electric energy supply within Jeju. Meanwhile, construction work for the main natural gas pipeline of 176km and 21 supply management stations was completed in June 2016. As such, we have successfully completed the ‘project to set up a meshed network in the northern part of the metropolitan area’ for stable supply of natural gases to LNG combined power plants and combined heat and power plants, while further disseminating natural gases in the northern part of the metropolitan area. We currently run the natural gas supply pipelines which are 2014 2015 2016 4,672km long in total and 383 supply management stations, supplying gases to 208 local governments, and the national natural gas distribution rate is 90.8%. Completion Records of Supply Pipelines  Unit: km Stable Gas Supply 233 KOGAS strives to ensure that no supply disruptions or power system failures occur by securely and 200 stably operating facilities. In 2016, we removed factors of anxiety in supply by tightly preventing supply 174 suspension as our clients continued to work on maintaining an appropriate level of supply pressure. We allocated highly skilled personnel and competent ones in major management stations first as a part of our efforts to prevent human errors. We also conducted periodic OJT training focused on cases of accidents and practice drills against simulated accidents once a quarter. We have also complemented the operational and work procedures, renewing the operation guideline in consideration of operating conditions in each 2014 2015 2016 management office, and strengthened the approval system in prior control stations upon operating valves in management stations. Furthermore, we have improved our supply and control systems: ‘reinforcing the voice notification on key alerts in control facilities and operating the system in alignment’, ‘expanding the indication for the installment specification for the operating screen in management stations’ and Storage Ratio ‘completing the voice notification function upon operating on-site valves and operating it routinely’.  Unit: % 14.9 14.8 Disruption in the Supply of Natural Gases and System Trouble Unit: number of cases 12.3 2014 2015 2016 Gas Supply Disruption* 0 0 1 System Trouble** 0 0 0 * Gas supply disruption: cases when there is a failure of gas supply to parties specified on the supply protocol and contracts ** ‌System Trouble: cases when there is a gas supply of over one hour while not satisfying the needs on the demand side including the 2014 2015 2016 volume and pressure as a result of facility breakdown and accidents 34 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Safety Safety Management Strategies Management EHSQ Management System Natural gases supplied by KOGAS might be safer than other sources of fuel, but due to the possibility of large-scale accidents caused by them, safety definitely tops any agenda. KOGAS has taken an active stance even more to establish the Environment, Health Safety & Quality Management System (EHSQMS), an integrated management system for health and environmental issues. For the EHSQ management system, we have acquired certifications of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 29001. The system has been designed and operated to be suited to domestic and international standards, which serve as the backbone to minimize on-site risks and raise productivity. We strive to achieve goals by sharing action plans throughout the corporation in order to advance the EHSQ management system and raise the level of safety culture. Safety Management Strategies EHSQ Management Measures Vision Creating an Advanced Safety Culture Based on Autonomous Safety Comply with related laws and regula1 tions and domestic and international standards Directions Raising awareness about safety Strengthening consensus Enhancing executing capabilities Establish the EHSQ management sys2 • ‌Sharing the commitment of • ‌Conducting voluntary safety • ‌Compensating performance tem and effectively manage it the CEO activities on safety • ‌Strengthening labor• Developing a safety culture • ‌Intensifying the weight in Secure the top quality from the pro3 management cooperation • ‌Strengthening internal evaluation duction to supply of natural gases • ‌Ensuring the management to communication • ‌Strengthening internal lead by example competency Conduct training for all employees to 4 enhance the level of EHSQ On-site Activities Settling a site-oriented autonomous safety culture Consider safety of suppliers equal to 5 KOGAS’ Forging Ensure that employees fulfill their roles Ensuring Ensuring Achieving laborContinuing to 6 safely, and establish a disaster response voluntary managers to on-site management carry on system by striving to prevent disaster engagement lead customization cooperation causing casualties and environmental pollution Internally and externally disclose measRoadmap for Safety Management 7 ures, goals, and performance and gather feedback to maintain transparency of EHSQ management Disaster rate Number of Safety KOGAS of partner facility accident Culture Index disaster rate companies cases 2021 To reduce the disaster To reduce the disaster Attainment Grade 8.1/Grade 10 as rate below one third rate below one third of of the average in the Zero Goals the full score the average disaster rate industry of electricity, of public corporations gas, and water supply Safety Management of Sites KOGAS has conducted site-oriented safety management activities to prevent industrial accidents on sites. In 2016, we reshuffled our organization and launched a separated exclusive unit for safety management to raise expertise of industrial safety and health activities. The amount of budget for expanding investment in safety increased with the injection of KRW 3335.3 billion in 2016, contributing to improved safety management. Meanwhile, as some of the issues have been continuously pointed out including incompetent safety management for small-and medium-scale construction sites and accidents involving suppliers, we added a special contractual condition upon signing a contract to impose safety management charges on sites lacking in safety activities. In addition, we have strengthened safety management activities by expanding the amount of constructions from over KRW 30 billion to over KRW 5 billion where the institution to exclude the industrial safety and health management cost from the bid price rate. In 2016, we achieved two consecutive years of zero accidents, and achieving the performance of being selected as a competent client in preventing construction accidents released by Korea Occupational Health & Safety Agency. The accident rate of our suppliers is at one third of the average rate of suppliers of corporate clients. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 35 Trust_True Energy World for the Future Advancing the Disaster Management System Disaster Prevention Activities KOGAS performs activities to manage disaster prevention against natural disasters including typhoons, earthquakes and tsunami and emergencies including terrorism and fires outbreaks. Yearly strategies for disaster prevention are devised and implemented, while the action manual for sites is formulated and revised for us to come with response strategies for each stage of an earthquake and standards for facility operation. In addition, we have raised the level of interest among all employees by running an exclusive unit for disaster-related operations, and implements the preventive inspection which has been reinforced. The CEO implemented site safety inspection himself for vulnerable regions and facilities against disasters. Meetings to confirm on crises against natural disasters were organized under the moderation of the vice president of technology. In addition, we removed 356 risks by performing disaster preventive activities for 66 times through the national safety diagnosis and safety inspection during a vulnerable period, etc. Competency Buildup for Disaster Response KOGAS has put in place a systematic response scheme against disasters to protect the lives and properties of the nation and minimize damage when disasters are expected or take place. We improved the system in 2016 for such competencies for disaster response to be intensified. The system was realigned into the ‘ICT Disaster Response System’ by utilizing video conferences on individual PCs of public officials and ‘Nara-eum’ service enabling online collaboration which was set up by the Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs. The system enables information sharing and joint crisis evaluation meetings on topical disaster situations among KOGAS in Daegu, Central Disaster and Safety Headquarters in Seoul, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy in Sejong and local governments overseeing disaster sites when disasters occur. They produced a log-in manual to enable cross-institutional collaboration when disasters break out, and checked out its functions jointly with local governments over once a quarter. In addition, we improved the operating equipment at the Disaster and Emergency Operations Center so that the system could work better to enable real-time transmission of video information. The system was even applied to ‘Safe Korea anti-Disaster Drill’, a disaster response drill, led by the Ministry of Public Safety and Security whereby realtime videos are shared among multiple parties with such related institutions as fire stations. Such efforts enhanced capabilities to counter disasters so that the government-level roles as a control tower could be executed even when large-scale disasters occur. System for Sharing Real-Time Disaster Situations KOGAS’ control tower for a Control room of KOGAS’ business site in disaster disaster site Sharing and storage of videos Connectivity of dispersed control rooms and real-time sharing of disaster situations Ministry of Public Ministry of the central Local autonomous Related institution Headquarters 12 sites Safety and Security government entity Disaster Management Evaluation* Performance of Optimized Operation of the Disaster Response System Due to the outbreak of an earthquake of 5.8 Richter intensity in Gyeongju in September 2016, KOGAS was required to conduct evaluation on anti-seismic performance and reinforcement of KOGAS’ earthquake2015** related facilities suited to natural gas facilities. As such, we completely revised the action manual for sites, 2014 2016 separately managing the standards for crisis alerts and gas supply suspension, thereby preventing supply suspension induced by malfunction in measuring the seismic acceleration. Moreover, we conducted Excellence Evaluation Excellence routine performance test on the pre-installed seismic detection facilities, and completely replaced obsolete waived * ‌Evaluation of disaster management on the infrastructure and inappropriate instruments. Furthermore, the seismic performance evaluation was implemented in 11 system organized by the Ministry of Public Safety and stations in 3 areas to 72 in 4, respectively. Meanwhile, Daegu Gyeongbuk Regional Division overseeing the Security ** ‌Evaluation in 2015 was waived thanks to the evaluation earthquake center of Gyeongju identified safety of underground buried pipelines, checking out soundness result (excellence) in 2014 of 140km-long pipelines. 36 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Raising Employees’ Awareness of Health and Safety Employee Health Management KOGAS has established and operates a health management system for industrial health management and prevention of occupational diseases by preventing health risks in the middle of work on sites and offices, creating a pleasant working environment and systematically managing employees’ health. Moreover, we run an in-house healthcare room to manage employees’ occupational diseases at all times. When we see employees with detected diseases based on results of the annual health check-up, we intensively manage them by signing an agreement with a medical clinic in their region. We formed a committee for not only managing employees’ physical health but also solving and supporting psychological grievances. The committee is in operation to improve the psychological health of employees through periodic psychological tests. In addition, the Industrial Safety and Health Committee has been set up and operated to review and decide on key matters on industry safety and health including securing a safe workplace and ensuring safety and health of employees. We organize sports and mountain climbing events to improve employees’ health and boost their collaborating spirit. We also try to boost individual health improving activities by operating such welfare facilities as a fitness center and a table tennis room and organizing health-related clubs. Furthermore, we ensure that our sites are free from smoking through continued efforts to wage an anti-smoking campaign throughout the corporation. Safety Training for Employees We conduct training to improve employees’ awareness of safety for all our employees in order to strengthen the level of a safety culture throughout the corporation, and job function-specific training to foster safety specialists. In 2016, as we provided training on safety and health, 181 employees completed statutory training and 34 completed specialized training. We opened 14 courses in the in-house safety training sessions, and 788 employees completed them. For executives, we run a safety leadership enhancement program, while for team directors and above, we reflect the weight associated with disasters by revising it upwards in our internal performance assessment. We fulfil our social responsibilities for safety against disasters through diverse training sessions: ‘Safe Korea anti-Disaster Drill’ led by the Ministry of Public Safety and Security, joint anti-disaster drills among related institutions, monthly inspection of the video conference system in the Disaster Control Room, and video conferencing via the communication network for national mapping. EHSQ Training System Next Energy, with KOGAS Establishing a Safety Culture, Fostering Specialized EHSQ Personnel Establishing a system for enhancing the safety culture level Setting up a training system by job function Early adaptation and Specialized competency EHSQ leadership EHSQ personnel EHSQ site personnel EHSQ specialized electrification buildup competency build-up development development personnel development Type Goal Objective Target Curriculum Employees having worked for • ‌EHSQ training in recruiting new Early adaptation • Learning ‌ the culture of KOGAS and KOGAS for two years or less employees and electrification EHSQ culture Grade 6 or below • Training EHSQ legal training • Regular safety and health training • ‌Raising awareness about being involved Establishing a Specialized Employees having worked for • ‌Disaster response in safety • EHSQ legal management training system to improve competency KOGAS for 3~10 years (risk management) training • ‌Strengthening specialized competency • EHSQ training by job function the safety culture buildup Grade 5~3 • Cyber safety training based on the EHSQ culture in each field level • 365-Day Safety Campaign • Gas fire drills EHSQ leadership Employees having worked for • Safety Leadership Program (SLT) • Enhancing ‌ the safety awareness among competency KOGAS for 11 years or more • Safety and health manager training the management buildup Grade 2 or higher • Supervisor training NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 37 Trust_True Energy World for the Future Information Establishing and Operating Information Security Management Security Selection of Key Tasks for Information Security Cyber infringement against public institutions has been recently expanded and security technologies have been reinforced driven by acceleration in the IT environment. In addition, policy, technical and managerial protection measures for the security environment of KOGAS have been required to be stronger due to limitation on unnecessary collection of personal information and more stringent laws and regulations on management activities. As such, KOGAS acquired the ISO 27001 certification, and selected three core tasks for information security to manage them in multi-dimensional manner: acquiring a strategic response system for evaluation of external institutions, operating an in-house control center and establishing a collaborative system, and setting up a system for integrated management of corporation-wide documents and content. Acquisition of the International Certification of the Information Protection Management System (ISO 27001) KOGAS has acquired the certification of ISO 27001 – the certification on the international standard for information protection – in order to proactively take part in protection activities for national infrastructure Evaluation of Information Security Management against cyber threats, while initiating security reinforcement by promptly embracing the rapidly changing  Unit: number of points information security policies. Having complemented the existing weakness in incompetent comprehensive 81.69 standards on the security control, we applied 114 standards in 14 areas of ISO to the corporation-wide 80.15 business network and key operations (manufacturing, sales, etc.), thereby systematically managing potential 74.58 security threats. We have standardized 10 operational standards and procedures including a procedure of personal information infringement, and complemented technical weaknesses including firewalls 100%. Not only that, we improved the level of security by securing a routine surveillance system for on-site information security to ensure preemptive security management. Having removed vulnerabilities in personal information online and offline and reinforced the level of security, we achieved zero case of 2014 2015 2016 personal information leakage. Roadmap for the Information Protection Management System Strengthening the system to inspect information security through the information protection prescribed in ISO 27001 Periodic inspection and classification of threats ⇨ Extraction of prioritized tasks for improvement ⇨ Systematic measures Setting up a system to block Setting up the Disaster Recovery Expanding the application of the mobile Internet Backup Center Digital Rights Management (DRM) Completely blocking abnormal Ensuring perfect restoration upon Blocking the external leakage of mobile accesses the destruction of the main IT center internal information Setup of the Latest Information Protection System OTP* certification system • ID/PW(Stage 1)+OTP(Stage 2) Setup and Operation of the Cyber Control Center ▼ KOGAS established the 24/7 Cyber Control Center, which can block cyber threats through emergency Reinforced certification of portal users actions and fast initial measures when security accidents occur by comprehensively monitoring from infrastructure associated with people’s entry, video footage, firefighting and electricity. Meanwhile, latest e-mail information protection system information protection systems are applied to OTP certification, e-mail information protection system and • Defense against APT* attack USB security system to remove security threats, thereby blocking 60,000 cases of risks. • Encryption of information ▼ KOGAS’ Comprehensive Cyber Defense System Blocking 60,000 cases of intelligent threats USB security system • Management of USB usage history Implementation of internal Setup of the Cyber Control Center • Possible control of CDs and mobile phones comprehensive control ▼ Entry, video footage, firefighting and Setup of infrastructure Control of carrying out of all types of electricity ▶ Operation of cyber security mobile devices Setup of the Cyber Network deployment Setup of Security control network control Control Center * OTP: One Time Password (operating 24/7) Setup of control system Set up of the integrated monitoring system * APT: Advanced Persistent Threat Shared Value with KOGAS 40 Healthy Industrial Eco-system 45 Innovation in Customer Service 48 Responsibilities to Local Community 54 Creation of Environmental Value 40 Healthy Industrial Eco-system MANAGEMENT APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE & NEXT GOAL KOGAS believes that creating a sound corporate ecological environment for the natural gas industry is an obligation of a public corporation to keep in mind for the sake of the nation and the public, and puts a high priority on the relevant issues. We maintain a fair partnership with small-and mediumsized suppliers and extend support for their growth to ensure win-win cooperation and shared growth. We contribute to higher productivity in the natural gas industry by sharing our technical prowess and know-how, and secure growth engines for Korea as well as the gas industry by expanding the procurement of products from SMEs. Satisfaction Level in Shared Growth Projects Unit: points 90 89.8 90 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance Number of companies participating in the channel support project Unit: number of companies 46 60 50 Healthy Industrial Eco-system 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance Records on procurement of SMEs products Unit: % 27.2 28.1 28.3 We cooperate with SMEs to We extend support to We disseminate a performance explore their new business strengthen SMEs’ R&D sharing system to settle a channels at home and abroad. competencies. culture of fair performance 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget distribution. mance NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 41 Healthy Industrial Eco-system Shared Strategies for Win-Win Cooperation for Shared Growth Growth System for Initiating Shared Growth KOGAS suggests a double gear growth model to create synergies by fostering the industry throughout the entire industrial eco-system for natural gases and jointly developing technical packages of private companies. We carry out activities of win-win cooperation with two axes – securing growth engines in SMEs and turning SMEs into global giants – accordingly, and pour in all-out efforts to spread the culture of shared growth. Midto Long-Term Shared Growth Roadmap System for Initiating Shared Growth ~2017 Short Term Vision KOGAS, a Platform for Glocal Natural Gases with SMEs • Recognition ‌ as an institution of excellence in the shared growth evaluation Model for Double Gear Growth Model for Growth • Successful ‌ completion of the initial operation of the gas project-type export strategy system 1st Developing global giants (GASPO) Double Gear Securing growth engines Gear 2nd (helping to turn SMEs into hidden • Localization ‌ of equipment and materials and Targets (securing growth engines of SMEs) Gear champions) completion of a roadmap for technological development Four Strategies Strengthening Intensifying corporate Reinforcing efforts to Creating a culture for technological 2018~2021 Mid Term productivity discover new channels shared growth competitiveness • ‌No.1 in rank as a public corporation specializing in energy Facilitating the R&D Supporting productivity Jointly discovering Facilitating the 12 Strategic Tasks • ‌Expansion of the operation of Gas Industry mentoring system enhancement overseas channels performance sharing ExPOrt Platform (GASPO) system • ‌Localization of equipment and materials Developing jointly Supporting liquidity Jointly advancing into and initiation of Phase 1 of technological aligned technologies for SMEs overseas projects of Expanding projects for development expanding infrastructure Strengthening compeKOGAS local win-win benefits ‌Execution of tasks which can be internally Expanding projects for tencies of SMEs Supporting the Facilitating the Shared initiated cooperation in technolodiscovery of markets for Growth Council gical development domestic demand 2022~2025 Long Term • ‌Entry into the rank of world-class shared growth • ‌Aligned operation of GASPO and the localization system Organization in Charge • ‌Localization of equipment and materials KOGAS has the Shared Growth Team which supervises and solely manages operations involving shared and initiation of Phase 2 of technological development growth, and executes and controls such operations. We discuss major policies and action plans through ‌Execution of tasks requiring collaboration related councils, that is, Shared Growth Management Council, Working-Level Council for Shared Growth, with the government, etc. Public Procurement Manager Council and Council for Shared Growth on Site, etc. Organization in Charge of Shared Growth Organization in Charge of Shared Growth Tasks Related councils Planning management Strategy Planning Department CEO Shared Growth Management Council KOGAS’ overall business analysis and policy • ‌Key role consultation on key policies for Execution control planning, etc. including shared growth tasks Top management/Executives Audit Team shared growth • Frequency of meetings: whenever needed Internal control of appropriateness of initiating operations including prevention of unfair transactions Shared Growth Team (supervision/in charge) Working-Level Council for Shared Growth • ‌Key role consultation on measures to Support Corporate Culture Team • Initiation of supervision of operations implement policies for shared growth • ‌Setting and management of key performance indicators (KPIs) in subordinate • Frequency of meetings: quarterly Formation of a culture of sound shared supporting units growth including improvement in the • Internal evaluation and reward on performance of shared growth hierarchical culture with SMEs Public Procurement Manager Council • ‌Key role consultation on the expansion of procurement of SMEs products on site Material Contracting Team Divisions Nationwide Construction Department KOGAS Research Institute • Frequency of meetings: semiannually Improvement in the system for Procurement of SMEs products, Procurement of materials for conMentoring of technological developderegulation and procurement of development of small-amount struction associated with equipment ment for SMEs, technical problemSMEs products technologies, and receipt and construction, and exploration of solving and support for joint usage management of complaints tasks for technological development of research equipment and materials Council for Shared Growth on Site • ‌Key role discussion on measures to Overseas Business Department E&P Business Department Facility Operation Department cooperate with SMEs on site • Frequency of meetings: whenever needed Joint entry into overseas projects Joint entry into overseas projects Procurement of SMEs products involved with SMEs with SMEs in facility operation, and exploration of technological development tasks 42 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Strengthening Sales Channels Establishing ‘KOGAS Export Platform’ to Explore Overseas Sales Channels for SMEs Export of SMEs products requires an organically connected process in action, which covers acquisition of trade infrastructure, ownership of technological prowess, certification of product specifications, acquisition of marketing instruments and exploration of export channels. Even a single problem within the process might, in fact, block the path for export. Against this backdrop, KOGAS established the Gas Industry Export Platform (GASPO), a platform for systematic export support. It aims to support small-and medium-sized suppliers to develop their competency in each export stage and improve their capability for exclusively strengthening areas lacking in export potentials, in consideration of the nature of KOGAS and government policies. GASPO is a platform which has integrated and complemented the existing sporadic schemes for export support into a single system. We ensure to diagnose and resolve points of possible export blockage by setting up and implementing GASPO, and activate and operate the function of each core stage. GASPO system Phase 1 of GASPO establishing a complementary system for vulnerable areas in each export stage of SMEs Systematic map of GASPO 1 ▶ 2 ▶ 3 Acquisition of trade infrastructure Technological development Certification of product specification • Financial support for SMEs • ‌Technical problem-solving for technological • ‌Support for products under development • ‌Acquisition of personnel involved in export development and cooperation projects to be certified for international standards ▼ • ‌Commercialization of products through • ‌Application for intellectual property rights technology transfer 6 ◀ 5 ◀ 4 Alignment with joint overseas advancement Exploration of export channels Utilization of marketing instruments • ‌Joint overseas marketing by utilizing the • Connectivity with EPC companies • Production of brochures for export brand of KOGAS • Acquisition of agents • Issuance of supplier certificates in English • ‌Export driver of overseas plants of domestic • Registration as overseas vendors • ‌Issuance of letters of confirmation on companies based on joint public-private delivery performance in English cooperation • ‌Registration as vendors on the list of projects run by KOGAS Phase 2 of GASPO developing GASPO as a platform Maximizing the export engine for all the suppliers by uploading and sharing information on export support for individuals SMEs (know-how on market entry and information on markets, etc.) in the GASPO system *‌Information to be shared: overall know-how and success/failure stories, etc., including cautions for market advancement by product and market, information on Satisfaction Level in Shared Growth Projects buyers and agents, and things to note for transactions  Unit: points Overseas Promotional Activities by Utilizing the Brand of KOGAS 89.8 85.1 70.4 KOGAS supports overseas marketing for SMEs by utilizing its brand and recognition. We have set up booths to promote small-and medium-sized suppliers to promote them with the brand of KOGAS up front in a large-scale international gas industry conference and exhibition, and produced and distributed a joint brochure to introduce their products and corporate profiles. This type of support was effective in forming trust among visitors of KOGAS’ booth toward small-and medium-sized suppliers as customers and 2014 2015 2016 partners of KOGAS, whose qualification requires stringent technical standards and conditions. We also ran KOGAS Shared Growth Pavilion of 25 booths in not only domestic exhibitions including ‘GAS KOREA’ and ‘Environment & Energy Tech’ but also Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & Conference where export consultations worth USD 46 million were carried out, thereby contributing to exploration of sales Amount of the Shared Growth Fund Raised  Unit: KRW billion channels for SMEs. ■ KOGAS’ contributions ■ Amount of the fund raised Support for Exploration of the Domestic Market 50.0 40.0 KOGAS explores new markets by forming a model for shared growth in acquiring sales channels for SMEs based on private-public cooperation. We carried out the ‘project to convert LNG engine for ships’ under a joint initiative among KOGAS, Busan Metropolitan Government and SMEs whereby (two) public ships held 10.0 by Busan Metropolitan Government were converted into LNG ships on a pilot scale, and an agreement on joint implementation was signed to expand the conversion up to 28 ships. As such, we proceeded with 5.0 20.0 25.0 cooperation projects which are expected to improve the marine atmospheric environment, and bring 2015 2016 2017 about an increase of KRW 6 billion in annual sales volume for SMEs. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 43 Healthy Industrial Eco-system Strengthening Technological Competitiveness Contracts on technology transfer (accumulated) R&D Mentoring System  Unit: number of cases KOGAS strives to address the challenge confronted by SMEs due to a shortage of researchers through 38 several programs to intensify the technological competitiveness of SMEs in the natural gas industry: 36 34 ‘technological mentoring system’ and ‘one-point solution for bottleneck techniques’ by leveraging the resources of research workforce at the Resources Technology Research Center, LNG Technology Research Center, New Energy Technology Research Center and Research Center for Technical Support. In 2016, we provided five cases of technological mentoring including the ‘development of super-high-efficiency stainless-type heat recovery mechanism for gas-powered equipment’ and five cases of one-point solutions for bottleneck techniques related to localization of gas flow meters. 2014 2015 2016 Meanwhile, we completed 38 cases of technology transfer up until 2016 through the ‘development of SMEs products through the transfer of retained technology and related projects’ to transfer natural gasrelated IPRs held by KOGAS to SMEs. We performed nine cases of test projects in 2016 in KOGAS’ natural gas facilities including LNG terminal divisions and pipelines under the ‘project to provide a test bed for products developed by SMEs which utilize natural gas facilities’. Amount of reduction in procurement cost by Technological Development Cooperation Projects utilizing products of successful technological development KOGAS develops technologies aligned with new growth projects including LNG bunkering and fuel cell projects, and localizes major equipment and materials for gas facilities in partnering with SMEs 1.28 on technological development. We extend technological development cost and experiences with site operation to small-and medium-sized suppliers, which, in turn, secure technological competitiveness by KRW billion developing key components for gas facilities with their own technological prowess. The technologies and products that are developed are procured by KOGAS to guarantee revenues for SMEs, which could pave the way for KOGAS to stably supply natural gases by reducing the procurement cost of foreign products Amount of reduction in procurement coast by and improving the facility performance. In 2016, we sponsored technological development cost worth KRW utilizing localized components 1.1 billion for 19 tasks, through which, cost reduction and import substitution effects worth KRW 2.7 billion were generated. KOREA KRW 1.46 billion Strengthening Corporate Productivity Expanding Programs of Win-Win Benefits for SMEs KOGAS has implemented the project of ‘Small and Medium Business Corporation Plan’ along with SMEs, aiming to help them lay the foundation for inducement of long-term retention of core personnel and for the influx of competent talents. The project is intended to provide performance pay – the joint fund accumulated by an employer and an employee to mid-term core personnel after their five continuous years of service. KOGAS plans to extend KRW 198 million for the next five years by selecting 33 core personnel in about 10 companies. We also run the ‘Shared Growth Fund’ worth KRW 50 billion as a project to support SMEs’ fund liquidity. It is to provide a low-interest fund to SMEs by forming a loan fund via one-on-one matching with the Industrial Bank of Korea based on KOGAS’ non-interest deposits. We secured a fund worth KRW 50 billion from the deposits of KRW 5 billion in 2015 and KRW 20 billion in 2016, and executed loans of KRW 47.1 billion to 168 SMEs. Furthermore, we perform projects of win-win cooperation by establishing the fair trade order through the introduction and setup of the ‘Win-Win Payment System’, and support SMEs’ liquidity through early conversion of suppliers’ sales proceeds into cash and risk prevention of serial bankruptcies. Training for Competency Buildup for Employees of Small-and Medium-Sized Suppliers Having recognized a lack of opportunities in training for small-and medium-sized suppliers due to a challenging management environment and a lack of supporting schemes, KOGAS provides diverse training and consulting programs to foster their practical competencies on production sites and their capabilities for job functions. We have opened our internal employee training programs for those of smalland medium-sized suppliers to take, and enable them to develop their understanding of natural gases and practical capabilities through site visits of production and supply facilities in the natural gas industry. Furthermore, cyber training sessions are provided to upgrade their employees’ job functions and language proficiency so that they competencies could be strengthened by completing courses on business, professional job functions and foreign languages. 44 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Spreading the Culture of Shared Growth Spreading the Performance Sharing System KOGAS implements the performance sharing system to select tasks catering to joint needs of small-and medium-sized suppliers and KOGAS, extend economic and technical support and share the performance. Both entities gain win-win benefits and achieve goals of shared growth as the system spreads a culture of fair performance distribution and provides opportunities ranging from product development and opening of sales channels. We raise efficiency of the system by periodically measuring and evaluating the process of implementing projects for technological development cooperation and competency buildup of SMEs. Meanwhile, we have expanded the topic of tasks to the ‘area of utilizing natural gases’ and launched a system for small-scale technological development, recognizing internal and external environmental changes: reduction in the number of registered tasks due to a lack of consensus for the need for shared growth with SMEs and reduction in the demand for gas; and lower sales of SMEs due to shrinkage in investment in new facilities amid slowdown in overseas development. As a consequence, we discovered five tasks in the area of natural gas utilization and seven tasks in small-scale technological development in 2016. Dissemination Level of the Performance Process of KOGAS’ Performance Sharing System Sharing System* 1 ▶ 2 ▶ 14.1 3 13.6 12.2 Exploration of Tasks Evaluation and Selection of Tasks Contract Signing and Performance Sharing • ‌‌Internally improvement of on-site facility • ‌Evaluation factors necessity, usage and • ‌Mutual consultation on measures to share performance economical value of products to be performance between KOGAS and SMEs ▼ • Externally: suggestions from outside KOGAS developed, and benefits for KOGAS 6 ◀ 5 ◀ 4 Performance Sharing and Reinvestment Task Evaluation and Performance Sharing Task Execution 2014 2015 2016 • ‌Institution: cost reduction or improvement • ‌Performance sharing exclusively for • ‌Department in charge of task management: * ‌Dissemination Level of the Performance Sharing System: in facility performance successful products in task evaluation department in charge of orders of related the number of registered tasks in the year of evaluation • ‌Company involved in development: sales • ‌Issuance of an official request for products × 0.3 + the number of identified tasks up to the year of growth and re-investment in technological enterprise-wide cooperation for evaluation × 0.7 development implementing performance sharing Expanding Local Win-Win Projects KOGAS provides consulting for productivity innovation and wages an industrial innovation movement to support production facilities and technological development of SMEs and small-and medium-sized suppliers (including secondary and tertiary ones) in Daegu where KOGAS headquarters is located. We have made achievements for nine companies from November 2015 in the following areas: improving the working environment, preventing safety accidents, acquiring systematic development methodologies and competencies for developing manuals, and consulting on and supporting the basis for standardizing the product development stages and quality assurance system. By doing so, we improved the defect rate associated with outsourcing in SMEs and reducing their production cost. Procurement of SMEs Products  Unit: %, number of cases Listening to Bottlenecks of SMEs and Improving Systems ■ ‌Procurement rate of SMEs products KOGAS conducts on-site meetings to listen to in-depth and honest on-site voices of SMEs. In particular, we provide immediate feedback in alignment with working-level departments on small-and medium(based on the amount of products) ■ Organizing/Participating in procurement seminars sized suppliers’ requests for improvement. We have set up a system to gather external opinions to listen to 28.1 and give feedback to SMEs on KOGAS website in order to listen to ideas on business, safety, contracts and 27.8* 26.7 shared growth, and notify the results on improvements made on the bulletin board and provide individual notification to those who requested for the feedback. Moreover, we operate online channels including ‘Shared Growth Band’ ad ‘Shared Growth Center of KOGAS’, and offline channels including ‘CEO Hotline’, ‘Demand Analysis Research’ and ‘Open Council/Meeting’. 4 6 Expanding the Procurement of SMEs Products 2 KOGAS conducts training for employees in charge of the public procurement system to spread procurement of SMEs products, and ensures opportunities to promote their products and meet one 2014 2015 2016 another in procurement seminars of public corporations and SMEs. The SMEs product procurement rate in * ‌Since 27.3% disclosed in the 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 reached 28.1%, and the number of times KOGAS organized and participated in procurement seminars is wrong, it is to be corrected as 27.8%. was six, which has been gradually rising. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 45 Innovation in Customer Service MANAGEMENT APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE & NEXT GOAL KOGAS defines customers as targets of direct and indirect services in the distribution process of natural gases. Customers are categorized into three groups: first, the general public as end-users of natural gases indirectly provided by KOGAS; second, city gas producers delivering natural gases from KOGAS to consumers; and third, large-volume consumers directly provided with services by KOGAS. We run a network for customer satisfaction management to provide products and services that satisfy customers, identify customer needs through close communication, and reflect them in management activities. Customer Satisfaction Level Grade Grade Grade S S S 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance Supply Rate of Local Governments* Unit: % 89.5 90.8 90.8 Innovation in Customer Service 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance * ‌Supply rate of local governments = number of supply of local governments ÷ total number of local governments Public Perception Index Unit: points 56.0 53.7 58.0 We provide services for the We implement user-oriented We establish a system public to perceive the benefits management activities for for communication and through innovation in public improvement in public collaboration for win-win 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget services. benefits. growth with customers. mance 46 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Public Satisfaction Innovation in Public Perception-Driven Service Management Strategies for Innovation in Public Perception-Driven Service KOGAS is a public corporation established to enhance the livelihood and public welfare of citizens by securely and stably supplying natural gases. KOGAS defines customers as all targets of direct and indirect services ranging from city gas producers to the public. We make diverse efforts to satisfy customers by identifying customer needs and reflecting them in management activities. System for Innovation in Public Perception-Driven Service Innovation Raising the quality of public service and happiness of the public driven by autonomous innovation Objective Innovation Raising benefits for the public Improving public-oriented services Easing the burden of the public Directions Innovation Tasks Establishing a system or Improving systems to be rational Reducing the gas cost communication and collaboration Intensifying activities for Proactively opening facilities Lowering the cost for gas supply information sharing infrastructure Raising efficiency in collaborationReforming irrational regulations based investment Roadmap for Innovation in Public Perception-Driven Service Level Level Level 1 2 3 Period of another jump-up: 2015~2016 Expansionary period: 2017~2021 Settlement period: 2022~2025 • ‌Laying the foundation for collaboration • ‌Intensifying site-driven innovation • ‌Establishing an enterprise-wide and win-win growth activities culture of innovation • ‌Intensifying activities for autonomous • ‌Strengthening the efforts to share • ‌Realizing a corporate culture in innovation innovation activities pursuit of innovation Customer Communication KOGAS enhances its corporate image and perception by expanding the channels to communicate with the public. We run a promotional pavilion, and promote key achievements through media on shared growth, higher public benefits and expansion of energy welfare. In addition, various types of content are available on our website and SNS to expand the customer relationship network. We run the enterprise-wide ‘network to initiate customer satisfaction management’ to identify customer needs. KOGAS’ on-site service organizations led by excusive departments by customer type handle job functions for customer satisfaction management. CS leaders have been selected by customer type and contact point, thereby enhancing our capability to execute tasks for customer satisfaction. In addition, the CS Initiation Committee is periodically up and running on site with the participation of customer members to listen to the voices of customers and improve customer services. We also operate ‘KOGAS CS SCHOOL’, a win-win cooperation and competency buildup programs for wholesalers and retailers. We also conduct demand forecasting training for personnel in charge of volume partially committed for the city gas so that KOGAS and customers could exchange demand forecasting data, paving the way for higher accuracy in demand forecasting. Customer Satisfaction Level KOGAS conducts on-site seminars to address inevitable problems that occur at sites in advance, thus listening to the voices of customers and finding solutions with customers. KOGAS is equipped with face-toface communication channels for key customers including city gas producers, power generators, and direct suppliers. Programs we run include a joint workshop with customers, the Demand Development Council, a seminar on tariff schemes, a seminar for customers, tech information exchange meetings, Demand Development Workshops, and On-site Business Day. Customer VOC is monitored in real time through 2014 2015 2016 online customer support systems including the customer support system, the customer center on the website, and BIZ portal. Such efforts served as the basis to collect actual customer feedback. We strive to Grade A Grade A Grade S fully reflect the rational demands derived from the process in improvement tasks. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 47 Innovation in Customer Service Performance in Activities for Innovation in Public Services Improvement in Public Benefits by Establishing a System for Communication and Collaboration KOGAS is leading changes of happiness for the public by engaging in user-oriented customized services. We have set up oceanographic big data in collaboration with the National Fisheries Research and Development Institute for long-term and continuous management of oceanographic information because of diverse types of complaints continuously raised on the cooled water discharge due to the operation of LNG bases, and the occurrence of damage done to nearby local fishermen, especially from the red tide resulting from global warming, etc. The system was disclosed through the web service with the real-time reflection of the materials through five buoys observed by KOGAS and the oceanographic observation data of the National Fisheries Research and Development Institute. Furthermore, information on fish farms is provided in real time to nearby local fishermen by providing the function of the red tide alert system. Improving Public-Oriented Services by Enhancing Public Perception-Driven Systems Upgrading Services through System Setup and Improvement Number of cases registered to apply for incentives for facilities for the underprivileged The Gas tariff Reduction Management System (GRMS) whose service is provided by KOGAS is s system  Unit: number of cases for the public eligible for gas tariff reduction to conveniently apply for the benefits and for personnel in charge of city gas production to manage it with convenience. The method of applying for city gas tariff 46 reductions and the qualification renewal was improved and simplified in alignment with the government’s administrative network for the underprivileged. The number of households that received the benefits of 29 gas tariff reduction in 2016 increased by 12% to 1,039,000. 28 Meanwhile, we initiated the simplification of the application procedure for the project to support gas cooling. The existing five-step application procedure was streamlined to a three-step one to be performed on KOGAS website, thereby improving the procedure to be simpler. As a result of recipient-friendly promotional activities, the number of applications for incentives for facilities for the underprivileged 2014 2015 2016 reached 46 in 2016. Promotional stickers for the project to support Efforts to Expand Recipients in the Project for Gas Cooling gas cooling ? ! Before After 가스냉방 장려금 지원 저렴한 운전비용 • Attachment of promotional stickers on tariff bills, etc. 한국에너지 공단 저리융자 대상 • Low perception of the project to support gas cooling • ‌Application via email to personnel in charge through • Submission of the application documents via visit or post 자세한 내용은 한국가스공사 홈페이지를 참조하세요 KOGAS website Converting Fuel into LNG for Yard Tractors KOGAS has continued to convert the fuel into LNG for yard tractors container carriers in operation in ports – by signing an agreement with the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries and Busan Port Authority. The fuel cost burden has been eased (approximately KRW 13 million/unit) by saving approximately 38% compared to diesel fuel through the supply of LNG to yard tractors. Moreover, the working environment was improved for port workers who used to suffer from the exhaust emission, while GHG from ports was Conversion of fuel into LNG for yard tractors dramatically lowered. (accumulated) Unit: number of units 72 Lowering the Public Burden Driven by Efforts to Reduce City Gas Tariff 37 We ease the public burden and enhance energy welfare by efficiently running our projects. We reduce the public burden through timely reflection of tariff reduction factors, and share the pain with them by applying tariff discounts to the public hit hard by natural disasters including an earthquake or a typhoon. 2 In particular, when petitioners eligible as a multi-child (three or more) family apply for birth registration, the process is handled at a city community center in an integrated manner so that recipients can receive 2014 2015 2016 tariff reduction benefits without undergoing an extra application process. 48 Responsibilities to Local Community MANAGEMENT APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE & NEXT GOAL KOGAS considers that it is a responsibility as a public corporation to achieve win-win cooperation with the local community, gaining its support and trust, while extending sufficient support by communicating proactively with community and identifying mutual needs, perceiving that it is the starting point of value sharing. In addition, we have implemented social contribution activities which pursue creation of both corporate values and community values, transcending social contribution activities in a philanthropic one-way support. Expansion of the Portion of Investment in Demand Generation Unit: % 10 15 18 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance Heat Efficiency Improvement Project Unit: ■ Number of facilities* Number of households** 100 102 110 Responsibilities to Local Community 50 56 60 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance * Social welfare facilities, ** The socially underprivileged Social contribution mileage* Unit: point/number of people 41.50 42.89 47.47 We proceed with social We embody ‘Onnuri’ – KOGASWe take the lead in facilitating contribution activities which style social contribution the local economy. create shared value. brand. 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance * ‌A system to manage employees’ performance in volunteering and donation of money, etc. by quantifying it NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 49 Responsibilities to Local Community Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities by Creating Sharing Value Activities of KOGAS KOGAS defines social contribution activities as those to realize the human dignity and improve the quality of life. We are committed to playing full responsibilities as a corporate citizen by engaging in our inherent management activities which contribute to the livelihood of the public and returning corporate profits to the society. As such, we strive to realize energy welfare and spread the culture of sharing through ‘Onnuri’ – KOGAS-style social contribution brand. In 2016, in particular, we established a strategy system for KSVtype social contribution activities*, which pursues the generation of both corporate values including economic benefits and social values. * KSV-style social contribution activities: KOGAS-style social contribution activities for creating shared value (CSV) KSV-style Social Contribution Strategies Vision Achieving Global KOGAS as Customers’ Companion Strategic Goals Initiating Global Social Contribution Activities Brand Name Onnuri (‘Make the whole world a Heart-warming Place for People to Live in’) Goals of Social Realizing social responsibilities by strengthening KSV-style social contribution activities Contribution Activities Directions for Early discovery of KSV-style tasks + Substantiation of existing social contribution activities Implementation in 2016 Strategy Tasks Onnuri Harmony Onnuri Hope Onnuri One Heart Onnuri Love Project Project for win-win Project for global Project for a culture for energy welfare cooperation with cooperation of voluntary sharing community Social contribution project cost in Daegu Implementation tasks KSV-style tasks Projects to generate a Generation of jobs with a Support for a technical 3.1billion in 2016 demand for the installaKRW self-sufficiency program training school in Motion of fuel cells in social for the elderly zambique 3.6 ▼ welfare facilities KRW billion in 2017 Key Explanation Implementation of Implementation of • ‌Medical and scholarManagement of Onnuri Onnuri Heat Efficiency social contribution ship programs Volunteer Groups Improvement Project activities tailored for • ‌A campaign to protect Daegu (sponsorship cultural heritage sites Implementing ‘VolunSupport for city gas of local events, a toy • ‌Blue Sky Project teer 5up’ campaign: KOtariff for the underlibrary project, a project (an air environment GAS-style sharing camprivileged in terms of to support residential improvement movepaign to raise the social energy stability, support for ment) contribution mileage severely ill pediatric • ‌Sponsorship of sports (summing of time-spepatients suffering from and academic fields cific donations) by 5% rare or incurable disa year compared to the eases and specialized previous year contribution projects for the elderly, etc.) Connectivity of UN SDGs and KOGAS’ Social Contribution Activities Four priorities related to group-level strategies among UN SDGs and connectivity with project drivers • ‌Efficient implementation of domestic and Sustainable modern Eradicating all types of Efficiently implementing domestic and overseas international projects by raising the brand value energies which are cheap poverty in all places projects by raising the brand value • Increase in the amount of natural gas usage and reliable for all through projects which generate a demand Guaranteeing a healthy life Efficiently implementing domestic and overseas Easing intra-national and Efficient implementation of domestic and and improving welfare for projects by boosting the brand value cross-national inequality international projects by raising the brand value people of all ages 50 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Performance of KSV-style Social Contribution Activities Expansion of the Portion of Investment in Expanding Demand-Generating Social Contribution Projects Demand Generation  KOGAS performs various demand-generating social contribution projects for the underprivileged and KRW 0.1 billion / KRW 0.75 billion / social welfare organizations in alignment with the nature of its business. We implemented a ‘pilot project KRW 3.4 billion KRW 5.1 billion to install fuel cells*’ to contribute to energy welfare of social welfare facilities in Daegu and disseminate new and renewable energies. We extended KRW 300 million to Daegubeol Welfare Center and Jisan Social 15% Welfare Center, completing the installation of fuel cells of 5kW. The facilities are expected to generate cost 3% reduction of 10~15% in electric bills and hot water supply fees by installing fuel cells as high-efficiency ecofriendly energy devices. Furthermore, we continue to implement KCSV-style social contribution projects 2015 2016 which pursue two objectives of generation of a demand for natural gases and realization of energy welfare, including installation of Gas Engine Heat Pump (GHP) and laundry driers in social welfare facilities and support for installation of inlet pipelines for areas where city gas was not supplied. ‌* ‌Fuel cells: high-efficiency eco-friendly new and renewable energy sources with comprehensive efficiency of over 82% and CO2 reduction effect of 40% compared to thermal power generation as a system to generate heat and electricity, using the chemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen extracted from the city gas Creation of ‘Beautiful Jobs’ through the Architecture Academy KOGAS created jobs for the homeless under Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Project in collaboration with Daegu Social Welfare Council and the Cell Town* Counseling Center. KOGAS and the Cell Town Fuel cells for Jisan Welfare Center Counseling Center established a curriculum and selected target recipients. Six homeless people were recruited in Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Project of KOGAS after conducting training at the Architecture Academy at Daegu Social Welfare Council. The project is significant in that it supported financial self-sufficiency through exclusive technical training programs instead of simply extending financial support to the homeless. * Cell town: a small room of 3.3 square meter leased on a monthly rent without a deposit Launch of Mozambique Technical Training Class Architecture Academy Having signed an MOU with the Mozambican government in Africa on cooperation in resources development, KOGAS has installed a plant for developing gas oil fields and conducted a gas pipeline construction work. Although the project required a large-scale skilled workforce, there was a lack of skilled personnel due to the absence of technical college or professional workforce in Mozambique. As such, KOGAS opened a technical training class in a middle and high school in Maputo to satisfy the demand of the Mozambican government for support – Korea’s partner country in terms resources – and acquire necessary personnel on site. Courses in the class cover theories and practices on pipelines and welding. The training is expected to foster Mozambican students as specialized workforce, thus contributing to creation of jobs for youths and higher income in Mozambique, and also serve as a pipeline to acquire Mozambique Technical School personnel, being capable of continuously fostering customized technical workforce for KOGAS. Exploration and Performance of Tasks for KSV-style Social Contribution Activities Performance in creating shared value Type Records Value of contribution to KOGAS management Social value • ‌Generating a demand for natural gases and promoting • Reducing the fuel cost for welfare facilities • Installing fuel cells of 5kW in (two) social welfare facilities the fuel cell project • Improving the noise and air quality Onnuri • ‌Generating a demand for gas for cooling and promoting • Improving welfare in vulnerable facilities • Installing Gas Engine Heat Pump (GHP) Love gas cooling effect • Contributing to easing the power peak in summer • Improving welfare of the underprivileged • Installing city gas-based laundry dryers in (30) social welfare • ‌Generating a demand for natural gases and expanding • ‌Contributing to shared growth by disseminating SMEs facilities the dissemination of gas-powered devices products • ‌Conducting training for acquiring technician certificates in Onnuri • ‌Utilizing the homeless as technical workforce in social construction for self-sufficiency of the homeless (20 people) • Creating jobs for the homeless Harmony contribution activities → six of them landed on a job • ‌Supporting technological development in least devel• ‌Supporting Mozambique Technical Training School • ‌Forging friendly ties with resource-rich countries, and oped countries ‌Constructing a technical training facility for 200 trainees per laying the foundation for success of the Mozambican • ‌Paving the way for joint entry of domestic enterprises Onnuri year project into overseas market Hope • ‌Supporting talents majoring in gas engineering at Hoseo • Establishing a pool of talents involved in the gas busi• Setting up the basis for industry-academic cooperation University (10 students per year) ness and utilizing the workforce required by KOGAS • Creating jobs in the gas industry NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 51 Responsibilities to Local Community Performance of Onnuri Social Contribution Activities Heat Efficiency Improvement Project Onnuri Love Project  Unit: number of households/facilities Heat Efficiency Improvement Project Under the ‘Onnuri Love Project’, heating efficiency is improved through floor heating in low income ■ Low-income households ■ Facilities 126 households and social welfare facilities, heat insulation in walls and replacement of windows and flooring 102 102 or wallpaper, while supporting the installation of inlet pipelines for city gas. In 2016, the project was 57 56 implemented with the total budget of KRW 1.9 billion for 45 low-income households and 101 social welfare facilities. The budget was also utilized to support the cost of installing LNG inlet pipelines in 14 low-income households and 22 welfare facilities in vulnerable residential districts. 5 Gas Tariff Reduction Project 2014 2015 2016 We carry out a project to support heating fees for our neighbors struggling from a shortage of heating fees in order to improve the quality of life and achieve energy welfare for the underprivileged. In 2016, Gas Tariff Reduction Project the number of those that are eligible for gas tariff reduction increased as expanded the number of eligible The socially underprivileged beneficiaries, thus providing gas tariff benefits of KRW 71.9 billion to 1,039,00 underprivileged households ■ Target households (number of households) and KRW 5 billion to social welfare facilities. We strive to reach out to more neighbors by paying the ■ Amount of reduction (KRW 100 million) outstanding amount for city gas tariff for the underprivileged in winter, and providing a month-long tariff 1,039,000 discount for victims of the earthquake and typhoon in the summer of 2016 in Gyeongju, Ulsan, Yangsan 865,000 926,122 and Busan. 698 719 655 Onnuri Harmony Project The Onnuri Harmony Project is a community-centered social contribution activity to revitalize the local economy and establish trust with local community residents. We extend financial support to local 2014 2015 2016 governments around natural gas terminal divisions in accordance with internal regulations. We have Social Welfare continuously scaled up the implementation of social contribution activities tailored for Daegu where our ■ Facilities (number of facilities) headquarters is located. KOGAS organized the Park Concert twice by holding the inauguration ceremony of ■ Amount of reduction (KRW 100 million) Daegu Mecenat Council with commitment to foster Daegu as a premium city of culture and art in 2016. By 22,542 23,025 organizing the Park Concert every year, and fostering it as a cultural content representing not only Daegu 22,032 but also Korea, KOGAS seeks to contribute to turning Daegu into a globally-renowned city of culture. In addition, we run various social contribution programs for the underprivileged including support for underprivileged children to enjoy cultural performances, a project to improve study rooms for juveniles 37 50 and Haengbok Dungji (‘happiness nest’), a project for housing stability. We also do our best in follow-up 30 care of Onnuri Children’s Toy Library formed by KOGAS. 2014 2015 2016 Onnuri Hope Project Amount of Settlement for Postponement of Supply Suspension Unit: KRW The Onnuri Hope Project is a social contribution activity aimed to foster future generations. Along with the medical outreach program including a medical support project for severely ill pediatric patients, a 23,403,892 project to sponsor aid tools for disabled children, and a project to support operation fees for heart disease pediatric patients in developing countries. We strive to fulfil our social responsibilities as a global energy 15,160,340 corporation by continuously exploring contribution projects for local residents to beef up their competency for self-sufficiency instead of merely giving unidirectional benefits, as in the case of Mozambique Technical Training Class, a benchmarking model as a KSV-style social contribution activity. Furthermore, a project to 5,776,080 improve the atmospheric environment for a sustainable society is underway along with a project to protect cultural properties. KOGAS also makes unwavering investment in promoting sports and culture. 2014 2015 2016 Onnuri One Heart Project Mileage Points for Social Contribution Activities*  Unit: point/person KOGAS has conducted voluntary social contribution activities by running the Onnuri Volunteer Groups 39.91 42.89 launched in April 1999. The Onnuri Volunteer Groups of KOGAS consists of eight teams in the head office and 17 branches of business divisions. (as of January 2017). They spread the consensus of a culture of 29.15 sharing through various types of volunteering activities: voluntary charity work aligned with local welfare facilities, sharing of briquettes with those in need jointly by the labor and the management, family volunteering on weekends and joint volunteering activities among public corporations. We also run the ‘Onnuri Fund’ to support the underprivileged with the fund raised among employees. Meanwhile, we 2014 2015 2016 conduct the ‘Volunteer 5 up Campaign’ every year so that employees could be encouraged to raise their * ‌A system to manage employees’ performance in social contribution mileage points by over 5% year on year. In 2016, per-capita social contribution mileage volunteering and donation of money, etc. by quantifying it points recorded 42.9 points, up 7.5% from the previous year. 52 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 We gave a cake made by our We took part in the 2016 Daegu new employee to Daegu Child International Marathon held at Welfare Center with whom we Gukchaebosang Memorial Park. forged sisterhood ties. Moreover, The event was participated by winners of highest excellence at 78 of KOGAS employees and the ‘Open Competition for Vision their family members. KOGAS 2025 Slogan’ donated a part of sponsored Daegu Sports Council their prizes money to give out with KRW 30 million for successful bikes to children at the center. hosting of the marathon. Children from Shinsaeongwon, a T h e D o m e st i c Lega l Af fa i r s social welfare institution, visited Team of KOGAS provided free ‘Chungyeong, Energy Gallery’, consulting services to the elderly KOGAS’ promotional pavilion at Daegu Donggu Senior Citizens of natural gases. The children Welfare Institute on the Law visited 13 exhibition halls and 5 Day of April 25. They consulted experience zones, and learned on legal affairs ranging from with a great fun using games inheritance and land property and puzzles at ‘Energy Lab’ – an rights to trivial fights in a daily energy science class for children life, providing professional advice – ranging from production to and comforting their mind. t ra n s p o r tat i o n , s u p p l y a n d utilization. January March April Milestones of Social Contribution December November October We offered scholarships worth The moving-in ceremony for 10 KRW 320 million by organizing an households in the ‘Haengbok awarding ceremony for giving out Dung ji Residential Stability ‘2016 KOGAS Onnuri Scholarship Didimdol Project’ was held in Certificate’ at the main building Sincheon-dong, Daegu. The of the headquarters of Korea project is to rent out discarded St u d e n t A i d Fo u n d at i o n i n or empty houses in a city after Daegu. We also donated a total repairing them free of charge to of KRW 100 million in the fund the underprivileged to ease the for the underprivileged raised by burden of paying monthly rents employees in MBC’s ‘Hope 2017 KOGAS employees also took for the low-income class and We donated Onnuri Gift Certificates Sharing Campaign’ at the end part in volunteering to deliver provide opportunities of self(gift vouchers for traditional and beginning of year at the main briquettes for the underprivileged sufficiency. KOGAS participated markets) worth KRW 70 million building of MBC. at Ongijonggi Village in Dong-gu, in the efforts to improve the with the largest national holiday Daegu. About 80 employees gave residential environment for the of Chuseok – Korean Thanksgiving out a total of 50,000 pieces of low-income class and contribute – just around the corner to Daegu briquettes including 3,000 pieces to raising the quality of their life. Social Welfare Council. This is to they delivered in person. donate the points generated by using our corporate cards last year by converting them into gift vouchers, which were given out to about 80 institutions including elderly welfare centers and welfare facilities for the disabled in Daegu. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 53 Responsibilities to Local Community We organized ‘KOGAS DAY’ by We organized the ‘1st Park Coninviting 2,000 underprivileged cert for Daegu Citizens’ at Kolon children and 1,000 family Field Concert Hall located in Duryu members of KOGAS employees Park in Daegu. The Park Concert by making the opening of Daegu jointly planed in partnership with Samsung Lions Park. The event Daegu Metropolitan Government where children and adolescents and Daegu Foundation for Culture from 90 social welfare facilities was held as a festival to reunite in Daegu were invited organized Daegu citizens. The event was d i ve rs e s i d e e ve n ts fo r t h e organized along with the launCommunity Chest of Daegu New employees of KOGAS walked audience. The participants not ching ceremony of Daegu Mecenat donated a fund of KRW 3 billion on Dulle-gil Trail in front of Apsan only watched a match but also Council intended to foster Daegu for social contribution activities. Mountain in Namgu, Daegu along participated in the quiz event via as a prestigious city of culture and KOGAS is expanding the scale of with 50 adolescents at Daegu the large screen during the match art as well as to contribute to the financial support for Daegu every Child Welfare Center. The wrote and ran a photo zone for visitors development of culture and art. year. In 2016, in particular, a total their dreams them down on together with university student of nine new projects were added balloons, floated them in the air, volunteers. on the list of social contribution reaffirmed their will to achieve activities in Daegu: organizing them and cheered up one another the ‘Park Concert’ to support to do so. cultural performances, installing laundry dryers in social welfare facilities, supporting heating cost for the underprivileged and repair of briquette-powered boilers, and support education of multicultural families. May June Activities in Daegu in 2 0 1 6 September August July We held the 2nd Park Concert We also took part in volunteering at Kolon Field Concert Hall to give out free meals at Ansim located in Duryu Park, Daegu. Community Welfare Center, The hall accommodating about targeting low-income senior 20,000 Daegu citizens presented citizens in Dong-gu, Daegu. The performances of local culture event was organized to prevent and art organizations including malnutrition of the elderly in samulnori (a Korean traditional exhaustion from scorching heat percussion performing troupe), in summer. Employees of KOGAS ballet and musicals and a concert reached out to 80 senior citizens of pop singers, presenting the We donated 200 blood donation in serving their meals and having KOGAS’ new employees of the audience with diverse cultural cards for blood transfusion for a friendly conversation with them. 38th year visited the toy library in stages. pediatric patients with leukemia Daegu Seongseo Welfare Center, at Kyungpook National University engaging in volunteering by Children’s Hospital. The cards making dolls with local children. were significant in that the KOGAS supports the setup and donation was made by employees operation of Onnuri Toy Library in through the blood drive jointly welfare centers in Daegu. with Daegu-Gyeongbuk Blood Center. 54 Creation of Environmental Value MANAGEMENT APPROACH KEY PERFORMANCE & NEXT GOAL Natural gases are spotlighted as eco-friendly fuels which generate almost zero pollutant upon incinerating sulfur, nitrogen and dust are removed in the process of liquefaction. They are grabbing the attention as a critical means to respond to climate change due to little GHG emissions. KOGAS has established an eco-friendly management system by identifying environmental risks and opportunities at the same time, while preemptively responding to climate change. Capacity of New and Renewable Facilities Unit: TOE 1,292 1,406 1,293 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance Greenhouse Gas Emission Unit: tCO2e 704,066 525,573 666,454 Creation of Environmental Value 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance Amount of Energy Usage Unit: TJ 14,328 10,651 13,562 We proceed with enterpriseWe acquire and retain the We continue to adopt new and wide activities to reduce environmental management renewable energy facilities. greenhouse gas. system (ISO 14001). 2016 2016 2017 Target PerforTarget mance NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 55 Creation of Environmental Value Environmental Environmental Management System Management Environmental management at KOGAS is not a management activity simply to minimize the environmental burden. It is managed based on the Environment, Health, Safety & Quality Management System (EHSQMS), an exclusive management system of KOGAS. Having declared environmental management in 1997, KOGAS has strived for environmental management activities, including acquisition of ISO 14001 and designation as a green enterprise. KOGAS sets more stringent levels than the statutory ones for emitting pollutant substances into the air and water, etc. on production sites, and dynamically manages them. Environmental load data generated on sites is managed on a monthly basis, which is registered in the Environmental Information Disclosure System and disclosed to the public. Moreover, we voluntarily evaluate environmental feasibility by avoiding passive actions to simply comply with statutory responsibilities and regulations, and take actions for improvement plans to be taken. Business sites in the metropolitan area were designated as green enterprises and are managed accordingly. As such, we strive to establish an autonomous environmental management system on sites. Environmental Activity Cost Unit: KRW million Pollution prevention activities Pollution treatment activities Cost of consigned treatment of environmental pollutants Facility investment, environmental activities, environmental including water quality and waste treatment training, and R&D cost, etc. to fundamentally remove the environmental impact 2014 1,935 2014 24,047 Environmental Activity Cost per Year 2015 1,397 2015 28,819  Unit: KRW million 2016 1,398 2016 23,350 30,403 28,773 25,198 Stakeholder activities Legally responsive activities Local eco-friendly projects, support for environmental Environmental improvement charges, environmental charges, organizations’ events, advertisements on the environment, etc. fines for violation, etc. 2014 2,669 2014 122 2015 88 2015 99 2016 109 2016 341 2014 2015 2016 Efforts to Minimize the Environmental Burden Air Pollution Management Major facilities emitting air pollutants among our production and supply facilities include the Submerged Combustion Vaporizer (SMV), the Sear Water Heater (SWH) and boilers, and key pollutants are NOx, SOx and dust. KOGAS is also equipped with the low-concentration NOx emitting mechanism in production and supply facilities. The facilities are designed to emit less than one third of the statutory allowable level (<150ppm) as they are managed not to exceed the threshold. The amount of NOx emission is managed on a monthly basis, and when the amount of NOx is higher than that of the yearly target emission, we establish reduction plans, and take actions for improvement including checking the status of facilities and adjusting the operation time. In particular, the Incheon Terminal Division and the Pyeongtaek Terminal Division as business sites in the metropolitan area are allocated with the amount of NOx on a yearly basis and classified as eligible sites for total load management to allow the emission of NOx. As such, we systematically manage the amount of NOx emission. Meanwhile, LNG produced and supplied by KOGAS emits over 90% of sulfur oxides less than fossil fuels. Sulfur oxides generated by each site can be checked on a monthly basis in the IT system for environmental management – KOGAS’ intranet – as is the case with other air pollutants. We establish measures for improvement related to the usage of the annual amount of usage for relevant facilities upon exceeding the annual target in order to reduce the emission amount of sulfur oxides. 56 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Water Pollution Management The Pyeongtaek, Incheon and Samcheok Terminal Divisions located on the coastal line discharge the domestic sewage into a river or sea in a concentration level below the statutory level after purifying it at sewage treatment facilities. The Pyeongtaek, Incheon and Samcheok Terminal Divisions located on the coastal line discharge the domestic sewage into a river or sea after purifying it at sewage treatment facilities. The household sewage of the Tongyeong Terminal Division and production management offices of regional divisions is channeled into terminal treatment plants for treatment. Moreover, the production process of natural gases requires a miniscule amount of water, making such a small impact on the water environment. LNG terminal divisions are managed below the statutory level of concentration for water pollutants as they are equipped with oil treatment facilities. Moreover, the seawater entering into an open rack vaporizer (ORV) in the LNG gasification process is discharged into the coast without any environmental impact after being used for heat exchange. Management of Hazardous Chemicals Major hazardous chemicals used on sites include sodium hydroxide (NaOH) and hydrogen chloride (HCI). They are used to adjust the level of pH within water tanks of the Submerged Combustion Vaporizer (SMV) which serve as LNG gasification facilities. Such substances, in particular, are used in a lower level of concentration, which are not classified as hazardous ones, causing no harm to the body and the environment. Hazardous chemicals used are managed according to legitimate procedures without leakage. Waste Management We stringently apply the treatment standards above the statutory levels prescribed in related laws on the waste generated from sites in the middle of production and supply process and construction works. Data on waste is recorded in the IT system for internal environmental management on a monthly basis, and is reflected in the next year’s plan to lower the amount of waste generated. We proactively take part in the government policy on control and recycling of waste, and continuously reduce the amount of waste discharge by transparently managing the entire process from discharge to delivery and final treatment. We ensure that waste treatment companies are periodically guided and inspected so that waste generated from sites could be appropriately treated. Waste being generated in all sites of KOGAS registered in Allbaro system (http://www.allbaro.or.kr) in real time whenever it is discharged, delivered and treated, and it is disclosed through the environmental information disclosure system once a year. Protection of Bio-Diversity KOGAS conducts the environmental impact assessment to seek for eco-friendly and sustainable development by predicting and evaluating the impact of construction or operational projects on environmental changes in advance, and devising measures for environmental conservation. In addition, we conduct follow-up review on environmental impact for ex-post management and monitoring upon the completion and operation of construction works. Changes in the habitation of flora and fauna and observational review of the aquatic eco-system are discussed in the consultation council consisting of related specialists – project companies, representatives of local residents in the area of review and organizations of environmental conservation. We also come up with measures for improvement through consultation with them upon exploring points for improvement. Results of bio-diversity review are submitted to a related local government to be subject to verification of appropriateness and feasibility, which are registered in the information support system for environmental impact assessment, and disclosed accordingly. Prevention of Marine Pollution KOGAS has established a system to promptly and efficiently respond to sites of accident by devising a ‘manual on on-site actions’ to respond to marine disasters. In addition, we are fully equipped with more disaster reduction supplies than statutorily required along with continued training against potential accidents, thereby minimizing secondary environmental damage resulting from accidents. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 57 Creation of Environmental Value Low Carbon Low Carbon Management Strategies Management KOGAS set a vision of becoming ‘a sustainable future energy company’, striving to establish its goals, that is, cost-effective GHG reduction and to become a leading company in responding to climate change. KOGAS’ low carbon management strategies are decided and executed through the two-step deliberation process. The Climate Change/Energy Working-Level Committee consisting of heads of working-level departments in charge deliberate on pending issues on low carbon management. Then, the Climate Chante Energy Committee as the decision-making body comprised of executives devises final strategies and decide on critical matters on climate change response. Low Carbon Management Strategies Vision Sustainable Future Energy Company Major Goals Cost-effective GHG reduction A leading company in climate change response Core Tasks Response to the Emissions Trading Climate Change Response • ‌Establishing a system to respond to the emissions • Responding through new and renewable energies (six tasks in trading scheme • Managing energy efficiently two areas) • ‌Developing personnel for the emissions trading • ‌Raising awareness about and promoting climate scheme change • Initiating projects to reduce GHGs Efforts to Climate Change Response Response to the Emissions Trading Scheme In the emissions trading scheme, the government enables emissions activities of establishments emitting GHGs within an allowed scope by allocating emissions rights on a yearly basis, and evaluates their actual GHG emissions so that the emission right for an unused quota or a shortage is allowed to be traded between establishments. In 2015, KOGAS was designated as an eligible target company to fall under the emissions trading scheme. KOGAS was allocated with the emission right from the government for the primary planning period from 2015 to 2017. We do the best to reduce the GHG emissions to effectively respond to the scheme by exploring reduction projects, improving facilities and proceeding with reduction project at home and abroad. The surplus emission credits among the government’s emission allowance in 2016 is carried over and managed accordingly as the credits for the implementation period of 2017. Incentives for Management of GHG Emissions We conduct semi-annual monitoring on goal achievement by setting internal targets for GHG emission by business site. Excellent business sites that have strived to and achieved strong results to achieve Current Status of Installing New and GHG reduction goals and raise awareness about energy usage are selected to give them rewards and Renewable Energies compensation. Key items for evaluation include performance records compared to targets, basic unit Sites management of energy and records of exploring GHG reduction projects. Additional points are imposed Capacity (number on business sites that have maintained the energy management system (ISO 50001) and set up the realof sites) time energy monitoring system. In 2016, rewards were offered to five business sites (two prizes for each of Photovoltaic 1,562.5 kW 63 highest excellence and excellence prizes and one encouragement prize) out of 13 in total in 2016. Solar energy 613.0 m 2 6 Geothermal New and Renewable Energy Project energy 1,424.6 kW 2 We foster low carbon energy projects to respond to the government’s low carbon growth policy and (cooling) acquire new growth engines. We reduce the usage of GHG and energy by leveraging five types of new and Geothermal energy 1,458.9 kW 3 renewable energy facilities: photovoltaic, solar energy, geothermal energy, wind power and fuel cells. We (heating) internally produce and use a certain percentage of in-house electricity by introducing various new and Wind power 15.7 kW 5 renewable energy facilities to the headquarters building, 13 business sites and facilities of gas supply. We could produce the electricity of 5,572MWh and heat of 636GJ, using facilities for new and renewable Fuel cells 301.0 kW 2 energies in 2016, thereby reducing GHG emission of 2,636tCO2e. 58 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental Management of KOGAS ISO 14001 • Enterprise-wide INPUT Amount of energy usage* Unit: TJ 2014 2015 2016 Total amount of energy usage 11,760 10,189 10,651 Direct energies 4,629 2,965 3,248 Indirect energies 7,131 7,224 7,414 * ‌There is a difference between the sum of direct and indirect amount of usage and the actual sum based on the standard to calculate GHG emissions by site (on decimal point handling) in the National Greenhouse Gas Management System. Amount of water usage* Unit: m3 2014 2015 2016 Total amount of water usage 2,054,523,871 2,079,743,858 2,016,499,069 Seawater 1,576,236,007 1,581,500,930 1,571,859,597 ISO 50001 Water service 469,209,947 491,108,395 436,181,693 • Integrated certification in 4 terminal divisions Others 9,077,917 7,134,533 8,457,779 • Integrated certification in * ‌There is a difference in number with the one disclosed in the existing report because of a change in the amount of total water 9 supply management usage due to increases in the facilities using ground water as new management sites are constructed, and also an error in the unit offices of amount of other water usage. Environmental investment Unit: KRW million 2014 2015 2016 Amount of environmental 28,773 30,403 25,198 investment Eco-friendly procurement 17,352 11,561 5,865 Usage of hazardous chemicals* Unit: kg 2014 2015 2016 Amount of usage 186,022 333,427 142,358 Basic unit (kg/1,000 tons) 5.29 10.6 4.34 * ‌There is a difference in number with the one disclosed in the existing report because of a change in the amount of hazardous chemicals due to addition of substances categorized as hazardous chemicals among the ones used on business sites amid the amendment of the Chemicals Control Act. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 59 Creation of Environmental Value Green Enterprise OUTPUT • Incheon Terminal Division Emission of GHG Unit: tCO2e 2014 2015 2016 Total GHG emission 592,506 502,988 525,573 Direct emission 246,750 150,711 166,283 Indirect emission 345,756 352,277 359,290 Air pollutants* Unit: kg 2014 2015 2016 Amount of emission 369,863 256,230 278,257 NOx Basic unit (kg/1,000 tons) 11.28 8.15 8.49 Amount of emission 1,070 689 749 SOx Basic unit (kg/1,000 tons) 0.03 0.02 0.02 Amount of emission 3,322 2,191 2,398 Dust Basic unit (kg/1,000 tons) 0.09 0.07 0.07 * ‌‌There is a difference in number with the one disclosed in the existing report because of changes in the amount of emission of air pollutants as some facilities on sites are categorized as air pollutant emitting facilities, and the total load management including nitric oxides’ is applied to sites. Water pollutants* Unit: kg 2014 2015 2016 Amount of emission 99.9 125.3 124.2 BOD Basic unit (kg/1,000 tons) 0.0028 0.004 0.004 Amount of emission 58.6 71.8 48.6 COD Basic unit (kg/1,000 tons) 0.0017 0.0023 0.002 Amount of emission 156.9 236.3 139.5 SS Basic unit (kg/1,000 tons) 0.0045 0.0075 0.0043 * ‌There is a difference in number with the one disclosed in the existing report because of changes in the amount of emissions for BOD, COD and SS due to modifications in the quantifiable data for wastewater and amount of effluent treatment in the management system. Discharge of waste* Unit: tons 2014 2015 2016 General 832 967 3,300 Designated 248 429 198 Construction 485,406 411,583 290,394 Amount of emission 486,486 412,979 293,892 Total Basic unit (tons/1,000 tons) 13.83 13.13 8.97 * ‌There is a difference in number with the one disclosed in the existing report because of changes in the amount of waste discharge because the amount of waste discharge on business sites was re-calculated (changes in the guideline on operational maintenance and management of waste discharged from construction works). KOGAS Sustainability Management 62 Corporate Governance 64 Risk Management 66 Ethical and Integrity Management 68 Stakeholder Engagement 70 Materiality Test 62 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate Composition and Management of the Board of Directors Governance Composition of the Board of Directors (BOD) KOGAS’ BOD is the top decision-making body in charge of overseeing decisions made regarding major strategies and policies and the management agenda, and supporting management. It is operated pursuant to the Act on the Management of Public Institutions and the Articles of Incorporation. The BOD consists of 11 members including the CEO: four executive directors and seven non-executive directors. A nonexecutive director is appointed as the chairman of the BOD to ensure independence. The BOD is striving BOD Activities  Unit: times/%/agendas to enhance stakeholders’ rights by establishing a desirable corporate governance structure for keeping the ■ No. of meetings held ■ Average attendance rate top management in check with a high portion of non-executive directors compared to executive ones. ■ No. of agenda agreed upon 90 80 82 Management of the BOD 67 50 46 The BOD is organized once a month in principle, and can be organized with the sole authority of the 20 chairperson or the demand of over one third of registered directors. In order to fairly manage the BOD, the 15 17 agenda is decided with the approval of a majority of registered directors. It is provided that directors with a special interest with regards to decision-making at the BOD are restricted from exercising the decision2014 2015 2016 making right on the agenda so that decisions can be made transparently. The results of BOD meetings are disclosed on the KOGAS website and the management information disclosure system for public institutions Non-executive Directors’ Participation in (www.alio.go.kr, Alio), except for special matters including confidentiality in management. Management Unit: number of cases ■ Advice for corporate management ■ Suggestions for corporate management Independence of the BOD ■ Reflection of the above suggestions 53 55 Executive directors at KOGAS are appointed as those who fulfill qualifications pursuant to the Act on the Management of Public Institutions, the Articles of Incorporation and operating regulations of the Executive 36 Recommendation Committee. Independence is secured by disqualifying those who are in a critical transactional relationship with KOGAS employees and KOGAS for the past two years, or those who have 5 6 6 worked in a competitor of KOGAS. Inspection standards are devised by the Executive Recommendation 1 2 Committee consisting of three non-executive directors and two outside members upon appointing executive directors. There is an identification procedure on their relationships with the company as 2014 2015 2016 candidates to make sure the procedure is systematic and fair. Non-executive directors are required to have expertise and experiences in different fields including economics, management, law or related Performance of Non-executive Directors technologies, or knowledge and experiences related to KOGAS’ operations covering energy including gas.  Unit: % ■ Attendance rate of non-executive directors ■ Portion of comments made by non-executive directors Diversity of the BOD 88 76 79 KOGAS imposes no particular restriction in recruitment to secure diversity of members in the BOD. The BOD door is always open to candidates regardless of gender, religion, race or nationality as long as they are 57 56 qualified and capable. In particular, upon recruiting them through public opening and recommendation 55 to secure female directors in the diversity aspect, we have continuously requested for recommendation of female candidates upon making a request for it to the Ministry of Personnel Management (database on national talents), and yet, there has been no female applicant so far. The BOD of KOGAS consists of male 2014 2015 2016 directors 100%. Composition of the BOD As of May-end, 2017 Type Name Position Type Name Position Seung Hoon Lee Executive Director, CEO Lead Non-executive Director (Chairman of the BOD), Professor of Public Sun Woo Lee Administration, Korea National Open University Sang Hoon Lee Chief Auditor Executive Kwang Sik Choi Director, Chairman of SL Innovations Co., Ltd. Executive Executive Director, Vice President of Director Wan Gi Ahn Management Man Kyo Chang Director, Auditor at the Korean Construction Guarantee Cooperative Executive Director, Vice President of Non-execuWon Tak Lee Director, President of Daewon University Young Du Kim Technology tive Director Director, Visiting Professor of Business Administration and Management, Jong Rae Kim Chungnam National University Jun Hyung Lee Director, Chairman of GoodNET Corp. Director, Professor in the Department of Business Administration at the Yang Hoon Son University of Incheon NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 63 Operation of Subcommittees Three subcommittees were launched and are in operation under the BOD to intensively deliberate on the agenda and strengthen constraining and supervisory functions for corporate management, leveraging the expertise of non-executive directors: Audit Committee, Sustainability Management Committee and Overseas Project Committee. Operation of Subcommittees As of May-end, 2017 Type Composition Members Key Roles • ‌Reporting to the BOD on directors’ act of violating laws and One executive Non-executive directors: the Articles of Incorporation Audit director, Kwang Sik Choi, Jun Hyung Lee • ‌Matters entrusted by the BOD, and those determined to fall Committee two non-executive Executive director: under the responsibilities of the Audit Committee according directors Sang Hoon Lee to laws and the Articles of Incorporation, etc. • ‌Midto long-term management plans, major investment Non-executive directors: projects Sustainability Two or more Man Kyo Chang, Sun Woo Lee • Budgetary and operational plans, management evaluation, Management directors Executive director: promotional projects, etc. Committee Wan Gi Ahn • Safety and environmental projects and operational plans • Ethical management and social contribution activities, etc. • ‌Overseas resource exploration and development/production Overseas Project Two or more Non-executive directors: • ‌Review or counseling on overseas plant projects and other Committee directors Jong Rae Kim, Yang Hoon Son overseas projects Evaluation of the BOD KOGAS continuously manages activities and performance of directors including the BOD attendance rate, suggestion for corporate management and portion of comments made. In addition, KOGAS seeks the development of the BOD through objective evaluation following the BOD management evaluation and individual director evaluation. The remuneration for executives is composed of basic salary, incentives, and severance pay. The yearly basic salary is decided in the BOD meetings within the scope of salary limits, which is approved in a shareholders’ meeting. The president receives incentives depending on the result of assessment of management performances after signing a management contract to achieve the corporate philosophy and vision with the chief of the relevant institution. The assessment is based on performance indicators on financial performance of management activities and external perception, and environmental and social indicators. Executive directors receive incentives after making a contract for performance with the president. Amount of Remuneration Paid in 2016 Unit: KRW 1,000 Number of Total amount of Amount of Average Note People Remuneration Remuneration per Individual Registered executive directors 3 340,139 113,380 Composition of Shareholders  Unit: % KRW 2.5 million per Outside executive directors 7 month for monthly salary As of December 31, 2016 Auditors 1 104,658 104,658 29.20 Other common shareholders 26.15 Government Composition of Shareholders 11.81 20.47 KOGAS was listed on the Korea Exchange on December 15, 1999. The amount of KOGAS’ legal capital stands at KRW 1 trillion. Shareholders of KOGAS are comprised of public shareholders and ordinary shareholders. Foreigners KEPCO 4.43 Public shareholders, namely the government, KEPCO, and local governments, hold approximately 54.60% Employee stock 7.93 of total shares. The majority shareholder is the Korean government which holds 26.15% of total shares. There has been no change regarding the majority shareholder for the past three years. ownership Local association governments 64 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Risk Risk Management System Management Risk Management Strategy KOGAS defines risks as uncertainties and opportunity losses which hamper the achievement of strategies and business goals, encompassing both risks and crises. KOGAS takes the following actions in order to respond to such risks: identifying potential risks which block its efforts to achieve its goals in an integrated perspective of KOGAS, deciding on the level of risk tolerance, searching for rational responsive measures, and establishing and managing a system for risks to be managed by specific parties in charge. Principles of Risk Management ❶ ❷ ❸ ❹ ❺ ❻ Striking a balance Documenting the Accurately identifying, Performing between risk Setting and managing results of risk Making timely reporting measuring and evaluating independent functions management and profitthe risk tolerance level or management operations, and establishing a it, and appropriately in the enterprise level making, considering cost management targets and designating reporting system thereof managing it benefits personnel in charge Risk Management Organization KOGAS separates the functions of establishing and managing a risk management system from day-today risk management operations. A supervisor of risk management, its decision-making body and related regulations have been established to ensure independence within the business area. Critical deliberation and decision-making on corporation-wide risk management are carried out through the Risk Management Committee and the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) oversees corporate-wide risk management operations. The Risk Management Committee meetings are, in principle, organized more than once a year, during which the Committee reviews the current status of corporation-wide risk management and decides on the agenda. KOGAS’ risk management is based on the ‘3-lines of defense’ model: the first-line supervising departments that are primarily responsible for risks as they conduct daily risk management operations; the secondline Risk Control Management Department that manages the risk management system and supports risk management operations in the working level; and the third-line Office of the Auditors that audits the procedural adequacy of risk management activities. Each organization is organically configured in correlations. Risk Management Organization Risk Management Crisis Management CEO Risk Management Committee Head of Division Head of Division Head of Division Head of Division CRO (Vice President) Team Manager Team Manager Team Manager Team Manager Support Manager Manager Manager Manager Risk Control ManageCheck & Internal Audit Committee Summary ment Department Audit Department Supervising (Risk Management Overseas Project Risk Department Operating Department Financial Team) Office of the Departments Auditor Control Risk Control Risk Control (9 Crisis Areas) Companies Operating Overseas Risk Financial Risk Crisis Management Risk 1st Line 2nd Line 3rd Line Check & Internal Audit NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 65 Investment Risk Committee (2016) Risk Monitoring and Reporting System KOGAS monitors the current status of risk management on a quarterly basis, providing feedback to No. Date Target business departments in charge so that they can make timely and effective responses by monitoring the response 1 May 30 CGR, Canada performance upon the issuance of risk alerts. For the reporting system, the departments in charge report results of each of their risk management activities to the supervising departments, which collect them and 2 June 16 Uzunkui, Uzbekistan report to the CRO on the current status of enterprise-wide risk management. Lastly, the CRO reports to the 3 August 29 Cylinder, Uzbekistan Risk Management Committee. In 2016, we launched the ‘Investment Risk Committee’ to identify possible risks 4 September 12 Coral FLNG, Mozambique in new and modified projects, and established a system to devise measures. The Investment Risk Committee as an independent unit from business departments deliberates on risks in five areas – nation, economic 5 September 12 LNG Canada feasibility, legal affairs, technology and operation. The committee members that are examiners consist of six 6 September 20 Badra, Iraq internal and external specialists, which are selected from a predetermined pool of examiners. Deliberation results of the Investment Risk Committee are provided as important reference materials for business evaluation. Risk Management Activities Spread the Culture of Risk Management Checklist on Risks Training KOGAS devised measures for training in order to intensify competencies to perform risk management Area Risk Event operations and raise awareness about their importance, and implement the measures by establishing yearly training plans. For personnel exclusively in charge of risks conduct, a workshop is organized, Forfeiture of resources and nationalization, natural focusing on practical sessions, while team directors of related departments and overseas subsidiaries disasters, socio-political anxiety, are invited to periodic training to form consensus on risk management. For heads of departments/ Target inconsistency in policies and divisions and executives, training measures are established in the form of meetings to enable intensified regulations, default of a target Country country, shortage of labor, communication for cooperation among departments. shortage of infrastructure, For overseas subsidiaries, global strategy meetings are organized for heads and country managers of civilian petitions, occurrence of overseas subsidiaries on a yearly basis to overcome the crisis of low oil prices and achieve qualitative disputes on national borders growth in overseas projects. In global strategy meetings, strong performances by subsidiary are evaluated Regulations on money on risk management operations of overseas subsidiaries which are dispersed on each continent, and best exchange and transmittance, regulations on export control, practices are selected to remind the attendees of the importance of risk management and provide an Laws/ regulations on local materials environment for mutual training. Regulaand corporate usage, high tions regulatory levels, lack of laws/ institutions, occurrence of local Evaluation and Remuneration labor issues, environmental Overseas subsidiaries are evaluated once a year to improve the level of risk management and management regulations operations in overseas business. Risk profiles of each project and performance level of the self-checklist Failure to secure raw material are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Adequacy of establishing and implementing plans to manage core gases, failure to secure clients, Market risks are qualitatively evaluated. Evaluation of subsidiaries which used to be confined to that of heads of drop in product prices, stagnant demand in sales areas overseas subsidiaries has been expanded to cover their members, starting from 2016. Risk management FX risks/Money exchange performance of subsidiaries is measured, and performance pay of their members is differentially paid risks, PF and management based on the evaluation results. Finance capabilities, issues on accounting/taxation, issues on insurance Risk Management of Overseas Projects Unfavorable business contracts Performance of long-term overseas projects is not generated over the short term, and they are significantly with a government (or a impacted by external conditions. KOGAS manages such factors as ‘emerging risks’. We establish response strategies company) of a target country, Contract unfavorable contract conditions by scenario and make due responses based on the outlook of external institutions on risks of target countries. among enterprises, unfair EPC We have developed and utilize the ‘risk checklist’ for business departments to identify risks in target countries. contract, unfair SPA contract Regulations on obligations of local investigations upon conducting business evaluation are prescribed, thereby Non-fulfilment of contractual intensifying country risk management in the procedure to manage overseas risks. obligations of operators (participating companies), Partner poor management of business Introduction of the Investment Management System Companies by operators, problematic communication among KOGAS has adopted the ‘Investment Management System’ enterprise-wide since 2016 for higher efficiency business participants, payment in risk management and risk management aligned with strategies. The system enables perusing and default of customers analyzing the current status and risks of all overseas projects underway. The current status of overseas Excess of capex than planned, investment projects and business-specific risks can be shared enterprise-wide through the system. We are low performance of facilities, Technology process delay, insufficient also equipped with a system to establish strategies in consideration of related risks upon setting long-term technical analysis strategies. 66 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Ethical and Integrity System for Ethical and Integrity Management Management System for Ethical and Integrity Management Strategies KOGAS suggests four strategy directions and relevant tasks for action to realize ‘Clean KOGAS’ under the vision of ‘realizing clean and transparent global principle-based management’. We ensure such commitments for ethics and integrity to be internalized by all employees, and reflecting them throughout corporate management. We will secure trust from the public by eradicating irregularities and corruption through innovative ethical activities. System for Ethical and Integrity Management Strategies(2016) Ethical Vision Realization of Clean and Transparent Global Management with Integrity Ethical Goals Clean KOGAS Fulfilling Social Responsibilities with Ethical Management Goal for 2016 Establishing new ethical management to realize ‘Clean KOGAS’ Strategy Directions Substantiating ethical Establishing an Raising ethical awareness Expanding consensus on management systems and engagement-based ethical to practice ethical ethical management regulations management system management Strategy Tasks • ‌Revising the code of • ‌Launching a corpo• ‌Performing customized • ‌Further promoting best action for employees ration-wide portal on ethical training practices on ethical • ‌Handling reporting ethical management • ‌Striving to eradicate management internally on unfair solicitation • ‌Operating the integrity a culture of gap-eul and externally and graft and ethics mileage (the order of power of • ‌Facilitating the corrup• ‌Eradicating gifting point system position) tion reporting system practices • ‌Establishing a report• ‌Organizing voluntary • ‌Diagnosing and ing system on a case mock trials on ethics evaluating the level of of delivering a lecture led by employees ethical awareness outside KOGAS, etc. Implementation and Planning Implementation of Tasks Monitoring Feedback Review System • ‌Basic plans on ethical • ‌Internalizing instituExternal • ‌Spreading consensus management tions and regulations • ‌Evaluating integrity by and promoting best • ‌Plans to implement • ‌Establishing the ethical the Anti-Corruption & practices policies for integrity management system Civil Rights Commission • ‌Establishing annual and innovation • ‌Training on and • ‌Evaluating anti-corrupplans for the next practicing ethical tion policies year and reflecting management Internal improvements • ‌Making diagnosis on the level of ethical management Regulations on Ethical Practice for Employees Code of Integrity Code of Our Promise Actions of Rules for Ethics 30 KOGAS’ EmExecutives ployees A standard of values and actions A specific code of actions for emA standard of actions for employA standard of conduct for execufor employees to practice transployees to abide by in engaging ees to abide by to form a corpotives to create a corporate culture parent principle-based managein cooperation of work with colrate culture of anti-corruption of integrity ment required of a clean energy leagues and related departments and integrity corporation and relationships with stakeholders, etc. Organization in Charge KOGAS strengthened the organization in charge and allocated five personnel in charge in January 2016 to secure engines to drive ethical management. The organization in charge of ethical management oversees formulating and revising the code of ethics and establishing and operating a program for actions, and periodically evaluates and monitors ethical management to measure its implementation and the improvement level. Moreover, we also develop training sessions and materials on ethics, and provide ethical counseling for ethical decision-making and conflict resolution. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 67 Formation of a Culture of Ethics and Integrity KOGAS’ reporting system Facilitating the Whistleblowing System KOGAS intensified an internal and external reporting system to fundamentally block illegal acts by Cheongumgo, anonymous bulletin facilitating the whistleblowing system. We adopted ‘KOGAS-Whistle’, a system for counseling with a lawyer Internal board, integrity auditors, Integrity and whistleblowing at the same time, thereby facilitating the system by guaranteeing whistleblowers’ Ombudsman, KOGAS Whistle anonymity and identity and enabling higher access to whistleblowing through counseling. KOGAS Whistle, National OmbudsExternal man, Red Whistle KOGAS-Whistle KOGAS-Whistle Process Roles of the Lawyer(s) Whistleblowing Reporting (guaranteeing anonymity/ • ‌Counseling for whistleblowers, and Number of cases reported (app, email, phone, etc.) confidentiality) registering and communicating ❶ ❷ on cases of whistleblowing and 30 51 ❹ ❸ reporting (special watch dog) Checking on results handled Communicating results handled Whistle(reported) and the satisfaction Lawyer (notification) KOGAS • ‌Guaranteeing and protecting blower level with the results ❺ anonymity and confidentiality of Receiving whistleblower feedback whistleblowers Increase on the satisfaction level ❼ ❻ • ‌Attending as a committee member Providing compensation Providing compensation when the HR Committee holds a 2015 2016 meeting on a relevant case Revising the Code of Conduct and Intensifying its Standard Comprehensive Level of the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission ‘KOGAS’ Code of Conduct for Employees’ formulated in 2005 is stringently managed as a standard of forming a corporate landscape with integrity and ethical awareness and actions for employees to abide 7.89 7.46 7.44 by. To this end, a higher level of standard than the disciplinary standard for public officials is imposed on employees of KOGAS on corruption and bribery, discrimination, practices of anti-monopoly/competition, money laundering and internal trading, and the whistleblowing system. In particular, in 2016, the code of conduct was revised for the ninth time to respond to changes in the social and ethical environment. Under the vision, standards were intensified on stricter provisions on anti-bribery, limitations on exchanges of financial allowances, e.g. delivery of external lectures and launch of officials in charge of anti-solicitation. 2014 2015 2016 As such, we strived to ensure fair performance of job functions and spread of a culture of integrity. Training Program on Ethics and Integrity Anti-Corruption Initiative Assessment We run training programs on ethics and integrity that are customized for each rank in order to raise the level of ethical awareness. In addition, we do the utmost to internalize a culture of ethics and integrity through cyber training sessions on such themes as shared growth with suppliers and win-win cooperation. NO Rank-Specific Training Programs on Ethics and Integrity Target audience Training methodology Topics NO • Training on integrity for high-ranking executives by inviting outside experts (twice) High-ranking 2014 2015 2016 Group training ‌Training on how to become ethical leaders and practice integrity, and also on the Act executives on the Prohibition of Illegal Solicitation Poor Fair Excellent Managers in charge • Training on ethics and integrity for employees in the Office of the Auditor of ethics and Group training • ‌Organizing the Integrity Auditor Workshop, training on the Act on the Prohibition of (Grade 4) (Grade 3) (Grade 2) integrity Solicitation, and discovering best practices (40 trainees) Integrity Training by • ‌Conducting training in each career stage, e.g. new/transfer/promotion/rank-specific Group training Lifecycle training • ‌Itinerant training on integrity for sites nationwide ⇨ intensifying training on customAll employees Group training er-oriented integrity policies Self-diagnosis of Ethical Levels 89.0 89.2 Improvement of the Integrity Ombudsman System 88.5 KOGAS runs the Integrity Ombudsman, an anti-corruption civilian watchdog. Having revised the operating guideline in 2016 to intensify effectiveness of the system, we have expanded its members up to seven in each working-level field (contracting, safety, accounting and construction, etc.) from the existing threeperson scheme. In addition, we listen to diverse suggestions from working-level specialists and reflect them to KOGAS’ integrity management by easing the qualifications of eligibility to include members of 2014 2015 2016 civic and social organizations and to fit the level of ombudsman systems of other public institutions. 68 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Stakeholder Definition of and Communication with Stakeholders Engagement KOGAS identifies new opportunities and risks by gathering economic, environmental and social needs and opinions of stakeholders of KOGAS, and effectively reflect them to corporate management activities by initiating innovation in service. Our stakeholders are defined as individuals or organizations subject to a critical impact of KOGAS’ activities and services, and categorized based on a system of classification focused on competition and collaboration to raise benefits for the public. Self-leading Customers Cooperative Customers Self-leading Customers Purpose of Definition Stakeholder group Areas of Interest Communication Channels Key communication efforts and performance Communication Self-esteem, • ‌Seeking to achieve • ‌Spending a time of communication between the CEO and Employees organizational ‌ • Expanded executives’ purposes of employees (7 times) Providing benefits vision meetings, Management establishment for • ‌Strengthening labor-management communication, e.g. organizing a to the public and Committee KOGAS joint labor-management workshop driving growth in Working • Dialogue ‌ with the CEO • ‌Sharing midto long• ‌Implementing four joint Onnuri programs for the labor and the the gas industry Labor Union environment, ‌ • Labor-Management Council term strategies, and management, e.g. a self-sufficiency program for the homeless welfare internalizing core values • Practicing social contribution activities Cooperative Customers Purpose of Definition Stakeholder group Areas of Interest Communication Channels Key communication efforts and performance Communication Energy fees, energy • ‌Negotiation on tasks on the Public • ‌Spearheading to acquire welfare agenda consistency among pol• ‌Support for inter-parliamenEngaging in policy icies in the gas industry • ‌Establishing a real-time disaster response system with 26 local tary affairs including National coordination for and management vision government by promoting and sharing ‘Nara-e-eum’ Government Assembly inspection of the service for the Functions for public government offices of KOGAS • ‌Raising convenience for eligible applicants by improving application public interest and policy • ‌Reporting of midto long• ‌Improvement in the system for gas tariff reduction compatibility quality of public term management strategies, National Assembly services etc. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 69 We also provide communication channels that are customized for each stakeholder group so that stakeholders could take part in KOGAS’ management activities. We will intensify our basis for sustainability by attentively listening to stakeholder demands and collaborating with them. Coexistent Customers Customers as the Basis Coexistent Customers Purpose of Definition Stakeholder group Areas of Interest Communication Channels Key communication efforts and performance Communication Contributing to City Gas Producers Generating demand • On-site ‌ seminars, business • ‌Making timely supply of city gas to Jeongseon-gun Country in • ‌Pursuing values of higher benefits presentation Gangwon Province by supporting the retail pipeline investment cost horizontal shared through the gas • Seminars ‌ for improving of city gas companies by 50% (KRW 2.9 billion), etc. Cooperating in growth supply and forming Importers customer satisfaction • ‌Opening outdoor sports facilities at the main building of the business • ‌Sharing and executing a relationship to • Publishing ‌ the Sustainability headquarters to residents in adjacent areas development strategies share partnershipReport • ‌Implementing ‘Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Project’ (50% of Facilitating the local for the gas industry based growth Community the business volume in Daegu Gyeongnam) economy Customers as the Basis Purpose of Definition Stakeholder group Areas of Interest Communication Channels Key communication efforts and performance Communication • ‌The CEO meeting with government officials in countries with Investment Facilitating projects KOGAS’ presence (nine times in total including a meeting with the Companies Supporting and Minister of Petroleum in Iran) • ‌Establishing trust-based providing the basis • ‌Meeting on cooperation for Countries to partnerships for generating Generating national resources development • ‌Signing new agreements for six projects on cooperative tasks for which KOGAS has • ‌Sharing business performance for wealth • LNG Buyer Council technological development of SMEs Expanded information in a timely the growth of the • ‌Shared Growth Committee • ‌Mentoring on technological development for SMEs and expanding Manner gas industry Achieving growth support for certification Suppliers in a symbiotic • Supporting SMEs to take part in overseas fairs for SMEs relationship 70 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Materiality Selection of and Reporting Process for Material Issues Test KOGAS periodically listens to stakeholders’ feedback on sustainability activities and identifies issues to be responded to by prioritizing them. For issues of materiality to be dealt with by KOGAS, goals and strategies are set and executed along with performance monitoring. Such issues are transparently disclosed in the Sustainability Report on an annual basis. Selection of and Reporting Process for Material Issues STEP1 STEP2 STEP3 Identification of Sustainability Issues Prioritization of Material Issues Selection of Final Issues and Validity Assurance Finding out 30 issues by utilizing various Prioritizing a pool of issues discovered Preparing for a process for review and issue collecting mechanisms, including based on their impact on stakeholder information collection of the material internal data review, media research, evaluation and decision-making and the issues selected in order to report the perbenchmarking and review of internaeconomic/environment/social impact of formance of sustainability management tional standards to identify issues on the organization in a reasonable and balanced manner sustainability management Sustainability Materiality Completeness Stakeholder Inclusiveness STEP 1 Identification of Sustainability Issues In order to figure out the economic, environmental, and social impacts of all activities and services, we conducted media analysis, benchmarking of related institutions and the industry KOGAS is engaged in, and review of international reviews and stakeholder surveys, organization of T/F workshops and analysis of internal data, etc. from January to the end of December, 2016. Media Research Analyzing news articles on KOGAS’ management and activities exposed in the media coverage from January to the end of December, 2016 Benchmarking Analysis Analyzing best practices and key trends based on reports of the industry at home and abroad and related institutions Review of International Standards on Sustainability Management Finding out key issues in international standards related to sustainability management including GRI G4, DJSI and ISO 26000 Stakeholder Surveys Conducting a five-day survey from April 24 to 28, 2017, to determine materials issues for stakeholders T/F Workshop Organizing a workshop to help those involved in report writing and managers covering related issues, and openly discuss sustainability management Review of Internal Data Identifying major economic, environmental and social issues by analyzing the management evaluation reports, mid-and long-term management strategies, management disclosure and various internal reporting data NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 71 STEP2 Prioritization of Material Issues We determined issues with a high priority by evaluating the aspects of ‘stakeholder evaluation and decision-making’ and ‘importance of the organizations’ economic, environmental and social impact’ on the issues of sustainability management which have been identified. Investing in the community and facilitating the local economy Propagation of the culture of shared growth with suppliers Prevention of Safety Business impact and related efforts Accidents Initiating social contribution activities reflecting the nature of the business Efficiently initiating overseas projects Intensifying activities for Securing financial soundness and profitability anti-corruption and ethical Efforts to boost customer satisfaction management Employee recruitment and welfare benefits Establishing a system for safe operations Efforts to initiate and spread human rights-oriented management Securing competitiveness in R&D and technologies Fair remuneration and personnel management Development of projects for Initiation of continued innovation activities in corporate management Stable production and supply of new growth engines natural gases Intensification of integrated risk management activities Strengthening GHG emissions management Compliance with fair trade and Intensification of safety and health formation of such a culture management for employees Improvement of environmental management on sites and protection of the surrounding ecosystem Managing environmental loads Establishing a sound labor-management culture Activities to implement the national agenda Setup of an advanced environmental management system Efforts to reduce the usage of energy Development of eco-friendly technologies and Utilization of new and renewable energies Fair evaluation of the BOD performance expansion of investment and expansion of investment Interest level of stakeholders STEP 3 Selection of Final Issues and Validity Assurance We have finalized the content to be reported by defining the level of boundary and scope for material aspects to be included in the report based on internal review. In addition, we conducted validity check to make rational and balanced expression of sustainability management performance which includes both positive and negative impacts of KOGAS. Aspect Boundaries Material Issues GRI G4 Aspects Page Internal External 1 Prevention of Safety Accidents Industrial safety and health Government 34-36 2 Intensifying activities for anti-corruption and ethical management Anti-corruption Government 66-67 Evaluation of the impact of 3 Propagation of the culture of shared growth with suppliers and related efforts Suppliers, Global stakeholders 40-44 suppliers on the society 4 Investing in the community and facilitating the local economy Local communities Local communities 48-53 Government, Suppliers, Shareholders/ 5 Efficiently initiating overseas projects 10-11, 23 Investors, Global stakeholders 6 Initiating social contribution activities reflecting the nature of the business Local communities Local communities, NGO 48-53 7 Efforts to boost customer satisfaction Product and service labeling Customers 45-47 8 Establishing a system for safe operations Industrial safety and health KOGAS and Government 34-36 employees Employment, training and 9 Employee recruitment and welfare benefits 26-29 education 10 Securing financial soundness and profitability Economic effects Government, Shareholders/Investors 21-24, 33 11 Securing competitiveness in R&D and technologies Government, Shareholders/Investors 30-31 Diversity and equality in 26-28, 12 Efforts to initiate and spread human rights-oriented management opportunities 80-81 Government, Suppliers, Shareholders/ 13 Stable production and supply of natural gases 33 Investors, Global stakeholders, Citizens 14 Fair remuneration and personnel management 26-28 15 Development of projects for new growth engines Government, Shareholders/Investors 24 72 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Appendix 73 Performance Summary 79 Prizes and Awards/Memberships 80 Human Rights Management at KOGAS 82 Supply Chain Management 84 Third Party’s Assurance Statement 86 GRI Content Index 88 Sustainability Initiative 91 Subsidiaries and Invested Companies NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 73 Performance Summary Economic Performance Major Economic Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Performance Revenues KRW 100 million 372,849 260,527 211,081 (consolidated financial Operating income KRW 100 million 10,719 10,078 9,176 sheets) Net income (loss) KRW 100 million 4,472 3,192 -6,736 Major Financial Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Indicators (consolidated Increase rate in revenues % -2.0 -30.1 -19.0 financial sheets) Growth potentials Increase rate in net income % Conversion into a surplus -28.6 -311.0 Return on Assets (ROA) % 0.99 0.72 -1.64 Profitability Return on Equity (ROE) % 4.79 3.23 -6.97 Current ratio % 139.84 174.81 153.77 Stability Debt ratio % 380.98 321.45 325.38 Capital ratio % 20.79 23.73 23.51 Productivity Productivity of capital % 6.18 6.39 5.18 Summary for Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Consolidated Financial Current assets KRW 100 million 137,913 100,146 85,439 Statement (consolidated Assets Non-current assets KRW 100 million 329,807 323,707 313,840 financial sheets) Total assets KRW 100 million 467,720 423,853 399,278 Current liabilities KRW 100 million 98,621 57,287 55,563 Liabilities Non-current liabilities KRW 100 million 271,855 265,997 249,851 Total liabilities KRW 100 million 370,476 323,284 305,413 Paid-in capital(A) KRW 100 million 4,616 4,616 4,616 Others(B) KRW 100 million 92,628 95,954 88,122 Shareholders’ Equity attributable to shareholders of KRW 100 million 97,244 100,569 92,737 equity the corporation (subtotal)(A+B) Non-controlling interests KRW 100 million 0.0045 0.0015 1,127 Total shareholders’ equity KRW 100 million 97,244 100,569 93,865 R&D Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 R&D investment expenses KRW 100 million 468 425 719 Technological patents (accumulated) Number of cases 294 307 347 Generation and Stakeholders Calculation Criteria Unit 2014 2015 2016 Distribution of Economic Suppliers Expenses for purchasing goods from SMEs KRW 100 million 5,306 3,569 2,983 Value Employees Employee wages and welfare benefits KRW 100 million 2,909 3,164 3,480 Government Corporate tax + Taxes & dues KRW 100 million 0 298 3,542 Donations and social contribution activity Community KRW 100 million 264 207 183 expenses Customers Revenues KRW 100 million 372,849 260,527 211,081 Creditors Interest KRW 100 million 8,430 7,764 8,408 74 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Environmental Performance Greenhouse Gas Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Emissions Total GHG emissions tCO2e 592,506 502,988 525,573 Direct emissions tCO2e 246,750 150,711 166,283 Indirect emissions tCO2e 345,756 352,277 359,290 Amount of Energy Usage Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total amount of energy usage* TJ 11,760 10,189 10,651 Direct energies TJ 4,629 2,965 3,248 Indirect energies TJ 7,131 7,224 7,414 * There ‌ is a difference between the sum of direct and indirect amount of usage and the actual sum based on the standard to calculate GHG emissions by site (on decimal point handling) in the National Greenhouse Gas Management System. Amount of Water Usage* Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total amount of water usage m3 2,054,523,871 2,079,743,858 2,016,499,069 Seawater m3 1,576,236,007 1,581,500,930 1,571,859,597 Water service m3 469,209,947 491,108,395 436,181,693 Others m 3 9,077,917 7,134,533 8,457,779 * ‌Data in this report might be different from those in the previous one because of changes in the amount of the entire water usage due to increases in facilities using groundwater as management stations were newly built, and also because of errors in the unit for the amount of other types of water used. Emission of 구분 단위 2014 2015 2016 Environmental Pollutants Sales volume of natural gases 1,000 tons 35,173 31,456 32,773 Amount of emissions kg 369,863 256,230 278,257 NOx Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 11.28 8.15 8.49 Amount of emissions kg 1,070 689 749 Air pollution* SOx Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.03 0.02 0.02 Amount of emissions kg 3,322 2,191 2,363 Dust Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.09 0.07 0.07 Amount of emissions kg 99.9 125.3 124.2 BOD Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.0028 0.004 0.004 Amount of emissions kg 58.6 71.8 48.6 Water pollution** COD Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.0017 0.0023 0.002 Amount of emissions kg 156.9 236.3 139.5 SS Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 0.0045 0.0075 0.0043 General 1,000 tons 832 967 3,300 Designated tons 248 429 198 Waste*** Construction tons 485,406 411,583 290,394 Amount of emissions tons 486,486 412,979 293,892 Total Basic unit tons/1,000 tons 13.83 13.13 8.97 * ‌Data in this report might be different from those in the previous one because some of the facilities on sites are classified as facilities emitting air pollutants, and the amount of emission of air pollutants is changed due to the application of the Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) including nitric oxides to sites. ** ‌Data in this report might be different from those in the previous one because of changes in the amount of emission for BOD, COD and SS due to modification in the quantified data on the amount of wastewater and effluent treatment in the management system. *** ‌Data in this report might be different from those in the previous one because of changes in the amount of waste discharge as the amount of waste on industrial sites was recalculated (modification in the guideline for managing routine maintenance and waste generated from construction works). NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 75 Amount of Hazardous 구분 단위 2014 2015 2016 Chemicals Used* Sales volume of natural gases 1,000 tons 35,173 31,456 32,773 Amount of use kg 186,022 333,427 142,358 Basic unit kg/1,000 tons 5.29 10.60 4.34 * Data ‌ in this report might be different from those in the previous one because of changes in the amount of hazardous chemicals used due to the addition of such chemicals among the ones used on sites following the amendment of the Toxic Chemicals Control Act. Risks and Opportunities There has been a greater interest in measures for climate change because of the continuous increase in the carbon of Climate Change emissions – the cause for global warming – and from the onset of the Paris Agreement. In Korea, directions to convert into fuels for power generation (including coal) are positively reviewed, and roles of the natural gas (LNG) – a low-carbon emitting fuel – is expected to play intensified roles as an intermediary fuel, which might be an opportunity for KOGAS. Furthermore, KOGAS’ initiation to diversify its business into new and renewable energy sectors including hydrogen energy and LNG bunkering business is expected to significantly contribute to higher revenues and KOGAS’ financial structure. Meanwhile, KOGAS is aware of the necessity of CDM business, while exploring business for reduction in emission. Some of the business cover a need to procure emission credits as the amount of allocation by the government is reduced by phase (including the amount of paid allocation), and also improving facilities to control procurement cost. We currently conduct quantitative and qualitative analyses on risks, while identifying physical factors of climate change (heat waves, torrential rain, cold waves, heavy snow and gale, etc.), and plan to establish adaptation measures to climate change on earth. Seeking to proactively respond to climate change risks, KOGAS runs the Climate Change/Energy Committee and the Working-Level Committee for devising plans for climate change response and energy management, etc. We also respond to climate change throughout the corporation by devising indicators to evaluate the compliance of the allocated amount of GHG emission in each terminal division and regional division and their efforts to save energy. Violation of Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 environmental laws and Violation of statutory obligations/regulations Amount of penalty 0 0 0 regulations Number of times KRW 0 0 0 Social Performance Performance in the BOD Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Operation Number of times BOD meetings have been held Number of times 20 15 17 Agenda agreed upon Number of agenda 67 50 46 Pre-deliberation rate* % 80 81 95 Revised agreed-upon agenda Number of agenda (%) 1(1) 2(4) 1(2) Reported agenda Number of agenda 27 28 29 BOD attendance rate % 90 80 82 Attendance rate of non-executive directors % 88 79 79 Portion of speeches/motions delivered by non-executive % 57 55 56 directors * ‌In 2016, the scheme for calculating the preliminary review was changed into ‘the number of agenda explained at the preliminary council/the number of agenda presented to the Board of Directors) (before the change: the number of times the preliminary council was organized/the number of times the Board of Directors was organized). 76 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Status of Employees Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total employees Number of employees 3,483 3,497 3,626 Regular (Including executive director) Number of employees 3,453 3,460 3,605 Employment type Non-regular Number of employees 30 37 21 Below the 30s Number of employees 1,234 1,205 1,347 Distribution of employees by age In the 40s Number of employees 1,626 1,603 1,578 bracket Above the 50s Number of employees 593 652 701 Women employees Number of employees (%) 346(10.0) 350(10.1) 390(10.8) Women employees Women managers Number of employees (%) 5(0.14) 5(0.14) 37(1.03) The disabled Number of employees 100 108 131 Distribution of High school graduates Number of employees 558.5 547.5 497 personnel based on social equity People of national merit Number of employees 318 331 356 Local talents Number of employees 1,616 1,640 1,749 The disabled Number of employees 10 15 8 Women employees Number of employees 22 13 52 New recruits based on High school graduates Number of employees 41.5 29 69 social-equity People of national merit Number of employees 20 18 26 Local talents Number of employees 82 65 27.5 ※ The data were produced based on the All Public Information In-One. Status of Training for Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Employees Investment expenses for education and training KRW million 8,726 9,371 8,364 Education hours per person Number of hours 116 135 102 Education training expenses per person KRW 1,000 2,505 2,654 2,382 Employees’ Rate of Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Return to Work After a Childcare applicants Number of employees 21 23 46 Childcare Leave Men employees applying for a childcare leave Number of employees 4 2 2 Post-childcare leave return rate % 87 100 92 Employees’ Performance All employees are subject to periodic self-review and superior review on job performance and career development, which Evaluation is managed in the system, except for dispatched workers or long-term trainees. Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Rate of application of performance evaluation % 96.9 96.2 96.5 Employees’ Retirement We support employees and their families to prepare for a stable post-retirement life by operating the retirement pensions Management scheme. By offering both defined benefit (DB) plans and defined contribution (DC) plans, we give opportunities to employees to select a plan based on their preference. We run a scheme to offer educational subsidies to support postretirement life for eligible applicants for wage peak system (KRW 2 million per individual). The scheme is operated in the form of commissioned training where trainees design a course themselves and take it. Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Amount of assets under management KRW 100 million 1,241 1,664 2,566 Retirement pension Number of subscribers Number of employees 3,486 3,518 3,640 Retirement age Number of employees 13 21 0 Retired employees Voluntary retirement Number of employees 7 8 10 NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 77 Status of the Labor Union We provide prior written notifications on changes in corporate management: changes in the Articles of Incorporation and Subscription the organization, amendment or abolition of regulations on labor conditions, shareholders’ meeting and the board of directors associated with rights of unionists and agenda proposed to the Management Committee and their results. All these matters are stipulated in the collective agreements. Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Number of labor unionists Number of employees 3,012 3,017 3,186 Labor union subscription rate % 88 86 86 Occupational Health and The rate of workers represented by the Joint Labor-Management Health and Safety Committee (total number as of 2016Safety end: 3,468, number of employees on sites: 2,524). Topics for consultation include establishing preventive plans against industrial accidents, and matters on safety/healthcare measures following the adoption of hazardous/risky machinery and equipment. We perform a health checkup once a year for employees to prevent occupational diseases, along with a oncea-year special health check-up for employees in work shift and private police guards. Rate of taking number of leaves Number of occupational deaths Injury rate (2016)* Rate of absenteeism (2016) (2016)* (2016) 0.029% 23.07% 0% 0명 1 case of fracture due to falling off Sick leave of 90 days * Rate of the injured out of 100 ** Average working hours of 40 per individual/week X 52 weeks Status of Suppliers Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Number of major partner companies Number of companies 72 82 84 Procurement Contracts Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 with SMEs Purchases of SMEs products KRW 100 million 5,306 3,569 2,983 Ratio of purchases of SMEs products % 27.8* 26.7 28.1 * 27.3% disclosed in the 2016 Sustainability Report a typo, which is to be corrected as 27.8%. Support for SMEs’ Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Competitiveness Number of cases Cases 27 27 19 Joint R&D Participating companies Number of companies 27 27 19 R&D budget KRW 100 million 26.8 22.2 10.0 Training for technical/research Number of employees 19 70 personnel Training for employees On-the-job training Number of employees 2 8 in small-and mediumsized suppliers Online training Number of employees 13 28 37 Subtotal Number of employees 34 106 37 Customer Satisfaction Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Grade (points) A(97.2) A(93.7) S(94.9) Product and Service KOGAS supplies natural gases as products, and disclose the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) to customers and on our Information and Labeling website, which explains hazardousness, risks, emergency tips and handling procedures on the materials supplied. These are supplied pursuant to Article 41 of the Industrial Safety and Health Act, Article 37.2 of its Enforcement Decree and Article 92.2~10 of its Enforcement Rule. KOGAS has not violated related rules and regulations in 2016. 78 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Cases of Anti-Corruption We periodically monitor all site sand all business activities by establishing an internal constraining system. In addition, we and Violation operate the internal whistleblowing (reporting) system, and prevent corruption and management risks through advisory and supervisory activities including the Integrity Ombudsman and integrity auditors. The routine inspection system is operated as follows for preventing and strengthening the control of cases of key corruption and management risks. Risks of collective Risks of incompetent Risks of budget waste Moral hazard risks Key management agenda selfishness control 82 risks + 9 risks + 19 risks + 60 risks + Risks of false reporting, etc. Comprehensive & Auditing system + Routine monitoring + + Daily auditing + Prior review of agenda special auditing Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Cases of violating anti-corruption laws Number of cases (number of people) 3(3) 1(1) 1(22)* * For the internal case of unfair conduct found out in 2016, we intensified punitive measures, the internal control system and policies on ethics (refer to p.66~67 for details). Employee Training on Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Human Rights Policies Completion of ethical training Number of employees 2,963 1,624 3,144 and Procedures Completion of online training on the code of conduct Number of employees 3,281 3,237 5,980 Social Contribution Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Activities Total volunteering hours Number of times 45,878 74,593 34,711 Volunteering hours per person Number of times 13.3 21.2 9.4 Discounts for gas fees KRW 100 million 685 735 768 Creating jobs through Type Business cost (yearly) Number of jobs Note social contribution Application of the labor inducement Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Project (energy welfare) KRW 1.97 billion 29 employees projects (2016) coefficient* (construction business) Self-sufficiency Program for the Homeless KRW 50 million 6 employees Actual number of people employed Operation of social contribution buses KRW 90 million 1 employee 1 bus driver New operation of the Toy Library (2 launched in 2016) KRW 120 million 2 employees 1 social worker/toy library Application of the labor inducement Happy Nest Project, setup of study rooms, Love Fence Project KRW 220 million 3 employees coefficient* (construction business) Daegu Social Welfare Council KRW 80 million 3 employees New employment Subtotal KRW 2.53 billion 44 employees * Labor inducement coefficient in construction business (Korea Employment Information Service): 14.6 employees/KRW 1 billion Amount of contribution Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total amount of contribution KRW 4,117,124,650 5,107,753,500 4,452,000,260 Top five sources of Type Unit 2016 contributions* (2016) Corporate Partnership Foundation KRW 408,545,000 Foundation for Overseas Resources Development KRW 610,000,000 Korea Energy Agency KRW 900,000,000 Korea Energy Economics Institute KRW 900,000,000 Korea Gas Union Corp. KRW 950,000,000 Total KRW 3,768,545,000 * KOGAS provides contributions for the development of related associations, but does not offer any direct or indirect political donations. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 79 Prizes and Awards/Memberships Awards and Certifications Title of awards Organized by Year Ministerial Award of Trade, Industry and Energy of Korea CSR Film Festival Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2016 Korea Occupational Safety and Health Designation as an excellent customer in the prevention of construction accidents 2016 Agency Highest rank in the disaster management evaluation in the national infrastructure system Ministry of Public Safety and Security 2016 1st Rank in the Best Companies to Work GWP KOREA 2016 Certification as an excellent company in Standard Service Quality Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2016 Ministerial Award of Trade, Industry and Energy in the Energy Voucher Business Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2016 Prime Ministerial Commendation commemorating the 2016 World Standards Day 2016 Prime Ministerial Award in Korea Safety Award Ministry of the Interior 2016 KOGAS, British Standards Institution Integrated ISO certifications (ISO 8001, ISO 14001, ISO 29001, OHSAS 18001) 2016 (BSI) Acquisition of the highest level (excellence) in the Evaluation of Customer Satisfaction Level of Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2015 Public Corporations (for nine consecutive years) Designation as an excellent institution in security equipment for major national facilities – National Intelligence Service 2015 Tongyeong Terminal Division Korea Energy Environment Award – Chungcheong District Division Ministry of Environment 2015 Collective Ministerial Commendation of Trade, Industry and Energy in energy saving and Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2015 efficiency improvement – Gyeonggi District Division Award for Men of Merit for Sharing in 2015 by Gyeonggi Province – Gyeonggi District Division Gyeonggi Provincial Government 2015 Korean National Sharing Award (Minister of Health and Welfare) – Jeonbuk District Division Ministry of Health and Welfare 2015 2015 Korea Energy Environment Award – Chungcheong District Division Ministry of Environment 2015 Designation as an excellent institution in integrated defense for major national facilities (prime Ministry of National Defense 2015 ministerial award) – Incheon Terminal Division Designation as an excellent institution in joint evaluation of disaster management in the Ministry of Public Safety and Security 2015 national infrastructure system Grand Prize in the 2014 Technology Development Award (Administrator Prize of the Small and Small and Medium Business 2014 Medium Business Administration) Administration Award for Men of Merit in Social Welfare by Gyeonggi Province – Gyeonggi District Division Gyeonggi Provincial Government 2014 1st Rank in the energy sector in Korea’s Most Admired Companies for seven consecutive years Korea management Association 2014 Platinum Award in the annual sector category of the 2012/13 VISION AWARDS LACP 2014 Memberships UN Universal Energy & Mineral Institute for Global IUCN Declaration of UN Global Compact Resources Development Economics Human Right Association of Korea Green Company Korea Environmental Ethical Management Korea National Korea Gas Union Corp. Council Preservation Association SM Forum Committee of WEC 80 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Human Rights Management at KOGAS Principle of Human Rights Management KOGAS formulated and declared the ‘Charter on Human Rights Management’ in April 2017 to establish a system for human rights management fulfilling international standards and raise reliability in the domestic and international markets, thereby contributing to sustainability management. We implemented internal and external promotions proactively on the ‘Charter on Human Rights Management’ to spread consensus among all employees and create a culture for human rights, which have been shared on KOGAS’ official website and the in-house portal, via email for all employees and SNS (Facebook) and on newspaper. In addition, all employees signed the ‘Pledge to Comply with the Charter on Human Rights Management’. We have established diverse communication channels, endeavored to prevent violation of human rights, diversified the grievance handling system and continuously conducted due diligence in order to put them into action throughout the corporation. Furthermore, KOGAS joined the UN Global Compact in 2007, an international agreement prescribing global corporate social responsibilities. We announced that we will sincerely implement the ten principles in four areas as human, rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. We express our endorsement for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights through the Sustainability Report on a yearly basis. Identification of Risks for Human Rights KOGAS evaluated 38 items in 10 areas according to the checklist of human rights management: setup of the human rights management system; non-discrimination in employment; guarantee of freedom of association and collective bargaining; prohibition of forced labor; prohibition of child labor; guarantee of industrial safety; responsible management of the supply chain; human rights protection of local residents; guarantee of the environmental right; and human rights protection of consumers. The results were overall favorable and satisfying. The results of identification are disclosed through the corporate-wide notices and posting of the e-bulletin board, etc. and information on classes neglected by KOGAS, areas to be improved and potential risks, etc. Plans and Measures to Ease Human Rights Risks Strengthening Management of the Area of ‘Responsible Supply Chain Management’ Potential risks in the area of ‘responsible supply chain management’ (suppliers) have been identified based on the evaluation results of the risk checklist. Accordingly, the ‘Special Instructions to Bidders on Integrity Agreements’ and ‘Pledge to Perform Integrity Agreement’ to be signed with suppliers were amended in December 2015. Therefore, we need to strive for supply of goods complying with related laws on human rights protection and protection of human rights for personnel that implement contracts. Furthermore, we are to follow corrective actions on violation of human rights upon the breakout of human rights violation, and additionally included a provision in the documents to enable reporting to an investigative agency, if necessary. A client (the head of a department in charge of a construction work) must take actions upon regulatory violation through due diligence on the compensation, safety and health status of laborers as well as the labor environment through biannual subcontracting reviews in accordance with the ‘Guideline on Subcontracting Management’ of KOGAS. If actions are not continuously taken, penalties imposed to suppliers, which might act as a disadvantage when they are to enter another construction bidding. Complementing the Area of ‘Establishing a Human Rights Management System’ Seeking to improve the area of ‘establishing a human rights management system’, we took actions for improvement and complementation: institutionalizing human rights management, periodically disclosing results, launching a department in charge of human rights management (Innovative Culture Team), and declaring policies on human rights management, etc. Strengthening EHSQ Management Upon proceeding with business, KOGAS’ EHSQ management regulations mandates safety and environmental evaluation to minimize damage when accidents occur by preventing casualties and property loss and taking preventive measures against accidents. In addition, EHSQ regulations are prescribed for suppliers to abide by mandatorily to ensure actions for guaranteeing a compliant labor environment and business ethics on sites. Rate of identifying human rights risks in KOGAS’ management activities and rate of taking actions Rate of risks being identified Rate of application of complementary/ Total rate of evaluation for Standard of calculating the among those that have been improvement measures among those where risks the past three years reporting rate evaluated are identified 100% 26% 100% Number of employees (100%) NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 81 KOGAS’ Charter of Human Rights Management KOGAS’ Charter of Human Rights Management We strive to achieve our mission for enhancing benefits for people’s livelihood and realizing welfare in energy by supplying natural gases securely and stably to the public in pursuit of ‘Better Energy, Better Tomorrow’. We pursue ‘implementation of a non-discriminating fair society’ and ‘human rights management that puts people on the top priority’. To this end, we declare the ‘KOGAS’ Charter on Human Rights Management’ and pledge to take actions as a standard for taking proper actions and making proper value-based decisions for employees in order to enhance respect for humans and raise values in all our management activities. We respect and support international standards and norms which support such values as human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We do not discriminate all stakeholders including employees for reasons of race, religion, disability, gender, place of birth or political opinions, etc. We guarantee freedom of association and collective bargaining to protect the rights of employees. We disallow any forms of forced labor and child labor. We enhance industrial safety and health by creating a safe and hygienic working environment. We strive for win-win development with suppliers, and support and cooperate with them for them to practice human rights management. We respect and protect human rights of local residents in areas where we do business. We protect the environment and strive to prevent environmental damage. We strive to ensure that our business execution does not hamper the public safety, and protect personal information collected for business purposes. We pledge that we will strive to protect human rights of all stakeholders including employees, and do the best to establish and spread human rights management. Employees of KOGAS 82 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Supply Chain Management Code of Conduct for Suppliers KOGAS formulated a code of conduct for suppliers to strengthen compliance management to become the backbone of shared growth. The code of conduct suggests standards for suppliers to abide by on the environment, human rights, safety and health and ethics. These are for secondary and lower-tier suppliers to abide by that are in transaction with employees and agents of suppliers and the suppliers themselves. KOGAS recommends them to comply with legal requirements, provisions in the code of conduct and requirements in the transaction agreements. It is expected that compliance of the code of conduct by suppliers would help both KOGAS and suppliers gain global competitiveness. Suppliers of KOGAS Target of self-evaluation rate for KOGAS’ suppliers are classified into two types: construction work and major equipment and materials*. The category companies registered for major of construction work is participated by 129 companies engaged in the construction of production and supply facilities equipment and materials and maintenance work, and that of major equipment and materials is with 60 companies that are registered to supply components that are essential to produce and supply natural gases. Key suppliers among them are three large-scale construction companies (construction work) worth over KRW 5 billion and 39 companies (major equipment and materials) that have signed contracts with KOGAS in 2016 among those registered as major equipment and materials companies. * ‌Major equipment and materials (8 types): valves, insulated joints, metering equipment, gas leakage alarms, control equipment, static pressure equipment, uninterruptible power units and equipment such as explosion proofs 100% Status of KOGAS’ suppliers in 2016 (2018) Procurement ratio of core Total procurement cost of primary primary suppliers out of the total Primary suppliers Key primary suppliers suppliers procurement cost of primary suppliers 168 companies 42 companies KRW 152,224,777,319 42.16% Strategies for Supply Chain Management KOGAS establishes strategies and directions for managing the supply chain for suppliers, and devises environmental, social and governance (ESG) targets aligned with them. In addition, we reflect such ESG elements to the decision-making process for selecting and retaining suppliers. For construction work, we impose penalties depending on KOSHA 18001 certification, accident rate and the history of disciplinary records based on statutory decrees on the environment during prequalification(PQ) inspection. Candidates’ personal position takes up 1.2 points (3%) out of the total score of 40 in the performance ability evaluation in bidding evaluation. Such an evaluation is conducted as a complete survey on a construction work of over KRW 5 billion. For major equipment and materials, acquisition of ISO 9001 certification is required of companies that are registered for major equipment and materials and those wishing to be newly registered. Companies that do not have the certification are eliminated from the complete survey and periodic evaluation (3 years) and routine evaluation (1 year). Strategies for Supply Chain Management Quality Technological capability Continuity Delivery Transparency in selection Clarification of technological Mandatory clarification of Clarification of Clarification of actual Acquisition of adequate capability including designing and acquisition of ISO 9001, KOSHA management crises manufacturing capability, etc. quality by implementing manufacturing by clarifying the 18001 certification (merger, integration, etc.) through due diligence competitive bidding records of goods supply Key ESG Targets ISO 9001 Certification KOSHA 18001 Certification Acquisition of manufacturing capability for major equipment and materials for suppliers, Imposition of credits on KOSHA 18001 certified companies to bolster safety and health and adequate quality by setting up a quality control system activities of suppliers so that industrial accidents on construction sites could be reduced NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 83 Management of Risks in the Supply Chain KOGAS is equipped with a process to distinguish potential sustainability risks within the supply chain, and suppliers with high risks, based on evaluation results, are subject to suspension of qualification and request to make improvement. Construction Work Major Equipment and Materials Identification of 1. ‌An official process to identify potential risks when bidders participate in a 1. ‌An official process to identify potential risks of companies registered for major Risks bidding for construction work equipment and materials Applicable standards: ‌Specific Standard [Guideline] for Qualification Inspection ‌Applicable standards: ‌[EHSQI-06401 Guideline on Registration and Management for Construction Work of Manufacturers of Major Equipment and Materials] 8. Content: ‌Identifying risks in areas of personal position (accident rate, legal Monitoring and Measurement violations in safety and environment and certification on safety, Content: ‌Companies registered for major equipment and materials may be etc.) while conducting qualification/prequalification inspection for requested to undergo inspection and submit related documents. When construction projects above a predetermined threshold issues which are critical to management occur or reasons to restrict qualifications for participating in bidding take place, special inspection might be conducted, or bidders may be required to submit documents. 2. ‌Method of identification Direct evaluation at KOGAS based on applicable materials in each area predetermined by government agencies and subordinate institutions (accident 2. Method of identification rate, etc.) For document evaluation and due diligence on sites, sanctions are implemented, e.g. bidders’ qualification for registration being terminated by identifying falsification of documents submitted, suspension of production and severe 3. ‌Alignment with strategies for managing the supply chain defects in materials. Such findings are reported to the top management The probability of industrial accidents is very high, given the nature of sites for internally, e.g. decisions made at the Working Level Committee and the Plenary construction work. Therefore, companies with high potential risks are eliminated Committee, and are notified to relevant companies. by identifying suppliers’ safety and health management state. 3. Alignment with strategies for managing the supply chain ‌(Evaluation of applicant companies for new registration) Site reviews for companies are conducted to decide on their registration, including technological ability, management status and pilot product test. Potential sustainability risks are periodically evaluated and managed to prevent safety risks in advance, and then suppliers are added accordingly. As such, supply chain risks are managed and implemented for effective management. ‌(Evaluation of pre-registered companies) The valid period for registration is renewed and managed through reevaluation of technological ability, management status and constraints, etc. Scope and Evaluation of personal position on the intensity of sustainability risks in construction The intensity of sustainability risks on major equipment and materials is an Objectives of work is subject to items for review, and for the bidders with such high risks, the essential factor. Acquisition of ISO 9001 certification is identified and soundness Evaluation risks are defined as high sustainability risks. and technical ability (designing/manufacturing ability, and remedy defects, etc.) of the quality management system is referred to for evaluation. 1. Integrity as construction companies: penalties 2. Construction accidents and administrative sanctions ‌Accident rate, track records of violating the purpose of using the industrial safety and health management cost, track records of violating the duty to report on occurrence of industrial accidents, track records on punishment pursuant to environmental laws and regulations, acquisition of KOSHA 18001 certification Methods of Risk We evaluate sustainability risks of suppliers by biannually measuring penalties for For companies registered for major equipment and materials, we organize the Management large construction works of KRW 5 billion or higher. The penalties are measured Working Level and Plenary Committees for evaluating major equipment and through evaluation on industrial accidents of suppliers, safety and health materials to impose corporate sanctions. Once sanctions are determined, they are management methods and track records, and the results are reflected in follow-up notified to companies, requesting them to making improvement and reflecting construction contracts. the integrity in maintenance for follow-up evaluation onto evaluation of personal position. Quality inspection is performed for initial order volume after sanctions were imposed, if necessary. 84 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Third Party’s Assurance Statement Introduction Korea Gas Corporation (“KOGAS”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2017 (the “Report”). KOGAS have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of KOGAS in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Scope of assurance The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1st January to 31st December 2016. This included: • ‌Evaluation of the Report on the adherence to the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 • ‌Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. • ‌Review of the performance data and information in 2016 against the information disclosed in the Stateowned/Statecontrolled organization information disclosure system (www.alio.go.kr), the evaluation report for state-owned/statecontrolled organization, internal documents and records in the Report. Basis of our opinion We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM*, which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out in May and June 2017. The site visits were made to KOGAS headquarters in Daegu, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: • ‌challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; • interviewed representatives from the various departments; • ‌conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; • reviewed the materiality assessment report. Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of KOGAS’ associated companies, subsidiaries, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is crosschecked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as the State-owned/State-controlled organization information disclosure system (www.alio.go.kr) and KOGAS’ website (www.kogas.or.kr). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4. The verification team has observed that there is general awareness of sustainability context across all different levels of the organization. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; Stakeholder Inclusiveness KOGAS has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Employees, Trade union, The public, Government, National assembly, City Producers, Natuaral gas importers, , Local communities, Subsidiaries, Countries where KOGAS has business and Suppliers. KOGAS engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. The examples of approaches to engagement with selected stakeholders are described in the Report. * The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL website.(www.dnvgl.com ) NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 85 Sustainability Context KOGAS has stated in the Report the ‘2025 Vision’ and strategy for sustainability management. The goal of social contribution sector has been linked to the UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals), and key issues and action plans are developed to achieve the sustainability management strategy based on the 4 strategic directions of governance, economy, environment and society aspects. KOGAS addresses how material issues are managed and what was achieved in 2016, which would help the stakeholder understand the management approaches to the material aspects. Materiality KOGAS has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. 30 issue pools were formed and internal and external stakeholders were surveyed to rate the issues. 15 material issues are prioritized accordingly. KOGAS considers the consistent way of selecting material issues so that the decision made by the management and daily operation are fully aligned with strategic sustainability management. The verification team has reviewed the materiality assessment process and nothing comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that material issues identified from the assessment are not reported. Completeness The Report has covered the sustainability performances of KOGAS and management approach to material issues for the reporting period. The reporting boundary has been set to include domestic operations such as headquarters, LNG terminals and Trunk lines and research institute. Some performance information from overseas activities are included. Nothing comes to our attention to believe that the Report does not cover material issues derived from materiality assessment. Report quality: Accuracy and Reliability We found a limited number of non-material errors and these were corrected prior to inclusion in the Report. The data presented in the report were gathered from the teams responsible for data control in KOGAS. The verification team interviewed the Person-in-charge, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. The depth of data verification is limited to the aggregated data. Based on sampling verification and other reported information and available evidence, nothing comes to our attention that would cause us to believe that the data and information presented in the Report have any intentional error or material misstatement. Competence and Independence DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. The verification team has complied with DNV GL’s Code of Conduct. June 2017 Seoul, Korea In Kyoon Ahn Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 86 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 GRI Content Index Level of Category G4 Description Page report Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. ● 4-5 G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● 4-5, 64-65 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. ● 14 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. ● 6-12 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. ● 14 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant G4-6 ● 10-11, 14 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. ● 14, 63 G4-8 Report the markets served. ● 6-12 G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. ● 14 G4-10 Report the total number of employees. ● 14 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ● 29 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. ● 40-44, 68-69 No significant changes G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. ● occurred during the reporting period G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. ● 34-37, 54-59, 64-65 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or G4-15 ● 88-90 which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization. ● 79 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. ● 91 G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. ● 70-71 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. ● 70-71 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. ● 70-71 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows. ● 70-71 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. ● Record when occurred G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. ● No change Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 68-69 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ● 68-69 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and G4-26 ● 68-69 an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. ● 68-69 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. ● 2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). ● 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle. ● 2 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● 2 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. ● 2 G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ● 2 Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees G4-34 ● 62-63 responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and G4-36 ● 17, 63 social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees. ● 63 G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. ● 62 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating G4-40 ● 62 and selecting highest governance body members. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of G4-41 ● 62 interest are disclosed to stakeholders Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental G4-44 ● 63 and social topics. Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) G4-50 ● 62 used to address and resolve them. G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration. ● 63 G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. ● 63 G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration. ● 63 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. ● 66-67 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational G4-57 ● 66-67 integrity. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-58 ● 66-67 organizational integrity. NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 87 Level of Category Index G4 Description Page report Economic DMA Disclosures on management approach ● 21-24, 33 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 73 Economic Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ● 22, 24, 57, 75 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ● 76 Indirect Economic EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ● 47 Impacts EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● 47 Environmental EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 57, 58 Energy EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 57 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 58 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high EN12 ● 56 Biodiversity biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored ● 56 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) ● 59 Emissions EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) ● 59 EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions ● 56, 59 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 56, 59 Effluents and Waste EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 56, 58 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Compliance EN29 ● 75 laws and regulations Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 55 Social Labor Practice and Decent Work DMA Disclosures on management approach ● 26 Employment LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region ● 76 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 76 DMA Disclosures on management approach ● 34-36 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help LA5 ● 77 Occupational Health monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs and safety LA6 Disclosures on management approach ● 77 LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ● 77 LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 77 DMA Disclosures on management approach ● 27 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category ● 27 Training and Education Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist LA10 ● 76 them in managing career endings LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category ● 76 DMA Disclosures on management approach ● 26, 62, 80-81 Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, Opportunity LA12 ● 62, 76 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Supplier Assessment LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken ● 80 for Labor Practices Social Human Rights Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ◑ 80 Freedom of Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be Association and HR4 ● 80 violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Child Labor HR5 ● 80 to the effective abolition of child labor Forced or Compulsory Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to HR6 ● 80 Labor contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Supplier Human Rights HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ● 80 Assessment Social Society DMA Disclosures on management approach ● 48-53 Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs ◑ 48-53 DMA Disclosures on management approach ● 66-67 SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified ● 78 Anti-corruption SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 67 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken ● 67 Supplier Assessment DMA Disclosures on management approach ● 80 for Impacts on Society SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken ● 80 Social Product Responsibility DMA Disclosures on management approach ● 45-47 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and PR3 ● 77 Product and Service labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service PR4 ● 77 information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 45-46 88 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Initiative ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is an international guidance that standardizes social responsibilities formulated and announced by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in November 2011. It encompasses many existing guidelines on management integration as well as seven core subjects which span from ‘organizational governance’, ‘human rights’, ‘labor practice’, ‘environment’, ‘fair management practice’, and ‘consumer issue’, to ‘local community engagement and development’. We comply with ISO 26000 and continuously manage our implementation records. Matching Provision Core Subjects Issues Page in ISO 26000 Organizational Governance Decision-making process and structure 6.2.3 62-63 Due diligence 6.3.3 Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Grievance resolution 6.3.6 26-28, Human Rights 80-81 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Civil and political rights 6.3.8 Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Labor Practice Social dialogue 6.4.5 29, 34-36 Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 Environment 54-59 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.5.5 Protection of the environment, biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitats 6.5.6 Anti–corruption 6.6.3 Responsible political involvement 6.6.4 Fair Management Practice Fair competition 6.6.5 66-67 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Respect for property rights. 6.6.7 Fair marketing, factual, and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Protection of consumers’ health and safety 6.7.4 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 Consumer Issue Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 6.7.6 45-47 Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 Access to essential services 6.7.8 Education and awareness 6.7.9 Active community involvement 6.8.3 Education and culture 6.8.4 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 Local Community Engagement and Technology development and access 6.8.6 48-53 Development Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Health 6.8.8 Social investment 6.8.9 NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 89 UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs) The UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) deal with universal issues of the mankind, environmental issues and socio-economic issues as the largest common goals of the U.N. and the international community from 2016 to 2030. KOGAS secures corporate social responsibilities and easiness of doing business by implementing strategic social contribution activities by reviewing alignment with the UN SDGs and KOGAS’ social contribution strategies. KOGAS’ Strategies for Social Contribution UN SDGs Alignment HarOne Love Hope mony Heart Contributing to easing economic impoverishment and poverty through various forms of social contribution activities, Eradicating all forms of poverty 1 ○ ○ ○ including providing city gas tariff for the underprivileged at home and abroad, extending medical fees, operating welfare everywhere facilities, providing economic support for families in crisis and supporting the underprivileged with stable housing Eradicating poverty, and Striving to eradicate poverty at home and abroad through continued support for Food for the Hungry International, Friend 2 promoting food security and ○ ○ Asia and the Korean Red Cross sustainable agriculture Implementing comprehensive and systematic health and welfare projects for various classes of people by age – children, adolescents and the elderly – and by non-age – the homeless and residents of shanty towns, etc. (guaranteeing healthy life Guaranteeing a healthy life and for the underprivileged and contributing to welfare improvement by providing medical cost for severely ill pediatric patients in 3 promoting welfare for people of all ○ ○ ○ underprivileged households, giving assistance to rehabilitation equipment for disabled adolescents, supporting the elderly by ages installing gas timer cocks, and running job placement programs for self-sufficiency and rehabilitation of the homeless and residents in shanty towns) Continuously providing opportunities for high-quality comprehensive education and life-long learning through support for Providing comprehensive highhigh-quality educational environment by providing scholarships to children and adolescents in low-income households at 4 quality education and life-long ○ ○ ○ home and abroad, improving the educational environment, and constructing the Toy Library and children’s playground; and learning opportunities also through operation of training programs on construction skills for fundamental self-sufficiency and rehabilitation of the homeless and residents in shanty towns so that they could be self-sufficient without financial support Carrying out activities as a part of KOGAS’ interest in gender equality by sponsoring facilities and households with single Achieving gender equality and mothers (supporting their living environment through wall covering and replacement of flooring, providing emergency 5 empowering the rights of all ○ ○ ○ living expenses for families in crisis to empower women’s rights, giving out sanitary products to underprivileged women and women and girls providing medical cost to severely ill women Ensuring availability of water Continuously performing environmental preservation activities including cleaning up rivers by running Onnuri Volunteer 6 and sanitation and managing it ○ ○ ○ Groups, and supporting the project to improve a residential environment by improving the hygiene state of the sustainably underprivileged Providing modern types of energy Conducting business to stably and continuously provide cheap, clean and natural gases by supporting energy cost reduction 7 which are cheap, reliable and ○ for the underprivileged, e.g. installation of fuel cells and gas-powered HVAC units in welfare facilities to save cooling and sustainable for all heating cost, and implementing gas tariff reduction policies for the underprivileged Guaranteeing sustainable Performing business to generate demands to increase the usage of natural gases as clean, economical and safe energy sources, and 8 economic growth and high-quality ○ ○ contributing to job creation and promotion of employment through the Architecture Academy (programs on construction skills and job jobs and employment placement) for the homeless and residents in shanty towns Establishing social infrastructure Contributing to sustainable industrial development through social investment to spread distributed electricity by supporting 9 and promoting sustainable ○ to install inlet pipelines for city gas and fuel cells industrialization Continuously performing activities to ease cross-national inequality through medical support and improvement of the Easing inequality within and educational environment for developing countries, and continuing to strive for easing non-equality in Korea through various 10 ○ ○ ○ across countries projects: academic sponsorship of the underprivileged, invitation to cultural and art shows and support for housing stability and heating cost Contributing to creation of safe and resilient cities by continuously and diversely engaging in projects: expansion of fuel cells Creating safe and resilient as a distributed electricity form for clean, safe and sustainable cities, formation of settlements by ensuring an equal society 11 ○ ○ ○ ○ sustainable cities and settlements through support for the absolute poor, Blue Sky Project to improve the atmospheric environment, Cultural Property Jikimi (protection) Project, and volunteering of employees for environmental clean-up. Guaranteeing sustainable Contributing to stable supply and demand of natural gases and the virtuous structure for domestic demands by enabling 12 consumption and production ○ ○ stable operation of facilities for storing natural gases by supporting to install inlet pipelines for city gas, reducing gas tariff, patterns and managing conflicts within a region Preventing impact on climate Social contribution projects for generating demands for natural gases as clean fossil fuels are categorized as efforts for 13 change and taking immediate ○ preventing the impact of climate change and taking immediate actions actions Engaging in environmental clean-up activities by employees working in terminal divisions adjacent to sea by contributing Having capabilities to preserve to preservation of oceanic resources through projects to generate demand for natural gases – a clean form of fossil fuels, 14 and use ocean, sea and oceanic ○ ○ ○ minimizing the damage of the oceanic environment near natural gas bases, and providing support for damage recovery resources sustainably when accidents happen based on internal regulations Preserving the inland ecoMinimizing the environmental damage on areas near natural gas bases, and providing support for damage recovery when system and forests, preventing accidents happen. Engaging in environmental clean-up activities including Blue Sky Project and Cultural Property Jikimi 15 ○ ○ ○ ○ desertification and maintaining (protection) Project, and improving the environment through projects to increase demand for natural gases – a clean form of bio-diversity fossil fuels Contributing to promoting a peaceful and inclusive society by raising awareness on social responsibilities by facilitating an Promoting a peaceful and inclusive inclusive society through support to open the Rights Experiencing Center to empower human rights of adolescents and social 16 society and establishing effective and ○ ○ ○ contribution projects in multiple areas for the underprivileged, running the mileage point system on social contribution for accountable systems accessible for all employees and facilitating the employee donation scheme Strengthening instruments to Strengthening responsibilities by reflecting the mileage point system on social contribution for employees to the internal achieve the above objectives and job assessment, supporting areas near terminal divisions of natural gases by cooperating with local governments and 17 facilitating global partnerships ○ ○ ○ continuously striving to strengthen partnerships with domestic and international institutions and the government by among companies, the National improving the educational environment and supporting medical cost in developing countries aligned with overseas business Assembly and countries 90 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2017 Signatory to and Commitment to Support the UNGC Since 2007, KOGAS has joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which is an international agreement that stipulates the social responsibilities of global enterprises. We declared that we will sincerely implement the ten principles in four areas as human, rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. Principle Page Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 proclaimed human rights; and 26-28, 80-81 Human Rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 26-29, 80-81 Labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 occupation Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 54-59 Environment Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10 66-67 extortion and bribery Anti-Corruption NEXT Energy with KOGAS Shared Value with KOGAS KOGAS Sustainability Management Appendix 91 Subsidiaries and Invested Companies 1. Subsidiaries Type Company Name 1 Korea Gas Technology Corporation Co., Ltd. 2 KOGAMEX Investment Manzanillo B.V. 3 KOMEX-GAS, S. de R.L. de C.V. 4 KOGAS Iraq B.V. 5 KOGAS Badra B.V. 6 KOGAS Akkas B.V. 7 KOGAS Mansuriya B.V. 8 KOGAS Canada Ltd. 9 KOGAS Canada LNG Ltd. 10 KOGAS Australia Pty. Ltd. 11 KOGAS Prelude Pty. Ltd. 12 KG Timor Leste Ltd. 13 KG Krueng Mane Ltd. 14 KG Mozambique Ltd. 15 KOGAS Mozambique, Lda 16 KOGAS Cyprus Ltd. 17 KC LNG Tech Co., Ltd. 18 KOGAS-SEAGP COMPANY Ltd. 2. Affiliate Type Company Name 1 Korea Ras Laffan LNG Ltd. 2 Korea LNG Ltd. 3 Hyundai Yemen LNG Company 4 Korea LNG Trading Co., Ltd. 5 Kor-Uz Gas Chemical Investment Ltd. 6 South-East Asia Gas PipelineCompany Limited 7 Sulawesi LNG Development Limited 8 TOMORI E&P Limited 9 AMEC Partners Korea LTD 3. Joint Ventures Type Company Name 1 Kor-Uz Cylinder Investment Co., Ltd. 2 Korea-Uz CNG Investment Co., Ltd. 3 TERMINAL KMS de GNL, S. De R.L.De C.V. 4 GLNG Operations Pty. Ltd. 5 GLNG Property Pty. Ltd. 6 CORDOVA GAS RESOURCES LTD.* 7 ENH KOGAS, SA. 8 LNG Canada Development Inc. 9 Manzanillo Gas Tech, S. de R.L. deC.V. * Disposed in 2016 For this report, we used FSCⓇ(Forest Stewardship CouncilⓇ)certified paper that has been sourced and managed in a socially responsible and economically viable manner. And this report paper was printed in soy ink by a company that earned an FSCⓇChain-of-Custody certificate (license code. C005448). www.kogas.or.kr
