Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Workwear with a point of view Nybo Workwear A/S (hereafter Nybo Workwear) is a About our CSR report family owned company. This means that people that The purpose of our CSR reporting is to provide a comhave a daily involvement in the company own us. This prehensive picture to our stakeholders on our CSR perhas a huge impact on the way we run our business and formance in 2016. Our CSR report form at the same implement our values. It is of utmost importance to time the obligatory Communication on Progress (COP) us to value both responsibility and a solid bottom line report to UN Global Compact. equally. During 2015 Nybo Workwear A/S acquired a production We work with corporate social responsibility because of facility in Asia with manufacturing in Laos and design four main reasons: and administration in Bangkok, Thailand (hereafter 1. We believe that we must behave decently in reNYBO Asia). lation to other people our own employees, our Activities under NYBO Asia is under Danish managesuppliers’ employees, our customers, their cusment and the process of receiving the BSCI standard is tomers and others we meet on our way. currently ongoing. 2. We believe that we must focus on our As for all other NYBO facilities, CSR will also be importenvironment and nature we have a ant for NYBO Asia. A key focus is the wellbeing of the responsibility to pass it on in good condition for workforce and therefore high standards in living condifuture generations. tions is available as well as medical assistance and guid3. We believe that decent behavior and sound busiance is being offered to the workforce on site. ness are interdependent. 4. We appreciate that many of our customers focus The report covers our five locations: Headquarter in Vion CSR and place high demands on us. These borg, Denmark, our two production facilities in Dobele requirements we would like to meet. and Jelgava, Latvia and administration in Bangkok, Thailand and production facility in Vientiane, Laos. Continued support to Global Compact Nybo Workwear has been supporting the UN Global In order to ensure a transparent, balanced and reasonCompact since 2010. Together with our core values, able presentation of our CSR performance, we are inthese 10 principles form the basis for our holistic ap¬spired by general accepted reporting principles: Global proach to CSR. Reporting Initiative (www.gri.com). In 2013, we have conducted a structured process aiming at integrating CSR further into our business strategy. We As we will continue our strategic and systematic work have looked deeper into our potential risks and idenwith CSR, any constructive comment for further imtified our most significant stakeholder. Furthermore, provements are highly appreciated. we have conducted a self-assessment of process and materials in order to prioritize those CSR activities that We hope you will enjoy reading it! create most value to both our business and the society around us. These priorities are reflected in our report. We are constantly setting new targets for improvement, and in 2017 we will further strengthen our partnership with our suppliers in Asia with the goal of enhancing responsibility in our supply chain. _____________________ Helle Nybo Holmberg CEO, Nybo Workwear A/S 02 csr report 2016 Company values Dynamics Credibility In order to retain a solid platform in a changeable Honesty and credibility must be our guidelines in world we want to be an innovative, dynamic, and everything we do. efficient company that inspires customers and colleagues in our industry. Quality Durable products is a key demand from our Passion customers. We must adapt the highest possible With equal parts competence, persistence, and enstandards of quality within all our activties. thusiasm we wish to deliver profitable solutions for the mutual benefit of our customers and ourselves. csr report 2016 03 Purchase A trustful partnership is the key to responsible sourcing We understand purchase as all sourcing activities reself-assessment. lated to procurement and supplier management at • In 2016 we will cancel the cooperation with two Nybo Workwear. suppliers and then concentrate on our new production facility in Laos and our supplier in India. Nybo Workwear has main suppliers of textile distributed in Europe and Asia. Our European suppliers are all subject to strict European legislation and control. WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2016 Consequently, our own production facility in Laos is BSCI • All suppliers have conducted the Nybo Workaudited and our key supplier in India holds a SA8000 wear self-assessment if they are not certified certification and in 2013 – Fair Wear. with SA 8000 or ISO 26000/DS49001 or BSCI. • Our existing suppliers all live up to our high Our focus is therefore still to cooperate with suppliers, standards for quality and responsibility. which are BSCI, or SA8000 audited. • Our own production facility in Laos has joined the BSCI and already had the first audits. Policies and strategies • We have stopped our cooperation with two Our ambition is to do business with suppliers who meet suppliers in China. It means more focus on our the same high standards concerning quality, ethics, main suppliers of work wear and both of these environment and security of supplies as we do ourselves. are certified SA 8000 and BSCI. We only source from international recognized • We have not had any situations where a suppliers. supplier has failed in our cooperation. We believe that we achieve the best results through trustful partnerships striving for improvement in regards to human right, labour rights and environmental WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2017 issues. Therefore, we are convinced that it is through • All European suppliers with a purchase of more a long-term partnership with our key suppliers that we than 500.000 DKK must sign the FairFashion achieve the best results. Regular visits in the places of Code of Conduct as an integrated part of the production guarantee observance of the agreed condicontract with Nybo Workwear. tions. • Asian suppliers with a purchase of more than Nybo Workwear is a member of the trade association 100.000 DKK are obliged to sign the FairFashion “Danish Fashion and Textile” that has developed a reCode of Conduct as an integrated part of their cognized code of conduct targeting suppliers named contract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear – FairFashion. Our goal is to ensure that our suppliers live self-assessment. up to standards similar to FairFashion. • We will work on to have a grade A-B in our BSCI member ship on our production facility in Laos. WHAT we said in 2016 In April 2017 we will have a second audit to fol• All European suppliers with a purchase of more low up on the changes we have made since last than 500.000 DKK must sign the FairFashion audit in September 2016. Code of Conduct as an integrated part of the contract with Nybo Workwear. • Asian suppliers with a purchase of more than 100.000 DKK are obliged to sign the FairFashion Code of Conduct as an integrated part of their contract as well as fill in the Nybo Workwear – csr report 2016 05 Product High quality in everything we do We understand “solutions” as our full assortment of customers ask for new and more sustainable products, processes, customer relations, and sales and products. In 2016 we have again launched more marketing activities. collections in different blends where Tencel is a As a textile company our main impact on society is repart of it instead of cotton. lated to the quality and content of the products we sell. • Our collection Nature of organic cotton and It means that our focus is constantly on environmentally regenerated polyester has been made in two new friendly fabrics and accessories we use in our products. colors as there is a big interest in these sustainable garments on the market. Policies and strategies • Regenerated polyester is made of e.g. old dumped Since the foundation of Nybo Workwear, we have plastic bottles found in nature or at landfill sites. strived towards high quality in everything we do. We In contrast to the production of traditional polyesbelieve that quality and responsibility are interrelated. ter, no oil is used in the production of regenerated We also believe that we have an obligation to develop polyester and therefore the consumption of eninnovative and environmentally friendly products, ergy and the CO2 emissions are profoundly less. which will be a benefit for all involved. Organic cotton protects the environment because Nybo Workwear works only with experienced and inno pesticides are used in the production. A proternational recognized sub-suppliers of raw material duction without pesticides naturally also contribfor industrial washable products. All specifications of utes to improved living and working conditions of fabrics and accessories are determined and controlled the cotton farmers. according to international standards regarding quality, • In 2016 our use of air freight have again been at an environmental requirements and healthy working conunsatisfactory high level. We have chosen to use ditions. A continuous follow-up takes place regarding airfreight as we have had many new projects with the fulfilment of the agreed demands and arrangeshort delivery time and our turnover has increased ments. compared to 2015 and we have focused to have In our catalogues and on the web, we clearly indicate articles on stock. which certificates relate to each product. It assists our • In 2016, along with 11 other regional compancustomers in making a responsible choice. ies, Nybo Workwear were screened and selected to participate in the project “Rethink Business – WHAT we said in 2016 Design for Disassembly”. Through our participa• We will continue to live up to our customers’ demands tion in the project, Nybo Workwear has built up a concerning environmental and social irresponsible network that allows us to offer a profitable green products and processes. business model with our customers and suppliers. • We will continue to contribute to new innovative and environmentally friendly solutions within fabrics, WHAT IS NEXT FOR 2017 accessories, and finished products. • We will continue to live up to our customers’ de• We will still focus on our transport and follow our mands concerning environmental and social irrecarbon footprint within this activity our seaand air sponsible products and processes. freight from Far East suppliers. • We will continue to contribute to new innovative and sustainable solutions within fabrics, accessorWHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2016 ies, and finished products and be a frontrunner in • 98% of the raw material in our standard products is the work wear business. Oeko –Tex 100 certified. • We will focus on using fabric suppliers who are • 68% of our total standard products is certified with certified with the STeP or bluesign environmental bluesign or STeP which is environmental certifications. certification. Our Tencel collections which has started up in 2011/12 • We will still focus on our transport and follow our is still of a very high interest as the carbon footprint within this activity our seaand air freight from Far East suppliers. 06 csr report 2016 Nybo Workwear’s garments meet the following standards ISO 15797 bluesign Standard As one of the first in our industry, we use the A number of our products are based on fabrics, international test standard ISO 15797. A careful sewhich have achieved certification, by bluesign Stanlection of raw material guarantee that Nybo products dard. This ensures that production takes place with meet the requirements of industrial washing. the utmost consideration for resource utilization, negative impact on air and water, health and conOeko-Tex Standard 100 sumer protec-tion. If possible, we strive to buy fabrics and accessries that are Oeko-Tex Standard 100-certified. The scheme is STeP the most common labelling for textiles in the world. This is the new environmental certification. It is a The system checks content of harmful substances in guarantee of an environmentally and sustainable textiles, and minimize the risk of user exposure to hazproduct from start to end – the whole productions ardous substances process and social working conditions. It is handled by the OEKO-TEX Association. Nybo frontrunner in sustainable work wear Nybo Workwear do not just want to be a manufacturer of light work wear. We also want to be an innovative frontrunner of sustainability and ecology. In end 2015 we have launched our very first sustainable collection: Nature. Nature is a collection of upper parts made of regenerated polyester and organic cotton. Nature is now available in 2 new colors, which indicate purity, freshness and healthiness thereby supporting the good qualities of the sustainable fabric. Regenerated polyester is made of e.g. old dumped plastic bottles found in nature or at landfill sites. In contrast to the production of traditional polyester, no oil is used in the production of regenerated polyester and therefore the consumption of energy and the CO2 emissions are profoundly less. Organic cotton protects the environment because no pesticides are used in the production. A production without pesticides naturally also contributes to improved living and working conditions of the cotton farmers. With Nature, the user does not only get a high quality product. He also gets a product produced under sustainable and resource-saving conditions and the user actively supports a production with a good conscience and takes responsibility for our common future. At Nybo Workwear, we believe that sustainability is imperative in the future production of work wear and we have now taken the first step. csr report 2016 07 Process Environmental precautions from the very beginning We perceive “process” as all the internalized activities • We have invested in IT equipment with lower energy across our own company value chain, including proconsumption in beginning of 2015, which we hope duc¬tion, logistics, properties and utilities. will make an effect on the total use of energy. • Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 3% Our facility in Viborg, Denmark is home of our administration and stock. Our environmental challenges are What we achieved in 2016 mainly related to our production facilities in Dobele and • Our wind turbine has produced much more energy Jelgava in Latvia but from 2016 also in our new producthan 2015 and we have used quite much of the tion facility in Laos and administration in Bangkok, Thaienergy for our own consumption. Now we have the land. As a textile, producing company our main task is real purchase of energy for one year. It means that to produce high quality work wear, which means that we from now on can have more correct figures in the we have very limited envir¬onmental issues related to overview and be able to measure the real hazardous waste and our wa¬ter consumption. consumption. • We have in 2016 also invested in new IT equipment, Policies and strategies which gives reductions of energy in the future. We consider ourselves as an integrated part of our • In our facility in Latvia, we have used more energy com¬mon environment. In spite of our modest size and consumption in 2016 as we work with 2-shift in propo¬sition as a minor Danish player, we are determined duction. In total we have increased our energy conto demonstrate our will to contribute to the preservasumption with 4,16%. tion of our environment and resources. • Our water consumption has been reduced with In 1980, we decided to set up a wind turbine at our 2,7%. This is not satisfied, as our goal was a reducfacil¬ity in Denmark and thus become self-sufficient in tion on 3%. elec¬tricity. Our wind turbine produces about 50.000 • We brought 57,14 tons of material back to full recyckWh annually. We consume the majority internally, and ling in 2016. It is less than 2015 as we have produced the surplus we market to the local power plant. a little less garments in Latvia and have reused more We continue our recycling project of paper and plastic carton boxes in Denmark. in cooperation with Zala Josta Ltd., which a Latvian com• In Denmark, we donated more than 1.150 kg of pany is caring for a clean Latvia. We collect and sort all clothing and shoes to the Danish Red Cross in their waste: fabric, paper, cartons and plastic for recycling. campaign. We have collected the clothing among Our systematic work with recycling has given us the Zala employees and our sample department. In 2015, it Josta certificate, which certifies that our production site was 300 kg. “Sia Nybo Dobele” is environmentally friendly. We have • We are still a member of the non-profitable “Stop a special focus on the end-to-end handling of cardboard Wasting Food” which are at the 30-35 biggest festboxes, as this is our main packaging consumption. All ivals in Denmark, collect the huge amounts of surboxes are sorted, cleaned, pressed and recycled. plus food, and distribute it to people who needs it. In Ventiene in Laos – all waste of fabric is given to a • As a new step, we have obtained a new certificawashing factory – a sub-contractor. This factory use the tion – The REFOOD system. The REFOOD system is a waste for heating up their boiler for hot water for the scheme for companies and organizations in the food washing of denim. and service sector, which takes action against food In Viborg, we sort all waste: paper, cartons and plastic waste and works for recycling. Nybo Workwear A/S and sell it for recycling. Carton boxes from suppliers are has chosen three food waste reductive initiatives for used for shipments to the customers. recycling of food waste. • The REFOOD system is a trusted certification based What we said in 2016 on a common vision of a sustainable food and ser• We want to continue reducing our energy convice sector, characterized by less waste of resources sumption: and more recycling. 08 csr report 2016 • We still want to continue reducing our energy conA big campaign will be running in March and April sumption in Denmark, Latvia and NYBO Asia with 3%. 2017 and we have a goal to donate more clothes and • Our aim is to reduce our water consumption by 3% shoes than in 2016. total. • In 2017 we will start to measure how much waste of • We will continue to be active in “Stop Wasting Food” fabric we have in Laos and which is given to the wash and “Smid tøjet” and donate clothes to this organiing factory for heating up the boiler. zation. Key figures regarding employees Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Nybo Asia Total Employees -­‐ total 36 152 140 328 Blue collar 5 127 127 259 White collar 31 25 13 69 Sick leave 1,7 8,3 0,25 Injuries 0 2 2 4 Employee Development 36 25 13 74 Employees training 27 9 7 43 Employess on spec. training 3 0 0 3 Environmental figures Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Nybo Asia Total Energy consumption Electricity -­‐ kWh 70.867 216.480 100.358 387.705 Gas -­‐ m3 23.727 10.370 0 34.097 Wind turbine sold -­‐ kWh 19.092 0 0 19.092 Water consumption -­‐ m3 187 815 0 1.002 Recycling -­‐ tons 7,07 50,05 0 57,12 csr report 2016 09 People Good working conditions are key to success We understand people as all activities related to maEnglish language training for 7 people. naging and developing our employees. This includes a • Continued systematic employee development safe and healthy working environment, leadership and dialogues for all employees in Denmark and all compliance with Nybo Workwear ‘s Code of Conduct. managers in Latvia. Nybo Workwear employs 328 persons – 36 are working • We have invested in a cutter in Latvia and this was at the headquarter in Denmark and 152 are working at started up in January 2016. It means better worour two production facilities in Latvia. In Thailand – king conditions for emplyees. 7 persons and in Laos – 133 persons. • Increased systematic documentation on health We are proud to have a very high length of employment and safety issues in both Denmark and Latvia. In – both in Latvia, Denmark and Thailand and Laos. Viborg we had a very low sick-leave at 1,7% in Latvia 8,3% which are on the same level as 2015 in Latvia and DK. In Nybo Asia we had a sick-leave Policies and strategies at 0,25% which is very low. We want to offer a desirable, developing and challen• Continued our cooperation with Viborg Muniging place of work that is able to attract and retain qualcipality to include socially vulnerable citizens into ityminded, wellqualified and passionate our company. In 2016, we have 3 persons em employees. We believe that our employees are the ployed on special terms. most important key to success. • We did follow-up course in first aid and use of We respect and live up to the national labor market laws defibrillator in February and March in 2016 in in Denmark, Latvia and Nybo Asia including minimum Viborg. wages, health and safety, working hours etc. All condi• In Nybo Asia we has started up to work on the tions regarding employees are described in detail in our BSCI certification. It gives the workers admittance Hand-book for personnel. This is handed out to all emto a nurse during the week, a free yearly control ployees and kept up-dated with all new guidelines for at a doctor and training in first aid. the company. With this, we go further than the rather • We have not had any situations with any corrupstrict laws of labor and employee rights in Denmark, tion. Latvia and Nybo Asia and we implement additional training, health insurance and personnel celebrations. What’s next for 2017 • We continuously focus on improvements conWhat we said in 2015 cerning health and safety among our employees. • We wantWhat we said continuously in 2015 to focus on improvement Our ambition is to have a stable workforce that • We want concerning health and safetytoamong continuously focus onourimprovement emcares about each other and Nybo as an attractive ployees.concerning Our ambition health is to and growsafety among our emin a responsible place to work. The concern for our employees manner ployees. Our ambition with respect is to grow in for the well-being responsofaour has always been at the heart of the Nybo Workible manner employees. with for The concern respect for the well-being our employees has of wear company spirit. always been at the heart The our employees. concern of the for our employNybo Work¬wear • In Nybo Asia we will continue to work with our companyees has always been at the heart of the Nybo spirit. BSCI certification. We want to improve so we can • We haveWork¬wear company zero tolerance when spirit. it comes to corrupget a grade A-B. It gives our workers a very high • tion. We have zero tolerance when it comes to corstandard and security at the production facility. • We will ruption. offer the employees in Denmark a follow • We still want to improve our data management up •course firstoffer Weinwill aid and employees theuse in Denmark a folof defibrillator. on CSR to cover both Denmark, Latvia and Laos low-up course in first aid and use of defibrillator. with same monthly KPI structure. What we achieved in 2016 • Establish continues improvements through dialog • We continued our English language training with the employees regarding sickness and physiin Latvia for 9 people. In DK 27, people had diffecal work environment. rent courses. In Nybo Asia we also had • We will have zero tolerance when it comes to corruption. 010 csr report 2016 Key figures regarding employees Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Nybo Asia Total Employees -­‐ total 36 152 140 328 Blue collar 5 127 127 259 White collar 31 25 13 69 Sick leave 1,7 8,3 0,25 Injuries 0 2 2 4 Employee Development 36 25 13 74 Employees training 27 9 7 43 Employess on spec. training 3 0 0 3 Environmental figures Denmark (Viborg) Latvia (Dobele and Jelgava) Nybo Asia Total Energy consumption Electricity -­‐ kWh 70.867 216.480 100.358 387.705 Gas -­‐ m3 23.727 10.370 0 csr report 34.097 2016 011 Wind turbine sold -­‐ kWh 19.092 0 0 19.092 Water consumption -­‐ m3 187 815 0 1.002 Recycling -­‐ tons 7,07 50,05 0 57,12 CSR Performance at Nybo Workwear A/S Subject Objective Result Global Compact GRI Page Purchase Implementing Supplier Code All suppliers of fabrics and Completed All principles General 4,5,7 of Conduct sweing sign supplier Code of Conduct Number of suppliers that has All suppliers has to Completed All p A ll rinciples General 4,6,7 undergone screening REACH-­‐ document that they live up principles 4,6,7 Directive to REACH-­‐Directive Product and Development of Our collection of environmental 9 5 customers environmental friendly products friendly Tencel ?? products is still of very much interest from ® our customers and more collections in different blends has been launched in 2016. We have launched 2 new colours in collection Nature which is a collection of upper parts made of regenerated polyester and organic cotton. Product and customers 95% of ours products is 98% Oeko Tex 100 9 PR3 5 Development of Oeko-­‐Tex 100 certificed 68% bluesign/STeP environmental friendly 70% of our products is products Certifications: Oeko-­‐ certified with Tex Standard 100, bluesign, bluesign/STeP STeP, ISO 15797 Process Electricity consumption 70.867 kWh See notes on page 8 7 EN3 8 Initiatives to reduce 19.092 kWh -­‐ 107% better than 7 EN5 8 electricity Efficient use of windmill 2015 Total water consumption Reduce by 3% 1.002 m3 -­‐ 2,7% reduction Gas Reduce by 3% 34.097 m3 -­‐ 4,2% increase Recycling Maintain 2015 level 57,12 tons -­‐ 7,0% reduction EN2 8 People and Diversity of workforce Blue collar: 259 1, 2, 6 LA1 9 society White collar: 69 Employee development LV-­‐Nybo Asia: 16 employees 1,2 LA10 9 Access to English language DK: 27 imployees training in LV-­‐Nybo Asia Courses -­‐ DK Access to labour unions All employees 100% 1, 2, 3 LA4 9 Collective bargaining 100% LA4 9 Wage level 100% 1, 2, 3 LA4 9 Staff compensation Pensions, health insurance, 1, 2 LA3 9 compensation on sick leave, pregnancy etc. Health and safety: 1. Zero injuries 2. Pensions, health insurance, 1,2 LA7 9 1. Rates of injury Improve health programs compensation on sick leave, 2. Health programs 3. 3. Reduction of sick leaves pregnancy e tc. Sick leave 4. 4. Observe and respect 1. 2 incidents during 2016 National laws on OHS national labour marked 2. Health insurance, canteen, laws on OHS massage, nurse 3. DK:1,7%; Latvia 8,3%; Nybo Asia 0,25% 4.100% Number of employees on Contribute to an inclusive 3 employees on special terms 1, 2, 6 LA13 9 special terms labour marked Implementation of Code of Nybo Workwear's Conduct companies in Denmark and Latvia must sign our Code of Conduct. Nybo Asia is a member of BSCI. 012 csr report 2016 Nybo Workwear A/S in brief Company name Nybo Workwear A/S Address Industrivej 24-26 8800 Viborg DK-8800 Viborg Phone +45 8727 3000 E-mail: info@nybo.com CVR nr.: 36 74 51 18 Locations of operations Nybo Workwear A/S is headquartered in Viborg, Denmark. We have two production facilities in Latvia and from 2015 Nybo Asia in Thailand and Laos. The company is represented on all North European markets. Our customers consist of laundries and dealers of work wear. Number of employees 2015 328 Contact person Helle Nybo Holmberg +45 87273006 hnh@nybo.com About Nybo Workwear A/S Margit and Peder Nybo Jensen established Nybo Workwear A/S in 1962. The company is a family owned business. The management team consists of the next generation of the Nybo family. Nybo Workwear A/S offers a broad assortment of fashionable work wear for users within Health & Care, Gastronomy & Catering, and Light Industry. Our solutions are available through industrial laundries and dealers throughout Northern Europe. We are acknowledged purveyor to H. M. The Queen of Denmark as the only work wear supplier in Denmark. Awards and certifications S TØ T GEN IL D AN S TOP M A DSP V E NDE L SE REFOOD CERTIFICERET SIDEN 2015 www.nybo.com | info@nybo.com | +45 87 27 30 00
