Period covered by the Communication on Progress (COP) From: 13/6-2016 To: 13/6-2017 Statement of continued support by the chief executive 13/6-2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sociability reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Elizabeth Boye Managing partner Description of actions Sociability has, with the principles of the Global Compact policy at our core, a zero-tolerance policy for corruption and the violation of human rights. We work intensively in order to fight corruption by making sure that extortion and bribery are not a part of the business activities in which we engage. Sociability actively engages in projects that wish to address the challenges that the Bottom of the Pyramid (BoP) faces. We at Sociability believe that child labour can be abolished if the labour principles are applied to the BoP. The environment principles are at the core of Sociability, since Sociability is an international CSR consultancy. Sociability is currently still working for zero-waste circles in the coconut sector in Africa. Moreover, Sociability collaborates with local officials in Ghana in order to address the problems of convergence between the collectors of shea nuts in North Ghana. Sociability has recently finished educational material for Danish students in ninth grade on sustainability and human/labour rights violations as well as environmental and corruption problems in global value chains commissioned by Danida, the branch of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs that deals with sustainable development in foreign countries. This project also extends to educational material on the same subject for Danish high school students enrolled in high level social studies. As of this moment, the material for high school is still in progress. All material is freely available through Gyldendal Publishing. Sociability has continued to prepare and conduct Annual Fellowship Courses in Strategic CSR for programme partners of Danida. Apart from being completely responsible for the undertaking, we have lead and facilitated as well as developed the contents and agenda of the courses. The courses help local partners of Danida in countries of co-operation build capabilities to solidify responsible and sustainable business practices in their line of trade. Sociability coordinated and supported the Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) of the coffee value chain of one the largest Danish co-operative retail societies COOP and their subsidiary African Coffee Roasters Ltd in Kenya. We continued to inform strategic decision making by delivering taylormade barometers of social risks for commodities for prominent Danish retailers. Through the project “Step Up”, we have, in co-operation with the Association of Fashion & Textile, strengthened the management capacities within the field of strategic CSR capabilities in their Bangladeshi partner BGMEA’s production. DM&T, Sociability and BGMEA will continue the collaboration and building on the outcomes in effect on the framework conditions for responsible RMG industry in Bangladesh. Measurement of outcomes Building awareness and capacity for policy making and responsible business and consumer conduct is translated into measurable results within 3-5 years after the conclusion of the intervention. Concretely, we estimate that 75.000 coffee farmers will benefit directly and positively from our work with COOP on the HRIA and the follow up on the self same that is now on-going. We contributed to the creation of five Good Practice Factory Cases through our work in the textile industry alongside DM&T and BGMEA in Bangladesh. These will be documented during next year. What is next? In our near future, Sociability should like to see our project on sustainable coconut production in Kenya receive funding and take flight, which will benefit at least 1000 farmers and SME’s. We aim to launch a production of coconuts, wherein the entire coconut is put to use along the value chain all in co-operation with smalland medium-sized farms, in order to facilitate the means for Kenyan individuals to sustain themselves and their families through environmentally, economically and developmentally friendly measures. Furthermore, we would like to continue our active work in DIEH (Danish Initiative for Ethical Trade), conduct even more research and develop projects in order to promote responsible business practices. Our Managing Partner, Elizabeth Boye, is determined to continue her lecturing and supervision of the Master students at Copenhagen Business School along with developing research projects on advancement of responsible business practices. Finally, Sociability should like to see the high school equivalent of our educational material on global value chains and corporate social responsibility, concluded and launched shortly. The material, along with the already concluded project for 9th graders will be freely available to roughly 105.000 students of 9th grade and high school, who will use the material to gather knowledge on, understand the multifaceted issue of, and act on the effects of globalisation. Sociability offers training and advice on how to translate the SDG’s and underlying Human Rights into business opportunities. We do this to provide the decision-makers with the necessary tools for making a difference regarding human and labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption.
