Communication on Progress Report October 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT ABOUT US IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Management Policies & Procedures Labor Management Policies & Procedures Environmental Management Policies & Procedures Anti-Corruption Management Policies & Procedures ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES Promoting a Comprehensive Corporate Sustainability Approach Supporting inclusive and social business Promoting Gender Equality Corporate Sustainability Governance and Leadership STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Esteemed Stakeholders, It is with pleasure that we publish Ahead of the Curve’s first United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) report. This report covers our activities between October 2015 and September 2016. This report acts as an affirmation of our commitment to maintaining accountability and transparency, and to support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As ATC has constantly encourages and supports businesses and organizations to report on their sustainability efforts over the years, we are now setting an example and taking action by reporting on its own efforts to align with the principles of sustainability. In this annual Communication on Progress, we will describe our actions to continually improve the integration of sustainability and the Global Compact’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sincerely, Dina Sherif Founding Partner and CEO Ahead of the Curve Cairo, Egypt ABOUT US Ahead of the Curve (ATC) is the first of its kind social enterprise dedicated to the promotion of sustainable management practices, inclusive market growth and social innovation across growth markets. Our mandate stems from our firm belief that companies, non-profits and government entities alike will not be able to exist in the long run while positively impacting society, without becoming stakeholder-driven combined with clear shared value creation agendas. We work towards the fulfillment of our mandate through four main streams of work: 1. Knowledge Creation and Awareness Raising We produce world-class knowledge pieces about regional insights and practices related to the areas of sustainable management practice, entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurship, and inclusive economic expansion across growth markets, including women’s equitable economic participation. We also continuously engage in raising the awareness levels of our different stakeholders around these topics. 2. Consulting and Training Services We offer our clients and partners tailored consulting and training services, enabling them to integrate the principles of responsibility and sustainability into their company culture and day-to-day operations. 3. Entrepreneurship with Impact Ventures (EwIV) ATC is committed to ensuring more sustainable and inclusive growth models in the region. We realize that groundbreaking efforts are needed for this to materialize. EwIV is a subsidiary of ATC that was created to support the proliferation of social and inclusive business models across the Middle East and growth markets beyond. 4. Gender Diversity Efforts Stemming from the belief that sustainable growth will only be possible if women are able to equitably access the labor market and advance within it, ATC launched a Women’s Leadership Network in 2014. The network aims to provide a platform that connects, supports and celebrates women leaders from the region, as well as engages men around pressing issues related to women’s equitable socio-economic participation. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 10 PRINCIPLES ATC’s mission and approach revolves around ensuring more sustainable societies through enabling businesses, civil society organizations and the public sector to create shared value by adopting responsible and inclusive management practices. Our work takes the form of consulting, training, and research services. We incorporate the principles of sustainability within our own operations by: ● Basing all of our core corporate functions on the achievement of more responsible and sustainable growth. ● Mainstreaming the principles of accountability and transparency within our corporation: ○ We have developed comprehensive bylaws to ensure effective board oversight. ○ We maintain an open work culture whereby employees and management openly communicate and are held accountable for any potential sustainability violations. ○ We integrate a comprehensive sustainability management paradigm overview in our new employee induction trainings. ○ Our employee handbook addresses issues of corruption, human rights, non-discrimination, and integrity at large, and explains the company’s zero tolerance policy for any violations. Human Rights Management Policies & Procedures ATC is committed to promoting human rights by reference to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights dated December 10, 1948, and adheres to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. ATC not only promotes human rights internally through integrating human rights principles in the framework of the company, but also through providing services to the private sector and civil society organizations to foster human rights principles within their organizations. We have zero tolerance for human rights violations within our own internal operations. As per ATC’s bylaws and employee handbook, neither the corporation nor its duly authorized agents shall discriminate against any individual or group for reasons of race, color, sex, age, marital status, sexual preference, disability, religion, or any other basis for discrimination. Our open communication culture allows for any such violations to be detected and addressed at an early stage; there have been no such violations to date. With regards to supply chain integration, members of our supply chain are largely service-oriented. In support of ensuring more inclusive growth, we prefer locally-based suppliers that are small or medium sized (SMEs). We have zero tolerance for suppliers that violate human rights principles. While we do not have a formal supplier screening process, we cease dealing with any given supplier should we become aware of their engagement in violations of the principles of integrity and human rights. With regards to advocating for the protection of human rights within the corporate sector, we have continued engagement in multiple consulting, training, and research activities around the topic. PLANS FOR 2017 ● We plan on formalizing a comprehensive supplier screening mechanism. It will include criteria related to social accountability at large, including labor rights, human rights, and environmental sustainability. ● We plan on continuing to engage in core business activities related to the promotion and protection of human rights within the private sector. This includes sector-specific engagement around sustainability in the finance and textiles sectors. ● With regards to our future research, we will be focusing on human rights ● We will focus on engaging vulnerable groups, by creating programs that are beneficial for them. These groups include orphans, handicapped and refugees. Labor Management Policies & Procedures ATC surpasses the national minimum wage and goes beyond labor laws to ensure that its employees are effectively engaged and fairly treated within the company. We have zero tolerance for child labor, forced or compulsory labor; our employee handbook explicitly states their prohibition at any point in time. Instead of contracting employees using letters of assignment, ATC is now moving into issuing formal contractual agreements for some of its full-time employees. We continuously invest in the growth and development of our employees by: ● Granting them full ownership of their work, allowing them to innovate new streams of work and unleash their leadership potential ● Maintaining a coaching system whereby the company’s founding partners closely coach employees and employees coach each other ● Continuously offering our employees exposure and training opportunities that focus on developing their technical and interpersonal skills. ● We have added a weekly gratitude circle activity that gathers all the team together to discuss what we are grateful. The activity has proven to be very positive and beneficial; it has enhanced the working environment for the team overall. ATC has flexible working conditions that allow employees to tailor their working hours to their needs and personal commitments, while not sacrificing the quality of their work. Employees work in an office building that is equipped with safe evacuation mechanisms. The office’s physical condition is well maintained to allow employees a comfortable and safe working environment. As of 2016, ATC has not experienced any incidents of bullying, verbal or physical harassment or any unethical behavior. No employees have been subject to safety hazards as a result of working with the company. PLANS FOR 2017 ● To add a formal Human Resources Manager to the team to handle all office issue and hiring by January 2017. ● All employees will have new contracts by end of 2016, that will be updated according to the Egyptian labor laws. ● Introducing a health coverage plan for full-time employees starting 2017. Environmental Management Policies & Procedures Given the nature of our work, our environmental footprint is minimal. Many projects are desk-based with documentation exchanged electronically. However, we remain committed to maintaining an environmentally sustainable office. As of this moment, we have engaged in the following efforts to reduce our environmental impact: ● Designating a recycling paper station where unwanted materials are collected for continued use in printing or other projects ● Using double-sided printing and printing multiple pages on one sheet face whenever possible ● Reducing print publications by relying on digital publications whenever possible ● Re-using supplies and materials (including handouts, nametags, etc.) ● Encouraging employees to carpool; employees frequently travel from and to the office together ● Using reusable kitchenware in the office ● Installing water dispenser to minimize plastic waste resulting from using plastic water bottles in the office. PLANS FOR 2017 ● Introducing a waste segregation system to facilitate waste recycling ● Finding a local NGO to collect and recycle segregated waste Anti-Corruption Management Policies & Procedures ATC has a board of directors that is fully independent and does not derive any economic benefits from the company. Moreover, ATC’s bylaws dictate that the board of directors must disclose upon election or appointment any relevant interest, financial or otherwise, which may pose a conflict of interest. In the event that any matter comes before the board in which a director has an interest, it shall be immediately disclosed to the board. Board members who have disclosed their interest are not allowed to vote in matter in question. To prevent confusion, interest is determined as the director deriving an individual economic benefit, either directly or indirectly, from the board or committee’s decision on the matter. Moreover, employees are carefully hired based on their commitment to ethical practices. Our employee handbook includes a dishonesty and plagiarism policy, violations of which would negatively affect an employee’s standing. ATC encourages its employees to report any concerns they have about the company or its activities, to ensure transparency and minimal violations. PLANS FOR 2017 ● Integrate anti-corruption monitoring practices in the ATC handbook and employee contracts. ACTION IN SUPPORT OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES ATC’s main purpose is to ensure sustainable societies, and shared value creation across private sector, public sector and civil society organizations. The strong overlap between ATC’s work, the UNGC principles, and the UN’s development goals are described below. Promoting a Comprehensive Corporate Sustainability Approach Over the past years, we have enabled three large corporations conduct comprehensive sustainability diagnostics and issue sustainability reports conforming to internationally accepted standards. Two other similar reports have been started this year. Some of these companies continue to engage ATC for annual sustainability reporting. ATC has also engaged stakeholders worldwide in engagements related to gathering information for sustainability reporting. Two of the advised companies are holding companies with a diverse portfolio of subsidiaries and considerable potential for affecting multiple stakeholders as they enhance their sustainability performance. For these among many other efforts, Dina Sherif, ATC CEO, was recognized as one of UNGC’s pioneers in social entrepreneurship in 2016. We also started formalizing employee volunteering efforts by visiting a local NGO, Ruwwad, and planning how each employee can contribute his/her skills to their development, and by already conducting two trainings for volunteers there on arts and crafts. To raise awareness around, and advocate for, the adoption of sustainability management, we have also engaged in several research and awareness raising efforts around the topic. These include: ● Publishing and launching 7-country study of Corporate Sustainability Practices in 7 Arab countries, conducted in partnership with The American University in Cairo and The American University of Beirut. ● Leading and contributing to the 2016 UNDP Business Solutions for Human Development report. ● Engaging over stakeholders in awareness sessions throughout the region around the topic through multiple forums and conferences on a number of topics including the 2016 UNDP report. ● Started formalizing employee volunteering efforts by planning and executing dedicated activities run by full-time employees’ time to NGOs or social enterprises like Ruwwad PLANS FOR 2017 ● Continuing commitment to advocating for the UN Sustainable Development Goals. ● Sustaining our core business, which naturally supports UNGC’s principles and the newly established UN Sustainable Development Goals. Supporting inclusive and social business ATC’s subsidiary Entrepreneurship with Impact Ventures (EwIV) is a regional actor in the impact enterprise development and employment creation space that has strategic partnerships with major private sector actors across the region and in Egypt. EwIV was created to support the proliferation of impact and inclusive business models and provides both financial and non-financial support to start-up impact businesses and to already existing large businesses that are willing to expand their vision to include the base of the pyramid within their business model. More specifically, EwIV has developed a first of its kind flagship training boot camp titled ‘The Impact’, which was specifically designed to meet the needs of impact entrepreneurs in the region. Building on design thinking and collaboration principles, The Impact aims at supporting scalable impact innovation by providing participants with the knowledge and tools required to develop, implement, and scale their idea for social change. ​Over the past year, EwIV has engaged in multiple training, awareness raising, and research activities, including: ● The “Impact” Training Program has a proven track record in four Arab countries including Egypt, the UAE, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia. The Program has graduated over 125 entrepreneurs thus far, providing them with the learning and tools to effectively implement and scale their ideas for social change. By the end of 2016 more than 200+ entrepreneurs will have been reached across the MENA region. ● EwIV has also been the partner of choice for conducting impact entrepreneurship trainings and awareness-raising sessions for some of the region’s leading entrepreneurship and impact entrepreneurship support organisations, including: The MIT Pan Arab Forum Start-Up Competition, PepsiCo and the UAE Ministry of Youth, Misr El-Kheir’s GESR, Education for Employment Egypt, and The Cartier Women’s Initiative Award, among others. ● Engaging over 200 stakeholders around the topic through speaking engagements at multiple conferences in the US, UAE, Jordan, Lebanon, and Egypt. PLANS FOR 2017 ● Building The Impact Network for entrepreneurs who are causing social change through their innovative enterprises. ● Introducing Sectorial Start-Up Challenges and working with entrepreneurs on solutions that would be invested in by the sector’s partners ● Expanding “The Impact” program by implementing it in new countries/cities increasing the number of engaged entrepreneurs and empowering others to start and scale up their social enterprises. Promoting Gender Equality Stemming from our commitment to the inclusion and empowerment of women, we continue our efforts towards strengthening a women’s network that aims at creating a supportive, celebratory, and inclusive community for women in the Arab region, both in the formal and informal labor market. The network continued to implement its pioneering experiential 4-day retreats with the goal of helping participating women find their unique strengths as leaders and to help participants develop leadership skills that resonate with their respective personalities and identification as women. The retreat this year in Dubai was attended by 18 women from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Iraq, and Brazil. Over the past year, we also conducted a two-day two-day storytelling workshop to enhance pitching skills for business ideas and putting personal stories together. We also conducted a storytelling workshop to enhance pitching skills for business ideas and putting personal stories together. We also conducted a 1-day tailored training program for potential applicants to the Cartier Women’s Initiative Award; acquainting them with the fundamentals of business planning and the award’s application process. PLANS FOR 2017 ● Conducting training of trainers for Arab coaches-to-be in order to be able to deliver the women leadership trainings in Arabic, and thus, making them more accessible to Arab business women. ● Widening the women’s network by adding all participants from future leadership trainings, retreats, and storytelling workshops conducted by Arab and foreign coaches. ● Implementing more women’s programmes that promote women leadership, economic empowerment, skills development, and entrepreneurship Corporate Sustainability Governance and Leadership We are a small-sized company that employs 8 full time employees and seasonal interns. We are governed by a fully independent Board of Directors, and are advised by a fully independent advisory board. Our Board of Directors does not derive any economic benefits from the company. Both our Board of Directors and Advisory Board include some of the region’s top thought leaders on sustainability. The below figure demonstrates our current organizational structure: Our Founding Partner and CEO, Dina Sherif, is strongly committed to advancing the principles of sustainability within the company, and across other organizations through the company’s core business. Our Founding Partner and CTO, Mohamed El-Kalla is one of the foremost experts on sustainability management and inclusive business in the Arab World; he was involved in the creation of Egypt’s UNGC chapter and other UNGC chapters across the region. Members of our Board of Directors are: ● Fadi Ghandour, Founder of Aramex and Vice Chairman of Wamda ● Loay El Nazer, Chairman and Founder, Nazer Group ● Yasser Moustafa, Senior Managing Director, NBK Capital Partners Members of our Advisory Board are: ● Hala Fadel Chair, MIT Enterprise Forum of the Pan Arab Region ● Raji Hattar Chief Sustainability and Compliance Officer, Aramex ● Ovais Naqvi, Managing Director, Abraaj Performance Acceleration Group (APAG) The Board of Directors and Advisory Board are constantly engaged in enhancing ATC’s operations and potential for reaching its goals of sustainable and inclusive growth. While ATC has not conducted a comprehensive stakeholder engagement exercise, feedback is always gathered after any project or activity undertaken by the company. Furthermore, ATC staff members provide and receive feedback from partners throughout partnerships, and conduct debriefing meetings following the end of a partnership. As any new program or initiative is designed, relevant key stakeholders are engaged in the project design to ensure that the project is built on a participatory approach, is relevant, and thus will achieve sustainable impact. When it comes to employee engagement, ATC management maintains an open door policy for employees to discuss any arising issues, while ATC employees are also encouraged to provide feedback for each other. PLANS FOR 2017 ● Introducing and implementing a 360 degree feedback mechanism for all engagements with clients and partners. Ahead of the Curve 124 Othman Ibn Affan St. 8th Floor, Apt. 82 Heliopolis, Cairo Facebook: /atcposts Twitter: @atctweets Email: info@ahead-ofthecurve.com www.ahead-ofthecurve.com
