UN Global Compact – Communication ON Progress 2017 – corporate identity clothing Communication on Progress 2017 Nimbus Nordic A/S – August 2017 – Introduction our business policies, supplier evaluation system and through our We are pleased to confirm that Nimbus Nordic A/S reaffirms its supsupplier agreements. port of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact within the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We strongly believe that by upholding the different principles of the UN In this annual Communication on Progress, we point out our actions Global Compact, we are contributing to a positive impact on environon continually improving the integration of the Global Compact and ment, economies and societies. Nimbus Nordic A/S believes that all its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. companies are obliged to contribute to the improvement of general CSR. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using Working on improvement following our Code of Conduct and UN´s our primary channels of communication. Global Compacts principles, should be considered as a continuous journey, where structured focus can help us to define and fulfill nuThe Ten Principles of Global Compact’ exemplify and indicate ways merous of important targets in regard to CSR. in which Nimbus Nordic A/S do our utmost to drive our business responsibly. Our participation in the UN’s Global Compact helps us to Over the coming years, Nimbus Nordic A/S will continue to promote maintain our focus on social and environmental responsibility in our and embed our CSR standards into everyday business, using UN´s activities and ensures continual communication on the progress we Ten Principles as a guideline. This perspective will include providing make in the implementation of our CSR strategies. our employees in key business functions with training and education to support the implementation and knowledge of our CSR standards. We will also work with our stakeholders primarily our customers Statement and suppliers to encourage their support for our approach and stanAs a registered member of the Global Compact, Nimbus Nordic A/S dards while further incorporating them into our business practices, has incorporated the business policies in our management and we do including communications, contracts and supplier agreements. fully support the Ten Global Compact principles. Sincerely yours, Our dedication to UN´s Global Compact-project is particular apparLars Hammer ent in our collaboration with our stakeholders and is assured through CEO, Nimbus Nordic A/S Nimbus Nordic A /S | Sundkaj 7 | Pakhus 47 | DK-2150 Nordhavn | +45 70 20 14 64 About Nimbus Nordic A/S Our mission for the future is only to do business with suppliers who have the same high standard of human rights as Nimbus Nordic A/S. Nimbus Nordic A/S was founded in 1995 in Copenhagen, Denmark, We believe that ongoing dialogue and close cooperation is one of the developing, promoting and selling the lifestyle brand “Nimbus Scankey elements in achieving the best results. Our goal is that our curdinavian Apparel” for the promotional business. rent and future suppliers not only support international human rights, “Nimbus Scandinavian Apparel” offers fashionable and highly debut also actively respect them. tailed apparel inspired by big city style with a touch of the Scandinavian aesthetic. Practical actions From in-house design to support on sales, marketing and logistics, Nimbus Nordic A/S has internal procedures regarding illness, stress, the Copenhagen based Head Office houses a professional team of health, pregnancy etc. Procedures, which are all, along with our views dedicated employees. on human rights, communicated to our business partners and suppliers. The Danish outerwear heritage has made Nimbus one of the strongBoth announced and unannounced audits and supplier controls are est trendsetting apparel design companies and a leading supplier of carried out by external partners along with frequently visits from our corporate identity clothing in the promotional business market. own employees in China. Since the first jackets were sold in Copenhagen, Denmark, back For production sites in Turkey and Bangladesh, a specialist from in 1995, Nimbus has established sales channels reaching from the Head Office in Copenhagen is appointed to lead projects related to Scandinavian countries Sweden, Norway and Finland to Germany, audits and the like. Austria and Switzerland and spanning to markets in the Czech ReThis we do to ensure that our suppliers comply with our agreement public, Poland, Benelux and the UK. on following our Code of Conduct and the human rights. Our busiBased in the great surroundings of the north harbor of Copenhagen, ness terms reflect the way we seek to do business with current and Nimbus Nordic A/S covers all aspects of the development of corpoprospective partners and by communicating our support for Global rate fashion, from design to sales and distribution. Compact externally as well as internally, we have defined and communicated a code of conduct which reflects our company’s ethical views, values, and standards for doing business. http://service.nimCSR Policies busnordic.com/codeofconduct.php?lang=5 In the following sections, this report will outline some of the CSR poliThe Ten Principles of UN Global Compact is a core value to our orcies, practical actions and outcomes which Nimbus Nordic A/S has ganization therefore we developed our Code of Conduct, which we started, achieved and will continuing working on. The CSR policies require, as a minimum, all important partners and suppliers signs. It is are highly related to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles includprepared in accordance with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. ing human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. NimThis Code of Conduct is available on our website. bus Nordic A/S, will at any time, do our best in incorporating this in our management. As a creative and knowledge-based company we consider our employees as our greatest asset. Therefore, we are highly focused on the rights of our employees by having a specific employee policy reHUMAN RIGHTS garding the rights, duties, and personnel conditions of the employees Principle one: Businesses should support and respect the protection at Nimbus Nordic A/S. Our Employee Policy covers, among others, of internationally proclaimed human rights and; the following aspects: Principle two: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • Employee development • Insurance and other employee benefits • Working conditions Policy Nimbus Nordic A/S complies with the universal declaration of human We require that our suppliers’ adhere to the local laws as we do ourrights. We support the UN Declaration of Human Rights as well as the selves. We have during the past year increased our dialogue with our general ideas about human rights which are embedded in the Scansuppliers on how to avoid identified potential noncompliance issues. dinavian culture. Further, we are committed to respecting human This we have developed a process for, helping us being consistent. rights throughout all of our business activities, including the way we treat our employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. Measurement of outcomes We require that our suppliers adhere to the laws in the countries they We are focusing on diversity and we are working continuously to operate in as we do ourselves. create an unique workplace with room for everyone. Not only do we In our supplier agreements, our main suppliers are required to comwant to include the majority of organization in primary strategic deciply with our requirement linked to human rights. sions – we also want to promote a culture with respect for the law and Our suppliers must also accept that Nimbus Nordic A/S, either itself good practice with our suppliers. or through a third party can carry out both announced and unanNimbus Nordic A /S | Sundkaj 7 | Pakhus 47 | DK-2150 Nordhavn | +45 70 20 14 64 nounced controls, to see if the different guidelines and requirements announced controls, to examine if the above guidelines are followed. are followed. Our suppliers shall at all times permit such inspections. Internally, we undertake a yearly employee development meeting Measurement of outcomes among our staff to ensure that all of our employees are comfortaWe continually advise our main suppliers on how to improve workble and satisfied with their job and the company. We continuously ing conditions and we have earlier coordinated social audits on app. encourage our employees to help us create an even better working 25% of our main suppliers’ facilities. Before the audits are conducted, environment. our Chinese office has provided the suppliers with detailed advises and guidelines on how to improve the conditions for the employees and thereby also to achieve a high score in a social audit. The social LABOUR audits have been conducted by a third party inspection company. Principle three: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: In cases where our suppliers received an unsatisfactory score in a soPrinciple four: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory cial audit, or our own internal inspections identify areas which do not labour; comply with our code of conduct, we request that our suppliers initiPrinciple five: The effective abolition of child labour; and ate actions in order to improve the general conditions at the factory. Principle six: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employThis work will continue to ensure that our suppliers do not violate on ment and occupation these demands we have on working conditions. Policy ENVIRONMENT We are aware that many elements must be optimized when undertakPrinciple seven: Businesses should support a precautionary aping the processes needed running a socially responsible company. proach to environmental challenges; This is (and will continue to be) an on-going process. Principle eight: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmenWe want to focus on the process of development, production and tal responsibility; and sales, and motivate all our suppliers to promote social responsibility Principle nine: Encourage the development and diffusion of environwithin all areas of concern. mentally friendly technologies. We still try to compel our suppliers to be responsible in ensuring that their production methods includes decent working conditions, respect to workers, trade unions and NGOs in producing countries Policy into account. Due to the nature of our business, the main environmental impacts are related to our suppliers and the transportation of our productions. Nimbus Nordic A/S do not accept any kind of child labour, unreasonOur ambition is that all of our suppliers must develop a code of conably long working hours or wages that do not meet appropriate induct or practice for its operations and products that confirms commitdustry standard in the country of production. ment to care for health and the environment in order to ensure that irreversible environmental damage does not occur. Our Suppliers The core value of freedom specifically includes our support for freemust always ensure to obtain prior approval before certain products, dom of association, speech, thought and action, while recognizing deemed potentially hazardous, are developed. the business framework in which we operate. Nimbus Nordic A/S supports the conventions of the International Labor Organization. The We are obligated to comply with applicable Danish environmental work environment and conditions for our employees and our supplilaws, and we will impose on our suppliers, through our Code of Coners’ employees have always been and will continue to be, a high priduct, to follow the environmental principles of the UN Global Comority for Nimbus Nordic A/S. pact. Responsibility towards the environment is a key element to Nimbus Nordic A/S in order to conduct business. We find solutions to recycle and more sustainable transportation as good investments. Practical actions Our supplier agreements which have been accepted by all our main suppliers, specifically underline, that in line with our commitment to Practical actions international frameworks, our company policy upholds the internaIn 2011, Nimbus Nordic A/S started to increase focus on the environtional conventions of labor standards, including, eliminate all forms mental aspects of the company, and this focus is continuously exof forced and compulsory labour, abolish child labour and eliminate panding. The first part of the work involved the preparation and comdiscrimination in respect of employment and occupation. munication of Nimbus Nordic A/S’ environmental requirements to our suppliers and customers. All our main supplier has accepted that Nimbus Nordic A/S, either itself or through a third party can carry out both announced and unThis was supported by creating supplier agreements with all our Nimbus Nordic A /S | Sundkaj 7 | Pakhus 47 | DK-2150 Nordhavn | +45 70 20 14 64 main suppliers where our requirements are specified. The second AZO free and ensure that any sub suppliers also comply with part of this work concerns the testing of different product and acthese demands. cessories for chemicals substances. Test results have only been good, and should any related problems occur we will take imANTI CORRUPTION mediate actions. Principle ten: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Additionally, we will continue the work for new ways to reduce forms, including extortion and bribery. our energy consumption. It is within our ambition that all productions from Far East will be transported to our warehouse by sea rather than by air. We continuously develop processes that helps Policy us control both productions and transport, so that airfreight is not Nimbus Nordic A/S adheres to the anti corruption principles and necessary. we are kept up to date with developments through the CSR network participation and newsletters. We will, at any time, work Since 1995 most of Nimbus Nordic A/S´s production have been against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribplaced in China. In the beginning of 2015 we began producing ery. We do not accept any kind of corruption related to our busiin Turkey and in 2016 in Bangladesh. Due to the new production ness and we expect all our employees and partners in the supply sites being closer to market, we aim to reduce the amount of airchain to embrace this. freight in 2017 compared to 2015 significantly. Practical actions Measurement of outcomes Our Code of Conduct addresses this issue and require that our Our focus and concern regarding environmental issues has suppliers have the same position as us – willingness to fight corbeen addressed in our supplier agreements. Regarding the use ruption. All employees and suppliers are informed of the imporof chemical substances, our suppliers must guarantee that their tance of Nimbus Nordic A/S’ view on anti-corruption. deliveries comply with the European ”REACH” Regulation (EU Regulation 1907/2006). The Supplier must be able to present their respective statements of compliance on Nimbus Nordic Measurement of outcomes A/S’s request within 10 weekdays. The supplier declaration must Nimbus Nordic has not been involved in any cases which involves be signed by the Supplier. If new products are to be produced by corruption. It is transparent for all of our stakeholders, that Nimthe Supplier, an updated declaration will be send for signature bus Nordic A/S has a policy that clearly state, that corruption will and this will afterwards replace the former declaration. not be tolerated. This is specifically defined in our supplier agreeAdditionally, The Supplier must guarantee that all products are ments and we communicate this view to our customers as well. Nimbus Nordic A /S | Sundkaj 7 | Pakhus 47 | DK-2150 Nordhavn | +45 70 20 14 64
