CONTENT 01 PREFACE BY CEO KIM BOYTER 02 COMPANY PROFILE 03 CSR IN PRESSALIT 04 GOOD BUSINESS ETHICS 05 A DIVERSE PLACE TO WORK 06 PARASPORT 07 EMPLOYEE PORTRAITS 08 09 WORKING CONDITIONS 10 – 11 ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS 12 – 13 LOCAL ENGAGEMENT 14 CSR IN 2017 15 17 ENCLOSURE PREFACE BY CEO KIM BOYTER The purpose of this report is to clarify and report on Did we reach our targets for 2016? our efforts to promote responsible and sustainable Our latest Communication on Progress report for development locally, nationally, and globally. 2015 was made public in February last year and defined a series of targets for 2016. As a natural part The report constitutes our annual ”Communication of our business, we have used these targets to guide on Progress” and is made in accordance with our our way and by December 2016 we have reached all commitment to and obligations towards the United of our targets in this matter. Nation’s Global Compact, which we have been a part of since 2002. Our environmental accounts show that we in spite of an increase in the number of produced toilet As something new this year, we have chosen to add seats are able to minimize our energy consumption another layer to our reporting by incorporating the totally as well as per produced item. Furthermore, 17 United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals, our level of ambition regarding the inclusion of vowhich were defined in 2015. At Pressalit A/S we have cational students is maintained and both university embraced the global goals and therefore they should student internships as well as social internships are also be reflected in this report. We work actively with still a substantial part of our contribution to ensurthe global goals both strategically, tactically, and oping a spacious labor market. erationally. In the future the global goals will contribute to setting the course for the development of Great results should be celebrated but must not beour company. Therefore, the global goals are also an come a reason for complacency. That is why we set integrated part of our group strategy for 2017. the barrier high for our CSR ambitions in 2017 and we believe that we can reach our targets based on This year we are reporting wider and deeper on a our values, experiences, and earlier results – espelong list of our activities within Corporate Social Recially considering our long tradition of social responsponsibility and we go further than before with the sibility. Global Compact initiative. We do this to underline the importance that we as a company contribute to With this introduction I wish you good reading! the Global Compact but also very much to share an openness about our values and practices. With kind regards CEO Pressalit A/S 01 COMPANY PROFILE Pressalit A/S was founded in 1954 and is a Danish NAME: Pressalit A/S privately owned company, which is formally owned Pressalitvej 1 by Pressalit Holding. The brothers Kim and Dan 8680 Ry Boyter own Pressalit Holding. CVR.NO: 84364517 About Pressalit Pressalit produces toilet seats of high quality (PresOWNER: Pressalit Holding A/S salit Seats) and is a leading brand in the market. Apart from toilet seats we also produce bathroomBUSINESS: Manufacturing and kitchen solutions to people with reduced functional ability (Pressalit Care). All production is done TURNOVER: 387 mio. DKK (2016) in Denmark at our factories in the city of Ry and our products are represented on 45 international EKSPORT SHARE: 80% markets. BUSINESS AREAS: The Pressalit we are today, builds on a long tradition Pressalit Seats and Pressalit Care. for decency and responsibility, which started long before the term CSR was introduced. This tradition COMPANIES IN: is a natural gathering point for our culture and valEngland, France, Germany, USA, Australia, Sweues which we experience that both managers and den, Norway, and Thailand. employees proudly cherish. Therefore, it also makes a great impression when Pressalit is recognized by NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: the surrounding world, e.g. as the winner of ’Work250 in Denmark plus 29 abroad place of the Year’ in 1999, ’CSR People Prize’ in 2011 and 3F’s special prize ’The Innovation Prize’ in 2016. 02 CSR IN PRESSALIT At Pressalit, responsibility and business go hand-inhand and our work with CSR is united through three key areas: Joint responsibility, employees, and environment. We are a Danish company and we have always had great visions and ambitions for running an international business. We have specific ambitions for the The three goals concern areas close to our core busiway in which we as a company act in the context of ness and within which we believe our knowledge and corporate responsibility. Therefore, we joined the experience can make a positive footprint on a susUN’s Global Compact initiative back in 2002, and the tainable development Specifically, we have chosen 10 principles of the initiative are incorporated in our Global Goal 4, 6, and 12 as focus areas for new, propractice and in our Code of Conduct. gressive projects and initiatives. UN’s Global Goals This does not mean that we forget the remaining As the years have passed, our ambitions for CSR Global Goals and to underline this fact, the Global have definitely become bigger and we continuously Goals as a whole are part of our group strategy for scan new opportunities for making a positive differ2017. Thereby, we wish to display our deep commitence both locally, nationally, and globally. Therement to a sustainable development towards both fore, it was without hesitation that we embraced the customers, employees, and the surrounding world UN’s Global Goals for Sustainable Development in and to continue framing our initiatives and results in 2016. relation to the 17 Global Goals. With our commitment to the Global Goals we add When we choose to involve ourselves so actively in another dimension to our CSR efforts and our supthe sustainable development, it is based on the report to Global Compact. In the spring of 2016 we sponsibility we feel for people and the world we are initiated a process to uncover how we as a company a part of. The fulfillment of the Global Goals is to a could contribute to a sustainable development in the great extent dependent on a common effort where world. The process resulted in the selection of three everyone contributes with what they can. Therefore, goals, which in 2017 will be focus areas where we we are aware of our responsibility as a company – will start new initiatives: just as we have always been. Dan Boyter: ”The UN’s Global Goals cover a wide range of efforts and provide everyone an opportunity to contribute. With our deep commitment to the Global Goals, we hope to be a role model for how small and medium sized companies can make a difference globally.” – Co-owner and board member 0303 GOOD BUSINESS ETHICS As a company, we have several touch points with the As a foundation for good leadership, all our managworld around us and especially the markets where ers are engaged in an internal leadership network we are present. To us that only underlines the imwith the purpose of strengthen, convey, and embed portance of us acting responsibly. Through a sharp our leadership foundation. With the network, the moral compass, it is paramount for us that we in managers create a common foundation and share every context display good business ethics and that best practice through discussions and dialogue we as a minimum always comply with local law no across functions. matter where in the world we operate. Our Code of Conduct Jannie Toldbod: ”With the leadership network, we enWe have formulated our Code of Conduct based on sure that our managers are ready to realize our social the 10 principles in Global Compact. Thereby, the 10 responsibility into actions. Thereby, they are able to principles are incorporated and distributed within embed our CSR ambitions in praxis.” our own guidelines: Diversity, human rights, enviHR Specialist ronmental care, anti-corruption, and compliance with law. Solid values mean solid praxis In 2015, we changed our supplier contracts to inOur values are a key arc in our daily work and toclude our Code of Conduct. Thereby, our suppliers gether with our tradition of propriety and responsicommit themselves to work for increased responsibility they form the foundation of our culture. For bility. Through our suppliers, we thus ensure a every action and activity, we take our starting point greater responsibility beyond our own supply chain. in our values: We listen, we give, we play, we act. Good leadership shall lead the way Through our values, we likewise experience a culWith us, good business ethics start especially with ture of openness, cooperation, and respect. With remanagement and as a company we take responsispect for each other, Pressalit is an environment bility for making sure our managers and employees where positions can openly be made and where can make responsible decisions in accordance with strong cross-functional cooperation gives the courour ethic guidelines. All of our employees and manage to make big decisions. In that way, we continagers have therefore completed e-learning about uously challenge status quo also within CSR. our Code of Conduct, and all new employees go Through good business practice we form the founthrough this as part of their onboarding program. dation for our broad responsibility for people and In addition, managers go through a special program the environment. so that they are able to guide and support their employees as best as possible if/when they meet challenges in their line of work that may be in conflict with our Code of Conduct. 04 04 A DIVERSE PLACE TO WORK S For us, the social dimension of our company and business is a core area. This can be seen in everything from the composition of our employees to our products with keywords such as latitude, diversity, and equal opportunities. We believe that all people have value and both can and will contribute if given the opportunity. We see it as our responsibility to create the framework where they can unfold their potential regardless of background and premises. We carry our social profile with pride and we experience that our employees do the same and are deeply engaged in protecting it. Through our social profile, we work dedicated with a number of the SDG goals. Together we are stronger A hand to future generations We strive to lead by example for latitude in the work We have a great ambition to give young people the place. We recruit broadly from all layers and corners opportunity for an education regardless of their of the work force as well as the educational sector background and preferably as part of their employbecause we are convinced that diversity will give us ment with us. We gladly participate in making them strength. In addition to the Global Compact’s focus ready for the future. In particular, we hire EGU apon human rights and diversity, we have taken furprentices who thrive better with a specifically orgather measurements and implemented a diversity nized and pedagogical approach. To ensure learning spectrum. The spectrum is divided into eleven areas and success for the individual, we underline the imwhich represents the areas in which Pressalit acportance of a stable foundation through strong relatively works to ensure diversity. Each department tions with colleagues and manager. Together with has chosen three focus areas that they in particular the apprentice we tailor a process to the individual’s will work with. need and wishes. Employees hired on special terms Besides EGU apprentices, we also have several other A substantial part of our social responsibility is foapprentices and trainees hired in our Sales departcused on hiring employees on special terms; both ments, Technical Support, and Supply Chain. We young and older. Our share of employees hired on continuously try to create further possibilities for apspecial terms are constant at around 8%. These emprentices and trainees to ensure that more young ployments range from EGU (vocational training) appeople have the opportunity to finish their educaprentice to people in flexible employment and we tion. have a great ambition to maintain this level. As a part of this, our Facility Service is mainly made up Interns keep us on our toes by employees hired on special terms. It is an active For many years, we have worked closely with a line decision to maintain the Facility Service functions inof educational institutes across the country and frehouse in order to offer employment on special terms quently hire interns for both long and short period of as part of our social responsibility. time as part of their education. They get an internship filled with learning, responsibility, and practical experience which make them better prepared for the labor market. As a recognition of this, Pressalit was named East-Jutland’s best internship company in 2016. But not only do the interns learn; as a company we also learn because the interns contribute with the latest knowledge and perspectives. Likewise, we work closely with local municipality and job offices regarding a variety of tasks e.g. competence clarification processes. 05 PARASPORT For more than 15 years, Pressalit has sponsored the Each year, we hand out our Keep-Living-award to impairment athletics in Denmark. When the Danish the Impairment Athlete of the Year with DKK40,000. athletes are in contest, all of Pressalit follow – either The award is given to an athlete who through their from the sideline or via our internal and external sport shows possibilities that others might not see. channels of communication where we regularly provide status reports from the events. FACTS FROM RIO: Particularly for 2016 was off course the Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro and the great results the Number of athletes: 4,350 Danish athletes attained. With an ambition of earnNumber of medals: 528 ing five medals, the Danish team returned to DenNumber of sports: 22 mark with an impressive seven medals. Better conditions for the athletes Our deep commitment to the impairment athletics Close to the core values can be seen through different efforts in close coopWhen we as a company choose to sponsor and get eration with Parasport Danmark. Aside from our as involved as we do in impairment athletics, the sponsorship, we have together with Team Danmark cause can be found both in our attitude towards peoand Parasport Danmark established Pressalit Sport ple and our products. With sponsorships of the imAcademy which celebrated ten years’ jubilee in pairment athletics we are close to the core values of 2016. The Academy’s purpose is to give athletes, Pressalit Care. talents, and trainers the optimal setting to practice their sport. For instance, the Academy offers training Our Care products are designed to make everyday optimization, sport psychology, media training, nulife easier for people with reduced functional ability. trition guidance among others to ensure that the At Pressalit, reduced functional ability does not hinathletes have the best possible support and backing der design and high quality. It is our philosophy to to reach their professional goals. Through our coopcreate solutions that enhances the users’ possibilieration and involvement, we have built close relaties just as our sponsorship of Parasport Danmark tionship with both associations and athletes that we should do the for impairment athletes. value highly. 06 EMPLOYEE PORTRAITS HEIDI MÆRSK PIA JENSEN RECEPTIONIST, FACILITY SERVICE ASSISTANT, FACILITY SERVICE About 6 years ago, Heidi started as an intern in The last 5½ years, Pia has been employed on flexour reception and it did not take long before she ible conditions in our Facility Service. Here she was hired in a job on flexible conditions. As a reperforms daily cleaning in every corner of Pressalit ceptionist, Heidi is the first person most visitors at and one is guaranteed to be greeted by a smile, and a fresh remark as Pia makes her way through Pressalit meet. She is the kind voice at the telephone and the smiling ”welcome to Pressalit” for our company. both guests of the house and employees. At the age of only 18, Pia was the victim of a serious traffic accident that had severe consequences. With hip displasia and abrasion in her bag, Heidi has been through a number of large operations to The doctors declared that she had no perspective of ever getting back to her former self but Pia minimize pain and discomfort which has kept her away from the labour market for periods of time. wanted it differently. With a good portion of deterAnd at Pressalit, there has been room for this: mination and will, Pia started all over and learned ”Here I have only met understanding when I for to talk and walk again. She wanted to return to period of times have been away due to operations life, having a normal every day and a job. or rehabilitation. My manager is very attentive and Pia tells that she at Pressalit has found peace. To aware that my job can be done within the limits of her, Pressalit was the first company out of many the special needs that I have”. where she really felt appreciated and not labelled. ”Because here we are all in the same boat and valHeidi comments that she feels that Pressalit makes genuine consideration which she has not uable in each our own way”, she says. experienced in other workplaces. That is one of With a big round zero in absence rate, Pia plans to the reasons why Heidi applied for a job at Pressabe part of Pressalit for many years to come: ”Here lit: ”I had heard that it was a good place to be and I would like to become old, and I don’t have time it is so I will continue working here until I cannot to be sick. I would much rather come to work and work anymore”. have fun”. With her high spirit and inclination to work for Pia’s story is an example of the value that each Pressalit, Heidi embodies the importance of a employee creates for our company, culture, and working environment where the person behind the unity regardless of our background and prerequiemployee is in focus. sites. 07 WORKING CONDITIONS At Pressalit we employ approximately 280 employees with 29 of them placed outside Denmark in our international subsidiaries. As mentioned, we have a broad composition of employees hired on different terms. Our clerical employees in Denmark are hired based on the “Employers’ and Salaried Employees’ Act” and our employees in our production in Ry are hired on terms similar to this act. In peak times we With learning in focus through the entire working also hire temporary employees. The allocation of life, we ensure that our employees are ready for a gender among our employees is fairly equally dischangeable working day in a world full of changes tributed between men and women. both while employed at Pressalit but also after. The employees’ competence development is agreed and Pressalit offer a competitive salary, pension, and planned as an integrated part of the annual perforholiday in compliance with the law to all employees. mance development dialogue in the cross point beTo ensure that we are an attractive workplace, all tween business needs, the employees’ job function, our employees are offered a line of benefits. In and potential. 2016, we started the process of offering an even wider variety of benefits to our employees so the We keep the finger on the pulse employees at Pressalit can adjust and choose beneThe welfare of our employees are high on our agenda fits according to their own wishes and interests. because when the employees’ thrive, Pressalit thrives. When it comes to the employee’s working conditions we particularly draw on the Global Compact and the Through annual surveys we measure the welfare of SDG goals. We believe that it is our job to ensure our company; twice a year we run Leadership Equity that all tasks done in our company is done within Assessment (LEA) survey as well as an annual Pulse decent working conditions. That is why we have a survey. LEA is a dialogue tool to improve cooperation large focus on a safe, healthy, and educational workin departments while the Pulse survey measures our ing environment to reinforce SDG goal 3, 4, and 8. work satisfaction and process efficiency across departments and functions. Based on the results of the Learning through working LEA and Pulse surveys, each department and their Many of our employees have been with us for many manager draw up an action plan to lead to specific years and thereby have a lot of experience and improvements. The results of the surveys are acknowledge about Pressalit and our products. To entively used to identify competence development sure that we can continue being market leader, it is measures across the organization. In 2016, we a paramount part of our business that we underworked with Green Track and Arbinger which focused stand the customers’ need and our markets. That is on work satisfaction and cross-functional cooperawhy we put huge emphasis on our employees having tion. The surveys in the Autumn and feedback from the opportunity to acquire new knowledge and comour employees show us that we have succeeded as petencies through internal and external competence our results have improved considerably. In 2017, we development. will continue to work focused on creating the optimal setting for the psychological working environment so that performance and responsibility go hand-inhand. 08 WORKING CONDITIONS The employees’ satisfaction depends largely on the The health of the employees in focus work environment they are part of. Through our There are many aspects to take into consideration work environment organization and managers, we when trying to establish and secure an optimal work actively work with ensuring a good psychological and environment for our employees. At Pressalit, a good physical work environment. physical and psychological work environment is not only safety and ergonomic; it is also ensuring the A safe work environment possibility for physical and physiological well-being At Pressalit, man and machine go hand-in-hand. As for our employees through health promoting offers. a production company we have high demands to the Particular our nutrient policy is build on that we, as physical work environment so that our employees a company, take it upon us to offer both a healthy can be safe among the robots, trucks, and other maand varied lunch. Besides from that, we offer a varichinery. Since the 1980’s, we have used robots sevety of exercise for employees at Pressalit e.g. comeral places on the production line. The robots do pany paid spinning and swimming. many of the abrasive tasks that were previously done by the employees. As technology has develBased on the work place evaluation, we commenced oped, the employees’ tasks have become far more a pilot project with focus on the importance of activgentle and less abrasive. We continuously invest in ity throughout the working day particularly among new technology that can improve the working conour clerical employees. Recognized studies show ditions for the employees. Our ability to unit emthat sedentary work is a well-known problem that in ployee and machinery to benefit the working envithe long term can pose a considerable health risk for ronment and retention of jobs was among the reaemployees. Therefore, all office departments have sons why we were awarded the special ”Innovation voluntarily participated in ”active breaks”. Active Award 2016” from the 3F union. breaks were done by a trained physiotherapist and consisted of ten minutes of exercises that both inTo keep up with safety, all accidents and nearcreased the heart rate and heighten blood circulation misses are documented. In 2016, our work environas well as extent exercises. As an added bonus, we ment organization launched a process to prepare a experienced that the active breaks gave the employnew registration and risk evaluation system which ees a cheerful break and spread joy as a fresh and will give a more in-depth picture of what type of acdifferent breath of air – in alignment with our values cidents we experience and why they happen so that and inclination to play. Several departments have the causes can effectively be eliminated. Likewise, taken it upon themselves to continue the active we are doing safety patrols every three months. In breaks on their own. 2016, we documented 1 accident and 245 nearmisses. In 2016, we also did the compulsory work place evaluation throughout the entire organization. We did this in the Autumn and a considerable part of the annotations was fixed as quickly as possible. A few annotations are still being looked into. Among our clerical work force there was a general wish for more guidance in regards to ergonomically work positions. Among our employees in our Seat production, there was a general wish for better regulation of the indoor climate, a reduction of heavy lifts, and less noise from the pressing section of the production. 09 ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS Environmental conditions are the third core area of our CSR focus. Based in Ry close to residential areas is has always been important to us to live in harmony with our surroundings. Our environmental contribution does not only focus on living up to the law; we take it a step further with proactive contributions to reduce our impact on the environment. We have been environmentally certified according to Our ongoing control of waste water and air emission ISO 14001 for 19 years. As a production company (formaldehyde, dust and CO2) clearly determines with all our production facilities in Ry, our facilities that Pressalit deduce far less than our environment has a naturally associated consumption of energy and waste water approvals allow. We keep track of and produce. Through our environmental policies our CO2 emission and therefore our heat supply is and environmental management in accordance with delivered by Ry Heating Plant which almost excluISO 14001 we continuously supervise that our consively produce heat from solar panels and wood pelsumption and emission is kept at a defendable level lets. Used chemicals are registered and substituted and continuously reduced where possible. With by less environmental straining products where posGlobal Compact and the SDG goals we have once sible. Defective production items and left over proagain reinforced our environmental obligations. In duce are sold to recycling. With our production relation to the environment, we have particular emplaced near the center of Ry, it is important that we phasis on SDG goal 6, 12, and 17. do not obstruct our surroundings. We have not received any complaints in 2015 and 2016. Our environmental accounting documents a continuously positive development in our environmental Our latest self-monitoring show that Pressalit commanagement and is a result of many years focus on ply all applicable requirements and conditions in the the area. As the 2016 environmental account is not existing environmental and waste water approvals yet closed, the report is based on the account from and our measures ensures that we will continue this. 2015. We expect positive results for 2016 just as Technology reduces environmental influence 2015. Our environmental performance for the last 5 Aligned with our environmental target, we continuyears can be found in the appendix. ously invest in new technology that can reduce enOur main ressource input: vironmental influence and increase the energy efficiency in our production. When we invest in new Produce: Urea and metals technology it is a requirement that it does not cause Energy: Electricity, heat and water inexpedient increase in the energy consumption and Packing: Cardboard and plastic film environmental influence. Our main ressource output: In some cases, the new technology will cause a natAir: Formaldehyde and dust ural increase in our energy consumption e.g. when Water: Waste water from our own waste robots take over jobs previously done by employees. water plant, sanitary waste water In these cases, we carefully consider advantages and processed water and dis-advantages; what we lose in increased enSolid waste: Urea waste, cardboard and plastic, ergy consumption we have to gain in our employees’ metal and waste water sludge. work environment. Moreover, we have in 2016 hired a chemical engineer in a newly created position to Input and output ensure focus on identifying and implementing Supervising company for Pressalit is Skanderborg measures to effectively reduce production waste. municipality and through regular environmental supervision from the authorities, our obligations are being controlled in accordance with our commitment to our environmental approval. Each year we make a public environmental account which is published on our website. 10 ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS Through constant surveillance of our use of resources, where energy efficiency is a regular part of ”We commit ourselves to continuously make improvements in conour KPIs, we have achieved successful optimization. nection to environmental issues just as we commit ourselves to preIn particular, we focus on the energy consumption vent pollution. In keeping with with us maintaining and increasing per produced item as the most considerable indicaour company’s competitiveness, we will reduce environmental influtor of our efficiency as it is independent of the comence from our processes and activities.” bined production quantity. Extract from environmental target report Diffusion of proper sanitary access Based on our range of products, we have through Changing Places is a key subject in our business and the years built large experience and knowledge confor our Care products as we here share a common cerning proper and decent sanitary access. Based set of values namely that all humans should have on this thorough knowledge we strive to diffuse sanequal opportunity to access and use proper sanitary itary access globally and contribute to that more accessions. people have access to sanitary installations adapted Food with attitude to their physical and mental functionality. As part of running a responsible business we show Proper sanitary access is both important to the enconsideration where possible e.g. in our in-house vironment and our fellow humans as it permit imkitchen. At Pressalit, our in-house kitchen daily feed proved hygiene and slow down potential dispersion a large amount of employees through our lunch of bacteria and illness. Therefore, we strive to proscheme and meeting catering. All catering and duce user-friendly products that ensures the user menus are put together and produced by our inproper and decent accession regardless of their house kitchen staff with focus on ensuring a healthy physical and mental functionality. and nourishing diet as well as a minimum of food waste due to our stance on food waste from a susChanging Places tainable point of view. Changing Places is both a concept, a production Our lunch scheme and meeting catering not only enmethod, and a movement with the purpose of difsure our employees’ health but also take care of the fuse and improve the accessibility of toilet and bathenvironment; as often as it is possible, we buy orroom facilities in public places for people with lowganic produce. But we do not stop at organic proered functionality. Changing Places, as a moveduce. Trying to reduce food waste is an integral part ment, started in Great Britain and has grown large of the weekly menu. An example of this is that very and spread as a concept to both Australia and the Friday we serve a buffet where leftovers from the US. week are reused into new interesting dishes to reAt Pressalit we support the Changing Places initiaduce food waste as much as possible. With a yearly tive by creating attention about the movement in consumption of approximately 1,000 kilos of coffee our communication but also by offering products beans and instant coffee, it is paramount to us that that support the movement’s principles in regards both our coffee and tea is Fairtrade and bought from to what constitutes proper and decent access for a supplier that has high values within sustainability. both the user and potential helpers. Decent access, Thereby, through our in-house consumption we supin this correlation, means accession that is respectport like-minded companies’ contribution to responable, secure, comfortable, and hygienically. sibility and sustainability. 11 LOCAL ENGAGEMENT Since, establishing Pressalit in Ry we have been involved in the local society around Ry, Skanderborg, and Aarhus. At Presslit, the doors are always open when it comes to arrangements or activities in cooperation with the local society. Likewise, we also participate in external arrangements. As mentioned before, Pressalit as a whole has a In 2016 we also got involved in a new and ambitious great passion for particularly social interrelation and project that combines integration and competence we strive to be a positive example of how a company development of unskilled workers. Through a trifold can contribute to community interrelation by being focus on work, language, and education, the integraengaged in solving them. This engagement does not tion project aims at creating a solid, safe, and lasting derive from external pressure but from our own exfoundation in the Danish society for refugees. This is pectations and from the large responsibility, we feel done by creating strong relations between the refutowards our surroundings. gee and the labor market and at the same time offer With our local involvement, we work with SDG goal them a solid foundation for their new life. 4, 10, and 17. For the refugees, the project requires 12 to 18 Local municipalities and institutions months’ part-time employment in our production We are committed to getting involved in the chalwhere they will attain relevant work experience both lenges that our surroundings face and we are conprofessionally and socially. Besides working partvinced that these are best solved together. Theretime with us, they receive part-time Danish lessons. fore, we have a long-standing tradition for close coAfter this, an unskilled worker from Pressalit will enoperation with local municipalities and institutions. ter into a rotation process with the refugee so that while one of them are away studying to become an As partners with Skanderborg municipality, we acindustrial operator the other is working at Pressalit. tively work towards bridging the gap between people This means that both get an education while we reand organizations. We continuously hire interns who tain a full work force. During the process, the refugee are looking for a job or has the need for a clarificawill have a personal mentor assigned. The mentor is tion process for both shorter and longer term. a Pressalit employee who have volunteered to become a resource person for the refugee and help Furthermore, we support the local museum ship ’Gl. them adjust to working for us. Turisten’. The local school uses the ship an integrated part of science classes. It is our hope that through this project we can contribute to successful integration that creates value Moreover, we work with Skanderborg municipality for both the individual new citizen, for Pressalit, and regarding integration of new citizens in the municifor the society in general. pality and the labor market. In December, we welcomed fifteen refugees accompanied by the Mayor for afternoon the at Pressalit. The purpose was to introduce the new citizens to a Danish company and company culture. They also got the opportunity to meet Pressalit’s employees with a refugee background and hear their story and way into the labor market. We are incredible proud to contribute to this with both knowledge and experience. Therefore, we will also continue our work towards creating longterm relations between companies and new citizens in the municipality. 12 LOCAL ENGAGEMENT Close to education and the young We are very aware that as a Danish based comAs a part of our social profile and focus on the young pany, we are in many ways part of a privileged sogeneration, we have over the years built close relaciety that allow decent living conditions for its cititions to educational institutes across the educational zens. We are also aware that such conditions are sector. At the universities, we are engaged as both not standard around the world. And we would like sparring partner and to create contact to students. to do our part to change this. We actively participate in events such as Company Dating, Job-crawl, Student Advisory Board and we also gladly give presentations both in-house and exMette Dyhl Prola: ”To contribute positively to the ternally for students about both our company but world around us is a natural responsibility that we also to give good advice, guidance, and sparring in gladly accept. It creates large value for both us as a regards to their future career. Moreover, we also company as well as our employees when we work have close relations to local vocational training institogether to solve the challenges surrounding us.” tutes and production schools. Senior HRD & Policy Director Christmas for the homeless For the last eight years, we have with great delight arranged Christmas for the homeless at the drop-in Africa is one of the continents where we put our socenter in Aarhus where the homeless are invited for cial responsibility into a global context. In 2016, we Christmas dinner and fellowship. The day is ardonated wheel chairs to physically impaired children ranged by our employees who voluntarily use their at the Sigombre Childrens Home in Kenya together workday on preparing and serving Christmas dinner with the Elizabeth Okungu Foundation. Here, accesfor the homeless. It is a popular event among both sibility aid is not necessarily the norm, as we know the homeless and the employees; in fact, it is such from Denmark. With the wheel chairs, the children a popular event among our employees that there are get better possibilities to move and participate in more volunteers than needed every year. Our emplay and activities with the other children. Our supployees say that it is an enriching experience for port with accessibility aid is a way to express our them both personally and professionally and it gives passion for creating better possibilities and condithem great joy to ”pay it forward”. Besides the tions for all despite reduced functional ability. It is Christmas dinner for the homeless, we make annual this passion we wish to share with others just as it donations to help people at Christmas together with is the foundation for Pressalit as a place of work and Lions Club Ry. The Christmas help is given to extend our Care products. a helping hand during the holiday to people in need in Ry municipality. International perspective The local involvement is a long standing tradition but we also understand that we must look beyond local involvement when it comes to social challenges. Our ambitions are far wider than only getting involved locally and nationally. Therefore, we do not hesitate to take an international perspective in our efforts in social responsibility and sustainability. With the introduction of the SDG goals, we now have references that we can target our international efforts towards. 13 CSR IN 2017 Goals for our efforts in 2017:  Initiate the identification of opportunities  Maintain and expand the number of refor partnerships with NGO´s and associacruitments of apprentices. tions in which our employees can volun Maintain and expand our range of study, teer as part of their employment at Pressalit. business, and social interns.  Launch new initiatives that specifically  Maintain a level of at least 5% of employsupports the global goals number 4, 6 and ees on special terms. 12.  Reduce our environmental impact, cf. our  Work for the expansion of decent and proper sanitation nationally and globally. annual environmental accounts. 14 ENCLOSURE: UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Read more about the UN’s SDG goals here: http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/ 15 ENCLOSURE: ISO 9001/14001 16 ENCLOSURE: LATEST ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTS *NB: The increase in oil emulsion for 2015 is due to a comprehensive replacement of lubricants. 17
