CSR REPORT 2016 2 CSR REPORT 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS LIST OF FIGURES Welcome 4 Figure 01 Bank Audi’s CSR Pillars and Material Aspects 5 Introduction 6 Mapped Across Pledged SGDs for 2016 Our Materiality Process 8 Figure 02 Our CSR Milestones 6 Engraining Responsible Practices 14 Figure 03 Process of Defining Material Aspects 8 Promoting Innovative Approaches 18 and Boundaries Sharing Value 24 Figure 04 Materiality Matrix and Main Issues 8 Reporting year is 2016. Impactful Education 33 of Priority Concern for 2016 Together For Nature 41 Figure 05 CSR at a Glance at End 2016 13 The previous report is the Supplementary Information 46 Figure 06 Total GHG Emissions per Year for Bank Audi 44 “CSR Report 2015: Sustaining Shared Value” Internal Audit 47 Figure 07 Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emission Sources 44 published in June 2016. Appendices 47 Figure 08 Emissions per Sources in 2016 44 Concordance Table 49 The reporting cycle is: annual For information about the Report, please refer to: Bank Audi’s CSR Unit csr@banqueaudi.com Bank Audi Palladium – Bab Idriss Beirut Lebanon LIST OF TABLES This report was prepared in accordance Table 01 Our Commitments and Outcomes 7 with the GRI Standards: Core option. Table 02 Stakeholder Consultation 9 Table 03 Explanation of Material Topics and Boundaries 11 Our GHG emissions report is audited by V4 Table 04 Transaction E&S Risk Statistics 15 Advisors, an external expert on the topic; Table 05 Sustainable Finance Stats 15 and our CSR Report is internally audited Table 06 Anti-Corruption Related Training 16 by our certified auditors. Table 07 Economic Contribution 19 Table 08 Direct Economic Contribution 19 Table 09 Infrastructure Investments 20 Table 10 Community Support 25 Table 11 Employee Composition by Gender and Employee 35 Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon Table 12 Employee Composition by Age Group and 35 Employee Category in Bank Audi Group Lebanon Table 13 Composition of Governance Body Committees 35 by Gender and Age Group at Bank Audi Since 2013 to Date Table 14 Employee Distribution by Contract Type and 35 Gender at Bank Audi Group Lebanon Table 15 New Employee Hires in Bank Audi Group Lebanon 36 Table 16 Return to Work and Retention Rates After 36 Parental Leave, by Gender Table 17 Progressive Labour Practices 36 Table 18 Bank Audi Clubs 37 Table 19 Facebook Engagement Rate 39 Table 20 LinkedIn Engagement Rate 39 Table 21 Total Weight of Waste In Kg 42 Table 22 GHG Emissions 43 Table 23 Energy Consumption 44 Table 24 Awards and Recognitions 47 Table 25 Concordance Table 49 3 CSR REPORT 2016 WELCOME WELCOME MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER As Bank Audi evolves and matures in its role as a leading financial Established in its present form in 1962, Bank Audi also identifies of SME businesses: from working capital, to credit and trade proud members of its local Steering Committee, as well as Gold institution in the region, so does our clear vision for sustainability with the startup model, behaving with agility, flexibility and facilities, to job creation and salary domiciliation. No effort is members of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). in the communities and environments we operate in. readiness to change, in the entrepreneurial spirit of its founders, spared to place the right tools into the right hands, and to Georges, Jean and Raymond Audi. make local and regional economies healthier and stronger. Building on all the above and backed by the numerous Today’s world requires institutions to be in constant To be able to cater to individuals and corporations, we start milestones marked in the context of our firm belief in CSR, I transformation and to evolve in such a way as to meet clients’ Taking a closer look at the Bank’s purpose, I like to see from the top: public authorities that regulate Lebanon’s take pride in bringing you Bank Audi’s 2016 CSR Report which ever-changing behaviours. In parallel, customers demand more our role as a four-fold commitment: empowering people, financial landscape and that are responsible for building a gives you a glimpse of the key achievements made by the Bank transparency than ever before, which implies a firm commitment serving companies, supporting the economy and creating sustainable infrastructure for businesses and entrepreneurship in this field. from the brand they choose to create a relationship with. This is shareholder value. to flourish. why digital solutions, sustainability, responsible financing, and Bank Audi is committed to continuously creating shareholder I hope you enjoy the read, and thank you for allowing us to being good citizens are key assets for successful 21st century One of our main priorities is indeed to make people’s lives value and providing quality financial information, complete engrain impact. brands, including Bank Audi. better. This means helping them improve their quality of life: with all key indicators. Our recently launched Investor owning a home or a car, getting the adequate education, Relations mobile application adds more transparency and Sincerely, The challenges we take on are similar to those faced by our investing in securities or retirement plans, or any other connectivity to this equation. customers. Our objective, however, is to push the boundaries scheme that contributes to enhancing their wellbeing. even further by identifying the areas where we can bring a Our involvement is twice as valuable to us when it makes There is no doubt that these factors of change draw upon an positive contribution: the economy, the environment, and social someone’s dream come true. essential element without which none of these initiatives would welfare. This is achieved by implementing effective changes on In a similar effort yet from a different perspective, we strive see the light: trust. several fronts, with the ultimate goal of enabling growth and to give substantial added value to the business world we are At Bank Audi, we made sure that trust is part of our ethical economic progress by building sustainable infrastructure and part of. 2016 has reinforced our CSR impact by ensuring principles, by applying the highest standards of ethics, Samir N. Hanna creating jobs. sustainability for SMEs in the form of a new business line compliance, governance and transparency; by creating Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer aligning our strategy with the Sustainable Development Goals significant economic value; by unlocking potential and Our commitment to make a positive and significant difference in (SDGs) we have chosen to champion. This comes as a result of promoting diversity… in a word, by acting responsibly. This people’s lives has been an integral part of our culture ever since our rigorous stakeholder consultations, clearly identifying their is where our gender equality and representation strategies Bank Audi was founded in 1830. This is closely related to the needs and material topics. Small and medium sized enterprises come in, for instance, let alone our inclusion and volunteering Bank’s historic thrive to create added value in the communities it are the driving force of the local economy and represent the programs, and our equal opportunity principles. is present in, and to its firm belief in revealing untapped talents. vast majority of our corporate environment. As such, it is only With this in mind, our “Grow Beyond Your Potential” motto fair that we do everything in our power to optimise their Our internal boldness was further emphasized by local and drives both our employees and clients to work in synergy to input and help them grow in the right direction. The scope for international partnerships that have placed us at the forefront realise those purposes, whether in day-to-day operations or action is broad in this respect; it encompasses all operations of CSR in the region. As such, we are highly committed to the through ongoing CSR initiatives. that contribute, in one way or another, to the development ISO 26000 and to the United Nations Global Compact, being 4 CSR REPORT 2016 WELCOME MESSAGE OF THE HEAD OF CSR This year marks the sixth year of our journey to embed sustainability Additional and on-going commitments have been kept at the core of our business and sustain our positive impact on current in the realm of Quality Education (SDG 4) and Gender and future generations. Our commitment to sustainability Equality (SDG 5) in an institution that has always regarded continues to solidify each year, and permeates all aspects every members of its human capital equally in dignity, of our business across the five sustainability pillars that appreciation and worth. we have identified, including best practice Corporate Governance, amplified Economic Development, balanced Finally, the role we cherish in protecting our environment Community Development, energised Human Development innovatively through our carbon footprint microsite and pre-cautionary Environmental Protection. engaging the young generation to commit towards the pledge our nation has taken during COP 21 coupled with Important organisational milestones for our CSR journey included signing the Lebanon Climate Act in its introductory phase the setting up of a stand-alone CSR unit in 2010, the establishment is also of importance to future generations and our own of a CSR Committee and a formal CSR policy in 2012, the piloting sustainability as Climate Action (SDG13). of ISO 26000 Guidance in 2012, the adoption of GRI reporting guidance as of 2013, and adopting the principles of the UN Global Our choice of those specific SDGs was grounded in a careful stakeholder Compact as of 2015. engagement process and a synthesis exercise that helped us in mapping our five CSR pillars and the various initiatives we have under each Our approach to sustainability is anchored in the principles to the SDGs that were most synchronised with our strategy. We of Creating Shared Value (CSV), particularly given the context are thus making a concerted effort this year to link our of Lebanon where the improvement of the quality of life hinges CSR agenda with the broader SDGs, particularly in areas on active business involvement and participation in the context of where we believe we can contribute in a meaningful way. responsible business practice and partnerships for generating, scaling and engraining positive social impact. The recent launch of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Responsibly, Our CSR Committee left to right: Ramzi Abou-Samah, Aziza Noujaim, Farid Lahoud, Ghina Dandan, Hasmig Khoury, opened up new opportunities for us to synchronise our efforts with Marc Audi, Maya Younis, Youssef Nizam, Jean Traboulsi, Mohamad Chamseddine. broader development goals and aspirations in our attempts to create shared value while sustaining and engraining impact. This year has marked our pledge to five of the SDGs, in particular Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8) and Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Hasmig G. Khoury (SDG 9) as aligned to our business strategy. Head of CSR Figure 1: Bank Audi’s CSR Pillars and Material CORPORATE ECONOMIC COMMUNITY HUMAN ENVIRONMENTAL Aspects Mapped across Pledged SGDs for 2016 GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT PROTECTION Ethical conduct Product portfolio Local community Progressive labour Emissions development practices Compliance Economic contribution Effluents Local community Diversity, inclusion and and waste Anti-corruption Indirect economic impacts equal opportunity support Energy Human rights Procurement practices Training, education and consumption Local community Environmental and Social talent development Market presence collaboration Environmental Management System External human loans Product responsibility Financial literacy development Awareness on Infrastructure resources usage investments Inclusive and sustainable industrialisation Innovation 5 CSR REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION Founded in Lebanon in 1830, Bank Audi sal has sustained its succeeded in sustaining a high resilience of the Group in its capacity solid growth, building a strong legacy of excellence in banking. to withstand adverse developments in its markets of presence, EXAMPLES OF BANK AUDI'S MEMBERSHIP IN BANKING ASSOCIATIONS: Headquartered in Lebanon, the Bank is currently present in 10 while reporting favourable growth in activity and net profits in ASSOCIATION DES BANQUES DU LIBAN (ABL) other countries located across Europe and the MENAT region; parallel to the reinforcement of the Bank’s fundamentals and of POSITIONS HELD: namely Switzerland, France, Jordan, Egypt, the Kingdom of Saudi its financial flexibility. Concomitantly, our Executive Management Arabia (KSA), Qatar, Monaco, Turkey, Iraq and the United Arab remains determined to further enhance environmental and social Emirates (UAE). goals, and sustain the financial and business achievements that Bank Audi is a joint-stock company (“société anonyme libanaise”) contribute to socioeconomic growth and financial stability. In the future, we will continue to aspire towards remaining leaders in 1 Board of Directors: Dr. Freddie Baz 7 Communication Committee with a diversified shareholder base that encompasses founding sustainability, and to balance the healthy financial growth and Committee for Compliance and Fighting Money shareholders, large regional investors, supra-national entities, international institutional investors, a large number of private returns to shareholders with equal commitment, drive and added value to stakeholders, and to society at large. 2 Laundering: chaired by Mr. Chahdan Jebeyli, Esq. 8 Corporate Governance Committee: Mr. Farid Lahoud (rapporteur) investors, as well as executives and employees. 3 9 Insignificant changes are reported in the share capital structure Legal Committee: Human Resources and Social Affairs The Bank offers a full range of products and services in from 31.12.2015 to 31.12.2016, as detailed in the Bank’s 2016 chaired by Dr. Georges Achi Committee Commercial and Corporate Banking, Retail and Personal Annual Report. Banking, Private Banking and Investment Banking within a wide range of industries including manufacturing, trading, contracting, real estate development, food and beverage, As precautionary measures and as part of the Bank’s lending activities, every credit transaction above a certain amount is 4 Research Studies Committee: Dr. Marwan Barakat (rapporteur) 10 Banking Terms and Conditions Committee education, media services, health and social services, and retailing subject to a risk opinion, which is issued by functions that are among others. independent from the credit originating functions. This helps ensure that the credit transactions and resulting profile are in compliant 5 Investment Banks and Capital Markets Committee 11 Islamic Banking Committee Bank Audi, a leader among Lebanese banking groups, has further with the Bank’s credit policy and risk appetite. In line with the 6 reinforced its position among the top 20 Arab banks. Main 12 credit policy, the Bank refrains from financing activities that are Committee for Organisation, development pillars for the Group are Lebanon, Egypt, Turkey unethical, illegal, presenting potential risks to the environment Standardisation and Information Technology Banking Risk Committee and the Private Banking business line which, together, represent or that do not adhere to the Bank’s corporate social responsibility more than 90% of assets and earnings. Our performance stems principles. In addition, the Risk function, which is independent from a comprehensive range of financial services and a diversified from business lines, provides risk opinions and sign-offs on new market presence which represent the backbone of our sustained projects and major changes pertaining to products, processes, growth in spite of an overall challenging operating environment. activities and technology before implementation in order to assess The Bank’s recent results faithfully reflect how sustainable strategies their risk levels as well as the adequacy of related controls and translate into long-term financial value. In 2016, Management recommends additional ones, if and when deemed necessary. Figure 2: Our CSR Milestones 2016 • Pledging to five of the UN Sustainable 2015 • Committing to the UN Global Compact 2014 • Adopting Environmental and Social 2013 • Adopting GRI G4 Guidelines: Core 2012 • Adoption of CSR policy 2011 • Establishment of CSR Committee 2010 • Formation of CSR Unit Development Goals • Founding member in the UNGC Management System (ESMS) • Updating to five CSR pillars • Crafting a CSR strategy • Launching “My Carbon Footprint” National Steering Committee • Adhering to GRI: Organisational • Further institutionalisation • Piloting ISO 26000 microsite across schools nationwide • Further stakeholder inclusiveness Stakeholder (OS) • Devising four CSR pillars • Updating GRI: GOLD Community • Further Volunteer Program • Published as case study by Ivey • Initiating the Global Money Week Publishing (Canada) • Initial signatory of Lebanon Climate Act 6 CSR REPORT 2016 INTRODUCTION Table 1: Our Commitments and Outcomes PILLAR WE PLANNED WE ACHIEVED IN 2013 WE ACHIEVED IN 2014 WE ACHIEVED IN 2015 WE ACHIEVED IN 2016 Implemented an Environmental and Further institutionalise CSR at the Social Management System (ESMS) which • 179 employees attended ESMS training • 286 employees attended ESMS training heart of the business guides our approach for evaluating the • 616.5 training hours on ESMS • 942.5 training hours on ESMS CORPORATE environmental and social (E&S) risks GOVERNANCE • Total revenue: USD 640.5 million • Total revenue: USD 689.6 million • Total revenue: USD 836.1 million • Total revenue: USD 1,159 million Improve our financial performance • Total shareholders’ equity and subordinated • Total shareholders’ equity and subordinated debt: • Total shareholders’ equity and subordinated debt: • Total shareholders’ equity and subordinated debt: debt: USD 2.90 billion USD 3.64 billion USD 3.77 billion USD 4.27 billion Increase our employee base 2,890 employees 2,989 employees 3,130 employees 3,323 employees Increase branches equipped with ramps 71% 75% 78% 83% ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Increase branches in remote areas 14% 15% 17% 23% Increase ATMs located in remote areas 15% 17% 19% 14% Increase support to health-related causes USD 520,000 USD 557,000 USD 618,792 USD 773,693 Provide support to culture-related causes USD 530,000 USD 1,470,000 USD 1,300,000 USD 1,700,000 COMMUNITY • 23 employees upon initiation of program • 150 employees • 228 employees • 306 employees DEVELOPMENT Improve our corporate Volunteer Program • 284 beneficiaries • 829 beneficiaries • 3,617 beneficiaries • 4,799 beneficiaries Employee training • 2,080 employees • 2,345 employees • 2,230 employees • 2,343 employees • 72% • 78% • 71% • 71% Increase programs aimed at supporting 22 24 26 25 employee careers HUMAN Increase value of employee benefit USD 18,469,000 USD 19,358,000 USD 20,634,341 USD 22,621,262 DEVELOPMENT expenditures and wellness programs Promote products and services designed to USD 30,464,100 USD 45,693,412* USD 26,493,2461 USD 8,685,027 deliver a specific environmental benefit Increase paper recycling 83 tons recycled 104 tons recycled 147 tons recycled 111 tons recycled Save trees 1,414 trees 1,763 trees 2,495 trees 1,888 trees Participate in plastic recycling 130 kg 157 kg 150 kg 196 kg ENVIRONMENTAL Reduce total greenhouse gas (GHG) Previously reduced GHG emissions from 21,065.60 tCO2e 21,738.20 tCO2e 19,976.20 tCO2e PROTECTION emissions 22,199.80 tCO2e to reach 21,309.90 tCO2e (5% decrease over 2 years) (2.1% decrease over 3 years) (10% decrease over 4 years) Instil environmental awareness on both Conducted internal and external Engaged internal and external stakeholders 760 registered students in ‘My Carbon internal and external levels environmental workshops in environmental initiatives Footprint’ microsite *Includes USD 30 million for two major real estate LEED certified projects. I Includes USD 20 million for a major LEED certified project. 7 CSR REPORT 2016 MATERIALITY PROCESS OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS Figure 4: Materiality Matrix and Main Issues of Priority Concern for 2016 Our goal in this report is to address and disclose our progress in Sustainable Industrialisation, and Innovation under the Economic relation to important issues that are important to our business and Development Pillar where recent strategic business developments Importance to Stakeholders that our stakeholders care most about. Similar to 2015, we have were implemented. Financial Literacy was also identified as taken active steps to enhance our materiality process by further material issue and added to our Community Development Pillar. External human development Environmental and Social Management System bolstering and enhancing our internal and external engagement. We also added Awareness on Resource Usage within our Product portfolio In fact, we take pride to be an organisation that engages in open Environmental Protection Pillar as further efforts in this aspect Indirect economic impacts and constructive dialogue with our stakeholders and accord this were implemented. Anti-corruption feedback systematic attention in refining our CSR strategy. This Economic contribution meticulous materiality exercise formed the basis for defining our Other than that, changes to our materiality issues and aspect Local community support Procurement practices report content for 2016. boundaries from last year were minimal, involving simple regrouping, Local community collaboration tinkering and refinement. This allowed us to retain the materiality Ethical conduct Our materiality process helps us identify issues that matter the most issues that were considered of medium to high importance to Progressive labour practices to our business and our stakeholders. Similar to previous years, our stakeholders, and of medium to high importance to Bank HIGH Emissions Awareness on resources usage Corporate Product responsibility Governance we have engaged a range of internal and external stakeholders Audi. We also excluded from the Report those aspects that were in our materiality process for 2016, capitalising on different tools considered non-material, given their lower importance and/or Local community development Environmental loans Economic and communication processes. Both sets of stakeholders are inapplicability to Bank Audi’s operating context. Development Financial literacy important from the perspective of the Bank, and this feedback Training, education and talent development has in fact been instrumental in helping us define and refine our Considering that this reporting is restricted to Bank Audi Lebanon, Infrastructure investments Community CSR strategy and pin down our most salient and material issues the materiality process is relevant for all Lebanese subsidiaries, Energy consumption Development Compliance Market presence for 2016, as well as the relevant aspect boundaries. and the scope of the material aspects and their boundaries are focused on Bank Audi Group – Lebanon entity (Bank Audi sal and Human Human rights Innovation Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity Development The main changes entailed redefining some of the main materiality its Lebanon-based subsidiaries), hence excluding other entities issues, like adding Infrastructure Investments, Inclusive and listed in the financial Annual Report. Effluents and waste Inclusive and Sustainable Industrialisation Environmental Protection Significance to Bank Audi HIGH Figure 3: Process of Defining Material Aspects IDENTIFICATION OF PRIORITISATION • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness • Principle of Materiality CRITICAL ASPECTS OF ASPECTS and Boundaries • Principle of Sustainability Context • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness • Assessing relevant topics • Evaluating and prioritising relevant  Identifying relevant aspects aspects and topics • Assessing internal impact • Assessing materiality of topics to of aspects stakeholders • Assessing external 1 2 impact of aspects 3 4 • Principle of Completeness • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness  • Principle of Sustainability Context • Validating the material  • Reviewing material • aspects identified VALIDATION aspects of the Report OF ASPECTS REVIEW 8 CSR REPORT 2016 MATERIALITY PROCESS Table 2: Stakeholder Consultation STAKEHOLDER GROUPS STAKEHOLDERS INCLUDED AND BASIS OF SELECTION CHANNELS USED ISSUES IDENTIFIED INTERNAL The largest number of beneficiaries who uphold and convey the Bank’s • Newsletters • Conduct a feasibility study concerning the possibility of generating electricity needs from rooftop photovoltaic panels. EMPLOYEES image as they are the front liners in contact with external stakeholders. • Tailored surveys 16% (451 out of 2,777) • Sponsor sustainable eco-friendly projects. They also contribute to the decision-making process by being the major of employees answered • Provide financial services to clients who can contribute to the SDGs. reporter of information. • Internal communication • Organise ethical and business conduct workshops for all employees. • Stakeholder engagement panel • Organise workshops addressed to customers. • Give clients the opportunity to participate in CSR events. • Include people with special needs in the workplace. One of the Bank’s key pillars which includes decision-makers who set the • Monthly meetings • Make branches accessible to all. MANAGEMENT overall strategic direction of the Bank and monitor its implementation. • Workshops • Provide paid training opportunities at the Bank to underprivileged youth. • Stakeholder engagement panel • Engage women in leadership programs to prepare them for Management positions. They are also the constituency accountable for repercussions of the • Provide low-interest loans for women empowerment and entrepreneurship projects. Bank’s contributions. • Provide a day care center for employees’ children to help working mothers balance their jobs. • Provide retirement pension plans to employees. • Create an elderly day care where healthy elderly can meet with their peers and share a meal. Investors who have a clear stake in the business and are important • Annual meetings • Expand employee volunteering within our corporate culture. SHAREHOLDERS strategic financial contributors with commitments that ensure the • Stakeholder engagement panel • Ask every employee to participate in at least one CSR activity per year as per the Bank’s policy. financial health and viability of our business. • Annual reports • Organise a CSR event to which employees’ children would be invited. • Steer the Volunteer Program towards education. EXTERNAL Providers of services and raw materials with whom the Bank has a • Meetings SUPPLIERS mutual-benefit relationship. We are keen on maintaining a close working • Stakeholder engagement panel • Align each of the pledged 5 SDGs to specific targets. • Organise vocational trainings that fill specific market needs, similar to Injaz modules & “Roads for Life” partnership. relationship with key suppliers across different industries and we acknowldege • Financial literacy: implement a ready-based online quiz module platform in both English and Arabic. that our suppliers are also invariably affected by the Bank’s operations and • Gender equality: ease new mothers’ lives by making a deal with a nearby nursery. policies, especially with regards to quality and integrity standards. • Gender equality: allocate a private room for nursing mothers. • Undertake anti-corruption initiatives. • Help SMEs access each other’s services and benefit from networking opportunities. Critical stakeholders for the Bank, who sustain its continued vibrancy and • Tailored surveys • Make one volunteering day per year mandatory for each employee. CLIENTS vitality. They are at the heart of the decision-making process in terms of • Integrate employees in the Volunteer Program Committee. • Meetings operations, products issuance and services, and are the ones who benefit • Stakeholder engagement panel most from the Bank’s services. They contribute financially by endorsing the Bank and making use of its services. The most enduring partners of the Bank in the field of CSR, symbolising • Meetings NGOs the channels through which we contribute to the community and sustain • Stakeholder engagement panel our scaling of social impact and our spill-over effect. They are chosen • Various events based on the congruence and compatibility of their mission and strategies • Volunteer Program with the Bank’s values and social orientation. The official institutions that frame the regulatory boundaries of • Meetings REGULATORY BODIES the Bank’s legal operations. They are affected by the Bank’s operations • Stakeholder engagement panel AND INDUSTRY-RELATED and manifold economic contributions. They also influence the way we • Workshops ASSOCIATIONS frame our decision-making in relation to key aspects of our operations, including CSR. Competing banks and financial institutions who are also collaborators in • Meetings COMPETITORS setting the operational, social, environmental and competitive standards. • Stakeholder engagement panel We also value our competitors in terms of helping promote and enhance • Workshops CSR in Lebanon. Local community stakeholders in various locations where our bank • Events COMMUNITY CIVIL SOCIETY operates. We identify our well-being as closely tied to that of the community around us, and we seek to improve our external environment through various programs, events, activities and philanthropy. Various media groups and channels that transmit information and with • e-newsletters MEDIA which the Bank liaises to communicate in relation to various aspects of • Interviews its activities, including CSR. Through the media, we stay in touch with the • Events various external stakeholders around us, while conveying and sharing our • Newspaper identity, programs and activities. • Social media Engaging Our Stakeholders 5 different stakeholders were selected to choose the best 3 initiatives • Events JURY MEMBERS proposed by university students in the context of the university awareness competition. 9 CSR REPORT 2016 MATERIALITY PROCESS When consulted on material issues, employees responded that the Bank should mostly focus on: INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION This analysis illustrates the outcomes of the survey conducted Results showed that respondents are equally gendered, with internally to measure employees’ knowledge and satisfaction on a number of materiality issues related to Corporate Social the bulk of the respondents in the 32-45 age group and a majority tenure at an average of 5 years. 1 2 3 4 5 Staff training, Ethical conduct, Diversity, inclusion Promoting full Responsibility at Bank Audi. education and talent anti-corruption and Human rights and equal and productive development compliance opportunity employment 2,777 BANK AUDI’S EMPLOYEES WERE 451 INVITED TO PARTICIPATE EMPLOYEES COMPLETED THE SURVEY, REPRESENTING A PARTICIPATION RATE OF 16% 50% 6 7 8 9 10 Taking urgent action Promoting inclusive Financial literacy for Fostering External human OF RESPONDENTS WERE INVOLVED IN A to combat and sustainable the community innovation development SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE COMPONENT AT climate change economic growth 28% BANK AUDI VOLUNTEERED IN A CSR INITIATIVE AT THE BANK DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Employees ranked in priority the 5 Sustainable Development We are very much aware that sustainability issues are not Goals (SDG) that Bank Audi has recently pledged to: properly valued or priced in the marketplace, particularly in Lebanon, and that figuring out materiality remains more of a subjective process. In defining materiality, we are mindful The material topics and their boundaries that have been Both our DMA and our reporting are guided by the values of the need to account for costs incurred by the Bank, but presented above form the essence of our entire materiality of relevance, accuracy, timeliness, comparability, reliability, SDG 4 also of the positive spillovers and externalities to others in process. The two key challenges invariably encountered in clarity, balance and completeness. All these principles ensure QUALITY EDUCATION the community, the supply chain and the broader ecosystem. relation to materiality include casting the net wide enough that our approach to CSR reporting is organic and advancing This assessment was at the core of the repeated deliberations to capture important sustainability issues and corresponding dynamically to meet the changing expectations surrounding of the CSR Committee and the Group Executive Committee risks and opportunities, yet not exceeding a reasonably small us, and that we remain true to our most cherished guiding SDG 5 where the materiality process and priorities are presented and sub-set of material issues that really matter to the company values pertaining to transparency and civic engagement. GENDER EQUALITY discussed each year. As listed in Table 2, we have also fleshed and can be managed in a consistent way. This report is thus intended to delineate the active steps we out each material topic where impacts occur, as well as the have taken to integrate sustainability in our business using SDG 8 relevance of this material topic and its boundaries to Bank Defining these material issues and their boundaries is at the our resources efficiently and responsibly, and respecting the DECENT WORK AND Audi. We also listed and grouped each of the material topics heart of our Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA). precautionary principle in terms of minimising risks for our ECONOMIC GROWTH under the corresponding sustainability pillar. We exercise a rigorous and elaborate process in selecting stakeholders, the environment and society at large. materiality issues that matter the most to our stakeholders. We SDG 9 also assess each of these in terms of risks and opportunities As part of our continuous improvement journey, we also revisit INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND for our business, our reputation, and our finances. our DMA every year, and assess its overall effectiveness as well INFRASTRUCTURE as potential gaps, weaknesses or shortcomings, and decide, Each of these issues is also evaluated annually in implications in light of that, on any needed refinements or adjustments. towards our business, taking into consideration the legal SDG 13 requirements, national priorities and international norms of CLIMATE ACTION behaviour within the scope of feasibility and implementation of CSR initiatives pertaining to these material issues. 10 CSR REPORT 2016 MATERIALITY PROCESS Table 3: Explanation of the Material Topics and their Boundaries PILLAR MATERIAL ISSUE WHERE THE IMPACT OCCURS AND MATERIAL BOUNDARIES RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES The impacts of ethical conduct are felt primarily in relation to Corporate Governance, but also permeate • To continue to uphold the highest ethical standards. Ethical conduct every aspect of our business; hence the material boundaries extend to other aspects of the business and • This is not just a responsibility, but a fundamental enabler of our business success. to the economic, social and governance aspects of sustainability. Compliance is at the core of everything we do in banking, and helps us earn and maintain the trust of • To continue to promote, refine and make more stringent all aspects of compliance. our stakeholders. The impacts of compliance are felt primarily in relation to sound Corporate Governance, • This is not just a responsibility but a fundamental enabler of our business success. Compliance but the material boundaries extend to other aspects of the business and to the economic, social and governance aspects of sustainability. Managing environmental and social risks can have important implications for client operations. Risk • To continue to monitor risks, particularly environmental and social risks. Environmental and Social Risk management impacts occur in Corporate Governance, but the material boundaries extend to other • This is a fundamental enabler of business success in banking. Management System CORPORATE aspects of the business and to the economic, social and governance aspects of sustainability. GOVERNANCE In the banking context, anti-corruption takes on amplified importance, particularly in bolstering sound • To continue to be equipped with the latest and most effective anti-corruption tools and knowledge. Anti-corruption and effective Corporate Governance, but the material boundaries extend to other aspects of the business • This is not just a material responsibility, but a fundamental enabler of our business success in banking. and to the economic, social and governance aspects of sustainability. Human rights Respecting human rights is at the heart of sound Corporate Governance, but the material boundaries • To continue to uphold our commitments to various forms and guises of human rights principles. extend to other aspects of the business and to the economic, social and governance aspects of sustainability. • To strengthen training establishing the relevance of human rights principles in banking. The impacts of our direct economic performance are felt by our clients and customers, but they are also • To continue to record solid growth and economic performance year after year, and to meet the needs Economic contribution felt more broadly by the Lebanese government and society at large; hence the material boundaries extend of our customers and of the broader Lebanese society. to other aspects of the business and to the social and governance aspects of sustainability. • This is not just a material responsibility, but a fundamental enabler of our business success. The indirect economic impacts are felt through nurturing entrepreneurship and innovation, and various • T o continue to monitor indirect economic impacts through various programs that nurture entrepreneurship Indirect economic impacts programs that have positive indirect economic spill overs on the Lebanese economy; hence the material and innovation. boundaries extend to other aspects of the business, particularly the social aspects of sustainability. • This is not just a material responsibility, but a fundamental enabler of our business success. The impacts are felt on our customers and stakeholders at large as we strive to increase our market • T o continue to monitor indirect economic impacts through various programs that nurture entrepreneurship Market presence penetration and the accessibility of our services; hence the material boundaries extend to other aspects of and innovation. the business, particularly the governance and social aspects of sustainability. • This is not just a material responsibility, but a fundamental enabler of our business success. The impacts of our product responsibility are primarily felt in terms of indirect economic and social • T o continue to monitor various aspects of product responsibility, and both direct and indirect economic Product responsibility impacts; hence the material boundaries extend to other aspects of the business and to the social and and social impacts. governance aspects of sustainability. • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to invest in and monitor over time. Product portfolio The impacts of our product portfolio are primarily felt in terms of direct economic impact, but can also have • To continue to diversify our product portfolio to meet the needs of our customers and of the broader potential indirect economic and social impacts; hence the material boundaries extend to other aspects of the Lebanese society. business and to the social and governance aspects of sustainability. • This is not just a material responsibility, but a fundamental enabler of our business success. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT The impacts of our infrastructure investments are primarily felt in terms of direct economic impact, but can • To continue to monitor infrastructure investments and their direct and indirect economic impacts. Infrastructure investments also have potential indirect economic and social impacts; hence the material boundaries extend to other • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to invest in and aspects of the business and to the social and governance aspects of sustainability. monitor over time. The impacts of inclusive and sustainable industrialisation have both direct and indirect economic, social, and • To continue to monitor inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and its direct and indirect Inclusive and sustainable environmental impacts; hence the material boundaries extend to other aspects of the business and to the economic impacts. industrialisation social and environmental aspects of sustainability. • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to invest in and monitor over time. The impacts of continued innovation have both direct and indirect economic, social, and environmental • To continue to monitor innovation in all its guises, as well as its direct and indirect economic impacts. Innovation impacts; hence the material boundaries extend to other aspects of the business and to the governance, • This is not just a material responsibility, but a fundamental enabler of our business success. social and environmental aspects of sustainability. The impacts of our supply chain practices are relevant in terms of minimising environmental impact, reducing • To continue to monitor various aspects of supply chain sustainability. Procurement practices inefficiency and having a positive spillover on others. This has direct and indirect economic impacts, but the • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to monitor over time. material boundaries extend to other aspects of the business aspects of sustainability. 11 CSR REPORT 2016 MATERIALITY PROCESS PILLAR MATERIAL ISSUE WHERE THE IMPACT OCCURS AND MATERIAL BOUNDARIES RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES The impact of local community development is relevant in terms of strengthening the ecosystem in which • To continue to invest in and monitor various aspects of local community development. Local community development our business operates; this has indirect economic impacts on our business and the material boundaries • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to monitor over time. extend to other economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. The impact of local community support is relevant in terms of strengthening the ecosystem in which our • To continue to invest in and support various aspects of local community development. Local community support business operates; this has indirect economic impacts on our business and the material boundaries extend • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to monitor over time. to other economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. The impact of local community collaboration is relevant in terms of strengthening the ecosystem in which • To continue to invest in and support various aspects of local community development. Local community collaboration our business operates; this has indirect economic impacts on our business and the material boundaries • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to monitor over time. extend to other economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT The impact of local community collaboration is relevant in terms of strengthening the ecosystem in which • To continue to invest in and support various aspects of local community development. Local community collaboration our business operates; this has indirect economic impacts on our business and the material boundaries • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to monitor over time. extend to other economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. The impact of financial literacy is relevant in terms of strengthening the ecosystem in which our business • To continue to invest in and support various aspects of financial literacy. Financial literacy operates, and is strategically important and relevant to our business with both direct and indirect economic • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to monitor over. impacts; the material boundaries extend to economic and social aspects of sustainability. The impact of progressive employment practices is relevant to all aspects of human resources management • To continue to invest in and monitor various aspects of progressive employment practices. Employment practices and development; this has both direct and indirect economic impacts on our business and the material • This is not just a material responsibility but a fundamental enabler of our business success. boundaries extend to other economic, social, and governance aspects of sustainability. The impact of diversity and equal opportunity is relevant to all aspects of diversity, inclusion and equal • To continue to invest in and monitor various aspects of diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity. Diversity, inclusion and opportunity; this has both direct and indirect economic impacts on our business and the material • This is not just a material responsibility but a fundamental enabler of our business success. equal opportunity boundaries extend to other economic, social, and governance aspects of sustainability. The impact of training, education and talent development is relevant to all aspects of human resources • To continue to invest in and monitor various aspects of training, education and talent development. Training education and management, development and training, as well as to education and talent development; this has both • This is not just a material responsibility but a fundamental enabler of our business success. talent development HUMAN direct and indirect economic impacts on our business and the material boundaries extend to other DEVELOPMENT economic, social, and governance aspects of sustainability. The impact of external human development is relevant in terms of strengthening the ecosystem in which • To continue to invest in talent development and other forms of external human development. External human our business operates and nurturing a pipeline of talent for our business and the larger economy; this has • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to invest in development indirect economic impacts on our business and the material boundaries extend to other economic and and monitor over time. social aspects of sustainability. Monitoring the impact of emissions is relevant in terms of our environmental responsibility and staying • To continue to invest in emissions control and minimise the impact of emissions and carbon footprint. Emissions true to the precautionary principle; this has indirect economic impacts on our business over time and the • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to invest in and monitor material boundaries extend to other economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. over time. Monitoring the impact of effluents and waste is relevant in terms of our environmental responsibility and • To continue to invest in monitoring the impacts of effluents and waste and how they affect environmental Effluents and waste staying true to the precautionary principle; this has indirect economic impacts on our business over time aspects of responsibility. and the material boundaries extend to other economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to invest in and monitor over time. Monitoring the impact of energy consumption is relevant in terms of our environmental responsibility • To continue to invest in energy savings and monitor various aspects of energy consumption across the Bank’s Energy consumption and staying true to the precautionary principle; this has indirect economic impacts on our business over operations. time and the material boundaries extend to other economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to invest in and monitor over time. ENVIRONMENTAL Extending environmental loans and supporting a greener economy is relevant in terms of our environmental • To continue to invest in environmental loans at reduced interest rates that benefit a greener economy. PROTECTION Environmental loans responsibility and staying true to the precautionary principle; this has indirect economic impacts on our business • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to invest in and monitor over time and the material boundaries extend to other economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. over time. Extending awareness on resource usage is relevant in terms of our environmental responsibility and staying true • To continue to invest in building awareness on the usage of resources and reducing our carbon footprint. Awareness on resources usage to the precautionary principle; this has indirect economic impacts on our business over time and the material • This is an important and material aspect of our responsibility that we will continue to invest in and monitor boundaries extend to other economic and environmental aspects of sustainability. over time. 12 CSR REPORT 2016 Figure 5: CSR at a Glance at End 2016 CORPORATE ECONOMIC COMMUNITY HUMAN ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT PROTECTION • Environmental and Social Management 2.34% USD 71% “Grow Green” Recycling Program System (ESMS) of Lebanon’s GDP 5.1 million of successfully trained employees Reducing GHG emissions • Complying with 3,323 total contributions to our community: by 10% international standards: employees USD ISO 26000 USD < USD 1.9 million Alternative delivery channels UN Global Compact 217 million 700,000 in training for our employees ”My Carbon Footprint” on health Sustainable Development in taxes when accounting microsite Goals (SDG) for income tax, municipal taxes, VAT, etc. < USD USD Signing Lebanon Global Reporting Initiative 2.5 million 9.4 million Climate Act (GRI): Gold Community 97%  n humanitarian and o in educational programs customer satisfaction social issues SME business line 313,265 Allowing local economies to USD beneficiaries prosper 1.7 million Diversity, inclusion and on culture equal opportunity Developing financial literacy 46% female employees Enhancing responsible lending USD Fostering innovation 144,000 Quality program on sports > USD 21 million in indirect economic impact 1 million beneficiaries 74 78 Volunteer Program: products branches 4,799 79 203 beneficiaries services ATMs 306 volunteers 13 CSR REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our Corporate Governance practices and policies are at the cherished and trusted partner in banking, whether in the eyes of Table 5: Sustainable Finance Stats heart of our business model and provide the accountability and internal or external stakeholders. transparency we consistently aspire to uphold to remain the most VALUE PROJECT NAME/SECTOR TYPE OF ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFIT FINANCED (USD) NEW LOANS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND/ OR SOCIAL BENEFITS PROVIDED DURING 2016 REAL ESTATE 1,237,624 1 Loan Energy efficiency* ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (ESMS) RESTAURANT 337,668 1 Loan Planting trees* FLEXIBLE PACKAGING INDUSTRY 1,557,426 2 Loans Absorption chiller solution* FOOD PRODUCTS AND BEVERAGES 152,475 1 Loan Renewable energy: solar PV* During 2016, the Bank has taken additional steps to ensure the Additional improvements include an updated E&S risk review appropriate management of Environmental and Social (E&S) documentation based on observations made since our initial WAREHOUSE AND TRANSPORT SERVICES 742,574 1 Loan Energy efficiency* risks in its Corporate and Commercial Banking activities through implementation of the Bank’s ESMS in 2014. We updated the the implementation of its Environmental & Social Management Bank’s internal guidelines for categorising E&S risk, as well as HOTEL 122,772 1 Loan Led lighting project* System (ESMS). As part of our ongoing commitment to managing the review summary documentation associated with transaction INDIVIDUALS 114,521 Renewable energy: solar PV* 4 Loans these risks, an in depth E&S risk management training was held E&S risk reviews. in collaboration with E&S experts from the International Finance These changes were made in an effort to streamline the MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS TRADING 481,848 1 Loan Renewable energy: solar PV* Corporation (IFC), in order to further strengthen our internal process, while at the same time ensuring that all transactions organisational capacity. within scope of E&S risk review were reviewed according FARM 45,050 1 Loan Renewable energy: solar PV* The training provided a comprehensive overview of key E&S to the required standards. COMMERCIAL MALL 1,393,069 1 Loan LED retrofit lighting project* risk management concepts: the IFC Performance Standards and how they should be applied in supporting the Bank’s credit WASTE RECYCLING / MUNICIPAL SOLID 2,500,000 2 Loans Waste to energy & zero decision-making during loan appraisal, as well as an insight into WASTE TREATMENT waste solutions (no landfill) the international and national context for sustainable banking. The training was attended by 39 staff members. TOTAL 8,685,027 16 LOANS Table 4: Transaction E&S Risk Statistics *These financings constitute a particular financial product, namely “Green Loans” under the NEEREA and LEA mechanism,which are subsidised by the Central Bank of Lebanon (BDL). Such loans are submitted for review by the LCEC prior to their approval by BDL. The remaining loan, while not specifically a Green Loan financial product, constitutes financing provided with an environmental benefit. E&S Risk Number of Categorisation* Reviews A 35 B 79 ANTI-CORRUPTION C 184 Total 298 *As per IFC definitions for E&S Risk Categorisation. 286 In 2016, we extended greater efforts to strengthen our various controls over operational, compliance, anti-money laundering In line with international best practices and the evolving standards of global banks, especially in the U.S., the Group EMPLOYEES ATTENDED TRAININGS ON and regulatory measures. Our Group’s Anti-Money Laundering will enhance and further elaborate on directives relating ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS/ISSUES & Combating the Financing of Terrorism policy (AML/CFT) meets to anti-bribery and corruption. the principles and requirements set out in the AML/CFT laws and During 2016, Bank Audi worked closely with the Lebanese Banking regulations of the various jurisdictions where the Group operates Association on drafting an ABC manual which was reviewed by BDL ENERGY INCENTIVES – NEEREA LOANS: – these are of course mandatory at local level. We also strive to Deloitte and is supposed to be distributed to banks by Q2 2017. comply with the international standards and best practices set HIGHEST MARKET SHARE = 27% by the international organisations and recommendations placed by major global correspondent banks. The Central Bank’s 2012 Circular 126 stipulates that we should be fully informed of the laws and regulations governing our correspondents abroad, and deal with the latter in conformity Anti-bribery and corruption is addressed in the Group AML/CFT with the laws, regulations, procedures, sanctions and restrictions 942 policy and the Group Code of Ethics and Conduct. A stand-alone policy relating to anti-bribery and corruption is established in Bank Audi entities if required by applicable adopted by international legal organisations or by the sovereign authorities in the correspondents’ home countries. TRAINING HOURS WERE SPENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS/ISSUES laws or regulatory authorities. 15 CSR REPORT 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Table 6: Anti-corruption Related Training ANTI-CORRUPTION TOTAL EMPLOYEES COMPLIANCE PERCENTAGE TRAINING ELIGIBLE FOR TRAINING EMPLOYEES 1,133 2,603 44% Our compliance culture and processes are reinforced every year, system, and to maintain the cherished trust of our employees and MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 259 680 38% in line with the organisation’s broader strategic goals. The most customers. In this respect, we recently embraced BDL Circular 134 2016 common compliance risks we face have to do with data privacy (which came into effect as of October 2015) which emphasises SENIOR MANAGEMENT 15 40 38% and corruption which we manage very closely. The stringent the importance of transparency, one of Bank Audi’s guiding core requirements, restrictions and guidelines we have in place are values. Circular 134 focuses on the customer’s rights and duties, TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,407 3,323 40% important to sustain the soundness and integrity of our financial such as providing positive or negative feedback, for instance. EMPLOYEES 1,009 2,511 40% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 276 584 47% 2015 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 12 35 34% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,297 3,130 40% HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYEES 1,205 2,434 49% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 214 474 45% The Bank endorses and supports internationally recognised principles In due diligence on this topic, and by participating in the ILO’s 2014 under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which promotes recent project on “Decent Work for Domestic Workers”, Bank Audi SENIOR MANAGEMENT 31 81 38% global respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for voluntarily collaborated to raise awareness among its employees TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,450 2,989 48% all, without distinction of race, color, gender, language, religion, on the rights of domestic workers with the aim to ensure decent opinion, descent, or national or ethnic origin. working conditions, as well as provide important insights on the EMPLOYEES 1,342 2,010 67% perspectives of employers with the goal of continuous improvement As businesses, we need to demonstrate that we are aware in the living and working conditions of this most vulnerable group. MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 396 500 79% of human rights. Clearly, human rights are a global issue. We 2013 should not presuppose that we have no impacts just because Similarly, with the right to privacy, any company should know that SENIOR MANAGEMENT 5 26 19% we operate in an area where human rights are not part of the they have potential adverse impacts on this human right, whether TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,743 2,536 68% daily lingo. Interestingly, they could and should become part of it is handling data, registering or using information on customers. our language again. The concept of “due diligence” was proposed and found to be a useful starting point for companies as they seek to integrate respect for human rights into their practices. 260 ETHICAL CONDUCT NEWLY HIRED EMPLOYEES ATTENDED A PRESENTATION ON HUMAN RIGHTS, TRANSLATING INTO Our Code of Ethics and Conduct clearly upholds the principle of non-discrimination and of maintaining a violence and harassment-free workplace. We are very proud not to have any significant laws or regulation breaches, or any fines imposed on our activities. 271 HOURS HOURS OF COVERAGE OF HUMAN RIGHTS TOPICS INCLUDING SPECIAL TRAINING ON DECENT WORK FOR DOMESTIC WORKERS 16 CSR REPORT 2016 SPECIAL FEATURE STORY UNGC & SDGS The Sustainable Development Goals consist of a 15-year roadmap to building a more sustainable future via 17 ambitions ranging from ending poverty to tackling climate change and building strong institutions to bring about peace and justice driven by the United Nations as part of “Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda”. The private sector must align their core business to the SDGs to achieve a sustainable future, in partnership with governments, the private sector, the civil society and citizens alike, to make sure we leave a better planet for future generations. The first step is to choose your battles based on expertise and Hence the announcement of our commitment to the selected the main focus of operation. Bank Audi chose five SDGs to SDGs during the workshop organised by the local chapter of the pledge upon: UNGC Lebanon Collaboration for the SDGs in November 2016, and the presentations by our panel of experts within each scope. GOAL 4 QUALITY EDUCATION UNGC Workshop ‘Lebanon Collaboration for the SDGs’ Mrs. Naimee Louis, Human Capital Manager, stressed the importance Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education, and of the Training and Development Program in which USD 3 million promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. were invested last year, benefiting 70% of employees over 113,000 hours. Not to mention other employee development GOAL 5 GENDER EQUALITY programs like the Talent Management Program and the Training Achieve gender equality and empower all women Academy; Management development programs like the Corporate and girls. Academy; the Bank’s many well-being activities like team building events, sports competitions, and “Enrich” sessions; and the GOAL 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Pro-family sponsorship program which targets employees’ high Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic performing children. Meanwhile, the Bank’s internal structure growth, full and productive employment and decent reflects its respect of equality, with a staff composed of 54% work for all. males and 46% females, and with a 20% female board member representation. GOAL 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and Furthermore, Mr. Hassan Sabbah, Head of SME, discussed the vital sustainable industrialisation, and foster innovation. role of SMEs in Lebanon’s economy where 90% of enterprises are SMEs, employing 82% of the private sector workforce. It is worth mentioning that LBP 1 trillion investment in SMEs is currently GOAL 13 CLIMATE ACTION Take urgent action to combat climate change and its being rolled out, which would potentially increase Lebanon’s GDP impacts. by 0.65%, create 4,797 new job opportunities and reduce loan dollarization by 0.9%. These are cross-cutting SDGs that we thought we could focus on Finally, Mr. Jean Traboulsi, Head of Marketing and Communications, based on what we do, and actually make an impact since they described Bank Audi’s work on Climate Action. Our “Grow Green” are in line with our core values and relevant to our CSR strategy initiative, which was launched in 2012 and encouraged employees and its five pillars. The SDGs give us a structured approach to to recycle different materials, allowed the Bank to save up to assess whether our transactions are socially positive or not. These 8,338 trees and reduce GHG emissions by 2.1%. Bank Audi has identified strategic priorities ensure that Bank Audi’s goals will thus proven, time and time again, that the community and the include opportunities to make positive contributions to the SDGs environment are considered a vital asset. and across our value chain. As a result, the Bank has partnered with several institutions and KPIs help us monitor progress towards each of the SDG’s targets. NGOs like the UNDP, the Ministry of the Environment, Solicar, SDGs encourage collaboration, hence our role as part of the UNGC Microsoft, and arcenciel. The Bank has also supported Earth National Network Steering Committee – Lebanon, and working Hour, Earth Day, signed Lebanon’s Climate Act, and launched the together. This is a social challenge, an industry challenge that no “My Carbon Footprint” competition. To end the presentation, company is capable of solving on its own. Mr. Traboulsi confirmed that Bank Audi shall continue to evolve its CSR strategy to adopt more responsible solutions toward greener banking. 17 CSR REPORT 2016 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 2013 2014 2015 2016 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTIONS USD 13 million USD 14 million USD 14 million USD 16 million Consistent with our philosophy of Creating Shared Value, we manifold economic opportunities, providing access to finance and TOTAL LOANS WITH LOW N/A USD 50,843,000 USD 49,225,098 USD 43,417,466 have continued to magnify our social impact by leveraging the innovation, and adapting to the needs of the marketplace and the INTEREST RATES full power of our business to work with different stakeholders local economy, we have made significant strides under this pillar. TOTAL BENEFICIARIES OF and contribute to a more resilient and stable economy. By creating N/A 437 460 515 KAFALAT LOANS KAFALAT LOANS/YEAR N/A N/A USD 11 million USD 11.88 million BENEFICIARIES OF KAFALAT N/A N/A 66 60 LOANS/YEAR ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION SANAD LOANS N/A USD 18,094,123 USD 15,417,695 USD 17,331,895 BENEFICIARIES OF SANAD LOANS N/A 149 163 110 Our economic contributions also go a long way towards stimulating TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS entrepreneurship and job creation through various tailored 1.7% 1.80% 1.81% 2.34% OF LEBANON’S GDP initiatives targeting start-ups and SMEs. BDL CIRCULAR 331 N/A USD 11 million USD 26 million USD 41 million Table 7: Economic Contribution* DISBURSED INVESTMENTS SUPPORT EVENTS AND USD 617,003 USD 265,431 USD 489,085 USD 548,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 ASSOCIATIONS TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2,890 2,989 3,310 3,323 TOTAL NUMBER OF OPERATIONS 43,905,550 47,225,446 52,309,613 55,697,141 TOTAL OPERATING INCOME USD 640.5 million USD 689.6 million USD 836.1 million USD 1,159 million TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY USD 2.9 billion USD 3.64 billion USD 3.77 billion USD 4.27 billion AND SUBORDINATED DEBT TOTAL NUMBER OF PRODUCTS 50 products 72 products 72 products 74 products AND SERVICES 73 services 73 services 74 services 79 services INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS *Excluding consolidation adjustments. Table 8: Direct Economic Contribution * 2013 2014 2015 2016 ASSOCIATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF RURAL CAPACITIES (ADR) We sustained our support to the Association for the Development of Rural Capacities (ADR) by TAXES1 USD 40 million USD 52 million USD 48 million USD 63 million contributing to its programs of microfinance loans extended to the underprivileged at significantly reduced interest rates. ADR is a Lebanese non-profit organisation established in 1998 with a mission ECONOMIC SPONSORSHIPS to empower and integrate marginalised people through sustainable economic and social development (creating job opportunities/enhancing innovation/ > USD 900,000 > USD 535,000 USD 920,990 USD 825,990 allowing local economies to prosper) by facilitating access to financial training, tools and services, and by supporting income-generating projects. Beneficiaries are fishermen, farmers, small entrepreneurs, women and the youth from the ASSETS FOR LEBANON GROUP USD 20.8 billion USD 24.5 billion USD 25.8 billion USD 29.81 billion most impoverished areas in Lebanon. ASSETS FOR LEBANON GROUP In 2016, our program outreach was at 37% for women entrepreneurs, with 193 beneficiaries who WHEN ACCOUNTING FOR USD 19.1 billion USD 29.4 billion USD 30.7 billion USD 35.7 billion FIDUCIARY DEPOSITS received loans for an amount of USD 429,552, and 49% of our total borrowers aged between 18 to 35 years old and who received loans for USD 505,456. TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES USD 600 million USD 372.6 million USD 394.5 million USD 462.5 million INCOME TAXES1 USD 42 million USD 30 million USD 64 million USD 136 million ADR 2013 2014 2015 2016 PERSONAL INCOME TAXES FROM NUMBER OF 365 327 477 523 USD 12 million USD 13 million USD 18 million USD 18 million BENEFICIARIES EMPLOYEES’ SALARIES1 EMPLOYEE SALARIES USD 81 million USD 90 million USD 101 million USD 123 million 1 For Bank Audi sal. *Excluding consolidation adjustments. 19 CSR REPORT 2016 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BADER ASSOCIATION MAAK Bader is a cofounder of Speed@BDD, alongside venture capital funds MEVP/Impact and Berytech, as well We likewise extended our support to Association Maak (NGO), which benefitted 39 families by as the Lebanon For Entrepreneurs (LFE) initiative. Speed@BDD is a cutting-edge startup accelerator that microfinancing across various economic sectors including farming, cattle and agriculture, tailoring, snacks, was launched in August 2015, filling a crucial need in the ecosystem to provide support for idea-stage beauty services, and even scholarships (school and university), which went hand in hand with extending tech startups by providing significant cash and in-kind services to new entrepreneurs. Speed@BDD aims at moral, technical and spiritual support to the various beneficiary households. attracting and nurturing the next top tech companies in the MENA region. Moreover, and with a view to helping the youth develop technical skills that are increasingly required by the job market, Bader co-founded SE Factory in mid-2015, an intensive coding bootcamp to train young programmers on necessary technical, practical and soft skills needed to become professional software engineers. With a target launch in Q1 2016, SE Factory aims at helping alleviate the strong shortage of such skillset witnessed by local tech companies. INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS GROW MY BUSINESS A fifth edition of this initiative was rolled out in 2016, in collaboration with the Beirut Traders Association and the MIT Enterprise Forum for the Pan Arab region and in partnership with Bank Audi. In 2016, the number Lebanon gets USD 65M Loan for Electricity Relay Stations importance of securing funds to complete all the approved projects. of participating entrepreneurs reached 50. March 12, 2016 – The Daily Star Total electricity production in Lebanon ranges between just 1,400 to 1,600 MW. However, experts say the country needs over 2,400 The winner, Smarke SAL, was awarded a LBP 50,000,000 (approximately USD 33,000) prize courtesy of Bank Lebanon received a USD 65 million loan from Bank Audi to raise the MW of electricity to end chronic power rationing and allow 24-hour selection of Lebanese small and medium companies develop plans for their businesses to grow and submit capacity of three electricity relay stations to 490MW. The agreement service. The state-owned Electricité du Liban applies severe electricity them to a jury composed of prominent figures from the economic and industrial scene. was signed by Finance Minister Ali Hasan Khalil and Raymond Audi, cuts in most parts of the country due to the limited output capacity The top 15 candidates then attended a workshop organised by academics and experts from various fields, Chairman of the Bank, to finance work at the electrical relay stations of the country’s aging power plants. and focusing on how to develop a successful business plan. After that, all 15 business plans were submitted serving Beirut’s southern suburbs and Tripoli. to a qualified jury who chose the 5 best candidates and assessed them through final oral presentations, which Khalil said there is solid cooperation between the public and private in turn resulted in the final vote. Khalil said that the loan agreement with Bank Audi comes under the sectors, noting that after long discussions in the Cabinet, the ministers framework of Law 181 pertaining to financing electricity projects in authorizsd the Finance Ministry to sign the loan agreement with Mr. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon, reiterated “the Bank’s commitment to investing in young talents Lebanon. “These are very important projects and will allow different Bank Audi. who are living proof that competence is the key to success.” He also highlighted “Bank Audi’s attachment regions to benefit from electricity production.” He underscored the to initiatives involving SMEs, which are the engine of the Lebanese economy,” and its sensitivity to this issue which has “led the Bank to create a new SME business line, and to develop special programs which target these companies and are in the process of being launched soon.” He concluded: “Our participation in such initiatives is an additional testimony of our dedication to make every necessary effort for the development of Lebanese businesses which play a major role in the blooming of the national economy.” Table 9: Infrastructure Investments Mr. Nicolas Chammas, Chairman of the Beirut Traders Association, seized the opportunity to stress This table exposes some of the internal infrastructure business investments made which will impact our support in services to the that, since its launch, “the purpose of this competition is to give a tangible added value to small and communities that are in the direct vicinity. medium-sized companies, to uplift the professional standards of the commercial sector as a whole, and to contribute to the sustainable development of the national economy.” He also pointed out that, “like in the previous years, this year’s applications continued to reflect very interesting profiles of emerging young companies and entrepreneurs in Lebanon coming from a wide array of sectors”, and that “the quality of the business PROJECT DESCRIPTION COST INVESTMENT plans received translated the excellent results of the high calibre workshop that was offered to semi-finalists.” Mrs. Salam Yamout, Board member of the MIT Enterprise Forum – Pan Arab Region, who represented M1 head office New head office building USD12,106,000 Infrastructure Mrs. Hala Fadel (Chair) at the event, added: “We are closing on five years of successful collaboration between BTA, MIT Enterprise Forum – Pan Arab Region and Bank Audi, to scale Lebanese companies regionally and Relocated to a new location portraying the new sometimes globally, at a time when they are facing many challenges on the local market.” Sassine branch USD6,230,350 Commercial corporate identity Smarke is a hardware software concept that allows people to lock, unlock and open their door locks using Ramlet El Bayda their mobile phones. The hardware is plugged in on existing cylinder based locks and is administered by New branch USD696,413 Commercial branch Smarke mobile app. Jdeideh branch New branch USD750,000 Commercial New e-branch at Beirut Digital District offering the BDD Novo branch USD220,000 Commercial latest banking technologies Esthetic finishing works of stone cladding and roof brick Kfour data centre tiling for the generators hangar, providing a traditional USD155,000 Infrastructure look building in the neighborhood Tyre regional New regional Management USD222,000 Commercial Hazmieh regional Relocated to new premises USD171,000 Commercial SME Dekweneh New premises to cater for small and medium enterprises USD123,000 Commercial Grow My Business Winner ‘Smarke SAL’. SME Hazmieh New premises to cater for small and medium enterprises USD125,000 Commercial SME Ghobeiry New premises to cater for small and medium enterprises USD46,000 Commercial 20 CSR REPORT 2016 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT NOVO PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Over the past years, significant efforts were made to render our products accessible and convenient to all customers through enhanced services including ATMs, ITMs and Novo branches which are all easily accessible. We were indeed the first bank to launch the Novo interactive branches, a new evolution in the field of Electronic Banking, featuring online video conferencing with banking advisors. Novo’s main features and We continue to build our product portfolio to provide the best competitive edge are enhanced by extended banking hours which give customers the opportunity to process services integrating the latest innovations and technologies. their operations swiftly and conveniently. Besides, with the advent of digital technology, we are looking to implement 24/7 self-service areas in all our newly opened branches, in addition to offering a variety of digital banking solutions in our existing branches, such as self-service and e-sections. These services will 400% 388% enable customers to complete their banking transactions any time of day and without any assistance, and will ultimately reduce waiting times at counters and unnecessary delays. 300% 260% 200% 100% BDL ACCELERATE 2016 True to its reputation as “the most innovative bank in Lebanon”, Bank Audi was a proud partner in the The total number of e-Payment The total volume increased third edition of the Central Bank of Lebanon’s “BDL Accelerate”, the biggest banking conference in the transactions increased from from inception. Mediterranean and the MENA region. The Bank’s stand gave participants the chance to try some of its inception. most innovative services firsthand, from interacting with NOVOT, to testing the Omnichannel, to taking a virtual reality tour of the Sassine branch, to getting the full scoop on the new SME products and services. BDL Accelerate 2016 attracted more than 20,000 participants and hosted highly anticipated speakers such as Bank Audi’s special guest, Brett King, who spoke about the obvious: “… technology is disruptive and history stands witness. Since the industrial revolution, people have been scared of advancement, as it always brought about a shift in employment. Everything will be virtual soon enough, even currencies, as the need for cash will start to decline. Even signing piles of papers won’t be required in the future, your behaviour CONTRIBUTION TO GOVERNMENT’S ANTI-CORRUPTION EFFORTS will be your identity. Your bank, who would memorise your bills, usual purchases, and regular checkpoints, In collaboration with the Ministry of Telecommunications, we took the first steps towards implementing a new e-Government and will instantly notice an irregular behaviour in case of fraud. Companies, banks included, who wish to be e-Payment system in Lebanon, a first-of-its-kind service that facilitates the settlement of bills online, including public service monthly leaders in the future, will have to be technologically driven first and foremost. So those who refuse to ride payments. Through this service, landline phone and Internet subscribers in Lebanon can settle their monthly local and international the wave of innovation will simply be left behind. But those who choose to create it will come out on top.” bills remotely through the Internet, simply by using their credit and debit cards issued by local and international banks in Lebanon or abroad. The new e-Payment system has been operational since June 2014 and constitutes a first important step towards implementing e-Government and e-Payment systems at the public administration level, thus simplifying life for everyone, including the population’s disadvantaged and rural segments. BANK AUDI LAUNCHES THE NEXT GENERATION PAYMENT SOLUTION FOR TAXI DRIVERS AND USERS In line with our strategy to build and implement a cashless society in Lebanon, we launched the first of its kind next generation payment solution for taxi drivers in Lebanon. This solution enables taxis to accept payments with credit and debit cards, providing consumers with payment ease and avoiding the risk of carrying cash. “Introducing innovative technology is an additional testimony of Bank Audi’s numerous endeavours to deliver safe and convenient payment solutions”, said Fady Obeid, Assistant Chief Operating Officer. Partner in the 3rd edition of the Central Bank of Lebanon’s ‘BDL Accelerate’. APPRECIATING 25 YEARS OF CUSTOMER LOYALTY The 25 years loyalty recognition is replicated annually since 2013, and consists in offering customers an appreciation gift for their loyalty. 21 CSR REPORT 2016 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SURVEYS CONDUCTED TO MEASURE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AS PER OUR QUALITY PROGRAM SPRING ACCOUNT SPECIFICATIONS Launched in 2013, the Spring Account is a special current account targeting the needs of millennials and giving them the chance to acquire financial independence. During the “Spring open days”, universities 97% 97% were visited and students were offered the opportunity to have a part-time job as “Spring ambassadors” 100% by remunerating their efforts in promoting the account. In 2016, we had about 100 ambassadors. 95% 88% 90% Like every year on Labour Day, the Bank undertook to reward 95 modest income customers randomly selected 83% PERCENTAGE SATISFACTION 80% across our branches, who benefitted from the reimbursement of their personal loan monthly installment. This initiative cost USD 15,000 and intended to show support to our customers. Phone survey (on daily basis to assess 60% customer satisfaction) 40% In-branch survey (on daily basis via the “Happy or Not” tool) 20% 2014 2015 2016 YEARS PROCUREMENT PRACTICES We are engaged with multi-lateral agencies and export credit 85% OF OUR TOTAL agencies such as the European Investment Bank, the Overseas Private PROCUREMENT BUDGET PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY & MARKET PRESENCE Investment Corporation, Agence Française de Développement, OVER USD 217 MILLION IS SPENT WITH among others. We also have a strategic partnership with the LOCAL SUPPLIERS. International Finance Corporation, which aims to promote long-term financing to increase, diversify and lengthen the funding base for small and medium scale projects in specific targeted industries, and 83% in renewable energy and energy efficiency. Other programs like the Arab Trade Finance Program aim to promote trade between 65 BRANCHES Arab countries and enhance the productivity and competitiveness MADE ACCESSIBLE of Arab producers and exporters. These relationships support 84% TO THE DISABLED the Bank’s growth plans and the development of key regional subsidiaries and business market segments. OF OUR ATMS 44% OF OUR ATM CHASSIS WERE LOWERED TO RENDER OUR ATMS FURTHER HANDICAP FRIENDLY 14% OF ATMS MADE ACCESSIBLE 23% RURAL REMOTE OF BRANCHES AREAS 22 CSR REPORT 2016 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SPECIAL FEATURE STORY INNOVATION INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRIALISATION SME BUSINESS LINE A DEDICATED BUSINESS LINE FOR SMEs BY BANK AUDI The SME market constitutes a large segment of the economy. In fact, The second pillar is proximity. We are present everywhere in Lebanon, SMEs represent over 90% of Lebanese enterprises in Lebanon, which in our entire branch network and in dedicated SME business centers. makes this market large by all definitions and estimates. CASHLESS SOCIETY The third pillar is in access to lending which we helped facilitate According to the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member through structured products and no requirement for collateral up to The strategy of building a cashless society was adopted in 2013 and implemented through various initiatives, the first of which was of the World Bank Group, SMEs in emerging or developing countries a certain amount, which is a real competitive edge over other banks. fulfil an even more important economic function because they are Even our product structure represents a sort of consultancy, because providing innovative solutions such as the Tap2Pay NFC contactless payment method. The second step was to introduce new tools primary creators of what is most needed: jobs. In Lebanon, 82% of our front office people know what the working capital’s needs are and that ensure security and promote the various types of e-Commerce: online, through mobile phones, and on social media. In 2016, employment opportunities are generated by SMEs. Moreover, integrating what type of facility might match their requirements, or what other Bank Audi aimed at reinforcing its strategy of building a cashless society through: SMEs with the banking system brings an element of stability with products might answer their long-term and business growth needs. 1. Encouraging e-Commerce by offering cardholders and merchants secure solutions. “Online Payment Security… A Way Forward” many macro-economic benefits to the Lebanese economy. This is in has one ultimate goal: ensuring further security for e-Payment. The Bank now offers two new services which fall under the the interest of Bank Audi as the leading bank and one of the largest And the fourth pillar is the easy and swift processing. SMEs have real security umbrella, namely 3D Secure and Tokenization . The 3D Secure service is designed to increase transactions’ security level private sector organisations in the country. concerns over the time that applications take and the slowness of when shopping online, while protecting both the cardholder and the merchant from conflicts and fraud by verifying the identity the process. The infrastructure we’ve worked on makes it a speedy of both. The second service, Tokenization encodes the transaction by replacing the card’s 16-digit number with a “token” used Based on numerous findings, the SME market segment is underserved process, while taking into consideration the lending criteria and for transactions made through the internet, the mobile, or any wireless payment method. by Lebanon’s banking industry and can even be seen as “virgin standards that Bank Audi requests. 2. Enhancing the contactless payment activity by launching the Visa Cedar Miles in Lebanese Pounds, which targets people whose territory”. SMEs are more than ever in need of access to finance, not salaries are domiciled at the Bank in Lebanese Lira. It is the first contactless co-branded card with the Middle East Airlines in LBP, to mention that they have a major issue with collaterals banks usually Those four pillars were determined through an extensive research which allows its holders to make fast and secure payments for everyday purchases, and to benefit from an exceptional mileage request before granting any loan. Furthermore, small entrepreneurs process including the focus groups that were part of the planning program as they can collect miles to travel on-board the Middle East Airlines. have generally shown reluctance to deal with banks because they and implementation phase. have the perception that banks are only interested in big businesses, and they believe that the processes adopted by banks’ commercial Bank Audi will not depart from its conservative banking standards, but departments are too cumbersome; another concern SMEs have is emphasises that the SME division will be agile and flexible, driven by that they believe banks regard them as potential customers for loans, the approach to meet the full banking needs of all kinds of businesses, and never look at them from a relationship perspective, oblivious to with the business owner’s experience being the main criteria when NOVOT their wider needs for non-financial services. evaluating her or his eligibility for receiving credit. Introducing our latest addition to the team, an emotionally sensitive robot! Not to mention that SMEs major’s pain point was the proximity issue, The idea is not how many clients we can acquire in terms of number. Novot is a new and exciting way to welcome, inform and entertain our customers. It is pleasant, fun, and acts in a normal, natural as these small businesses could not be served in all Lebanese regions, Of course, we want to do good business and good profit, but the first way which makes it feel like more than just a robot! It is a genuine humanoid companion created to communicate in an intuitive especially those located in remote areas. objective is to build the day-to-day relationship with the customer way, through its movements and voice, which all seem very humanlike. The best thing about Novot is that it loves to interact with and have a customer-centric culture. Then the business will come. humans, learn more about tastes, habits, and quite simply, who its interlocutors are. It can recognise faces, speak, hear and move Bank Audi sees this as an opportunity to establish relationships by around autonomously. providing qualified and basically sound SMEs with affordable credit Customised Offering to Encourage and Support SMEs The strong point of this robot is that it is the first of its kind in the region, as no other institution has adopted a robotics project akin in the expectation that these relationships will turn into bonds of In addition to what has been done to support SMEs, Bank Audi has to this one yet and setting us at the forefront of competition in terms of innovation and technologically-driven features. Novot can loyalty with long-term profitability. allocated LBP 1 trillion to this segment at a reduced interest rate be personalised by downloading specific software applications. It evolves, gradually memorising personality traits and preferences, the first year. and adapts itself to tastes and habits, not to mention faces. It was also designed to identify emotions and to select the behaviour best What Did Bank Audi Do for SMEs? suited to every situation. Novot interprets emotions and offers appropriate content based on the tone of voice, facial expressions, We have differentiated our offering and approach according to four We have carefully studied our prices and reduced them to lessen the body movements and language used. It can also respond spontaneously to the mood of the moment, expressing itself through major pillars: the first pillar is the comprehensive offering, which was burden of heavy interest rates and installments. eye-color, tablet visuals or tone of voice. designed to enhance a full relationship with the client, not one based on selling products. Achieving our target, which is to invest LBP 1 trillion to develop and Novot was chosen and named by Bank Audi to complement Novo, its electronic branch, and to provide clients with information support SMEs during 2017, will contribute to real GDP growth by about our wide spectrum of products and services in different languages. It offers customers an exclusive experience as it welcomes, 0.65%, while creating 4,797 new job opportunities and reducing supports and guides them according to their demands or desires. the loan dollarization ratio by 0.9%. Pre-programmed with relevant information, the robot selects simple or complex applications to assist clients directly or by calling staff This initiative sheds the light on the substantial role SMEs play in when needed, thus optimising the Bank’s performance and efficiency. Lebanon’s economic growth, as well as on our corporate social Moreover, with a view to introducing it to the public this responsibility towards the national economy. state-of-the-art device has made appearances in various events and locations including the Bank’s head office and branches, university open days, and television shows. Just as expected, Novot was welcomed with enthusiasm, curiosity and surprise by the public. Individuals and groups finally have the chance to experience the future of banking firsthand as they get in touch with Novot’s abilities to interact seamlessly, thanks to its advanced artificial intelligence and multi-layered neural system. With Novot, clients are exposed to our products and services in a new fashion and their curiosity is sparked thanks to the robot’s ability to provide accurate and relevant information on Our latest addition to the team, an emotional sensitive demand using interactive animations and demonstrations. Robot, ‘NOVOT’. 23 CSR REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Aligned with our strong conviction of Creating Shared Value, touching humanitarian, health, social, educational, cultural and we collaborate with various organisations for the benefit of sports aspects. creating a strong societal ecosystem and sturdy communities LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOCAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT 2013 2014 2015 2016 BENEFICIARIES FROM PHILANTHROPIC Table 10: Community Support CONTRIBUTIONS IN THE REALM OF Over 300,000 Over 900,000 1,000,000 968,000 CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT 2013 2014 2015 2016 SPORTS ACTIVITIES SPONSORSHIP USD 100,000 USD 115,000 USD 144,000 TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS NUMBER OF BANK AUDI EMPLOYEES USD 2.75 million USD 4.7 million USD 4.6 million USD 5.1 million TO THE COMMUNITY WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE BEIRUT 333 500 400 488 INTERNATIONAL MARATHON (BIM) HEALTH USD 520,000 USD 557,000 USD 619,000 USD 773,693 HUMANITARIAN AND SOCIAL USD 1.7 million USD 2.5 million USD 2.5 million USD 2.5 million Kunhadi Donner Sang NGOS SUPPORTED IN THE BIM CCCL Brave Heart Association Compter CULTURE USD 0.53 million USD 1.47 million USD 1.33 million USD 1.70 million FULL COST OF TREATMENT FOR USD 54,283 USD 54,000 USD 50,000 USD 53,560 ONE SICK CHILD EMPLOYEES' CONTRIBUTION 497 485 466 454 FACILITATED TREATMENT OF 20 FESTIVALS CHILDREN WITH CONGENITAL USD 125,000 USD 150,000 USD 150,000 USD 150,000 HEART PROBLEMS SPONSORSHIPS TO VARIOUS USD 55,000 USD 55,000 USD 50,000 USD 50,500 ORGANISATIONS ANTELIAS CALLS FOR THE BLOOD DONATION DRIVE 62 65 51 75 ANFEH PURCHASE OF CORPORATE GIFTS USD 300,412 USD 340,000 USD 275,000 USD 276,365 SAIDA JOUNIEH FROM NGOs BAALBECK EVENTS IN WHICH OUR E-PAYMENT CARD SERVICES 10 15 31 10 PARTICIPATED ZOUK MIKHAEL BYBLOS DONATIONS RAISED VIA OUR FAQRA GPRS MACHINES DEPLOYED AT USD 1,000,000 USD 318,000 USD 990,000 USD 403,250 THE EVENTS MZAAR COMMITTING TO NGOS THAT TRIPOLI SUPPORT DISADVANTAGED USD 10,093 USD 74,000 USD 110,640 USD 113,217 PEOPLE COMMITTING TO NGOS THAT SUPPORT DIFFERENT USD 72,046 USD 80,000 USD 100,000 USD 90,000 SOCIAL CAUSES THE “PRIX PHOENIX DE LA LITTÉRATURE” – 2016 EDITION WAS GRANTED TO CARMEN BOUSTANI FOR “ANDRÉE CHEDID: L’ECRITURE DE L’AMOUR”. 25 CSR REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CELEBRATING TEACHERS MYSCHOOLPULSE MARATHON In recognition of a fruitful segment of our community, the Bank honoured teachers on their special day. For the 7th year, Bank Audi sponsored Myschoolpulse and supported their cause, which is providing Branch managers, employees and the Retail Department visited around 40 schools across Lebanon, education to children suffering from life-threatening illnesses. met with their administration and staff, and shared a breakfast during the week of March 7, 2016. On July 31, 105 Bank Audi employees spent a memorable family day in the beautiful green landscape This heartwarming initiative was crowned with success and 100% positive feedback of Faqra, Kfardebian. Thanks to 2000 participants, the marathon raised USD 125,000 thanks to the personal touch of branch managers and team members that marked the event. which will allow Myschoolpulse to tutor 125 sick children the opportunity to pursue their education. Celebrating Teacher’s Day. Employees participating in the Myschoolpulse Marathon for schooling sick children. BEIRUT INTERNATIONAL MARATHON SPORTS ACHIEVEMENTS It is said that we should always “go the extra mile” to support our fellow humans and, ever since the • Basketball Inc. 2016 Tournament: 1st place. start, Beirut Marathon has done that… quite literally, too! • Inter-banks Futsal Tournament: 1st place. On November 13, 2016, more than 43,000 athletes from 99 countries partook in Beirut Marathon • Table Tennis Tournament: 1st place: Charbel Akl. 2016, challenging themselves to run those extra miles for different causes. 488 Bank Audi employees, • Beirut Corporate Games: 2nd place – 200 employees participating. together with their families and friends, chose to run for Donner Sang Compter (DSC) – an NGO that creates a centralised database of potential blood donors for patients in need of blood, answering the greatest possible number of demands all across Lebanon. The runners gathered in front of the cheering stand where Homebound, a local band of young talents supported by Bank Audi, played to motivate and inspire everyone present. Amazingly enough, 3 employees stood out in their categories: Marilda Meouchy ranked 22nd in her age category for the 42 K-run, Nicolas Semaan ranked 19th in his age category in the 21.1 K-run, and Mireille Semaan ranked 22nd in her age category in the 21.1 K-run. Overall, Bank Audi ran 1555 km in total for DSC, which is a feat we are proud of. Our winning employees at the Beirut Corporate Games. Beirut International Marathon. 26 CSR REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMPASSION IN SCRUBS CONGRATULATIONS TO HOMEBOUND, WINNER OF THE SPRING ACCOUNT’S Dora Branch Employees Celebrate International Nurses Day! “BATTLE OF THE BANDS” COMPETITION “Nurse: a person strong enough to tolerate everything and soft enough to understand It all started at Université Saint Joseph (USJ), more specifically during last year’s “Daraj Al Yassou’iyeh” everyone!” On the occasion of International Nurses Day on May 12, Bank Audi’s Dora team celebrated event. Bank Audi’s “Battle of the Bands” competition, which gathered scores of attendees from USJ the event, at their own initiative, with nurses of Saint Joseph Hospital, marking a new milestone in staff, students and music enthusiasts, was a smash with bands rocking the stage and swaying the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), and spreading love, appreciation and happiness in the life of crowd into voting for them at the Spring Account booth. After a long wait and thanks to good music those who nurse, love, and endure. and spirit, Homebound, a band of young artists, won the hearts of those who watched them perform. The team headed to the hospital premises and offered gifts and cookies to the 350 nurses, taking Homebound had their first single, “Mrs. Greenback”, recorded at the Bank Audi Plaza studio, and pictures with them to mark this event. They wished them good health and strength to carry on their their first music video shot there to complement it. noble mission. International Nurses Day is celebrated on the birthday of Florence Nightingale, the The Bank also supported the band even further by organising interviews and airing founder of modern nursing. their track on Virgin Radio, promoting their song on Anghami (music streaming The International Council of Nurses commemorates this important day every year by producing and service), uploading it to iTunes Store, and posting their music video on social media. distributing the International Nurses Day (IND) Kit. The IND Kit 2016 contains educational and And so, out of a little bit of faith, a whole lot of talent shined through. public information material, for use by nurses everywhere in the world. INTERNATIONAL NURSES DAY Hôtel-Dieu de France (HDF) organised an event where 36 HDF payrollees at Bank Audi were randomly selected and offered 5 grams of gold each. Spring Account competition winner, ‘Homebound’. Celebrating International Nurses Day. APPLE MONTH AT BANK AUDI Helping Lebanese farmers liquidate their apple stocks in an effort to show solidarity with Lebanese apple growers, Bank Audi undertook to help them liquidate their stocks. And since the Bank is always looking for ways to make the customer experience more pleasant, then why not support a cause in the process? 6,720 kg of local apples were purchased from 4 different suppliers in different regions throughout the month of October, and distributed in all Bank Audi branches, CBCs and regional offices, to be offered to clients and visitors. 27 CSR REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL LITERACY APPRECIATION AND RESPECT! PUBLIC SECTOR ARMY DAY SPECIAL KIDZMONDO – SDG 4 In celebration of Lebanese Army Day that falls on August 1, Bank Audi launched an initiative greeting army personnel KidzMondo indoor theme park follows the conceptual approach of educational entertainment or with salaries domiciled at Bank Audi. A draw took place in the presence of a representative of the Lebanese National Lottery, playful learning. The first thing children do when they enter KidzMondo is to pass by the Bank Audi with 150 winners randomly picked to win gift vouchers for home appliances. branch to cash their check. This gives them an idea of financial literacy and banking basics, from an At Bank Audi, we pride ourselves on our patriotism and our constant efforts to improve our relationship with the Lebanese age as young as 6 to 14 years old. This comes as part of a broader sustainability goal for Bank Audi, public sector. In this context, representatives of our Retail Department visited the Army base in Arsal and met with some of pertaining to enhancing financial literacy and extending across different pillars of our CSR strategy. its commanders in October. The aim was to honor the Lebanese Army’s mission and show them support, no matter where Our conviction that financial literacy starts at a young age was confirmed by our commitment to they are. They also offered laptops to the Army to help them improve their work environment. This visit marks a milestone KidzMondo which started in 2013. KidzMondo gives young children the opportunity to familiarise for Bank Audi which is the first bank to visit the Army in Arsal. This initiative contributed to cultivate the trust between the themselves with banking basics, among others, in a motivational environment. two institutions, and opened new horizons for collaboration with the Lebanese Army in the future. It is a replica of a real city where children play adult professional roles in preparation for the real world. Bank Audi’s replica branch in KidzMondo aims at teaching children about the importance of working, earning a living, and spending wisely. It also introduces them to the world of banking, with various operations likecash outs, deposits, savings, and the use of debit cards and ATMs. This year, KidzMondo was able to attract more than 300,000 young minds from across Lebanon, the Middle East and many other countries. GLOBAL MONEY WEEK – SDG 4 The annual celebration of the Global Money Week in March consists of a series of activities held across the world by the partners and stakeholders of the Child and Youth Finance Movement (CYFI). These activities are geared toward engaging children, youth and their communities in learning about financial education and financial inclusion. For the second year in a row, the Global Money Week, themed “Take Part, Save Smart!”, was celebrated at Bank Audi in coordination with the Higher Council for Childhood (HCC) at the Ministry of Social Affairs, where 450 grade 11 students spent “A Day at Bank Audi” during 5 consecutive days. A Tribute to ISF Aligned with Bank Audi’s CSR strategy which aspires to enhance financial literacy through communication with specific stakeholders and empowering future generations on financial planning and management, savings, and general social inclusion, students from Azm school, Sahagian College, Public School of Baskinta, Sagesse Ain El Remaneh, Lycée Nahr Ibrahim, Père Afif Osairan Foundation, Saint Charbel A TRIBUTE TO THE ISF Orphanage, Makassed – Omar Bin Khattab, Makassed – Khadija School, Makassed – Khaled Bin Bank Audi is committed to working closely with the public sector and showing it the appreciation it deserves. Within this Al Walid, Makassed – Ali Bin Abi Taleb School, Sagesse Jdeideh, and Lebanese Preparatory School approach, the Bank launched an initiative targeting Lebanon’s Internal Security Forces, and gave them the chance to enter were invited. a draw to win a Chevrolet Cobalt 2016. The draw, that included ISF members whose salaries were domiciled at the Bank Bank Audi’s CSR, Training & Development, Branch Network Management, Group Retail Banking, during the months of July and August, took place in the presence of a representative from the Lebanese National Lottery. Retail, Compliance and EPCS teams joined efforts to guide future leaders towards a successful path and introduced them to the world of banking, compliance and risks and the bank of the future. The lucky winner was Michel Gerges Al Jana, a Marjayoun branch customer. A small cocktail was organised at Finally, personalised certificates of participation were distributed and students had the chance to visit the branch on September 26, upon handing him the keys to his brand new car. Positive vibes spread our Bab Idriss Branch, Novo branch and the e-Gallery to observe practical applications. across the branch and the winner was delighted with this nice surprise from Bank Audi. We supported the General security & State security as well by offering them tools to enhance their work environment. In addition to the above, we express our support, recognition and respect to the public sector through social media (Bank Audi Facebook page) by greeting them on their special days. Example of posts: ISF #‫وعد_عليي‬, Army Day etc. Global Money Week, ‘Take Part, Save Smart!’. 28 CSR REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMPARISON OF EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM: 2013, 2014, 2015 AND 2016 LOCAL COMMUNITY COLLABORATION TOTAL 2013 2014 2015 2016 CUMULATIVE VOLUNTEER PROGRAM NGO PARTNERS 5 6 8 11 11 Aiming to complement our corporate philanthropic donations with a human touch, the “Be a Hero for a Day” Volunteer Program was initiated in 2013. The program encourages employees to engage and give back to their community, and raises their awareness on important social issues. In 2016, “Be a Hero for a Day” genuinely attested how, together with our employees, we embrace a culture of high engagement and responsibility. Such social investment programs have a significant impact on employees who find it fulfilling and rewarding to commit to these community outreach and volunteerism initiatives. Employees’ BENEFICIARIES 284* 683* 1,792* 2,040* 4,799 involvement is determined by the local context’s most pressing needs. VOLUNTEERS 23 150 228 306 306 BEST PROJECTS EXECUTED DURING 2016 HOURS 120* 530* 580* 1,804* 3,034 CHILDREN ELDERLY *These figures are year-to-year and non-cumulative. KIDZMONDO OUTING 86 RETAIL DAY AT SANAYEH GARDENS 114 IT DAY AT SOS 120 CORPORATE CENTRAL OPERATIONS DAY AT OWSS 95 155 INTERNS VOLUNTEERED IN 2016 WITHIN OUR PROGRAMS COMPUTER LAB INSTALLATION FOR AYADINA DESIGN AND PUBLISHING OF KIBAROUNA’S WEBSITE 29 CSR REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PARTNER NGOs MISSION ACTIVITIES PARTNER NGOs MISSION ACTIVITIES Promotes diversity, integration and • Inter n volunteering days: sorting clothes, • Dora, Dora Vartanian and Zalka branch teams spent 1 development of underprivileged and marginalised communities. books and furniture, stock inventory, helping in Taanayel farm. 7 Makes child protection a right everywhere. an afternoon with 23 children, giving them career orientation and sharing personal experiences. • Virtual travel with the community children (cultural Establishes and promotes public libraries • Training our volunteers on Injaz’s various programs. 2 in Lebanon that are free and open to all. and traditional introduction to various countries). • Hosting Ayadina elderly at Horch Beirut Festival for 8 Educates the youth on work readiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy. • Delivering leadership and business workshops for the benefit of the underprivileged youth. games and brunch. • Delivering the Innovation Camp for AUB students • Establishing a chess club for youth and children. on financial aid. Addresses the developmental needs of the • E stablishing a computer lab for the elderly to Improves the quality of life for elderies • Hosting, serving and organising Grandparents’ Day 3 young through children’s arts program, and the wellbeing requirements of the communicate with relatives abroad. • Treating 30 elderly to a brunch at Horch Beirut 9 living at home with family members celebration concert. or alone. • Pampering elderly ladies, playing cards and lunch aged through a multifaceted psychosocial Festival to play cards and backgammon tournaments. at the Kibarouna elderly camp. program. • Outing to Jezzine with 30 elderlies for a full day of • Designing and publishing their website. song and dance with our live band. • Retail Department volunteer day at Rene Moawad • Interns pampering the elderly with beauty sessions Garden with 50 elderlies, playing cards, board and lunch. games and sharing brunch. • Retail Department volunteer Day at Rene Moawad Garden with 33 elderlies, playing cards, backgammon and sharing brunch. • Inviting and assisting 21 children at KidzMondo. • Injaz financial literacy workshops for the Vocational Provides a nurturing environment 10 and quality education to orphans, School and Saida Generation School. • Corporate Central Operations Department volunteer underprivileged children, and children • Entertaining 40 patients while they wait for outpatient day with 100 children from the Communication Provides access to the complete treatment with special needs. 4 and care to children with cancer in Lebanon treatment. Disorder School, delivering banking sessions, colouring, painting, playing basketball and football, exchanging and the region, at no cost to their families • Ushering audience during a concert. • Inviting and assisting 5 children at KidzMondo. gifts and sharing lunch. and without any discrimination. • Inviting and assisting 50 children at KidzMondo. Provides a home for orphans. • Hot chocolate afternoons playing board games and Protecting the vulnerable, the forgotten, • Retail Department volunteer day at Rene Moawad 5 and Mother Nature. Garden with 26 elderlies, playing cards, backgammon 11 bonding with the children. • IT Department volunteer day with 120 children, playing and sharing brunch. scout games, drawing, cooking, planting, mimes and • Inviting and assisting 10 children from the Lebanese sharing lunch. School for the Blind and Deaf (LSBD) at KidzMondo. • D elivering Injaz workshops on leadership and communication skills. • Raising awareness on environmental protection 6 Environmental awareness. and recycling by collaborating to host the Earth Hour concert. 30 CSR REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT The Assabil winners of the chess competition at Horch Beirut. Volunteers playing cards with Ayadina’s elderly at Horch Beirut. IT Department at SOS. Injaz Innovation Camp. Retail at Sanayeh Gardens with Kibarouna’s elderly. Volunteering Day at the Orphan Welfare Society – Saida (OWSS). Interns sorting clothes at the arcenciel boutique sociale. Equal elderly at Sanayeh Gardens. 31 CSR REPORT 2016 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SPECIAL FEATURE STORY GIVING OTHERS A WARM WINTER DONATIONS Employees Donate Clothes to arcenciel’s Charity Shops. That is why last October, Bank Audi teamed up with arcenciel Many of us look forward to winter – not for the rain, not for to lend a helping hand to those in need. Employees donated the storms, and not for the freezing cold, but for switching and 513 kg of clothes to arcenciel’s charity shops which provide renewing our wardrobe. Putting away light and breezy summer the homeless and underprivileged with clothes free of clothes is an excuse for many to buy new items and upgrade their charge, for the most part. A simple collaboration on our part looks. However, not everyone has this luxury; in fact, thousands ensured many warm winter nights for those who cannot afford THE BLOOD DRIVE of people start the winter season unprepared and unprotected to buy clothes. Bank Audi would like to take the chance to thank DSC, Bank Audi Saves Lives Hand in Hand! from the cold. each and every employee who contributed to this heart-warming For the second year in a row, and in collaboration with Donner Sans Compter (DSC), Bank Audi campaign! organised two blood drives, the first of which was held in May 2016 and involved 129 generous employees who voluntarily took part in this initiative. 93 units of blood were donated, equivalent to 276 lives potentially saved. “First, it was a pleasure having the two successful blood drives at Bank Audi; I am more than glad to tell you that you broke the record for the highest number of blood donors in a company: 57 (headquarters) and 36 (Sofil), which makes it a total of 93 blood donors!” a DSC representative enthusiastically commented. Surrounding businesses in Sofil were also informed of DONATED ITEMS DONATED QUANTITY the event, and some clients and passers-by gladly donated blood. Last year’s blood donation drive also played an important role in motivating BOOKS 1,385 books donated peers to follow suit this year. This event served to raise awareness and motivate potential blood donors to support this cause and sustain the Bank’s commitment to the community. BLOOD 130 units donated The second drive, which was held in November 2016 in partnership with the Lebanese Red Cross, gathered 47 generous employees and IT 2,124 kg donated resulted in 38 units of blood donated, which is equivalent to 114 potential lives saved. A week after the initiative, successful donors received a card allowing them to receive 1 unit of blood should they FURNITURE 4,681 kg donated need it for themselves, a friend, or a relative. CLOTHES 588 kg of clothes donated BOOKS Employees Contribute to Spreading Education! Books are works of the mind, they present our intellect with a variety of content, information and entertaining stories that let us soar. These instruments of human expression feed hunger for knowledge, free us and give us a medium of expression like no other. Knowing the importance of these vehicles of meaning and values, Bank Audi’s CSR Unit organised a book donation at the end of the 20152016 school year. The Bank teamed up with Assabil, one of its partners in the Volunteer Program, and gathered 1,385 school textbooks, extracurricular books including children, science fiction, adventure, romance, politics, fiction and non-fiction books, in addition to complete encyclopedias. The donation benefited less privileged children by giving them the chance to access educational content while also recycling used notebooks in an effort to subvert negative environmental effects of paper use and abuse. FURNITURE Bank Audi donated unwanted furniture – mostly desks and chairs – from its branches and head office for reuse by various NGOs among which: 32 v CSR REPORT 2016 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT Cultivating human talent is one of our top priorities at Bank Audi. whether inside the Bank by investing in our own employees, Being one of the largest private sector employers in Lebanon, we or outside it by investing in the development of external PROGRAMS value the importance of nurturing human talent in all its guises, nation-wide human talent. 16 20 TRAINING, EDUCATION AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT Branch Management Program (BMP) Advanced Management Program (AMP) The BMP – Provides qualified employees with equal opportunity The AMP – 30-day executive program delivered over 12 to assume first line supervisory positions. It is designed to months and focusing on providing participants with tools to: More than USD 1.9 million More than 111,000 hours identify, train and develop the Bank’s future branch managers and assistant managers through a one to 3-year program • Effectively lead and manage people invested in employee training and development of training deployed exposing them to an intensive and learning environment. • Embrace and drive change initiatives • Create and deliver customer value 2,343 employees 3,272 training • Gain the confidence to make decisions needed to succeed • Be exposed to different functional areas equally split in terms of gender representation, participants in the Bank Audi Training Academy, targeting all levels of employment aimed at: • Enhancing the skills and knowledge of existing branch employees on several banking topics 71% successfully trained employees • Providing them with the opportunity to advance in their careers 27 EMPLOYEES BENEFITED FROM THE BANK'S SPONSORSHIP GRANTS AS FOLLOWS: CERTIFICATIONS ADVANCED UNIVERSITY STUDIES TO PURSUE PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATIONS: 20 (2 INTERNATIONAL) IE BUSINESS SCHOOL AND INSEAD 26 CMA, CFA, CIA, CPA, FRAUD RISK MANAGEMENT, SHRM CP, CFTE USD 65,000 USD 872,000 1 EXECUTIVE EDUCATION TO LONDON BUSINESS SCHOOL 163 CERTIFIED AS PER THE BDL 103 CIRCULAR REQUIREMENT INVESTED IN INVESTED IN 145 Lebanese Financial Regulations 7 Risk in Financial Services 3 Global Securities 2 CAMS 6 BANKING STUDIES 2 Global Financial Derivatives 4 International Intr. to Inv. THE CORPORATE ACADEMY SUPPORT OF OUR EMPLOYEES’ DEVELOPMENT 2014 2015 2016 81% OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVED PERFORMANCE REVIEWS 5% EMPLOYEE 29.73 36.18 33.59 TOP MANAGERS 25.12 32.13 27.14 27% MALE AVERAGE 18.4% MIDDLE MANAGERS EMPLOYEE FEMALE 35.24 41.03 41.14 MALE EMPLOYEES 36% RECEIVED 37% TRAINING HOURS FRONTLINE EMPLOYEE 27.04 36.09 32.37 17.6% CAREER STAFF DEVELOPMENT FEMALE EMPLOYEES REVIEWS RECEIVED CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS MIDDLE MANAGER 44.89 36.68 38.16 SENIOR MANAGER 22.05 34.43 35.33 34 CSR REPORT 2016 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT Table 13: Composition of Governance Body Committees by Gender and Age Group at Bank Audi since 2013 to date DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GENDER (%) AGE (%) M F F <30 30-50 >50 Table 11: Employee Composition by Gender and Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon BOARD OF DIRECTORS 80 20 100 % OF STAFF % OF MIDDLE % OF TOP NB: Senior Management positions are mostly occupied by employees who are older, and hence have more seniority, experience and tenure within the Bank. (below Grade 17) MANAGERS MANAGERS (Grade 17 to Grade (Grade 22 and 21 Inclusive) above) F M F M F M BANK AUDI sal 38.21% 37.23% 10.49% 12.77% 0.36% 0.94% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 28.60% 46.32% 5.78% 14.45% 0% 4.85% BANK AUDI sal 38.98% 38.63% 9.35% 11.66% 0.38% 1% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 30.34% 49.08% 4.44% 11.33% 0% 4.80% BANK AUDI sal 39.80% 39.60% 8.60% 11.30% 0% 0.60% MALE FEMALE 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 31.50% 50.40% 3.90% 11.30% 0% 3% 2013 BANK AUDI sal OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 40.06% 24.49% 40.26% 45.21% 7.86% 15.19% 10.84% 10.75% 0.12% 0% 0.86% 4.35% 54% 46% Total number of employees Table 14: Employee Distribution by Contract Type and Gender at Bank Audi Group Lebanon Table 12: Employee Composition by Age Group and Employee Category in Bank Audi Group Lebanon CONTRACT TOTAL COLLECTIVE GENDER LIMITED UNLIMITED NUMBER AGREEMENT EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT % OF STAFF % OF MIDDLE % OF TOP OF CONTRACT CONTRACT (below Grade 17) MANAGERS MANAGERS EMPLOYEES (Grade 17 to Grade (Grade 22 and F M F M F M % % Not Covered Covered 21 Inclusive) above) BETWEEN BETWEEN BETWEEN BANK AUDI sal 2764 1372 1392 66 67 1306 1325 100% 0% < 30 > 50 < 30 > 50 < 30 > 50 30-50 30-50 30-50 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 559 158 401 23 46 135 355 66.66% 33.33% BANK AUDI sal 21.63% 40.23% 13.57% 0.14% 17.80% 5.31% 0% 0.47% 0.83% 2016 TOTAL 3323 1530 1793 89 113 1441 1680 83.33% 16.66% OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 13.16% 40.70% 21.07% 0% 13.39% 6.84% 0% 2.42% 2.42% BANK AUDI sal 2599 1266 1333 39 45 1227 1288 100% 0% BANK AUDI sal 20.89% 41.71% 15.01% 0.08% 15.78% 5.16% 0% 0.50% 0.88% 2015 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 531 158 373 24 36 134 337 67.89% 32.11% OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 16.89% 39.51% 23.02% 0% 11.96% 3.81% 0% 2.08% 2.71% TOTAL 3130 1424 1706 63 81 1361 1625 83.95% 16.06% BANK AUDI sal 22% 42% 15% 0% 15% 5% 0% 0% 1% BANK AUDI sal 2511 1217 1294 33 36 1184 1258 97.3% 2.7% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 17% 42% 23% 2% 9% 4% 0% 3% 0% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 478 143 335 13 22 130 313 63.7% 36.3% BANK AUDI sal 25.49% 41.08% 13.75% 0.16% 13.83% 4.71% 0% 0.29% 0.69% TOTAL 2989 1360 1629 46 58 1314 1571 80.5% 19.5% 2013 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 22.21% 34.08% 13.42% 1.26% 14.41% 10.26% 0% 2.17% 2.17% 2013 TOTAL 2890 1326 1564 38 44 1288 1520 97% 3% 35 CSR REPORT 2016 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT Table 15: New Employee Hires in Bank Audi Group Lebanon Table 17: Progressive Labour Practices TOTAL NUMBER OF TOTAL NUMBER OF TOTAL NUMBER 2014 2015 2016 NEW HIRES NEW HIRES OF NEW HIRES BY GENDER BY AGE Number of internships to 432 423 510 < 30 BETWEEN > 50 university students F M 30-50 Cost of internships USD 80,000 USD 163,000 USD 198,000 BANK AUDI sal 272 149 123 187 85 0 Salaries and benefits USD 165 million USD 170 million USD 199 million 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 74 10 64 42 29 3 Number of employees 888 940 970 TOTAL 346 159 187 229 114 3 supported (for Bank Audi only) BANK AUDI sal 223 109 114 131 89 3 Children’s USD 4 million USD 5.3 million USD 5.4 million tuition fees 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 97 24 73 48 38 11 Support of key educational TOTAL 320 133 187 179 127 14 institutions through USD 640,000 USD 746,349 USD 961,045 scholarships and donations BANK AUDI sal 186 97 89 136 48 2 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 48 11 37 25 19 4 TOTAL 234 108 126 161 67 6 BANK AUDI sal 154 75 79 113 41 0 FIRE SAFETY MARSHALS MEASURES 2013 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 40 30 10 19 17 4 The fire safety manual was updated and made available to all employees via the CISBC hub on TOTAL 194 105 89 132 58 4 the Intranet. Fire safety awareness sessions were provided to fire marshals. Fire drills were conducted for Plaza and Palladium headquarters, evacuating approximately 2000 staff members. Table 16: Return to Work and Retention Rates after Parental Leave, by Gender TOTAL NUMBER TOTAL NUMBER TOTAL NUMBER RETURN RETENTION RATE TOASTMASTERS OF EMPLOYEES OF EMPLOYEES OF EMPLOYEES TO WORK RATE WHO TOOK WHO RETURNED WHO RETURNED Bank Audi Toastmasters Club, an extension of Toastmasters International, is the only corporate club in PARENTAL LEAVE TO WORK AFTER TO WORK AFTER Lebanon to date. The objective is to develop and enhance its members’ communication and leadership PARENTAL LEAVE PARENTAL LEAVE ENDED AND ARE skills. Bank Audi employees can improve their speaking and leadership skills by participating in STILL EMPLOYED bi-weekly meetings, and practicing their presentation skills on stage in a fun and friendly environment. 12 MONTHS AFTER THEIR RETURN During 2016, our club joined efforts with “Toastmasters Lebanon”, a region of 4 clubs, to deliver educational and professional workshops. F M F M F M F M F M BANK AUDI sal 56 55 56 55 54 54 100% 100% 96.43% 98.18% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 4 14 4 14 4 14 100% 100% 100% 100% BANK AUDI sal 79 61 76 56 76 56 96.2% 91.8% 96.2% 91.8% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 1 8 1 8 1 8 100% 100% 100% 100% BANK AUDI sal 81 51 75 51 72 47 96.5% 100% 96% 92% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 6 10 5 10 5 10 89% 100% 100% 100% 3.75% 2.75% MALE FEMALE As part of our determination to retain our employees, we make sure that they take the needed time to nurture their newborns and cater to their parental needs. We also provide space for them to resume their work and fulfil their career aspirations. RATIOS OF STANDARD ENTRY LEVEL WAGE BY GENDER COMPARED TO LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE: 1.48 HUMAN CAPITAL TURNOVER: 6.5% 36 CSR REPORT 2016 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT JOB FAIRS 25 YEARS OF LOYALTY – CELEBRATING THE SILVER JUBILEE OF BANK AUDI EMPLOYEES Bank Audi staff members who have been part of the Bank since 1990 and 1991 were honoured during a special ceremony as part of an annual ritual. We regard a lifetime of service as a true testimony of dedication and loyalty to the Bank. Employee Wellness USD 44,045 IN WELLNESS PROGRAMS Table 18: Bank Audi Clubs ACTIVITY TOTAL CLUB DESCRIPTION BENEFICIARIES Fête de la Musique Music Club Participation of MelAUDI in street celebrations on June 21. This sport festival aims at encouraging companies to Beirut 300 Sports Club support their employees' pursuit of a healthier and Corporate Games more active life style. This year we highlighted himaya. Organisation of different tournaments: football, Audi 400 Sports Club basketball, ping pong etc. amongst various Sports Day departments and branches. Dim Dam Doum 200 Community Club Sponsoring a muppet show in March. Zikrayat – A Day at 75 Community Club Joint activity with Ajialouna. Sanayeh Garden Dragon Circus 400 Community Club Joint activity with Ajialouna. Ghinwa Show 500 Community Club An end-of-year show for employees’ children. for Christmas Bint El Jabal 650 Community Club Sponsoring the play directed by Romeo Lahoud. Knock 150 Community Club Sponsoring a performance of the play directed by Alain Plisson. Aranoun Village 450 Community Club Hiking, sports, activities and lunch. Hiking and tourism in collaboration with Darb Al Jabal Baskinta 160 Community Club ANNUAL END OF YEAR GIFTS TO OUR EMPLOYEES: to visit Baskinta and Sannine. Zumba 10 Community Club Weekly Zumba classes. 3,290 10-LITER GALLONS OF OLIVE OIL: 3,338 5G GOLD UNITS: USD 631,000 Scotland 22 Travel Cub A visit of 11 days to Glascow, Edinburgh and the highlands. USD 164,000 37 CSR REPORT 2016 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT PROFAMILY EXTERNAL HUMAN DEVELOPMENT For the ninth consecutive year, the sons and daughters of fellow employees were rewarded for their exceptional results in the Baccalaureate – Part II, a step meant to encourage teenagers to seek education and unrivalled academic performance, for ambitious careers and a brighter future. This year, 12 qualified teenagers were awarded: 2014 2015 2016 1st prize = USD 20,000 = average of 17.27 2nd prize = USD 15,000 = average of 16.10 LOANS AT PREFERENTIAL 3rd & 4th prize = USD 5,000 = average around 15 8 remaining = USD 1,000 = average ranging INTEREST RATES TO USD 3.9 million USD 6.4 million USD 6.5 million between 14 to 15 UNIVERSITY STUDENTS It is worth mentioning that up to this year, Bank Audi has rewarded a total of 82 qualified individuals. NUMBER OF BENEFICIARIES FROM THE GRANTED 238 373 371 UNIVERSITY LOANS MAXIME CHAYA: THE YOUTH’S ROLE MODEL Our Corporate Ambassador, who has 7 summits, 3 poles, an ocean and a desert listed to his successes, continued to motivate our millennials at various instances such as during presentations to our interns, in schools etc., with a total number exceeding 1000 young people (aged 7 to 24). USJ PRIZE CEREMONY Granting scholarships to students is held in high regard at Bank Audi where education is considered vital for giving the young generation a chance for a brighter future. SHADOWING FOR INTERNATIONAL COLLEGE STUDENTS A few IC students spent a day at Bank Audi as part of their professional shadowing day. They discovered the Retail Department Like every year, Bank Audi organised an annual prize remittance ceremony at Université Saint Joseph (USJ) during which and familiarised themselves with the Bank’s structure, products and services. Each one of them shadowed an employee for the 7 students who had applied for a university loan received USD 5,000 each, to be deducted from their loan. These students whole day, with a view to spending a typical day at Bank Audi, with its meetings, challenges and hard work. were selected by USJ’s Social Affairs Office based on their academic performance. TRAUMA EDUCATION IN LEBANON It was in December 2013 that years of planning and communicating with the Society of Trauma Nurses (STN) came to fruition. FIRST SCHOLARSHIP CEREMONY AT NDU A select group of registered nurses from the AUBMC and the Rafic Hariri School of Nursing were fully sponsored by Roads for Life, with the support of Bank Audi, to undergo instructor training at the regional training center in King Abdul Aziz Medical Bank Audi celebrated the first scholarship ceremony with Notre Dame University – Louaize (NDU) by granting 7 students City in Riyadh (Saudi Arabia). This resulted in an inaugural course held in Lebanon in May 2014. scholarships which will be deducted from their tuition fees. In June 2014, Roads for Life convinced the Ministry of Public Health in Lebanon to issue Circular No. 51 that “urged governmental and private hospital to delegate the adequate people to take part in the ATLS® and ATCN® training sessions”. A few months later, in October 2014, Mrs. Zeina Kassem was recognised by the American College of Surgeons Committee on Trauma for being able to promulgate and sustain all three core trauma courses and for initialising a national trauma system in Lebanon. Roads for Life and AUBMC are working hand in hand to spread trauma culture on the national and regional levels. INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (IM) In summary, a swift and efficient intervention by the emergency teams on the scene of the accident can prevent unnecessary AUB’s Olayan School of Business (OSB) established an IM program aiming to enhance OSB students’ real-world experience. The deaths. For nurses, the three-day ATCN® course includes an educational model that promotes critical thinking processes, IM program required that students manage an endowment. collaborative, synchronised team approach to trauma care, along with the students of the simultaneous ATLS® course. Doctors Youssef Nizam, Chief Investment Officer, Audi Private Bank, collaborated with a small group from OSB and from Concordia to and nurses caring for trauma patients in Lebanon have the opportunity to share a common language and approach to trauma develop the IM program. care to be able to save more lives in the Golden Period of Trauma. The door is open for any healthcare professionals in Lebanon who are interested in expanding their skill sets and getting certified. To date, Roads For Life and Bank Audi have sponsored 150 emergency room and intensive care nurses to take the course. 38 CSR REPORT 2016 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL MEDIA Table 19: Facebook Engagement Rate Table 20: LinkedIn Engagement Rate FACEBOOK DATE ENGAGEMENT COMMENTS POSTS ON DATE IMPRESSION CLICKS INTERACTIONS ENGAGEMENT POSTS RATE LINKEDIN RATE How to Face Life : Article in Le Commerce Du Levant March 10,937 47 21 0.62% video of the CSR 32% (including People were expressive of their appreciation in the 05-May Financial Literacy Program for Youth March 10,555 114 40 1.46% activity by our Retail video views) comments, and shares showed an interest in the content. team. Volunteer Program (VP) with Ayadina April 11,961 114 52 1.39% The engagement was active. “Love” reactions indicate Celebrating Earth Day April 9,622 31 37 0.71% Blood donation 15-Jun 51% an appreciation of the CSR initiative. 19% of total views video. shared; a good amount of organic reach. “My Carbon Footprint” launch April 7,710 45 25 0.91% The high number of shares indicates raw interest in the Volunteer Day April 7,685 11 24 0.46% Volunteers spend a content and led to a high number of organic reach. day with elderlies 19-Sep 38% Blood donation May 10,837 30 52 0.76% CSR initiatives are always favoured by our audience as of Ayadina (video). they make us look more human to them. Merite Blé Vert event May 9,907 108 51 1.60% Very good engagement rate. Car-free day at Volunteer Internship Program May 9,136 36 35 0.78% 14-Jun 10% “Wow” reactions show that the audience was impressed Achrafieh 2020. with this CSR initiative. Achrafieh 2020 Car-free Day June 8,140 51 48 1.22% Support to the Very good engagement rate. CSR Annual Report 2015: Sustaining June 14,607 75 63 1.83% Shared Value GirlsgotIT, exploring 24-Mar 7% Always important to showcase the Bank's CSR initiatives as engineering and IT. it shows the audience that we take part in the community. Donner Sang Compter – Blood donation June 5,640 11 13 0.43% Participation in the Books’ donation with Assabil July 10,608 30 58 0.83% Climate Act Day: we VP with himaya July 9,326 136 66 2.17% have been keeping 18-Jun 6% Good engagement rate. track of our carbon Grandparents' Day with Kibarouna July 7,588 27 31 0.76% footprint. VP with SOS July 7,064 34 35 0.98% “My Carbon Footprint” winners August 8,362 78 34 1.34% Inclusion of people with disabilities in Sep 8,384 33 49 0.98% the Lebanese workplace VP with Ayadina Nov 15,078 40 76 0.77% UNGC Nov 12,468 43 40 0.67% VP with Ayadina Nov 8,193 21 31 0.63% University awarenesss session Dec 19,754 164 107 1.37% Certificate of acknowledgment for Dec 18,782 129 116 1.30% greenhouse gas emissions To conclude, CSR posts have an average engagement rate that from events, and sometimes a clear call for action. Collaborations is higher than the average engagement rate of Bank Audi’s with NGOs that cater to the elderly outperform others in terms overall LinkedIn posts. Most appealing posts showcase Bank Audi of engagement. employees engaging with the community and include images 39 CSR CASE STUDY – BANK AUDI’S TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF USJ’S SPECIAL FEATURE STORY “OPÉRATION 7ÈME JOUR” SUSTAINABILITY CASE STUDY MADE PUBLIC BY CANADIAN PUBLISHER In yet another effort to strengthen our bond with one of the best It’s always a pride and a pleasure when Bank Audi gets international CSR SPREADS THE WORD educational institutions in Lebanon, and to elevate the quality recognition for its many business or CSR efforts. Bank Audi’s CSR of education for the upcoming generation, Bank Audi joined Case Study, “Bank Audi: Leading through Sustainability”, We continue to be involved and to share best practices in CSR through Université Saint-Joseph (USJ) on December 6, 2016, on the tenth written by Professor Dima Jamali, was registered with Ivey our involvement, efforts and key activities across Lebanon. anniversary of their “Opération 7ème Jour” initiative. The main Publishing. ENGRAINING IMPACT IN OUR REGION objective behind the 2016 event was to engage and educate Reputed for publishing studies used by the world’s top universities, future generations on social responsibility. the Canadian publishing house is a leader in distributing business The Country Report: the State of CSR in Lebanon – Trends and Observations of National As a way of backing USJ’s efforts, Bank Audi granted USD 1,000 case studies globally. Corporate Social Responsibility by CSR LEBANON to 10 students who contributed to the community’s well-being. This contribution brings in major exposure for Bank Audi, as the To further imprint the presence of CSR in the Lebanese business culture and as part of its national Raising the youth’s awareness on social responsibility and helping issue will circulate to over 25,000 faculty and staff. strategy, CSR LEBANON hosted the CSR Champions roundtable event, inviting some of Lebanon's most them get involved in civil and volunteer work will, no doubt, be active CSR professionals to discuss experiences, challenges and the way forward. very beneficial in paving the way for promising futures. Mrs. Hasmig Khoury, representing Bank Audi, was among the 10 individuals who participated in this roundtable, led by Mr. Khaled Kassar, founder and CEO of CSR LEBANON, and facilitated by the Australian expert Mr. Dwayne Baraka who spoke of CSR professionals as change managers. Participants seemed to indicate resonance with their own experiences as purveyors of change, “… passionate and engaged human beings wanting to bring about good.” “Organisations focused on bringing about a more responsible form of business have played key roles… Companies realised that in order to be leaders in business, you have to be leaders in CSR.” Identified challenges include, “…from a shared value perspective where NGOs should unite their resources and communicate better on what they are doing. They should be taught to find common interests.” Other key challenges range from the need for a strategic vision, business leadership, dedicated budgets and clear implementation practices of CSR. Managing social and environmental risks to accentuate impact is a main concern for the region. The aspects of the discussion, that centered around transparency and the importance of CSR to business strategy, drew the distinction between companies that announce versus the ones which act the part. This indicates an appetite for greater transparency on CSR issues among the leaders of CSR in Lebanon. January 20 250 attendees Collaboration was recognised as key to promote sustainable development. Incentives addressing government needs can also motivate responsible actions. CSR PANEL: PARTNERSHIP FORUM 2016 In closing, participants identified the next important steps for CSR to gain traction in Lebanon. The highest score was attributed to: raising awareness, educating and a national CSR strategy. CSR USJ mentor unit PRESENTATIONS The report sums: “It is not surprising that Bank Audi, regarded as a CSR leader in Lebanon (at least based on comments made by participants and as reinforced in publicly-available information), was (at the time MENTORING of the roundtable) the only organisation in Lebanon with a formal and fully dedicated Head of CSR, OTHER March 15 20 attendees March 17 50 attendees and the only one having a GRI-report in the country”. ORGANISATIONS CSR IN ACTION PANEL ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES AND FOR CSR ALAHLI GROUP CARBON FOOTPRINT MICROSITE 1ST PRIZE WINNER ESA Business School Thomson Reuters – Beirut Central District CSR UNIVERSITY AWARENESS SESSION Malak Hashmieh (LIU) for her proposal, Amal , a program which finances startups or new businesses, and helps March 20 50 attendees March 30 30 attendees create job opportunities, especially for the Lebanese youth. 2ND PRIZE WINNER BANK AUDI CSR CASE STUDY FOR CSR: DEVELOPMENT INSPIRING IDEAS, STUDENTS OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND AND IMPLEMENTATION Lara Macaron Sabbouri (LU) for her proposal MOTIVATING FUTURE GENERATIONS! PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Guest-Speaker Program , whereby employees volunteer Rotary Club Beirut Cedars to give a one-session business course to university students Balamand University For the second year in a row, the CSR Unit held an interactive and explain how Bank Audi applies theoretical concepts in university awareness initiative leading to a competition at Bank its daily activity. Audi and aiming at encouraging students to be creative and pitch a feasible CSR project that is aligned with the Bank’s CSR May 3 May 25 275 attendees 3RD PRIZE WINNER strategy. Of the 9 proposals submitted, 4 were shortlisted by an external 5-member CSR jury. They presented their projects to the Hind Chazbek (AUB) for her proposal Eco-Friendly G4 FOREFRONT – SESSION ON CSR AND HR MANAGEMENT: Bank’s CSR Committee during live presentations. Car Loan which consists in encouraging people to buy MATERIALITY AND BOUNDARIES SHARING LEBANESE AND and drive environmental-friendly cars by providing a green INTERNATIONAL PRACTICES car loan at a low interest rate. This initiative motivates the youth to develop responsible thinking GRI webinar Notre-Dame University and to take action as regards sustaining the environment and positively influencing their surroundings. 40 CSR REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AWARENESS ON RESOURCES USAGE MY CARBON FOOTPRINT EARTH HOUR Switch off the Lights, Save the Planet! Mobilising the Youth for a Better Environment! Earth Hour is an international initiative organised by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). It My Carbon Footprint” competition, an initiative devised by Bank Audi in collaboration with the Ministry encourages individuals, communities, households and businesses to turn off their lights for one hour of the Environment and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm on a particular day. The movement originally started with Sydney’s 2007 lights-off event, and has grown to engage more than 7,000 cities and towns around the world. Bank The “My Carbon Footprint” project, whose pilot phase was launched in partnership with La Sagesse Audi partakes in this initiative on a yearly basis as part of its CSR initiative to save the environment. and Al Makassed schools, addresses climate change while raising awareness among the youth on the use of resources and its impact on the environment. The three winners of the project’s first edition, Joya Ayoub from La Sagesse St. Maron (1st place), Sara Khodari from Al Makassed (2nd place) – Omar Ben Al Khattab, and Francesca El Helou from La Sagesse Brasilia (3rd place), were selected for the high scores they achieved. my-cfp.com is an informative and fun microsite developed by Bank Audi and specifically addressed to children aged 12 to 15 and living in Lebanon. This platform allows participants to monitor and reduce their household energy expenses and their effect on nature, by keeping track of their homes’ ENVIRONMENTAL LOANS EFFLUENTS AND WASTE electricity, paper, gas and fuel consumption. The aim of this microsite is to engage our youth in reducing their household’s impact on the environment, in recognising the importance of resources, and in acknowledging the carbon footprint we leave on Mother Earth. These loans cover a spectrum of environmentally friendly solutions We sustained our “Grow Green” Program which encourages Today’s youth have an eagerness to learn and adopt environment-friendly and ethical resource applied in private houses, commercial and industrial buildings, employees to recycle solid waste at the workplace and at home, consumption practices having positive effects on the global climate. This motivates children and from purchasing of an absorption chiller solution, financing and to dispose of it at the Bank’s three special hubs. teenagers to reduce their carbon footprint, thus contributing to building a generation of civically energy efficient components, planting trees, renovating lighting Collected plastic bottle caps continue to be donated to “arcenciel” engaged citizens. systems and installation of photovoltaic panels, to landscaping to provide wheelchairs for the disabled, and collected plastic implementations. bottles are donated to Association de l’Ecoute. In 2016, we The second edition of this initiative consisted in launching a nation-wide campaign in public and persisted on tracking the impact of our “Grow Green” Program private schools during the 2016-2017 school year. This comes within our partnership with the Ministry USD 6.2 MILLION since its inception in 2012. of the Environment and the UNDP, who also released the Teachers’ Guidebook on Climate Change. Additional partners for this edition were Beyond Magazine, Green Cedars Lebanon and the Association ENVIRONMENTAL LOANS SUBSIDISED for Forests, Development & Conservation (AFDC) who initiated the Awareness on Wheels project, a BY THE CENTRAL BANK OF LEBANON mobile school bus for awareness on solid waste management, where children can access the microsite AT PREFERENTIAL INTEREST RATES and receive bookmarks branded ”My Carbon Footprint”. And a final partnership with e-Eco Solutions and Green Schools Certification Program, whereby schools can benefit from additional points when engaging 20% of their students and encouraging them to register. Table 21: Total Weight of Waste in kg YEAR E-WASTE* PLASTIC CANS PET BOTTLES* PAPER TREES 2012 30 4,740 51,770 1,102 2013 130 690 83,192 1,414 2014 157 0 103,722 1,763 2015 403 150 0 33 146,769 1 2,495 2016 2,124 196 54 1,518 111,080 1,888 Mobilising youth for a better environment. TOTAL 2,527 663 5,484 1,551 496,533 8,662 *Initiated in 2015. 1 Includes not recurrent archive disposing. 42 CSR REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION E-WASTE DONATED TO THE BELOW NGO’S FOR REUSE EMISSIONS OUM ASSOCIATION FOR FORESTS DEVELOPMENT EL NOUR COLLEGE SAINT PIERRE AND CONSERVATION (AFDC) BASKINTA ASSOCIATION DE HIMAYA L’ECOUTE “MY CARBON FOOTPRINT” MICROSITE GREENHOUSE GASES (GHG) AUDIT AYADINA ARCENCIEL USD 11,300 USD 5,600 In partnership with a certified expert, we conducted a comprehensive the procedures and calculations, which is key in order to quantify UPCYCLING FOR A CAUSE audit of our carbon footprint by monitoring all our premises: and compare emissions accurately. E-WASTE COLLECTION FUNDS NGO branches, offices and warehouses. This process was launched in The calculation of the emission factors and the global warming 2012, hereafter considered as base year, with a view to comply potential (GWP) rates used are based on GHG-Protocol which Electronic waste or e-waste describes used and discarded electrical or electronic with the GRI guidelines on environmental impact. uses the IPCC emission factors provided in the IPCC guidelines devices destined for reuse, resale, salvage, recycling or disposal. Processing these in As per our Greenhouse Gases (GHG) inventory based on the of 2006, the IPCC Second Assessment Report (1995), and the developing countries can lead to adverse human health effects and environmental GHG-Protocol Corporate Standard, we have reported on the local emission factor for electricity communicated by the Lebanese pollution due to various chemicals and materials used in the production of such following seven GHG: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), Ministry of the Environment. equipment or accessories. Electronic scrap components, such as CPUs, RAMs etc. nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons The total GHG emissions from Bank Audi Group Lebanon in 2016 contain potentially harmful components like lead, cadmium and beryllium. (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). were 19,976.2 tCO2e. It is important to note that this number has The GHG calculations were performed using well established decreased when compared to 2012, the baseline year; all while Recycling and disposing of e-waste may involve significant risk to workers tools and methodologies following the GHG Protocol developed acknowledging that the employment and the space occupied by and communities, and great care must be taken to avoid unsafe exposure by the World Resource Institute (WRI, 2006b, c) and using an our business has increased. in recycling operations and leaking of heavy metals from landfills and internationally recognised tool allowing the standardisation of incinerator ashes. In this respect, Bank Audi’s CSR Unit extended its Recycling Program to include Table 22: GHG Emissions electronic waste for ONE day in celebration of Earth Day on April 22. Collected materials were donated to Association de l’Ecoute, an organisation established 2013 2014 2015 2016 in 1990 that assists disabled persons (deaf, blind or people suffering from limited mobility) and people suffering from illnesses. Association de l’Ecoute upcycled the collected materials by creating items to fund the purchase of wheelchairs and hearing Total GHG emissions 21,309.8 tCO2e 21,065.6tCO2e 21,738.2 tCO2e 19,976.2 tCO2e* aids for the needy community. GHG emissions per employee 7.68 tCO2e 7.0 tCO2e 6.9 tCO2e 6.01 tCO2e This initiative aimed at helping: GHG emissions per m2 0.220 tCO2e 0.218 tCO2e 0.225 tCO2e 0.200 tCO2e • Reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills. Total GHG emissions % from scope 1 19.2% 21.3% 20.5% 38% • Conserve natural resources such as wood, water and minerals. • Prevent pollution. Total GHG emissions from scope 1 4,101.7 tCO2e 4,486.2 tCO2e 4,448.1 tCO2e 7,668.2 tCO2e • Save energy. Total GHG emissions % from scope 2 75.1% 72.8% 72.1% 53% • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming. • Help sustain the environment for future generations. Total GHG emissions from scope 2 16,003.9 tCO2e 15,338.3 tCO2e 15,672.4 tCO2e 10,506.1 tCO2e In sum: Total GHG emissions % from scope 3 5.7% 5.9% 7.4% 9% WERE COLLECTED FROM Total GHG emissions from scope 3 1,204.2 tCO2e 1,241.0 tCO2e 1,617.7 tCO2e 1,801.8 tCO2e WERE COLLECTED FROM 62 KG EMPLOYEES 903 KG THE IT DEPARTMENT Flight trips percentage of scope 3 74.3% 68.4% 63.3% 66% Flight trips 894.9 tCO2e 849.5 tCO2e 1,024.5 tCO2e 1,193.9 tCO2e Courier services percentage of scope 3 8.4% 8.2% 23.1% 21% Courier services 101.4 tCO2e 101.4 tCO2e 373.8 tCO2e 373.8 tCO2e Paper consumption percentage of scope 3 17.2% 23.4% 13.6% 13% Paper consumption 209.7 tCO2e 290.1 tCO2e 219.4 tCO2e 234.1 tCO2e *It is noteworthy that at reporting time, given the lack of official data, some estimations were made in our electricity consumption. 43 CSR REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Figure 7: Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emission Sources ENERGY CONSUMPTION From diesel From liquefied petroleum gas From Scope consumption (LPG) used for refrigerants in owned Table 23: Energy Consumption 1 cooking in used generators cafeterias 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total fuel consumption 1,489,900 litres 1,439,665.8 litres 1,402,789.8 litres 2,608,853.4 litres Total electricity consumption 19,185.68 MWH 23,922 MWH 23,745.1 MWH 17,489.4 MWH From electricity Scope From electricity purchased from 2 purchased % of electricity purchased from EDL 98.3% 75.9% 73.4% 44.4% shared from EDL generators % of electricity produced by owned generators 0.8% 12.7% 12.5% 31.6% % of electricity purchased from shared generators 0.9% 11.4% 14.1% 24% Sources of conversion factors used are the same as those used in 2013 (CSR Report 2013, Figure 20). From air flights Scope taken by From paper From courier 3 employees for consumption services work reasons Figure 6: Total GHG Emissions per Year for Bank Audi (considering 2012 baseline year) tCO2e 2% 22,600 4% Figure 8: Emissions per Sources in 2016 22,300 22,199.80 22,000 5% 21,738.2 36% Owned generator 21,700 21,309.9 27% Shared generator 21,400 21,065.6 25% EDL 21,100 10% 6% Flights 20,800 2% Refrigeration 20,500 2% Courier services 20,200 19,976.2 1% Paper 19,900 19,600 19,300 19,000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 44 CSR REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SPECIAL FEATURE STORY This platform aims at enabling businesses to design and implement activities which reduce the impact of climate change, and at capturing success stories to inspire others. Participants are led through the fundamentals of climate change and ECONOMIC GROWTH BANK AUDI SIGNS THE LEBANON CLIMATE ACT; PROMISES OF A BETTER ENVIRONMENT! how organisations can measure and manage their impact, using case studies and practical exercises CANNOT BE Bank Audi signed the Lebanon Climate Act, an innovative platform and tools. In sum, it provides the essentials for establishing a credible strategy and developing ACHIEVED WITHOUT in developing a climate for a sound Lebanese economy in line with leadership in the field of climate change. ENVIRONMENTAL environmental concerns. The Lebanon Climate Act is a program organised by Green Mind in collaboration with the United Nations INITIATIVES Development Program (UNDP) under the patronage of Central Bank Governor H.E. Riad Salameh. THAT PROTECT The program mainly aims at creating economic growth in a way OUR COUNTRY’S that also creates value for the society by addressing climate change ENVIRONMENT AND challenges. The Lebanon Climate Act was launched through an inspiring power panel presided by Governor Salameh, Mr. Carlos OUR HEALTH. Ghosn, CEO of the Renault-Nissan Alliance, Mr. Luca Renda, UNDP Lebanon Country Director, Mrs. Nada Zaarour, President of Green Governor Salameh Mind, and moderated by Mr. Gilbert Tegho, CEO of e-EcoSolutions. The Panel addressed more than 250 individuals of the private sector’s elite CEOs and decision-makers, to empower them The Lebanon Climate Act was launched with the towards catalysing their involvement in the wider climate change “‫وقف نفسك دقيقة‬ ّ ‫ ( ”ليرجع يتنفس لبنان‬h o l d y o u r community. Its objective was to provide a space for businesses to breath for a minute so that Lebanon can breath) showcase and support climate action through concrete initiatives campaign through which hundreds of Lebanese citizens Bank Audi Signs the Lebanon Climate Act. and multistakeholder approaches, thus helping them contribute expressed their support to the program and urged the in a sustainable and profitable manner to a strong and effective private sector to join the Act through holding their response to climate change. breath for one minute, filming it, and sharing it on social media. Governor Salameh declared that “economic growth cannot The Lebanon Climate Act’s one-year program includes be achieved without environmental initiatives that protect our a roadmap of support sessions for the private sector country’s environment and our health“. The Central Bank is and non-governmental organisations entitled “The greatly backing and believes in the Lebanon Climate Act Business Knowledge Platform” and hosted by the initiative which complements the financial incentives that Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture the Central Bank has already put in place to support the of Beirut and Mount Lebanon. development of environmental projects through subsidised environmental loans [...]. More than 500 million dollars have been invested in the construction industry through low interest loans over 7 years.” Mr. Carlos Ghosn underlined that “climate change is a threat, but there are many solutions and opportunities to overcome the challenge, and that is where business comes on the table. All the sectors have to contribute in order to get results while witnessing economic growth. The reality comes in changing mindsets, changing products, acting.” Ghosn mentioned that “the solution comes in a combination between technology development on one side, and taxation and financial incentives that can get the real drive towards eco-friendly products and towards reaching our CO2 reduction goals on the other.” He added, “we should be ready to tackle the hard tasks to put things in action and reach our objectives.” 45 Supplementary Information CSR REPORT 2016 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS APPENDICES Table 24: Awards and Recognitions Appendix 1: Sampling of Bank Audi’s Brands, Appendix 2: Initiatives Endorsed by Bank Audi Products and Services Best Emerging Market Bank in the Middle Safest Bank in Lebanon East 2016 for Lebanon Business Lines Services Examples of Initiatives Endorsed by Bank Audi Best Bank for Wealth Management in • Personal Banking • TransAct packages Euromoney Award for Excellence the Middle East • Business Banking • POS Cash advance Cultural festivals • Private Banking • Bank Audi Mobile App Professional Wealth Management • SME • PinPay Various business forums Best Private Bank in Lebanon & The Banker Magazine • ADSL service Multitude of educational institutions First Protocol; Social Economic Award • Calculator “Grow My Business” project Accounts • Bill domiciliation Roads for Life: post-accident care for “SME Initiatives” • Sight deposit account • Audi Online • Payroll account • Safe deposit box Open Mind Fund: community awareness and education, The Arab Banks Awards Best Bank in Lebanon • Spring account • Car tax payment and clinical services for families in need • Wedding account • SMS service himaya: child abuse prevention, rehabilitation, The Global Private Banking Awards The Banker Global Private Banking Award • Current account • E-statement and social reintegration of victims for individuals & • IAPA businesses • Priority Pass Kunhadi: youth awareness on road safety Recognition for reporting Ministry of the Environment • Deposit account • Priority Traveler Greenhouse Gas Emissions Children Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL): • Insurance programs children’s health care ArabSustainability.com ArabSustainability.com is an open, online platform • Event Club with the most up-to-date database of organisational Loans • Audi Assist Ayadina Association: help for underprivileged children sustainability performance in the region. • Business loan and the elderly Bank Audi was listed and ranked 6 th among the • Premises loan • Kafalat loan Loyalty Programs Assabil: public library for the underprivileged registered banks in terms of women percentage in the workforce (46%) • Home Loan • Audi Rewards SOS: children’s orphan village • Car Loan • Travel Rewards • Personal Loan • Kids Rewards Injaz: motivational and entrepreneurship Generic personal loan • Cedar Miles Heartbeat: children with heart diseases Public sector • Air time INTERNAL AUDIT REPORT Teachers’ loan Doctors’ loan • High tech loan • Cashback • Gift voucher Orphanage Welfare Society of Saida: care for orphans Myschoolpulse: running for a cause • University loan G: raising awareness on environmental protection • Schooling loan Objectives: Review and evaluate the development of the Corporate We identified areas for potential improvements in the CSR Bancassurance Social Responsibility activities report in line with (GRI) Standards, internal reporting management system that Management should Beirut International Marathon: running for a cause • Aman Al Elm ISO 26000 Standards, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) consider as follows: Cards • Aman Al Ghad Kibarouna: care for the elderly Principles and best practices. • Revisit the disclosures made in line with GRI 103 standards to enhance the related reporting disclosures in the CSR report. • Debit card • Aman Al Darb Equal: protecting the vulnerable, the forgotten, Internal Audit department conducted a review over Bank Audi • Further boost the reporting mechanism and highlight the Bank • Credit card • Aman Al Madkhoul and our wounded earth 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report based on the forward looking CSR plans along with their expected social impact. • Power card • Aman Al Hayat objective and scope outlined above. • Further standardize and extend the engagement of the CSR • Empower card • Aman Al Dirassa arcenciel: promoting diversity, integration and development activities and further incorporate it in the Bank decision making • Installment card • Aman Al Dar of underprivileged and marginalised communities The Bank is continuously exerting efforts to contribute to the and business processes. • Charge card • Hizam Al Aman development of a sustainable society. Management continues • Continue to raise awareness and build competencies and Lebanese League for Women in Business: to further develop the reporting mechanism and improve capabilities for social responsibility, to engage the Bank employees • Corporate card • Hizam Obligatory encouraging women in business to “Take the Lead and Succeed” data collection to ensure accuracy, traceability, timeliness and at the various levels towards applying and promoting the Bank • Co-Branded card quality of reported information, in line with best practices and CSR principles. • Prepaid card international standards. • Tap2Pay NFC series of contactless payments We conducted a review of CSR significant activities and processes. Our review was based on interviews and testing on sample basis. In conclusion, nothing has come to our attention to make us believe that the information contained in this report has not been Rita Merhej Rana Nassif Sassine fairly presented in all material respect. Head of Unit Head of Internal Audit 47 CSR REPORT 2016 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Appendix 3: Initiatives to Enhance Financial Literacy Initiative Target group Category Goal Subject Area Related Activities Beneficiary Language Information Material Spring Account Youth (23-18 year-olds) All youth Ensures practical access to money and special services. Promotional Campaign, sponsorships Youth Arabic/English Online and brochure Sight Deposit Account All Low-income individuals Provides saving account and additional benefits. Promotional All Arabic/English Online and brochure Schooling Insurance Parents Each age group has its own formula Helps parents ensure their children's schooling fees. Promotional Parents and Arabic Brochures Account youth Housing Insurance All All Insures house from accidents. Promotional All Arabic Brochures Account Life Insurance All All Insures individuals from accidents. Promotional All Arabic Brochures University Studies Parents Youth Insures university studies fees. Promotional Youth Arabic Brochures Insurance Personal Loan All Low-income individuals Assists in spending. Promotional All Arabic/English Online and brochure Transparency Banking All All Informs clients about car loans. Informative All Arabic/English Online and Tips brochure Grow My Business All Micro businesses Encourages small businesses. Promotional Competition and Businessmen Arabic/English Online and award winning brochure Wedding Account All Newly weds Helps newly weds guarantee their future. Promotional Newly weds English Online and brochure Housing Loan All Low-income individuals Helps needy individuals buy houses. Promotional All Arabic Online and brochure Visa Business Debit Card All Businessmen Helps businessmen control their internal spending. Promotional Businessmen Arabic/English Online and brochure All you need to know All card holders All Educates cardholders on the evolving “Chip” technology that was Informative All English Online and about “Chip” cards introduced in order to combat the growing levels of fraud. brochure All you need to know All cardholders All Educates cardholders about the latest PayPass contactless payment Informative All English Online and about “PayPass” technology , a new feature that makes purchases easier since they simply brochure have to tap their card on a secure reader to pay. Employee’s guide to Employees All Summarises and classifies Bank Audi cards by chip type: “Chip & PIN” or Comprehensive All English Brochures “Chip Cards” “Chip & Signature”. 48 CSR REPORT 2016 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION GRI STANDARDS Table 25: Concordance Table GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL SDG REFERENCE GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL SDG REFERENCE COMPACT COMPACT UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 102-11 Report whether and how the organisation applies the SDG 8 P. 6, 10 & 15 Precautionary Principle or approach. SDG 9 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES SDG 13 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-12 List externally developed economic, environmental and social SDG 8 P. 15 & 47 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation 102-1 Report the name of the organisation. 6.3.10. P. 6 subscribes or which it endorses. 6.4.16.4.5. 102-2 Report the primary brands, products and services. P. 47 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, Principle 3 P. 6 6.8.5. and national or international advocacy organisations. 102-3 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. 7.8. P. 6 STRATEGY 102-4 Report the number of countries where the organisation P. 6 operates, and names of countries where it has significant 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 4.7. P. 4 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the 6.2. topics covered in the Report. organisation and its strategy for addressing sustainability. 7.2. 7.4.2. 102-5 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. P. 6 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-6 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, P. 6 sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 102-16 Describe the organisation's values, principles, standards and 4.4. Principle 10 SDG 8 P. 16 norms of behaviour. 6.6.3. 102-7 Report the scale of the organisation, including: SDG 8 P. 19 Total number of employees. GOVERNANCE Total number of operations. Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues 102-18 The reporting organisation shall report the following information: 6.2. AR P. 12 (for public sector organisations). a. Governance structure of the organisation, including committees 7.4.3. Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity of the highest governance body. 7.7.5. (for private sector organisations). b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, Quantity of products or services provided. environmental, and social topics. 102-8 a. Total number of employees by employment contract Principle 6 SDG 5 P. 35 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (permanent and temporary), by gender. SDG 8 b. Total number of employees by employment contract 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 5.3. P. 9 (permanent and temporary), by region. c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective 6.3.10. Principle 3 SDG 8 P. 35 and part-time), by gender. bargaining agreements. 6.4.16.4.5. d. Whether a significant portion of the organisation’s activities 6.8.5. are performed by workers who are not employees. If 7.8. applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. 102-42 Report the the basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders 5.3. P. 9 e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures with whom to engage. 6.7.1 6.7.2. 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations 6.7.6. in the tourism or agricultural industries). 102-43 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, P. 9, 21 & 22 f. An explanation of how the data was compiled, including including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder any assumptions made. group, and an indication of whether any of the engagements 102-9 A description of the organisation’s supply chain, including its SDG 8 P. 22 was undertaken specifically as part of the Report’s preparation main elements as they relate to the organisation’s activities, process. primary brands, products, and services. 102-44 Report key topics and concerns that were raised through P. 9, 21 & 22 102-10 Report any significant changes during the reporting period P. 6 stakeholder engagement, including: regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its AR P. 12 & i. How the organisation has responded to those key topics supply chain 17 and concerns, including through its reporting. Changes in the location of, or changes in operations, including ii. The stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics facility openings, closings, and expansions. and concerns. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for AR: Annual Report private sector organisations). Changes in the location of suppliers and the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. 49 CSR REPORT 2016 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL SDG REFERENCE GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL SDG REFERENCE COMPACT COMPACT REPORTING PRACTICE 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 102-45 Report the following information: 5.2. P. 8 103-1 For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report 5.2. P. 10 & 11 a. List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated 7.3.2. 7.3.4. the following information: 6. financial statements or equivalent documents. a. An explanation of why the topic is material. 6.3.6. b. Whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a 7.3.1. 7.3.4. financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered description of: 7.4.3. by the Report. i. Where the impacts occur. 7.7.3. ii. The organisation’s involvement with the impacts. For example, 7.7.5. 102-46 a. Explain the process for defining the Report’s content and P. 8 whether the organisation has caused or contributed to the aspect boundaries the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through b. Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting its business relationships. principles for defining the Report’s content. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 102-47 List all the material topics identified in the process for defining P. 8 103-2 For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report P. 10 the Report’s content. the following information: a. An explanation of how the organisation manages the topic. 102-48 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided P. 5 & 8 b. A statement of the purpose of Management's approach. in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. c. A description of the following, if Management's approach includes that component: 102-49 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in P. 5 & 8 i. Policies. the list of material topic and topic boundaries. ii. Commitments. iii. Goals and targets. 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided. 7.5.3. P. 3 iv. Responsibilities. 7.6.2. v. Resources. 102-51 Date of most recent previous report (if applicable). P. 3 vi. Grievance mechanisms. vii. Specific actions such as processes, projects, programs 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual or biennial). P. 3 and initiatives. 102-53 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the Report P. 3 103-3 For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report P. 10 or its content. the following information: a. A n explanation of how the organisation evaluates 102-54 The reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 3 Management's approach, including: a. The claim made by the organisation, if it has prepared a i. T he mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of report in accordance with the GRI Standards. Either: Management's approach. i. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI ii. The results of the evaluation of Management's approach. Standards: Core option. iii. Any related adjustments to Management's approach. ii. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS 102-55 The reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 49 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the Report. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. The number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 6.8.1 6.8.3. SDG 4 P. 19, 25, 36, the GRI Standards). 6.8.7. SDG 5 42 & 43 ii. The page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can 6.8.9. SDG 8 be found, either within the Report or in other published materials. SDG 9 iii. If applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for SDG 13 omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. MARKET PRESENCE 102-56 The reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 3 a. A description of the organisation’s policy and current practice 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 6.3.7. Principle 6 SDG 5 P. 36 with regard to seeking external assurance for the Report. local minimum wage. 6.3.10. SDG 8 b. If the Report has been externally assured: 6.4.3. i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, 6.4.4. or opinions. If not included in the assurance report 6.8.1 6.8.2. accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the 203-1 Report the following information: 6.3.9. SDG 4 P. 19, 20, 25, assurance process. a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments 6.8.1 6.8.2. SDG 5 29 & 38 ii. T he relationship between the organisation and the and services supported. 6.8.5. SDG 8 assurance provider. b. Current or expected impacts on communities and local 6.8.7. SDG 9 iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or Senior economies, including positive and negative impacts where 6.8.9. Executives are involved in seeking external assurance for relevant. the organisation’s sustainability report. c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers. 6.4.3. P. 22 6.8.1 6.8.2. 6.8.7. ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 6.6.1 6.6..3. Principle 10 P. 16 and procedures. 6.6.6. Principle 2 50 CSR REPORT 2016 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL SDG REFERENCE GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL SDG REFERENCE COMPACT COMPACT 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY ENERGY 405-1 Report the following information: 6.2.3. Principle 6 SDG 4 P. 35 a. Percentage of individuals within the organisation’s governance 6.3.7. SDG 5 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation. Principle 7 SDG 8 P. 44 bodies in each of the following diversity categories: 6.3.10. Principle 8 SDG 13 i. Gender. 6.4.3. Principle 9 ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 EMISSIONS years old. iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). 6.5.5. SDG 13 P. 43 or vulnerable groups). 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). SDG 13 P. 43 b. Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). SDG 13 P. 43 i. Gender. ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. SDG 13 P. 43 years old. iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority EFFLUENTS AND WASTE or vulnerable groups). 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 6.5.3. P. 42 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men for 6.3.7. SDG 5 P. 36 each employee category, by significant locations of operation. 6.3.10. SDG 8 6.4.3. 6.4.4. 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT EMPLOYMENT 412-2 Report the following information: 6.3.5. Principle 1 P. 16 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and 6.4.3. Principle 6 SDG 5 P. 36 a. Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to Principle 2 employee turnover by age group, gender and region. SDG 8 training on human rights policies or procedures concerning Principle 4 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Principle 6 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 6.4.4. SDG 8 P. 36 b. Percentage of employees trained during the reporting period to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations 6.8.7. in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of operation. of human rights that are relevant to operations. 401-3 Report the following information: 6.4.4. SDG 5 P. 36 a. Total number of employees that were entitled to parental SDG 8 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE leave, by gender. 419-1 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 4.6. P. 16 b. Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. with laws and/or regulations in the social and economic area. c. Total number of employees that returned to work in the reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender. d. Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS return to work, by gender. e. Return to work and retention rates of employees that took LOCAL COMMUNITIES parental leave, by gender. G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically SDG 8 P. 22 TRAINING AND EDUCATION disadvantaged areas by type. 404-1 Average hours of training that the organisation’s employees 6.4.7. SDG 4 P. 34 G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged SDG 8 P. 21 & 22 have undertaken during the reporting period, by: SDG 5 people. SDG 9 i. Gender. SDG 8 ii. Employee category. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING 404-2 Report the following information: 6.4.7. SDG 8 P. 34 G4-FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. SDG 4 P. 28 & 48 a. Type and scope of programs implemented and assistance 6.8.5. provided to upgrade employee skills. PRODUCT PORTFOLIO b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver SDG 4 P. 15 & 22 employability and the management of career endings resulting a specific social benefit for each business line broken down SDG 5 from retirement or termination of employment. by purpose. SDG 8 404-3 Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category 6.4.7. SDG 5 P. 34 SDG 9 who received a regular performance and career development 6.8.5. SDG 13 review during the reporting period. 6.4.3. G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver SDG 8 P. 15 a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken SDG 9 down by purpose. SDG 13 *Principle 5: Child Labor, N/A 51 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS For this report all departments, branches and numerous individuals have made a significant contribution. We would like to thank them all, as well as employees and stakeholders who have participated in the assessment process, providing feedback and helping our continuous improvement. We would also like to thank our consultants for their comments and suggestions which have contributed to our efforts to integrate best practices in this report. Protecting further our environment, we have opted to have a soft version only of our full-fledged 2016 CSR Report with an executive summary in print. 52
