Yaşar 2016 Sustainability Report Index 3 6 Joint Statement 8 About the Report 9 Our Sustainability Journey 14 Sustainability Priorities 16 Yaşar Group 16 Yaşar Group in Brief 18 Corporate Profile 20 Important Developments (2016) 23 Our Awards 24 Compatibility with Sustainable Development Goals 39 Caring For Business 53 Caring For Society 40 Economic Performance 54 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety 43 Sustainability Management 59 Quality, Innovation and R&D 45 Stakeholder Dialogue 65 Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding 46 Ethics and Compliance 67 Contribution to Local Economy 49 Risk Management 70 Social Investment Works 81 Caring For Employees 105 Caring For Environment 82 Employee Profile 106 Environment Management 89 Employee Rights 108 Water Management 94 Employee Development 112 Energy and Climate Change 96 Occupational Health and Safety 114 Waste Management 119 Caring For Business Partners 128 Appendix 120 Supply Chain Management 128 GRI G4 Content Index 133 UNGC Principles Index YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 3 Taking care of each circle of our value chain... 4 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 5 Joint Statement constitutes the backbone of our ethical values and especially our determination in the quality employment of women. Our comprehension in adopting cooperative relations with our stakeholders were almost in full compliance with the new goals. In the following report, as a beginning on our side, you will find how both our business understanding and our core values and all of our activities are related to the new sustainable development goals, and how we are working as Yaşar Group to achieve these goals in unison. It is clearly seen, that our work on reducing carbon and water footprints, our efforts on creating a decent workplace, our corporate social responsibility activities for our stakeholders and the value we attach to qualified employment of women which is always top priority for us, all of which have been treated under different titles until recently. Mustafa Selim Yaşar Mehmet Aktaş However, as always, we are aware as Yaşar Group, that there is much progChairperson of Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer ress to be made. We want to reiterate that we see the expression of continuity, which is hidden in the name of sustainability, as the fundamental Sustainability is possibly the most effective approach amongst all, to lead to permanent changes consciousness of all our work. in business models all over the world. As Yaşar Group, sustainability has been the most trustworthy flag-bearer for our founding values that we tried to transfer to the future from the first A thinker emphasizes the value of committing to and acting on the decisions, day on. as well as the value of deciding on a matter, saying “commitment is not a word but an act”. As Yaşar Group, together with all our employees, we start to As Yaşar Group, when participating to the United Nations Global Compact in 2007, which is rework every morning, remembering the decisions we made to make our world garded as a start for sustainability activities on a global scale; we have realized that we have a more livable and sustainable planet for all living and unborn people. entered a path, which is not difficult to follow, but where we will feel better each passing day and with each new decision. Over the past decade, we have been following the sustainability develHere you hold the report that certifies that Yaşar Group is carrying on its work opments all over the world and trying to be pioneer for this new understanding in our country. with the first day’s excitement and commitment to the founding values. When the United Nations (UN) shared Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with the whole world in November 2015, they also suggested that we review our goals and analyze the relationship between our goals and the UN-SDGs in order to align our goals according to this analysis. Starting from the mid-2016, we have accelerated our efforts to determine the best path for all of our companies by comparing our corporate business goals with the world’s sustainability goals. In every analysis, the preciseness of the decisions we have taken thus far and the distance we have covered made us both pleased and hopeful for the future. We have not walked alone in our journey; while spending efforts to make our planet more habitable for humans and all other living things; showing performance to reduce our carbon and water footprint; developing an approach and stakeholder relations for sustainable agriculture; actively working for responsible production and consumption based on the understanding of supporting the formation of healthy individuals and society; pursuing our egalitarian business mentality that 6 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 7 About the Our Sustainability Report Journey G4-17, G4-18, G4-22, G4-27 G4-22 Yaşar 2016 Sustainability Report contains the curIn addition, the sustainability performance data Sustainability is closely related to the core values and goals of our Group as a concept that rent sustainability vision, strategy and sustainof Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation, Pınar manages the risks which affect the future of the planet and humankind on a global scale ability performance of the period 01.01.2016Institute and Yaşar University, which are linked to and reflects the essential goals for a more habitable world. Taking into account the com31.12.2016 in line with our goal to contribute Yaşar Group, are not included in the report, but mon risks and objectives of humanity as well as the opportunities that emerge in a gloto the sustainable future of the world. Our susactivities carried out by these organizations in the balizing world and doing business accordingly stand before the business world as today’s tainability journey that we started in 2007 was area of sustainability are included only for inforgreat responsibility. As Yaşar Group, we are proud to have a sense of consciousness and aligned with the United Nations (UN) Sustainable mation sharing purposes. responsibility long since. Development Goals published in 2015. Yaşar 2016 Sustainability Report has been prepared using the Preparation of the report and collecting and evalGRI G4 Guidelines-Core option. The Report also uating related data was conducted in coordination Our social responsibility activities go back to the literacy courses that Dyo Coating 1960 2000 uses GRI G4 Food Processing Sector Disclosures. of the Corporate Affairs Coordinatorship Departlaunched in the 1960’s and social amenities for the employees. In 1962, as a first With this Report, we also declare our commitment ment and the Extended Sustainable Development in the private sector, Dyo Coating began to organize a painting contest for the deto the UN Global Compact Principles. Committee, with the contribution of the relevant velopment of art in society. The theater we built in 1969 in the Bademler Village of departments of companies operating within Yaşar İzmir reflects the roots of our sense of corporate social responsibility. Pınar PaintThe 2016 Report as a whole evaluates the ecoGroup and within the scope of the report. The reing Competition, which has been held for 35 years in order to raise the interest of nomic, social and environmental performance of port has not been controlled by an external audit. children in the elementary school age in art and to raise the artists of the future, our Group in terms of sustainability in a one-year SU Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsicontinues with the same enthusiasm. In addition to this, Pınar Children’s Theater period and reflects our renewed sustainability apbility Consulting has supported the preparation of has been staging plays free of charge to more than three million children across proach. This sustainability performance evaluathe report. The following teams have taken part in Turkey for 29 years in order to inculcate love of art into our children. Again, as part tion covers only 10 companies operating in Turkey the works carried out under the leadership of the of our responsible business understanding, the support and trainings provided by and excludes our companies operating abroad. top management; Pınar Dairy to raw milk producers in 1975 point to the historical ties of our Group’s Sustainability performances of our companies acvalues and goals with sustainable corporate responsibility. tive in Turkey are based on the following sectors • Extended Sustainable Development Committee, and discussed in the report in in relation with the • Sustainability Report Team Members, sustainability approach of the Group. • Carbon and Water Leaders, • Carbon and Water Footprint Teams. The compliance of our corporate sustainability works with international standards 2000 2009 Our “Sustainability Priorities” included in our rebegan with the adoption of the Corporate Governance Principles which was issued Food and Beverage port, which is a strategic view of our Group, is by OECD in 2000. We continued our Corporate Governance activities required for shared under the headings “Our Sustainability corporate sustainability with Capital Markets Board principles and human resources Journey” based on the past and “Sustainability performance management systems. For the holistic framework for sustainability, Coating Priorities” which defines our future direction. Our we started our journey with the signature of then the Chairperson of Board of Direport has been prepared both in Turkish and rectors, Mrs. Feyhan Yaşar, to the UN Global Compact for the private sector under Tissue Papers English. the UN Millennium Development Goals on November 12th 2007. The close relationship of the Sustainable principles and goals with our Group’s values and strategies Your feedback is highly important for us … was the main reason for our commitment to the contract. The Convention had Trade and Service Please send your opinions, suggestions and the basic reference feature that guides the private sector in critical issues such as questions related to Yaşar 2016 Sustainability human rights, working conditions, environment and corruption within the sustainReport published by Yaşar Group to ability agenda. We have also started our sustainability journey, which has led Yaşar forabetterlife@yasar.com.tr Group to a new transformation and development process with this signature. 8 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 9 Our Sustainability Our Sustainability Journey Journey G4-22 G4-22 In 2009 we released our first UN Global Compact Progress Report. The report was both In 2014, we started to work on creating a greenhouse gas inventory management system. 2009 2010 2014 our commitment to the objectives of the Convention and the expression of the progress we We also started to work on water footprint calculations. Pınar Dairy and Pınar Meat Borsa had made. In the following year, we shared our development and its announcement with İstanbul Corporate Governance Index corporate governance ratings were revised upward. the public with the second UN Global Compact Progress Report. Our Group contributed to Pınar was granted the grand prize award with “Pınar Kids Painting Competition” in the catthe implementation and dissemination of the UN Global Compact Principles in our country egory of “Brand Voice”, where successful projects in PR field are granted with Felis awards by transparently presenting our corporate structure, operation and effectiveness to the by Mediacat. Pınar Dairy won the first prize in the food and beverage sub-sector in the society and our stakeholders. In 2010, we created the Corporate Communications, SustainEnergy-Efficient Industrial Plant category in the 15th Industrial Energy Efficiency Project able Development, Social Responsibility, Corporate Governance and Ethics, Corporate ValCompetition organized by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Dyo Coating R&D ues subcommittees under the committee established to realize the ‘Corporate Reputation’ Center became the most successful R&D center in the chemical sector according to the project under the leadership of Mrs. İdil Yiğitbaşı, the Chairperson of Board of Directors at results of “R&D centers performance index” which evaluates all R&D centers. that period. In addition, taking as a baseline year, in 2010 we started our carbon footprint calculations within our Group. With the establishment of Carbon Teams and Leaders in our companies, we expanded the processes to every stage of our value chain. Continuing to make new additions every year to its sustainability journey, our Group real2015 ized the project of Improving Animal Welfare within Pınar Meat in 2015. In December Pınar Meat has been public listed in Borsa İstanbul (Stock Exchange) Corporate Governance 2011 2015, Bursa Plant, which produces Recycled Packed Natural Spring Water, was opened as Index. In 2011 we decided to move our sustainability journey to a higher level as the Pınar Water. Thus, our recycled product capacity has increased by approximately 70% from Group. We put into practice the reporting method provided by the Global Reporting Initia335.000 tons / year to 568.000 tons / year. Pınar Diary, the first producer of milk and dairy tive (GRI), which is compatible with the UN Global Compact, and published the first Yaşar products to take part in CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) including the water transparency Sustainability Report. The GRI Reporting approach offered the opportunity to better manproject, ranked first among the volunteers in the CDP 2015 Climate Change Turkey Report. age and evaluate our work with the consistency, reliability and benchmarking opportunities. Our Reports, which offer the opportunity to monitor, manage, evaluate and communicate our corporate, economic, social and environmental impact performance on the basis of sustainability, have elevated our sustainability journey qualitatively and quantitatively. In As an indication of importance has been given by Yaşar Group to sustaniability along with 2016 addition, global adoption of the GRI Reporting approach has contributed to making comeconomic, environmental and social dimensions, “Productivity Contest” and “Yaşar’s Stars mon language and objectives in alignment with our stakeholders. We prepare annual Yaşar Contest” has been combined under the roof of sustainability and has been started with the Sustainability Reports since 2011 until today and present them to the attention of our soname of “Yaşar Sustainability Contest”. ciety and stakeholders. As of 2016, the UN has launched the new sustainability vision and approach under the SusWe have signed the CEO Support Statement on UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, 2012 tainable Development 2030 Goals, in relation to the changing world conditions. This change initiated by the UN in 2012. Using the e-learning methodology under the brand “Yaşar gave a new direction to Yaşar Group’s sustainability journey. We implemented an alignment Academy”, we created a training platform for our employees. We participated in the “Platbetween the business goals of our Group with the 2030 Development Goals and an update form for Equality in Business”, which was introduced by the World Economic Forum and led through the studies that we conducted starting from the senior management. Based on by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. Pınar Meat started to trade in the Borsa İstanbul these studies, we prepared the Yaşar Group 2030 Business Goals. Corporate Governance Index. Dyo Coating won the environmental prize in the large enterprise category in the 18th Şehabettin Bilgisu Environmental Award Competition of Kocaeli We started our sustainability journey with the awareness of protecting a habitable world Chamber of Industry. and a country not just as an economic but also a social and environmental actor. We had the opportunity to redefine, integrate and develop our corporate vision, our values, our In 2013 we added on to the already increasing number of activities for our sustainability 2013 business model and our goals within this journey on the basis of sustainability. We adopted journey. Pınar Institute, which was founded in order to raise awareness of the society on an approach that follows and strategically internalizes best practices as well as being refood, health and nutrition and to support scientific studies, has started its activities. We sponsive to new developments emerging in the world. Apart from our own business models have conducted a water survey in all our companies to determine the needs for water and and strategies, we made utmost efforts to disseminate and implement our philosophy of wastewater management. We published the “Orientation Procedure” in order to ensure sustainability in our processes, products and services, and more importantly in our stakethat the orientation process of all employees of the Group is carried out in alliance. We holders. Lastly in our sustainability journey, we aligned and identified our own business completed the construction of Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation Special Education goals with 2030 Sustainable Development Goals set by the UN in 2015. Implementation Center and Business Implementation Center with 18 classrooms, to educate autistic students only, and delivered to the Provincial Directorate of National Education. Pınar Water started to be traded at Borsa İstanbul Corporate Governance Index. In the 2013 GRI Report, we evaluated the progress we made and shared it with the public. In the research made by Superbrands International, Pınar took place among Turkey’s super brands. 10 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 11 Our Sustainability Journey G4-22 Yaşar Group has a holistic sustainability approach. It carries out its activities in all its companies according to responsible growth approach. This understanding, which is based on the continuous reduction of the adverse effect created in the environment while growing economically, is at the same time under constant control and development with our standards and practices. Our sustainability strategy supported at the highest management level is expanded to all value chain operations through the committees established and the activities carried out. We are in utmost compliance with our corporate standards and practices in the areas of human rights, gender equality, career development and employee safety throughout our operations in different sectors. We regularly measure our environmental impact through carbon and water footprints and strive to improve our performance every year. We have zero tolerance for bribery or corruption in accordance with our transparent management policy. We have contributed to the goal of a habitable future with the investments that we have made in civil society and the academic field, and the positive impact we have made, beyond the operation and economic values we have created. We continue to contribute to the development and enrichment of social life through the social, cultural and artistic activities we organize every year. In addition, with the projects and activities carried out in the field of education and sports, we contribute to making future generations professionally stronger, healthier and more advanced. Sustainable business and value creation approach based on the balance of economic, social and environmental factors is especially the responsibility of the private sector. We also take it as a mission to lead the private sector to become more responsible and effective social stakeholders in our country. The path we have taken and the successful results we receive confirm preciseness and rightfulness of our mission and the effort we have shown in this path. Yaşar Group continues to be a responsible and influential organization that is sensitive to economic, social, cultural and environmental improvements. Our goal is to have reached the 2030 sustainability goals set at the global level in our own organization and in our sphere of influence. We wish that the positive contributions we make for a sustainable world and the future increase every year and establish a precedent in our country and in the world. 12 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 13 Sustainability Sustainability Priorities Priorities G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23, G4-27 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23, G4-27 Yaşar Group has updated its sustainability priorities in the course of the past year with a more systematic The relevant sustainability topics were shared with our stakeholders through the performed workshop, face approach. In this respect, it has carried out a comprehensive prioritization study involving all relevant stato face interviews and questionnaires and they were asked to rank the topics they consider to be material. keholders. When Yaşar Group’s sustainability priorities are determined, it is taken into consideration of both The obtained results were grouped and consolidated on company basis, hence, the sustainability topics, strategic sustainability priorities and the Yaşar Group’s stakeholder companies’ priorities. which our stakeholders consider to be material, were determined. Sustainability topics that have strategic priorities for Yaşar have been identified after determining the releYaşar Group Materiality Matrix: vant sustainability topics. Then sustainability topics were determined for the stakeholders and “Yaşar Group Materiality Matrix” was established with the conclusion of the results. HIGH While determining the relevant sustainability topics, GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, GRI Food Processing Sector Disclosures and “Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What Do Stakeholders Want to Know?” Quality, Innovation, R&D/Product and Service Excellence report issued by GRI, as well as the dynamics in the sectors, where Yaşar Group companies act, and the Occupational Health and Safety Consumer/Customer's Health and Safety economic, social and environmental impacts of those sectors and Yaşar Group’s economic, social and environmental impacts and the feedbacks received from the stakeholders directly or indirectly in time, have Employees' Rights been used. Importance for Stakeholder Energy Efficiency Discussions and workshops were held at the level of both Board of Directors and Top Management in order to determine the topics having strategic priority for Yaşar Group. In this context, face to face interviews Waste Management Economic Performance were made with 4 members of Yaşar Holding Board of Directors. 19 people, who are in top level manageWater Management Employee's Development ment in Yaşar Group companies and who are decision makers, participated in Yaşar Group Top Management Materiality Workshop. As the result of long assessments, the sustainability topics having strategic priority Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding were determined from the eyes of top management. Sustainable Purchase Determination of Sustainability Topics That are Material for the Stakeholders Investments and Payment for Environmental Protection Ethic and Compliance Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Non-discrimination Yaşar Group, which acts in many sectors, has a very wide stakeholder network. In order to determine the Environmental and Social Compliance of Suppliers material sustainability topics for our stakeholders, different stakeholder dialog tools were used in complianContribution to Local Economy Preventing Corruption and ce with the nature of the stakeholder group. Unfair Competition Emissons Social Investments Bio-Diversity In this context; A total of 212 stakeholder group representatives were accessed through 9 workshops. Face Animal Welfare to face interviews were made with 13 public representatives and 6 NGO representatives, corresponding to Protecting Natural and Cultural Inheritance a total of 19 and The representatives of a total of 73 institutions were accessed through 9 two-stage online questionnaires. LOW Strategical Importance The stakeholder groups to be included in the materiality assesment were determined together with our Group companies, taking the effect and accessibility factors into consideration, and care was paid to select the person and institution to be interviewed so as to represent the stakeholder group. Sustainability Topics The list of our stakeholder groups, which participated in Yaşar Group materiality assesment: Material Sustainability Topics Scope Quality, Innovation and R&D Yaşar Group Companies Food and Beverage Coating Tissue Papers Trade and Service Consumer/Customer Health and Safety Yaşar Group Companies Yaşar Holding Group Group Group Group Economic Performance Yaşar Group Companies Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Ethics and Compliance Yaşar Group Companies (workshop) (workshop) (2 workshops) (workshop) (workshop) Employee Rights Yaşar Group Companies Consumers Coating Masters Customers Customers* Employee Development Yaşar Group Companies (2 workshops) (workshop) (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) Occupational Health and Safety Yaşar Group Companies, Sub-contractors Customers Direct Customers Suppliers Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Yaşar Group Companies (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding Yaşar Group Companies, Farmers Sustainable Supply Chain Management Yaşar Group Companies, Suppliers Suppliers Dealers (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) Water Management Yaşar Group Companies Energy and Climate Change Yaşar Group Companies Civil Society Suppliers (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) Waste Management Yaşar Group Companies Public Civil Society While determining the contents of Yaşar 2016 Sustinability Report, the sustainability priorities of Yaşar (face to face interview) (face to face interview) Group were taken as basis. In the Matrix, all of the high priority topics for the Yaşar Group are included in Public our report. Some topics, which have relatively low priority in Yaşar Group Materiality Matrix were included in (face to face interview) the report to the extent they are related to the topics that are determined to have high priority. 14 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 15 Yaşar Group Yaşar Group in Brief Yaşar Group started its journey in modest steps in Yaşar Group is committed to maintaining strong Yaşar Group Board of Directors İzmir in the first years of the Republic of Turkey. business collaboration in all sectors it is involved in Today, Yaşar Group is one of the leading economic and increasing sustainable value. While the Group Mustafa Selim Yaşar Yaşar Holding Chairperson of Board of Directors actors in Turkey with 21 companies with 4 of them companies strive for the development of the secFeyhan Yaşar Yaşar Holding Vice Chairperson of Board of Directors in top 500 in Turkey, 24 factories and plants, 2 fountors in which they operate, on the other hand they İdil Yiği̇ tbaşı Yaşar Holding Vice Chairperson of Board of Directors dations and providing job opportunity for 7.500 continue their production in an ethical and environYılmaz Gökoğlu Yaşar Holding Member of the Board of Directors employees in food and beverage, paint, cleaning mentally conscious manner, aware of their collective Cengiz Erol Yaşar Holding Member of the Board of Directors papers, tourism, foreign trade and energy sectors social responsibility. Mehmet Aktaş Yaşar Holding Member of the Board of Directors with more than 1.000 distributors and 200 thousand sales points. Yaşar Group exports to more than 70 Considering the interests of all stakeholders in terms countries and has six companies located abroad. of transparency, fairness, accountability and responsibility as adopted by the whole Group, Yaşar HoldYaşar Group Top Management Offering innovative products that increase the ing constantly monitors its practices in terms of its Mehmet Aktaş Yaşar Holding Chief Executive Officer quality of life in every sector it operates and firmly corporate governance structure and Corporate Govprotecting “the pioneer of innovations” title, Yaşar ernance Principles. Hikmet Altan Yaşar Holding Financial Affairs and Vice CFO Group continues to exist with values of Holding Levent Dağhan Food Group Food Vice CEO Consumers and Customers First, Operational PerCarrying out humanitarian activities in all areas of Cüneyt Başbakkal Yaşar Holding Vice External Trade Chairperson fectionism, Human Resources, Ethical Management, life with the responsibilities of corporate citizenship, Yaşar Foreign Trade General Manager Environmental and Social Responsibility values with Our Group works for a sustainable world with the Sinan Gerçek Yaşar Holding Vice Information Systems Chairperson its mission to provide quality products and services slogan “for a better life”. Managing all business proHasan Girenes Yaşar Holding Vice Chairperson for Agriculture, Live Stock and Fishing that add value to the lives of consumers with its cesses on the axis of sustainability within this scope, Çamlı Feed General Manager reliable brands. our Group reports these activities as per the transDyo Coating Foreign Companies Vice Chairperson Serdar Oran Dyo Coating Dyo Coating General Manager parency principle. Our Group has been publishing Senem Demirkan Yaşar Holding Capital Markets Coordinator (1) Our Group, which values and gives importance to Sustainability Reports every year since 2011, having social development as well as economic developparticipated in the United Nations Global Compact Kamil Deveci Yaşar Holding Audit and Risk Management Coordinator (2) ment, supports education, sports, culture and arts signatories in 2007 and published the 2009 and Dilek Emil Yaşar Holding Corporate Affairs Coordinator with Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation and 2010 Communication on Progress (COP) Reports Seçkin Şenol Yaşar Holding Budget Control and Analysis Coordinator (2) Selçuk Yaşar Sports and Education Foundation and under the UN Global Compact framework. The menTurgut Sarıoğlu Food Group Food, Logistics and Special Projects Coordinator provides social benefit through the social responsitioned reports can be found at www.yasar.com.tr Abdullah Akçasız Viking Tissue General Manager bility projects it carries out. Yaşar University is one Gürkan Hekimoğlu Pınar Dairy General Manager of the leading universities of Turkey with the education provided in international norms. Hüseyin Karamehmetoğlu Pınar Water General Manager Orhan Koral Altın Yunus General Manager (5) Suat Özyiğit YBP General Manager Erhan Savcıgil Pınar Dairy R&D and Technology Coordinator Corporate Profile Company Name: Yaşar Holding A.Ş. Arda Cenk Tokbaş HDF FZCO General Manager Fields of Activity: Food-beverage, paint, agricultural production, cleaning papers, trade-services, energy Tunç Tuncer Pınar Meat General Manager Number of Employees: 7.500 Mehmet Aykırı Yaşar Holding Corporate Communication Director UN Global Compact Özgün Bayraktar Yaşar Holding Real Estate Project Manager Membership Date: 12 November 2007 Filiz Ergin Yaşar Holding Human Resources Director Address: Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No:120 35210 İzmir, Türkiye Name and Title of Gözde Kınlı Yaşar Holding Auditing Director (3) Contact Person: Dilek EMİL, Coordinator, Corporate Affairs Okan Netek Yaşar Holding Financial Affairs Director (4) Contact Information: Tel: 0 312 294 92 00 / E-mail: dilekemil@yasar.com.tr Aslı Yılmaz Yaşar Holding Corporate Finance ad Reporting Director (3) (1) until 29.02.2016 (2) until 31.03.2017 (3) as of 01.04.2017 (4) as of 02.05.2016 (5) as of 13.06.2016 16 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 17 Yaşar Group Corporate Profile Pınar Süt Pınar Entegre Pınar Su Yaşar Birleşik Çamlı Yem Dyo Boya Altın Yunus Çeşme Desa Enerji Viking Kağıt ve Yaşar Bilgi İşlem Mamülleri Et ve Un Sanayii ve Pazarlama Dağıtım Besicilik Fabrikaları Sanayi Turistik Tesisler Elektrik Selüloz A.Ş. ve Ticaret A.Ş. Sanayi A.Ş. Sanayii A.Ş. Ticaret A.Ş. Turizm ve Ticaret San. ve Tic. A.Ş. ve Ticaret A.Ş. A.Ş. Üretim A.Ş. (Viking Tissue) (Astron) (Pınar Dairy) (Pınar Meat) (Pınar Water) A.Ş. (YBP) (Çamlı Feed) (Dyo Coating) (Altın Yunus) (Desa Energy) Publicly Publicly Traded Traded Foundation Foundation 1973 1985 1984 1983 1983 1954 1969 1974 1983 1996 Year Year Headquarter İzmir İzmir İzmir İzmir İzmir Headquarter İzmir İzmir İzmir İzmir İzmir İzmir, İstanbul, İzmir, Eskişehir, Aydın, Sakarya, Antalya, Bodrum/ İzmir, Kocaeli, Factory İzmir İzmir, Manisa(2) Factory İzmir İzmir İzmir(4) İzmir(3) Şanlıurfa Isparta, Bursa Muğla, Adana, Manisa Ankara, Trabzon (1) 675.000 ton/year Total 1.021 person/ 158 million kWh/ Total 260.000 ton/year 45.800 ton/year raw milk in 58.000 ton/year 1.988.000 ton/year 324.250 ton/year(5) 335.000 ton/year Capacity accomodation year Capacity processing Çamlı, Pınar Balık, Premia, Lily, Senso, Pınar, Biofarm, Brands Dyo, Dewilux, Casati Astron Pınar, Doyum, Select, Pufla Brands Pınar Pınar Nar'ca,Maxwell, CoolDog, Yörük Detay, Mars Bioaqua, Çamlı Çiftliği # of SKU 15.700 125 # of SKU 300 500 17 720 396 Employment 1.074 371 213 110 22 Employment 1.150 1.121 502 888 467 Distribution 800 dealer + 300 dealer + Direct All of Tukey, mainly Distribution and Service 167 construction Approx. 100 dealer, Customers the Aegean Region 415 dealer, 19 Network market and Service via YBP via YBP Approx. 150.000 209 dealer distributor Network sales point www.desaenerji. Web www.dyo.com.tr www.viking.com.tr www.altinyunus.com.tr www.astron.ws com.tr Web www.pinar.com.tr www.pinar.com.tr www.pinarsu.com.tr www.ybp.com.tr www.camli.com.tr EU Countries, Gulf EU Countries, EU Countries, Central EU Countries, USA, Germany, Balkans, UK, Middle East and Countries, USA, Foreign Central Asia Asia Republics, Africa, Middle East and EU Countries, Greece, Scandinavian Gulf Countries, Balkan Countries, Republics, Middle Central America, Foreign Gulf Countries, Middle East and Trade Countries, Iran, Baku, Russia, Turkic Asia, Northern East and Gulf Middle East and Gulf Russia, Turkic Gulf Countries, Gulf Countries, Russia (6) Trade Republics, EU Cyprus, Middle East, Countries, Africa Countries Republics, Far East, Russia, USA, Far Countries, USA, Turkic Republics, Northern Cyprus, East Northern Cyprus North America, Australia, Canada Australia (1) Regional Directorates (2) Factories & Plant (3) Plant (4) Offices (5) Total Sale Amount (6) Customers’ Country Origins 18 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 19 Yaşar Group Important Developments (2016) • By January 2017, Pınar Diary has taken the R&D Center into operation in a timely manner in • Çamlı Feed Manisa Turgutlu Plant, which is under construction as of 2016, is planned to come ÇAMLI FEED PINAR DAIRY accordance with the decision taken in 2016 to establish an R&D Center. into operation by the end of 2017. The new factory, which will produce in vertical and modern • Continuing to work without sacrificing high quality standards with its products offering health system, will provide 15% lower energy consumption with energy efficient equipment use and and taste together, Pınar Diary introduced 13 new products and 59 new product packages to factory automation systems that increase operational efficiency. The facility will be the most the sector in 2016. modern feed factory in Turkey equipped with the latest technology. It will contribute to the newly built region in economics, trade and employment. • Pınar Go Cheese Series and Pınar Açbitir Sliced Cheese were presented to consumers. • For the first time in Turkey, Çamlı Feed has been certified as Sea-Friendly by Friend of the Sea, • In 2016, several renovation investments were made in İzmir and Eskişehir Plants in order to a non-governmental organization aiming to protect the habitat of the seas and oceans all over increase operational efficiency. the world, by taking full score on environmental impact assessment of full-scale integration from • CDP Turkey Climate Leader Award and CDP Turkey Water Leader Award were deemed. larvae production to packaging. • In December 2016, Vodafone measured the digital index of the YBP. We have been informed • In 2016, automation was started in the production of sliced products and a fully automatic YBP by Vodafone the average the measurements made in CAP 500 firms in Turkey was 68%. In the PINAR MEAT packaging line was set up instead of manual packaging at the end of the line. Thus, a signifimeasurement made without including planned and ongoing projects and developments, the cant improvement in labor, energy and production efficiency has been achieved. digitization index of YBP was 76%, which is higher than the Turkey average. This situation is important in order to provide a significant competitive advantage among the companies during • Pınar Meat, giving priority to products with high competitiveness and added value, presented the digital era. 41 new products, 22 retail, 13 special customers, 3 exports and 3 COH in 2016. • In 2016, YBP has signed an important collaboration in the field of sales and distribution with • 20 product studies were carried out in accordance with the energy, sodium and saturated fat Mars, one of the world’s leading chocolate and confectionary producers. Within the framework limits determined for school canteens by the Ministry of Health. It has been decided that 8 of of this cooperation; Mars’s selected chocolate and confectionary products will be delivered to these new products will be released on the market. consumers all over Turkey through the experienced sales and distribution network of YBP, brin• As a requirement of TSE EN ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, environmental iming Mars’s most preferred products to consumers. pact inventory studies were carried out at all units in Pınar Meat facilities. For an area of about • In order to increase customer satisfaction and to allocate more time to customers, pilot flexible 10.000 m2, the insulation-free roofing material was replaced by an insulated roofing material. working arrangements have been initiated in which the field staff can operate independently of the place with digital infrastructure support. • Changes were made in organization and business models in order to provide customer satisfaction and cost advantage in line with the changes in market structure in 2016. Depending on the • Pınar Water took its 4th plant into operation Bursa İnegöl in 2016 with the brand name “Uludağ performances of the dealership areas, some regions were transferred to YBP sales management PINAR WATER Kaynağı”. In the new facility, there are production lines with dispenser size and pet bottle packand YBP sales teams, channel performance were increased and customer special focuses were aging. With this investment, Pınar Water increased its production capacity by 29%. provided with the establishment of central sales organisons, changes made in logistics companies in some regions and smart logistics model were introduced. • In 2016, investments were made especially in the Aydın Bozdoğan Madran Plant for efficiency. The palletization work, which was partly manual, has been fully automated with the robot • Dyo Coating was granted the 2016 Turkish Excellence Award in the category of Large EnterDYO COATING investment on the bottling lines, and the capacities and productivity of the lines have been prises given by KalDer, the most prestigious award in the business world in quality. Dyo Coatincreased. In the same way, the manually operated bottle feeding process was automated ing, being the first company to implement the EFQM Excellence Model by participating in the by investing on a depaletizer for the 0,33L and 0,75L glass line. Thus, by increasing the line National Quality Movement in 2013 and implementing EFQM Excellence Model in paint industry capacity, the line was made more efficient. by making it an indispensable part of the institutional culture over the years, has been awarded • Transparent PC panel roof systems were provided in Pınar Water Bursa for maximum use for excellence in its products and services. of daylight. This has saved 38,3 kW/h of energy. By the improvement in the dispenser size • With the contents of “Value for Tomorrow” Corporate Social Responsibility Project, education bottle cleaning line steam system in the same facility, energy and LNG consumption has been contents giving information about color, use of space, heat and light elements were provided to reduced by approximately 45,7%. 25.000 people who were studying in 2nd, 3rd and 4th class through 1.025 education sessions at 66 schools in 10 cities during the 2015-2016 school year and also 1.018 teachers were reached. • Lighting systems in all facilities have been designed and implemented as LED with the aim of giving less harmful radiation to the environment, the plant lighting costs have been reduced and energy efficiency has been achieved. 20 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 21 Yaşar Group Important Developments (2016) Our Awards • Within the project “Value for the Mastership” under the framework of the “Value for the Future” • Pınar Meat, Pınar Diary and YBP recieved a gold medMarketing Awards with respect to the “Reputation and DYO COATING project, Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University delivered 1.300 hours of training to 219 painters from al on Tax Payment Award in tax competition which is Brand Value Performance Measurement” research given by the Izmir Chamber of Commerce, conducted by Marketing Türkiye and Akademetre Re10 cities. With this training, the painters with professional competence certificate had the chance • Pınar Meat, Pınar Water, Pınar Dairy, Viking Tissue and search Company within 43 categories of the sector to make color and space composition through the eyes of an architect. Çamlı Feed were awarded Gold Medal in foreign curin that year, Pınar was granted 2016 Most Successful • Dyo Coating broke new ground in Turkey with “Value for Schools” project within the scope of rentcy Izmir Chamber of Commerce, Tax Gold medal Brand Award in Food Industry. “Value for the Future” and prepared the School Painting Guide with a scientific content. The in the award category “foreign exchange” • 28. Crystal Apple: Pınar Yoghurt’s Flowerpot CamSchool Painting Guide, which includes color and paint options in terms of color, space, light, etc., • World Dairy Innovation Award 2016: The Pınar Pistapaign was granted 2 Crystal Apple / Bronze Awards in has been sent by the Ministry of Education to 20.000 schools throughout Turkey to increase and chio Breakfast Cream was granted “Category ChamDigital Campaign Fast Consumption and Social Media improve the quality of school spaces where children spend most of their time. In addition, the pion” award in the 10th World Dairy Innovation Award categories in the 28th Crystal Apple competition. prepared guide was shared with one million teachers. 2016, which rewards each year the excellence and • Integrated Marketing Awards, The Most Successful • Dyo Coating painted 10 schools in 10 cities, Adana, Ankara, Antalya, Bursa, Gaziantep, Istanbul, innovations of the global dairy products industry, the Brand of the Year in Food Industry: In Integrated Izmir, Kocaeli, Samsun and Trabzon, as an application example of the School Painting Guide most well-known brands and the most ambitious new Marketing Awards with respect to the “Reputation and accepted by the Ministry of Education. Within the scope of the project, 120 painters with profesfirms in the sector. In the contest where 18 differBrand Value Performance Measurement” research sional competence certificate, who have received the training from Mimar Sinan Fine Arts Unient awards were granted, Pınar Pistachio Breakfast conducted by Marketing Türkiye and Akademetre Reversity, prepared the schools for the new academic year by painting them with 34 tons of paint Cream was deservedly awarded by leaving all finalists search Company within 43 categories of the sector behind in category “Best Butter / Dairy Spread”. Also in that year, Pınar was granted 2016 Most Successful in such a short time as a month. in the competition, Pınar GO Cheese Series was rated Brand Award in Food Industry. • In 2016 at the Dilovası Plant, vibratory dry bag filter system investment has been finished to be in “Best New Cheese” category as 2016 FINALIST. • Dyo Coating was granted Turkey Excellence Award in used instead of the existing aqueous dust collection system, to reduce the amount of water foot • ITQI Superior Taste Awards 2016: Pınar 100% ApKALDER 2016 in Large Enterprises Category. print Blue water and Gray water. ple Juice was granted 2016 Superior Taste Award 2 • Dyo Coating, Crystal Apple: Dyo National Team spon• The ISO 27001 Information Security Management System certification studies, which began in Golden Star, Pınar Labne was granted 2016 Superior sorship campaign was granted the Crystal Apple 2015 at Dyo Coating, were completed in 2016 and certified by Bureau Veritas. Taste Award 2 Golden Star and Pınar Strained White Bronze Award in radio use and sponsorship applicaCheese was granted 2016 Superior Taste Award 2 tions categories with “Dyo Turkey Red and White” Golden Star. project campaign. • In 2016, Viking Tissue decided to start selling “commercial products” through product differen• • VIKING TISSUE Silver Award in Stevie International Business Awards: Altın Yunus was granted “Green Star” certification tiation within the scope of sustainable competition strategy. “International Pınar Kids Painting Competition” was issued by T.R. Ministry of Culture and Tourism due • Viking Tissue became the first company in Turkey to be awarded the internationally valid BRC granted Stevie award in Social Responsibility Project to its’ activities in energy consumption, waste water and Hygienic Product GC MARK certificates given to industrial cleansing paper manufacturers category in Europe. treatment, recycling and environmental cleanup. that have proven to produce quality, safe and legally acceptable products across Europe, as a • Bronze Medal in Crescents and Stars of Packaging • Holiday Check, a travel platform visited by 25 milresult of audits carried out by DQS, a German certification body with 88 offices in 60 countries Competition 2016: Pınar GO Series was granted the lion German citizens a month from the internet, was worldwide. “Bronze Award” in the food category in Crescents and awarded the “Quality Award” based on the satisfacStars of Packaging Competition 2016. tion rate of Altın Yunus guests. • Institutions Adding Value to the City Award: Pınar and • Dyo R&D Center, the first awards of 2012 and 2013, Yaşar Holding took the first two places and was grantfollowed by its performance in 2015, with the Most ed the award of the institutions that added value to Successful R&D Center of the Industry. Organized by • Altın Yunus was awarded “Green Star” Certificate due to the activities in energy consumption, ALTIN YUNUS the city in the “Research on the Value Adding Comthe Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology In waste water filtering, recycling and cleaning environment. “Green Star” is given to eco-friendly pany to Izmir” conducted by Marketing Türkiye and September 2016, Dyo Coating recieved the 5th Private accommodations as a green brand by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism under “Eco-friendly Akademetre Research Company. Sector R&D Centre award in chemistry sector and Accommodation Facility” project within the scope of “Sustainable Tourism” policy. • 2 Awards from Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): Pınar also Turkey’s most successful 9th R&D Center award • The pool area at well-being centre of the hotel is being climatized with aircondition plant inDiary Carbon Disclosure Project – According to the as well. stalled in 2016. This plant heats from the waste water during winter and cools through waste results of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Turkey • Viking Tissue was awared with BRC CP Certificate and reverse osmosis during summer which works with frequency converter ventilator. The plant has “2016 Climate Change Report” and CDP Turkey “2016 Hygienic Product GC Mark Certificate. become a place where minimum energy meets with maximum utility. Water Program Report”, Pınar Diary has been award• According to the results of “Corporate Social Responed both “CDP Turkey Climate Leaders Award” among sibility Research”conducted by Capital Magazine and the companies giving an outstanding performance on GFK research company, Honorary President of Yaşar “Fighting Against Climate Change” and “CDP Turkey Group Selçuk Yaşar was selected as one of the first 5 • In 2016, capacity increase was achieved through the 3rd Gas Turbine Commercial Investment. DESA Water Leaders Award” among the leading companies most responsible leaders. With this capacity increase, it is aimed to meet the increasing needs of the companies buying in water management. • Organized under the main sponsorship of Kariyer.net, service from Desa Energy. • Integrated Marketing Awards, The Most Successful Yaşar Holding recieved 6th time Humanitarian Respect Brand of the Year in Food Industry: In Integrated Award in the Human Resources Summit. 22 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 23 Compatibility with Sustainable Development Goals In this reporting period, the new SDGs1, which we consider as the main reference for our As Yaşar Group, we followed these steps to analyze the relationship and interaction of our sustainability review, was announced as a joint statement by UNGC2, WBCSD3 and GRI4 in corporate achievement goals in our societal value-adding business areas with the new November 2015. sustainable development goals; and thus tried to determine our future strategies and to ensure that these strategies are in line with our common future. With this statement, tools that the business world may use when they carry out compatibility studies with new goals have also been presented under the SDG Compass5. This guide As Yaşar Group, we developed our final roadmap by linking key performance indicators simply expresses the way the business world needs to follow. According to this; (KPIs) valid for each of our companies with new sustainable development goals (SDGs) through rigorous work, together with the common strategies we have developed based on the founding values of all our companies. As a result of these efforts, we can now proudly say that the future goals of the Yaşar PHASE 1 PHASE 2 Group are in line with the 2030 goals of the world. Understanding Defining Sustainability corporate Development priorities Goals PHASE 3 Determining corporate goals PHASE 4 PHASE 5 Providing Reporting compatibility compatibility and communication 1SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals 2UNGC: United Nations Global Compact 3WBCSD: World Business Council for Sustainable Development 4GRI: Global Reporting Initiative 5SDG Compass: Guiding internet site where the methods and tools necessary for ensuring compatibility with the new SGD can be found collectively for the use of business world (sdgcompass.org) 24 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 25 Compatibility with Sustainable Development Goals Starting Movement Compatibility Analysis and Alignment At world scale we have been experiencing probably development of new sustainability literature, seeing As we mentioned before, compatibility studies towards new goals, must be executed individually the most intense period of journey of sustainable increasingly continuing experience shared from corfor each company and premises. Therefore, the Group’s Enlarged Sustainability Committee and development for the last three years. While waiting porate and individual stakeholders on public, private experts visited so many businesses along with their leaders people on-site and shared the considthe announcement from United Nations on new susand civil areas, makes us more hopeful for future. eration points on compatibility inspections. tainability goals with great hope and impatience for Thanks to those productive on-site visits, understanding new goals including sub-indications was humanity in November 2015, we had been already Similarly, we have experienced one of the most infacilitated throughout the Group companies and in the following period effective participation prostarted the preparations of movement that will enable tense and most productive periods of our sustainabilvided from every stage of employees. us to be compatible with these new goals. ity journey as Yaşar Group with all our companies in the fourth quarter of last year. Due to our sustainUnited Nations’ new sustainable development objecability movement was in progress, we unfortunately tives for more habitable world, has been announced could not mention this topic in our 2015 sustainability the whole world with “Tell everyone we have a plan” 1 report. SITE VISITS Yaşar Pınar Pınar Pınar YBP Çamlı Dyo Viking Altın Astron Desa Holding Dairy Meat Water Feed Coating Tissue Yunus Energy motto and supported with many interpretational and guiding sub documents later on this period. In the Administrative Units Understanding The New Sustainability Goals Production Units In recent period, understanding and properly deciIn result of this review, we agreed on the fact that phering of new sustainable development goals was compatibility studies of each company and even the most discussed topic amongst other. We have aleach businesses and premises within each company After the visits, leader people of companies from every level and function has gathered at Comready seen mismodelled initiatives from the scratch towards new objectives, shall be executed indepenmunity Center and reviewed Yaşar Groups’ key achievement indicators3 and also analyzed compatand inevitably failed due to shallowly interpreting 17 dently, rigorously and detailed. In order to accomplish ibility of those indicators with Holding’s new sustainable development objectives. objectives 2 and took lesson from this situation. Inthese detailed analysis, we firstly organized trainings Additionally, following this study, key achievement indicators also reviewed within the frame of stead of working in rush and without strong backwhere new goals have explained to leader people business for each company and some strategies developed for alignment. bone, we thoroughly reviewed new objectives includfrom every company and every business level. ing 169 sub-indication and discussed whole concept with all of our internal stakeholders meticulously. OPERATION Yaşar Pınar Pınar Pınar Çamlı Dyo Viking Altın Desa YBP Astron Holding Dairy Meat Water Feed Coating Tissue Yunus Energy Yaşar Pınar Pınar Pınar Çamlı Dyo Viking Altın Desa Group SDGTRAININGS YBP Astron Holding Dairy Meat Water Feed Coating Tissue Yunus Energy KPI Alignment Analysis Basic Concepts of Sustainability Group SDG-KPI Alignment Analysis Company SDG Goals and Sustainability Alignment Committees GRI-G4 Company Reporting Management (GM Level) Corporate KPI Training In this report, you can find the results of studies executed for compatibility and alignment of Yaşar Following those trainings, our leader people along with other employees has started pre-studies to analyze busiGroups’ key values and key achievement indicators at Group level with new sustainable developness goals for their organizations and to determine relationship with new objectives. ment goals. Besides, in following months of current year, each of our companies will continue to share individual compatibility and alignment studies from many different channels. 1 En. “Tell everyone we have a plan.” 2 (01) No Poverty (02) Zero Hunger (03) Good Health and Well-Being (04) Quality Education (05) Gender Quality (06) Clean Water and Sanitation (07) Affordable and Clean Energy (08) Decent Work and Economic Growth (09) Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (10) Reduces Inequalities (11) Sustainable Cities and Communities (12) Responsible Consumption and Production (13) Climate Action (14) Life Below Water (15) Life on Land (16) Peace and Justice Strong Institutions (17) Partnership For The Goals 3 (1) Caring For Business (2) Caring For Society (3) Caring For Employees (4) Caring For Environment (5) Caring For Business Partners 26 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 27 Caring For Caring For Business and Business SDG Compatibility Gender Equality Better performance is initiated to improve the rate Sharing Our of female employment, especially in management, of the Group, compared to the previous period. Corporate Values During the year 2016, as a means of taking It has been decided to implement strategic Partnerships for Goals Decent Work and good care of work, Yaşar Group accelerated its policies in order to spread the contribution The main objective of the Economic Growth Group is to act together Policies are being efforts to identify existing KPIs in one-to-one of the values of the Group to global targets with all corporate relations developed to expand relation to sustainability and if needed within to suppliers and all business partners. In this and to establish an human rights practices the SDG framework, define new sustainability context, it is aimed to increase the effect of infrastructure that will that are being enable interactive sharing implemented in the KPIs to include them in the performance systhe Group Ethics Line and the Ethics Commitof all the studies. Group companies, to the tem. tee in the business area as more active, decisuppliers. sive and guiding in the future. The business success and healthy economic development of the Group, which creates It has also been agreed in principle that the a vast employment and quality value for the KPIs of the Group for sustainability are decountry, will depend on the distance to be covveloped beyond legal legislation and that the ered, as specified in the relevant SDGs. main pillar of this development is designated as SDG in principle. It is clear that the concept of taking good care CARING FOR of work within this framework can be nourThese initiatives, which the Group has launched Peace and Justice Industry, ished by overseeing compatibility through in 2016, have gained momentum with industry To develop corruption combat, transparency BUSINESS Innovation and Infrastructure studies on gender equality in global dimenmatrices that the Global Compact announced and child-related Infrastructure work sion, reducing inequalities, decent work and in early 2017. Starting from this year, it has materials in corporate that will enable ethics principles, and the establishment economic growth, industry, innovation and been aimed to share examples of best practo promote them to of a permanent infrastructure, responsible consumption and tices of the Group with all business partners suppliers. traceability system in production and climate action. and suppliers primarily in the fields of food the value chain of all companies has been production, beverage and consumer products accelerated. In the compatibility analyzes conducted, it was industries, as well as chemical production and noted that Yaşar Group’s past performance in industrial production areas. this area showed compatibility with today’s Climate Action Reducing Inequalities global targets. In particular, the Group’s unIt is at the forefront of Yaşar Group’s ultimate To develop policies that Work has been initiated derstanding of business ethics and the corpogoals to expand the performance that it seeks will provide active and to develop the ethical rate values it has established for this purpose, to capture in its business partners and supshort-term returns by principles and values to and the structure that it stands on, are in line pliers, embodied with business success, to carrying out detailed include suppliers, and the analyzes in the issues Ethics Committee has been with many elements expressed in the SDGs. industries with partnerships developed by correlated to climate action expanded at the level of Responsible Consumption and Production porate affairs. in the whole value chain, In addition to the sustainability KPIs in the production companies. In the future, our Group will gain momentum especially in production. of all companies, it is aimed to develop applications in the development of this structure by adherthat will enable of sustainable consumption by increasing the awareness of consumers. ing to its own values with detailed arrangements. It is known that the ethical values of the group are still valid in all companies. HowAchieve gender equality and empower Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns ever, in the next period, it has been accepted all women and girls as a priority issue that the values should be Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic extended to cover all suppliers and business growth, full and productive employment and decent work Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts for all partners. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable sustainable industrialization and foster innovation and inclusive institutions at all levels Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Reduce inequality within and among countries global partnership for sustainable development 28 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 29 Caring For Caring For Society and Society SDG Compatibility End Hunger To accelerate the efforts to develop a sustainable Increasing Our agricultural understanding in the agricultural sector to which the group is affiliated. Social Projects Partnerships for Healthy Individuals Yaşar Group’s understanding of taking good Within this scope, the World Health OrganiGoals Increase the To ensure that all care of the community and consumers is a zation has given priority to the development representation rate of products of the Group the relevant platforms to are developed and collection of values not only confined to the and marketing of products with content inaccelerate responsible joint disseminated in order presentation of products and services in a tended to remove problems related to cancer, development of all sectors to develop a healthy healthy and reliable manner but also complecardiovascular diseases and obesity within involved. society. mented by the corporate citizenship awarethe context of the prevention of noncommuness of the Group and its performance. nicable diseases. Since the first day, as a foundation value of Yaşar Group pursues and supports the social the Yaşar Group, protecting the social and inactivities that are being carried out in the ardividual health of all products and services eas and locations where it operates as a rehas been regarded as an unconditional priorquirement of corporate social responsibility. ity in all group companies. In addition, Group companies develop unique corporate social responsibility projects within The quality understanding of the Group comthe scope of their activities and are involved Responsible CARING FOR panies, the research and development studin shared initiatives to expand these projects. Consumption and ies for the continuous development of this On the other hand, it is also aimed that our Production To develop responsible SOCIETY Quality Education Developing quality and the innovative business sense companies develop societal projects starting collaborations to production in all product increase the quality which is the result of these studies are again from educational institutions, in collaboration lines and to engage in of education for all activities that improve in line with the business sense of the global with Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation. stakeholders in the consumer’s sustainable development goals. value chain. consumption capabilities. Taking good care of the community and conHowever, it is clear that the understanding sumers is understood to cover all stages of of taking good care of the community and the value chain. In the paint group, both consumers can not be perceived by Yaşar community health and environmental protecGroup as narrowly as offering healthy prodtion are targeted with the increase of secIndustry, Innovation Gender Equality ucts which should already be regarded as a tor professionals and consumer awareness; and Infrastructure To support the development Establishing the of women’s employment and necessity. Beyond this, all needs of the comin food, agriculture and livestock area, the infrastructure to develop qualified active participation munity need to be followed and understood. marketing of healthy products is targeted an interactive relationship in agriculture sector. In all the geographical areas served, it is while the sustainable understanding of agwith the consumer and ensure its active use. among Yaşar Group goals to provide the necriculture is supported with the development Clean Water, Hygiene and Public Health essary conditions for consumers and customof the farmer. In the presentation of other To take a more active role in the sectors of operation ers to have access to products and services commercial activities, work is being done to in the issues that concern people’s health and to that meet the needs of the times with an eqraise awareness of both the consumer and all improve the sharing of experience with the sector. uitable understanding. suppliers and business partners. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and and promote sustainable agriculture sanitation for all Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable for all at all ages industrialization and foster innovation Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Achieve gender equality and empower Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the all women and girls global partnership for sustainable development 30 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 31 Caring For Caring For Employees and Employees SDG Compatibility Supporting Women Quality Education Accelerating active work towards the Employment development of employees’ personal development and global citizenship awareness. Starting from the day it was established, Yaşar philosophy of Yaşar Group that the health and Group knows that its most valuable asset is safety can be achieved not only with physical its internal stakeholders, its employees, with protection equipment but also with the supwhich it builds together a better future. Our port in personal and social activities and deGroup has organizations in almost every secvelopments of the employees. Partnerships for Establishment of goals and Decent Work and tor in which it operates that were first to recdissemination of the necessary Economic Growth ognize the basic rights and health and safety It is noteworthy that this year as well as in infrastructure to increase Improved coverage of of their employees, and their right to organize the past years, in all the corporate social rethe interest of all employees occupational health and for common problems and safety practices across unions. sponsibility projects undertaken by the Yaşar the entire Group and the projects together with the Group companies, all Group employees have Community implementation of new The concept of “decent work” that the United been voluntarily and actively involved in all advanced targets. Nations has consistently expressed in its dephases of field work, starting from design and velopment targets and in the main and subdevelopment of the projects. Yaşar Group emtexts of the Global Compact, has been acceptployees are actively involved in informing our ed by Yaşar Group as a fundamental principle customers and the whole community about since the day it was founded. At Yaşar Group companies, employees have been working as the correct consumption of these products and services to the extent that all of our prodCARING FOR a union member in Pınar Dairy since 1976, ucts and services are consistent with quality, EMPLOYEES Dyo Coating & Pınar Meat since 1985 and Vienvironment and human health and are comking Tissue since 2013. mitted to continuous production. Yaşar Group is aware that both economic deIn the sincerity of this participation motivavelopment and quality product development tion, the clear approach of Yaşar Group to activities and supply for the community can ensure the employment of qualified and susonly be achieved through the corporate comtainable women with an egalitarian mentality mitment and continuity of its employees. At fighting discrimination both in its own society this point, we would like to express our pride and in its business partners is also effective. that our employees support Yaşar Group with Responsible Consumption Reducing Inequalities both voluntary and voluntary participation in On the other hand, it has been understood and Production Within the existing ethical Establishing an interactive principles of the Group, the development of both economic and social the mental participation of employees is a mechanism for transferring beginning in the coming benefit. prerequisite for the organizations today to enresponsible production and period active combat against sure their compatibility with sustainable deconsumption consciousness inequalities and improving to all employees, not limited commitment, including Our Group, which does not hesitate to include velopment goals and work in line with these to the management level. all business partners and all the advanced applications that can be acgoals. Rapid adaptation of Yaşar Group to commitment, including suppliers. cessed in the areas of occupational health and new sustainable development goals has also all business partners and safety, also treats the personal and profesbeen possible through active participation of suppliers. sional development and volunteer mentality its employees and their qualified analysis and of the employees within this scope. It is the guidance. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the growth, full and productive employment and decent work global partnership for sustainable development for all Reduce inequality within and among countries 32 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 33 Caring For Caring For Environment Environment and SDG Compatibility Clean Water, Hygiene and Public Health Actively working and supporting existing studies Protecting Water for the protection of watersheds and reservoirs in the regions where the facilities are located. Sources United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guthe business world needs to make strategic terres stated that by 2025 two thirds of the decisions to protect water resources, seek world’s population will suffer water shortages ways to bring these decisions up to support Life Below Water Accessible and and emphasized the importance of pursuing the main policy, and perform without despair. To create policies Clean Energy for maintaining and To monitor and all other sustainable development goals and Starting from its foundation, Yaşar Group is extending carbon improve energy developing constructive strategies accordingly. investing in fields of agriculture, food, water and water footprint efficiency activities As Yaşar Group, we believe that humankind and hygienic products which are basic needs reduction activities. at all facilities, to create necessary has the power to change this negative picture. for humanity. With this attribute, Yaşar Group infrastructure and to Humanity, with its intellectual capacity and its also realizes the adverse effects of human enrenew existing ones. industrial and technological opportunities, has vironmental interactions on the first hand and features that will make the world a viable, susbelieves that if humankind behaves in harmotainable planet. We believe this since the day ny with the environment, it can guarantee its of our foundation and work in commitment to sustainability together with the planet and all these fundamentally created values. other living things. CARING FOR Yaşar Group follows business processes including raw material procurement, pre-production, With the simplest point of view, knowing that our existence depends on the existence of ENVIRONMENT production, post-production and packaging planet Earth for hundreds of generations to Climate Action Decent Work and To provide effective Economic Growth disposal, and recognizes the carbon and water the extent that humanity covers the entire development Align community goals footprint reduction activities as a goal across population, Yaşar Group, with its employees, by sharing the with and employees’ the Group to reduce the environmental impact is working for the environment and considers environmental policies goals by green office of the Group and its applications and all products and services. For Yaşar Group, it not as a sacrifice but as an obligation. efforts to prevent support a common taking good care of the environment is the climate change with movement. basic human condition of leaving a habitable In all companies of Yaşar Group, protection all business partners and suppliers. planet for the future beyond the fulfillment of of water resources in the geographical areas legal obligations. where businesses are located, reduction of carbon footprint, protection of energy with We are pleased to note that today’s technologreen office applications and zeroing of proResponsible Industry, Innovation and gy and industrial improvements provide unlimduction waste are the applications developed Consumption and Infrastructure ited possibilities for businesses to reduce their together with the employees. Production To develop and automate To raise the consumer the entire environmentcarbon footprint, and that global policies and awareness about the related mechanism, especially business conduct support these investments. environmental impact of all the waste management Unlike this, however, the issue of “protection of products including packaging infrastructure, in all Group and to jointly possess companies. water resources” is expected to create a radthe active environmental ical change in the specific strategic approach protection approach. and understanding of doing business. Today, Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns sanitation for all Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts energy for all Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and growth, full and productive employment and decent work marine resources for sustainable development for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 34 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 35 Caring For Caring For Business Partners Business Partners and SDG Compatibility End Hunger To promote sustainable agriculture by expanding More Sharing of farmer education programs and to improve sensitive people in this scope. Our Experience The creation of a sustainable world and deour business partners; our systems offers that cent work and economic development can to show how all our partners can pay attention only be achieved through the common effort to economic, social and environmental issues Partnerships Decent Work and of the entire business community. With this in procurement practices; our contribution and for Goals Economic Growth Intensify Group-wide To intensify business cumulative action, it is of utmost importance system support to process improvement of our relations with all partners and supplier for Yaşar Group to have a target union with close suppliers and our distributors; and finalbusiness partners relationships across the business partners and to act jointly with ly our corporate social responsibility projects and suppliers and the Group and ensure enhance partnership that core values are responsibility consciousness while producing that enhance our customers’ sustainability and understanding of the spread throughout the and consuming. environmental awareness are the extensions goals. value chain. of our partnership understanding. Working on sustainability can not be possible with an easy business mentality. SustainabiliIn addition to this main performance, efforts ty also requires an additional performance as have been accelerated to develop an infrawell as reshaping our work we are currently doing with a different understanding. Yaşar structure that will enable establishing common goals to include the suppliers and partners of CARING FOR Group believes in this performance with sinall activities that will serve the sustainable deBUSINESS cerity. velopment goals of Yaşar Group, and monitoring and reporting of these goals. Yaşar Group, PARTNERS Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure However, we are also aware that for some dewhich is among the first in Turkey utilizing Climate Action To improve the velopment and applications, neither our custechnological tools in business processes, has Follow and improve efficiency and rational the functioning of the working ability by tomers nor our business partners may have also decided to benefit from all the possibilities three dimensions of completing the additional performance. In these situations, provided by Industry 4.0 in creating this infrasustainability at the automation of the we are making pioneering practices as Yaşar structure mentioned above. level of procurement responsible supply and business chain and distribution Group and we share our experience with our partners. organization processes. customers and our business partners. This new system, which is important for Yaşar Group in terms of enabling the responsible As Yaşar Group, we consider all of the eleproduction understanding to be extended to Responsible Consumption Reducing Inequalities ments and actors in our value chain to be our all its business partners, is important for our and Production Actively pursue and direct performance partners for a better future, and customers for the follow-up of origin and thus To convey the responsible efforts to reduce inequalities we are creating channels to motivate them to improvement of responsible consumption production and consumption in all business partners and understanding and activities suppliers. develop positive actions and bring them into awareness. of the Group to the their lives. stakeholders in the whole value chain and to follow the Our work towards the development and dispractices. semination of sustainable agriculture, which has an important place in the future of Turkey and the world, and sharing our knowledge with End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns and promote sustainable agriculture Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the sustainable industrialization and foster innovation global partnership for sustainable development Reduce inequality within and among countries 36 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 37 Yaşar Group Sustainability Performance Caring For Business 38 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 39 Economic Performance General Economic View DIRECTLY PRODUCED AND DISTRIBUTED ECONOMIC VALUE 2016 2015 As Yaşar Group, we are aware that we create come and expenses and tangible and intangieconomic, social and environmental impacts ble assets that are not standing, IDPBT (Interwith our existence and values we produce. Our est Depreciation and Profit Before Tax), which Directly Produced Economic Value 3.527.055 3.197.930 economic performance is the main determiis obtained from operational activities by Yaşar nant in our efforts to bring the positive effects Group, increased by 10,7% to 401 million TL Incomes 3.527.055 3.197.930 we created to the maximum and the negative level. In 2015 this amount was about 362 milRevenue (net sales) 3.527.055 3.197.930 ones to a minimum level. Our economic perlion TL. formance is directly related to the economic Distributed Economic Value 3.275.541 2.965.953 developments in the world and in our country. In the year 2016, it obtained 93% of the consolidated net sales from the food, beverage Operating costs *** 2.835.069 2.578.070 The effects of the global economic crisis that and paint businesses, which form its main Employee wages and benefits **** 387.203 336.307 started in 2008 in the world are continuing. fields of activity. In the same period, it realPayments to provider of capital ***** 34.624 37.381 The events of the geopolitical and political areized 14% growth in the paint business and 8% Payments to government (by country) ****** 18.645 14.195 na in 2016 created destabilizing effects espegrowth in the food and beverage businesses. cially on the financial and currency markets. In this growth, the contribution of new product Retained Economic Value 251.514 231.977 The world economy grew by 2,4% in 2016 due groups and the investments made were effecto both the effect of ongoing crisis and new detive. Yaşar Group companies operating in the Amounts expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”) unless otherwise indicated. The information is taken from the Independent Consolidated Audit Report of the year 2016 Yaşar Group. velopments. Still, 70% of the world’s growth is food, beverage and paint business sectors con*** As the total operating expenses, the cost of sales in the consolidated income table, marketing expenses, general management, expenditures and research and devecreated by developing countries. Turkey is intinued their brand development activities and lopment costs are taken into consideration. **** Personnel expenses included in Note 29 of the consolidated report in the scope of employee fees and subsidiary rights are taken into consideration. cluded among the first seven developing counbrand investments in line with the market-ori***** The amount of dividend paid in the cash flow statement of the report in the Consolidated Payments section is used. tries such as China, India and Brazil with 2,9% ented growth strategy in 2016. Through exten****** The payments made to the States, the amount of prepaid taxes in the footnote 38 of the consolidated report is used. growth rate in 2016. On the other hand, the sive sales and distribution channels and awareWorld Bank predicts that Turkey will continue ness of high, reliable and powerful brands, acto grow in the following years and that it will tivities to increase market efficiency and meet achieve a growth rate of 4,1% in 2019. customer expectations have continued. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS (Thousands TL) 2016 2015 Despite the negative developments in the In 2016, Yaşar Group has generated over 136 world and in Turkey, Yaşar Group has increased million $ in foreign revenues as a result of exNet sales 3.527.055 3.197.930 its sales by 10,3% to 3.527 million TL level in ports to more than 70 countries and the activ2016. In this period, the gross profit margin ities of foreign affiliates. Foreign revenues acwas realized as 29% and total gross profit was counted for 11,8% of total sales. Middle East Short and Long Term Liabilities 2.711.194 2.396.466 realized as 1.023 million TL. The Group’s operand Gulf Region, EU Countries, Central Asian ating profit of 237 million TL in 2015 increased Republics, Russia, Iraq and USA are important Equity 749.775 759.974 by 5% to 250 million TL. On the other hand, foreign markets for the Group. In the year Main company shares 259.808 276.983 it maintained its strong level in total assets re2016, creating cash from operations, collecting corded as 3.461 million TL in the same period. receivables smoothly and maintaining effective Non-controllable shares 489.967 482.991 When non-cash expenses such as depreciation operating capital management were among expenses and provision for severance indemthe objectives of Yaşar Group. nities are excluded from other operational in40 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 41 Economic Sustainability Performance Management Risks and Opportunities Our Sustainable Development Policy The adverse effects of price competition of the Pınar Meat meeting the need for meat with live Our values in the frame of our mission to provide we have created “for a better life”, by “caring for Group in all areas during 2016 and the negative animals bought from domestic breeding farms quality products and services that add value to the society, our consumers, our employees, our enviimpact of the depreciation of Turkish lira against in different regions throughout Turkey provides lives of our consumers with our reliable brands are ronment and our business partners” included in the US dollar and the Euro were balanced by all of its live turkey purchases and part of the primarily our Consumers and Customers, Operaour value chain. effective raw material management, cost manbovine purchases from Çamlı Feed. The comtional Perfectionism, Human Resources, Ethical agement throughout the year, and control of pany also provides the diversity of the supManagement and Environmental and Social ReIn this context, we are extending our ethical, acoperating expenses for the period. Effective ply chain in a balanced manner, with careful sponsibility. countable and honest management understandcost control through ongoing operational cost consideration of its own calves fed in bovine ing consistent with the Sustainable Development optimization (OCO) activities throughout 2016 farm and with the latest technological breedOur Yaşar Holding Sustainable Development Policy Objectives and continuing our goals in accordance resulted in the strategy to focus on sales of ing ratios. Dyo Coating, considering the qualwas designed to be based on our mission and valwith the needs of the consumers and society. In high profit marginal products applied across ity in supply and packaging of resin, solvent, ues. Our said policy, mission and values are conthe process of creating value, we prioritize the the Group. monomer, titanium, pigment and additive-filling sistent with international goals and principles. In development and happiness of the employees materials which are the main raw materials of this respect, the United Nations Sustainable Develthroughout our Group. The Impact of Economic paint production, carries out sustainable coopopment Goals and Global Reporting Initiative G4 standards, published in 2015, regulate our corpoWe pay regard to environment usage and protecPerformance on Stakeholders eration with its suppliers. rate approach. tion balance in the consciousness of our ecological effect, especially in the footprint of carbon and Yaşar Group, pioneering the establishment of Different companies operating within Yaşar Group have contributed to social peace and As Yaşar Group, water. We all know that our business partners in a sector where food and beverage business is “To follow international developments” and to our chain are also responsible for the way they more integrated with agriculture and industry prosperity through sponsorship, direct donaserve the objectives of the Sustainable develdo business and we are trying to improve their integration, is establishing efficient collabotions and other supports in sports, culture, arts opment of our Group’s business areas are our awareness in this regard. rative partnerships with its suppliers for both and education in 2016 for social development. fundamental principles within the frame of “Not sides. The group is a regular source of income compromising with our understanding of ethical, Our strategy and targets in the framework of our for a large segment of society, especially for Economic Performance in accountable and honest operation”. sustainability policy are determined and supported raw milk and meat producers. While creating Terms of Values and Principles at the level of the Board of Directors of the Group added value with healthy, quality feeds and in“Enabling the employees to improve themselves and this strategy is implemented by senior mannovative products provided to the producers, Yaşar Group prioritizes maintaining lasting ethiwhile providing them with a fair working environagement. Yaşar Group’s Sustainability Approach job opportunities are provided to the farmers cal and strong relationships with its internal and ment,”, “supporting and protecting local values is a regulatory framework for our sectoral comof the region by contracting with the producers external stakeholders and increasing sustainawhile providing quality products and services for panies. Every company management and related in the regions where the suppliers are locatble value. While the Group companies strive for the needs of society”, subcommittees continue to develop themselves ed. Pınar Dairy, which manufactures without the development of the sectors in which they on the path of sustainability in line with this apcompromising quality in European Union standoperate, they continue to produce ethical and “contributing to the progress of the society with proach. ards, contracts with 301 different points, inenvironmentally conscious products with the the cooperations we have developed”, cluding 119 farms, always supports more than awareness of their employees and their collecHaving set out from the understanding that “you its 18.000 producers with whom it had strong tive responsibilities. Yaşar Holding’s corporate “measuring and improving our environmental imcannot manage what you cannot measure”, our relations and contributes to increase of milk management structure, which is adopted in the pact while contributing to all these activities, conGroup has formed its Carbon and Water Footproduction in Turkey. The company conducts Group and takes into account the interests of all tributing to the protection of natural resources”, print Teams within the scope of carbon and water training programs on topics such as milk qualishareholders in terms of transparency, fairness, footprint calculations and has also identified their ty, milk health, animal nutrition and preventive accountability and responsibility, is constantly “continuing to support the development of new Leaders. medicine in order to inform the producers and monitored in the framework of Corporate Govgenerations in the future as well as in the past raise awareness for producing healthy milk. ernance Principles. by investing in education, culture and arts” are Greenhouse gas inventory management system indispensable to our Sustainable Developstudies, which started in 2014 and allow the data ment Policy. related to the Group companies to be collected and monitored on a single system, have been imWithin the framework of our Sustainable Develplemented since 2015. opment Policy, as Yaşar Group we share the value 42 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 43 Sustainability Stakeholder Management Dialogue G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Our Sustainable Development Policy Sustainability is a phenomenon involving the interaction of internal and external stakeholders when assessed from the perspective of value chain and necessitating to evaluate them. As Yaşar Group, we develop long-term Our goal for the coming period is to complete the 2009 and 2010. Our Group, which adopts open cooperation and open communication with our stakeholders including primarily our employees, customers, water footprint management system so that the communication with its stakeholders, references consumers and business partners, and with suppliers, stakeholders, public institutions and organizations, calculations can be made online and instantanethe internationally recognized Global Reporting Ininternational organizations, sectoral associations, NGOs, universities, written and visual media within the scope of ously as in the greenhouse gas inventory manageitiative (GRI) standards. As a matter of fact, our our own sustainability approach. ment system. Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report is rated at level B within the scope of GRI G3.1 criteria in 2015. Our Our stakeholders vary according to the sectors and companies in which our Group operates and we identify our Our Sustainable Development Committee, estabYaşar 2015 Sustainability Report, which we pubstakeholders on a value chain basis. We use our corporate values and business ethics in selecting our stakeholders. lished within the scope of the “Institutional Replished last year, is prepared in accordance with GRI The map we update regularly also provides a powerful tool to monitor, assess and improve our sustainability utation Project” initiated in 2010 and carrying out G4 core requirements. approach and the effects we create. Developing every domain and proportion we create from the raw material its activities under the leadership of the Board of procurement process to reaching the consumer is a requirement of our integral sustainability approach. Though Directors, operates within the framework of the Data included in our Sustainability Reports are the Group has an overall stakeholder management policy, the stakeholder relationship, communication style and identified priorities. provided by Sustainability Reporting Team Memfrequency vary according to the company and sector in which the activity is conducted. Customer satisfaction bers, Carbon and Water Leaders and Carbon and and operational excellence along with corporate and sustainable principles are also impressive factors in our Our Sustainable Development Committee encourWater Footprint Teams. stakeholder selection. We continue to increase our sustainability performance every year through communication ages the implementation of the strategy, the realiand relationship with our stakeholders we established on a daily or periodical basis. zation of the objectives, and the dominance of the Within the framework of the concept of “caring for sustainability approach throughout the Commuthe society and our employees”, an indispensable nity, while coordinating sustainability initiatives in part of our sustainability strategy, our Group develMethods of Communication with Stakeholders companies within the Group. The committee also ops projects for personal and professional develCOMMUNICATION aims to improve the sustainability strategy and imopment of our women workers and women in our STAKEHOLDERS COMMUNICATION PLATFORM FREQUENCY plementation tools by assessing risks and opporsupply chain. “UN Women’s Empowerment Princitunities, and to ensure that employees are actively ples CEO Support Statement” which we signed in Trainings, Yaşar Academy Training Platform, employee views, Our Employees questionnaires, bulletins, internal communication materials, electronic Regular/Frequent involved in sustainability activities with the training 2012, “Equality Platform in Business” brought up communication tools, social activities they receive. Assessments made at regular meetby World Economic Forum and maintained under ings are reported and action is taken according to the leadership of the Ministry of Family and SoSatisfaction surveys, phone calls, communication and call centers, social Our Consumers media accounts, sustainability reports, advertisements, dealerships and Continual/Frequent the emerging needs. In addition, our sustainability cial Policies and “Women’s Empowerment Working communication channels activities are supported through our Energy and Group” established by the Board of Directors of Board of Directors meetings, Annual reports, performance reports, Waste Prevention Committees. Different commitGlobal Compact Turkey inspire the development of Our Investors and sustainability reports, CDP Climate Change Report, CDP Water reports, tees outside the Sustainability Committee at comour projects. Regular Shareholders investor presentations, general assembly meetings, internet sites where pany level but contributing to sustainable developInvestor Relations modules are also available ment goals also exist. Yaşar Volunteers Platform, Our Group has made a new structuring for instiSupplier meetings, visits and trainings, dealer meetings and trainings, Yaşar Waste Prevention Committee, Ethics Comtutional volunteer works that will directly contribOur Customers, factory visits, customer visits, satisfaction surveys, congresses, meetings Regular/Periodical mittees, Energy Committee are working in harmoute to the development of the social dimension of Suppliers & Dealers and panels attended, telephone calls, communication and call centers, dealer portals, dealer satisfaction surveys, sustainability reports ny and integration with Yaşar Group Sustainability sustainability with a sense of caring for the socieApproach. ty. Yaşar Volunteers Platform was established to Public Institutions Visits, legislative opinions, sectoral meetings, congress, conference and transform the knowledge, skills and experiences and Organizations, seminars, developed joint projects, sectoral reports, sustainability reports, Regular/Frequent Our Group references international norms and of our employees into social benefits. In 2016, NGOs & membership associations criteria in sustainability activities. In this context, with the cooperation of Ministry of Education and Associations our Group, which participated in the UN GC sigMimar Sinan Fine Arts University, Dyo Coating natories in 2007, has regularly reported sustainacontributed to the education in the field of social Media Press releases, visits, press conferences, launches Regular bility reports every year since 2011, following the development by executing three different projects Communication on Progress Reports published in under the roof of “Value for Tomorrow”. Career days, conferences and panels, Universities activities of university clubs and communities, internship opportunities Regular provided by the Group companies, joint projects Collective Labor Agreements, union representation, factory visits, Union Regular meetings 44 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 45 Ethics and Compliance Corporate Governance Each and every company that operates in the Group is responsible to the parties to which it is in connection, at However, all processes and responsibilities related in order to ensure that the communication between every stage in which it operates. Corporate governance practices, which form a management understanding on to management and organizational structure are investors and partnership is conducted in a healthy the relationship between the company governance, the board of directors, shareholders and all parties with whom determined by the “Yaşar Group Corporate Governand reliable manner within the scope of the Capital the company has connection, are carried out within the framework of transparency, liability to stakeholders, fairance Handbook” and the business ethics approach is Markets Legislation. Within the framework of the relness and accountability. determined by the “Yaşar Group’s Code of Business evant legislation, with the information policy estabEthics Guide” and the compliance of our Group’s emlished with transparency and accuracy principles and Corporate governance, regulated and encompassed by legislation, has helped to improve good governance pracployees to this Guide is essential. published on the website of our company, it is protices throughout the world. Corporate governance practices in our country are carried out within the scope of vided the shareholders, public and other stakeholdthe Capital Markets Law and the II-17.1 Communiqué on Corporate Governance Principles of the Capital Markets The “Yaşar Group Corporate Governance Handbook” ers to be informed in a timely, complete, accurate, Board (CMB). defines the corporate governance principles and the understandable and equal conditions as accessible. decision-making processes of the Board of Directors Yaşar Group has reflected its good corporate governance concept, which it considered as a very important element and the executive board, and identifies the authority In this context, the wages, compensation, proffor sustainability of its companies, to all its fields of activity from past to present through its vision and foresight, and responsibilities of the Board of Directors and its it distribution and donation policies of the compawell-established and sound corporate values and culture, ethical understanding, legal and legislative alignment. sub-committees with their corresponding roles. The ny are also available on the company’s websites. In Yaşar Group, it is paid regard to the interests of all shareholders to be managed in the best way. The corporate agenda setting and voting principles in the Board of Yaşar Group’s website contains information about the governance structure adopted in Yaşar Group is constantly reviewed within the framework of Corporate ManageDirectors are also mentioned in the said Handbook. activity fields of our Group companies and detailed ment Principles. These principles were published by the CMB in 2003 and revised in 2005, and with the amendinformation about the publicly traded companies of ment made in 2011 many of its provisions became mandatory for publicly traded corporations. Communique on Various systems have been established to ensure our Group can be found in the “Investor Relations” Corporate Governance updated by the Capital Markets Board at the beginning of 2014 reorganized and finalized that our employees can make offers and recommenmodule. The corporate governance process of our the Corporate Governance Principles. dations to the top management of the company. publicly traded companies and the progress made during this process are presented to all shareholders Corporate governance rating of Pınar Dairy, which took place in Borsa Istanbul Corporate Governance Index in The Audit Subcommittee, the Sub-Committee for and to the public through the Corporate Governance 2016, increased to 9,24 from 9,18 in 2015, Pınar Meat’s rating to 9,26 from 9,20 and Pınar Water’s rating to 9,38 Early Detection of Risk and the Corporate ManagePrinciples Compliance Reports prepared within the from 9,37. ment Sub-Committee carry out their activities in framework of the Capital Markets Legislation and inaccordance with Yaşar Holding Board of Directors cluded in the annual reports. The responsibilities of Yaşar Holding’s CEO and the Board of Directors are separate from each other in acconsisting of six members. There are two independcordance with the OECD Corporate Governance Principles. The Chairperson of the Board of Directors is not ent members on the board of directors of the Yaşar Audit Committee, Committee for Early Detection an executive officer in the corporation at the same time, and the CEO of Yaşar Holding, who manages the Group’s publicly traded corporations. Our independof Risk and Corporate Governance Committee inexecutive functions, is responsible to the Board of Directors from all executive activities of Yaşar Group. ent members in question meet all the independence cluded in publicly traded companies of Yaşar Group criteria in article 4.3.6 in Corporate Governance Prinare established within the frame of Capital Markets 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RATINGS ciples attached to II-17.1 Communiqué on Corporate Legislation; and the Nomination Committee and the Governance by CMB. Remuneration Committee are structured within the Corporate Governance Committee. In addition, five of our publicly-traded companies already have two women members in Board of DirecYaşar Group taking significant steps in implementing tors and one woman member in our another comthe best management approaches since the dates pany. As part of our employment policy, women are when corporate governance principles were not yet given priority among equals in job applications. This on the agenda of Turkey manages the “corporate PINAR PINAR PINAR situation is also an indicative of our compliance with reputation” created as a result of long years as an DAIRY MEAT WATER Corporate Governance Principles No. 4.3.9, which is important value; and continues to create sustainable not mandatory. Besides, the committees required by values for its shareholders and for the community in the legislation have also been established within the broad terms with its effective and proactive practicBoard of Directors. es. 9,24 9,26 9,38 Investor Relations Departments have been established in all publicly traded companies of our Group 46 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 47 Ethics and Risk Compliance Management Business Ethics In the globalizing world we live in, the setting of global risks and making preparations for these risks have become an approach that addresses only one aspect of the subject. The links between The Code of Business Ethics draws on the framework • Complying with the competition rules determined risks and the impact of long-term trends on risk formation or elimination are important issues that embedded into the values of the communities operatby the law, competing with competitors in a way determine risk management. The process of classifying risks is unique for the institutions operated and in line with the prevailing principles. In societhat does not disturb market conditions, ing in more than one sector and within different business models. ties that continue to develop within multiple social and • Giving importance to customer satisfaction, beIn this context, creating a culture with risk awareness, it is becoming important to establish and cultural dynamics, ethical rules allow universal prining always sensitive and honest to customers and implement corporate risk management structure by assessing and managing all the risks exposed ciples such as equity, transparency and objectivity to consumers, as integrated, systematic and proactive. find priority in the business world. • Taking the utmost care for the correct preparation of Company’s information, assets and records, Our Understanding of Risk Management Yaşar Group respecting social values in its geographprotecting them in confidentiality and not using Corporate risk management in the companies affiliated to Yaşar Group is considered as a systemical location, where it operates, acts in accordance them to provide benefits, atic process in which risks are defined, analyzed, controlled and monitored. This management with the rules of business ethics and pays regard to transparency within these principles. The “Guide for • Taking care of social benefits in all activities and approach ensures that both the unexpected risks and their negative effects on the value of assets Rules of Business Ethics”, prepared in 2009 and pubrespecting the environment, of the companies can be controlled. lished as a handbook in 2010, which is distributed to • Adopting a lifestyle that will not create negative all employees in the Group demonstrates the business conclusions about the company in the company Examining all of the Establishing a Assessing the existing company’s fields of risk management controls to avoid risks, ethics of Yaşar Group. This handbook is used as part of life as much as it is in the workplace and will not structure to make the activity, business whose causes and the orientation trainings conducted during the hiring contradict the rules of the society we live in. units, profit centers process systematic consequences are process and the Code of Business Ethics are taught and continuous, and determining determined clarifying the through the Yaşar Group’s online learning platform, Fighting Against Corruption the existing risks duties and Yaşar Academy. responsibilities All companies operating within Yaşar Group fight with and keeping them alive all kinds of corruption, including bribery and extortion, Following the 401 hours of Codes of Business Ethics and fulfill all their obligations to prevent corruption. training given to all our employees in 2015, our emThe employees of Yaşar Group are obliged to work in ployees who have just started work in 2016 have been accordance with the “Yaşar Group’s Code of Business Implementing Extending internal Establishing common risk given 58 hours of Codes of Business Ethics training. an effective risk communication, perception throughout Ethics Guidelines”. Employees of the Group companies shall notify the management and ensuring that the risk the organization to achieve strategic Ethics Committee which is elected by the Board of The Group carried out 12 broad and 26 limited commonitoring process management process objectives and ensuring permanently by is systematic and Directors of Yaşar Holding by means of e-mail, letter prehensive audit activities in 25 functions in its comsustainable designing new and dynamic profitability in order or telephone, about the matters that they have depanies. effective controls to manage risks in termined that they do not comply with the specified a consistent and codes of business ethics. The issues reported to the During the reporting period, the business relationship optimal manner Ethics Committee are resolved within one week at the with 8 employees working in our companies was terlatest within the rules contained in the guidelines. minated pursuant to our business principles and ethical rules and a material compensation claim was filed are included among the objectives of the risk management processes in our Group companies. Between 2009 and 2015, a total of 17 issues were against 1 employee. submitted to the Ethics Committee and the necessary While this approach providing companies with competitive advantage, it assures shareholders that examinations were completed and they were resolved. There is no public case filed against our Group or its the company values are well protected and developed on the other hand. No issue has been submitted to the Ethics Committee employees regarding corruption during the reporting in 2016. period. We have not had a violation issue about corInternal audits are regularly conducted at our Group companies to help companies achieve their ruption in our contracts with our business partners. goals by introducing a systematic and disciplined approach to assess and improve the effectiveYaşar Group’s Codes of Business Ethics There is a lawsuit that is pending and not yet settled ness of risk management and control processes. about behaving contrary to competition, trustification • Working in a safe working environment by not aland preventing the monopoly. lowing discrimination and by respecting each othThe purpose of assessing the adequacy of the existing risk management and control processes er’s personality rights, Within the scope of audit activities, internal control is to evaluate the aspects of these processes that have been structured and worked to achieve • Using the company resources efficiently, awareness and measures are strengthened to deter the goals and objectives of the organization and to make proposals to improve the organization’s possible abuses that could be carried out at the exactivities in terms of performance efficiency and productivity. • Avoiding conflicts of interest, pense of companies. 48 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 49 Memberships ADANA STOCK EXCHANGE CLEAN SEA ASSOCIATION (TURMEPA) TURKEY CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL INDUSTRIALISTS IZMIR PROVINCE RED MEAT PRODUCERS ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATION (İMSAD) ADVERTISEMENT CLIENTS ASSOCIATION * COMPOSITE INDUSTRIALISTS ASSOCIATION IZMIR STOCK EXCHANGE TURKEY CORPORATE MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION AEGEAN EXPORTER ASSOCIATIONS * ÇEŞME TOURISM HOTEL OPERATORS ASSOCIATION IZMIR SEAFOOD BREEDERS AND PRODUCERS AEGEAN INDUSTRIALISTS AND BUSINESSMEN DEFENSE AND AVIATION INDUSTRY MANUFACTURERS TURKEY ECONOMY INSTITUTION (TEK) ASSOCIATION * ASSOCIATION (ESİAD) ASSOCIATION KAĞITHANE AYAZAĞA VALLEY URBAN DEVELOPMENT AEGEAN REGION CHAMBER OF INDUSTRY DUBAI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE TURKEY ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION FOUNDATION ASSOCIATION AEGEAN REGION CHAMBER OF INDUSTRY FOUNDATION DUBAI TURKISH BUSINESS COUNCIL KAPLICA TALASSO AND CURE CENTERS ASSOCIATION TURKEY EXPORTERS ASSEMBLY (TİM) AEGEAN TOURISM ENTERPRISES ACCOMMODATIONS ECCA EUROPEAN COIL COATING ASSOCIATION TURKEY FOOD INDUSTRY AND EMPLOYERS UNION ASSOCIATION KEMALPAŞA ORGANIZED INDUSTRIAL REGION (KOSBİ) (TÜGİS) ALIAGA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE ECONOMIC RESEARCHES FOUNDATION KOCAELI CHAMBER OF INDUSTRY TURKEY HUMAN MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (PERYÖN) AMERICAN BUSINESS COUNCIL (DEİK) ESKIŞEHIR CHAMBER OF COMMERCE KONYA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE TURKEY INTERNAL AUDITING INSTITUTE (TİDE) AMERICAN TURKISH COUNCIL ESKIŞEHIR CHAMBER OF INDUSTRY MANISA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY TURKEY QUALITY ASSOCIATION (KALDER) ANKARA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE ETHICS AND REPUTATION ASSOCIATION MARINE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE TURKISH MUSIC PRODUCTIONS OWNERS ASSICIATION ANKARA STOCK EXCHANGE EUROPEAN BUSINESS COUNCIL (DEİK) MERSIN STOCK EXCHANGE TURKISH – AFRICAN BUSINESS COUNCIL (DEİK) ANTALYA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE EUROPEAN FOOD INFORMATION COUNCIL (EUFIC) MUSIC PERFORMERS PROFESSION ASSOCIATION TURKISH – AMERICAN BUSINESSMEN ASSOCIATION ANTALYA STOCK EXCHANGE FAMILY ENTERPRISES ASSOCIATION (TAİDER) NATIONAL FOOD TECHNOLOGY PLATFORM (UGTP) TURKISH – EGYPTIAN BUSINESSMEN ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATION OF PARTNERSHIP MANAGERS QUOTED FEDERATION OF WESTERN ANATOLIA INDUSTRIALISTS NATIONAL MILK COUNCIL (USK) * TURKISH – GULF BUSINESS COUNCIL (DEİK) TO THE STOCK EXCHANGE (KOTEDER) AND BUSINESSMEN ASSOCIATIONS (BASİFED) NATIONAL RED MEAT COUNCIL (UKON) TURKISH FODDER INDUSTRIALISTS UNION AYDIN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE FOOD RELIABILITY ASSOCIATION TURKISH INDUSTRIALISTS AND BUSINESSMEN BAR FOREIGN ECONOMIC RELATIONS BOARD (DEİK) NAZILLI CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (TÜSİAD) FOUNDATION FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND BODRUM CHAMBER OF COMMERCE ORGANIC PRODUCT PRODUCERS AND INDUSTRIALISTS TURKISH MILK, MEAT, FOOD INDUSTRIALISTS AND PACKAGE WASTE EVALUATION (ÇEVKO) * ASSOCIATION (ORGÜDER) PRODUCERS UNION (SETBİR) * BORNOVA CHAMBER OF AGRICULTURE FRUIT JUICE INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (MEYED) OUT-OF-HOUSE CONSUMPTION ASSOCIATION (ETÜDER) TURKISH MINERAL WATER PRODUCERS ASSOCIATION BORNOVA FARMER PRODUCTS PROTECTION GEBZE CHAMBER OF TRADE PACKED MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS INDUSTRIALISTS ASSOCIATION TURKISH TRAVEL AGENCIES UNION ASSOCIATION (ASÜD) * BROOD CATTLE BREEDERS CENTRAL ASSOCIATION OF GLOBAL RELATIONS FORUM TURKISH UNION OF CHAMBERS AND STOCK TURKEY PACKED WATER PRODUCERS ASSOCIATION (SUDER) * EXCHANGES (TOBB) HEAT, WATER, SOUND AND FIRE ISOLATORS BURSA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY PAINT INDUSTRIALISTS ASSOCIATION (BOSAD) * TURKISH VETERINARIES ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATION (İZODER) PAINT RESEARCH ASSOCIATION TURKTRADE * BURSA STOCK EXCHANGE INEGOL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATION OF RIGHT OWNER CELLULOSE AND PAPER INDUSTRY FOUNDATION * INTERAKTIF ADVERTISERS ASSOCIATION UN GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) PHONOGRAM PRODUCERS WITH MÜYAP CONNECTION CENTRAL ANATOLIA EXPORTER UNIONS INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (ICC) SAKARYA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY UN GLOBAL COMPACT TURKEY CHAMBER OF AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS INVESTOR RELATIONS ASSOCIATION WHITE MEAT INDUSTRIALISTS AND BROOD BREEDERS CHAMBER OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS ISPARTA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY TOBB GLOBAL STANDARDS CENTER ASSOCIATION (BESD-BİR) CHAMBER OF ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS ISTANBUL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE TURGUTLU CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM ISTANBUL MINERAL AND METAL EXPORTER TURKEY CHEMISTRY, OIL, RUBBER AND PLASTIC CHAMBER OF FOOD ENGINEERS ASSOCIATIONS INDUSTRY EMPLOYERS UNION (KİPLAS) * CHAMBER OF FREE ACCOUNTANTS AND FINANCIAL ISTANBUL STOCK EXCHANGE CONSULTANTS CHAMBER OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS IZMIR CHAMBER OF AGRICULTURE *The organizations, in whose board of directors we are involved. CHAMBER OF SWORN FINANCIAL CONSULTANTS IZMIR CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 50 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 51 Yaşar Group Sustainability Performance Caring For Society 52 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 53 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety Our Group attaches priority to the health and safety of Consumers with the idea that the first condition of caring Good Practices and Developments from Companies for society is ensuring access of our consumers and customers to safe and healthy products and services and continues its activities with the principle of creating added value for life with its products and services. The products Our company carried out 20 product studies in accordance with the energy, sodium and saturated fat and services of enterprises conducting activities under the roof of our Group companies have full compliance to the limits established by the Ministry of Health for school canteens. standards which fall under the scope of our Group in addition to inspection by regulatory organizations pursuant to laws and regulations. No discrepancy was observed in this regard during the business period of 2016. It was decided to release 8 of the new product studies conducted to the market and no preservative additives were used in processed frozen meat products. GMO analyses were conducted during the established Moreover, comprehensive works were undertaken in 2016 in order to increase the access of customers to healthy periods in the risk analyses made for all inputs of our company. food products within the organization of our Group’s Food and Beverage Group. Within the organization of Pınar Water, all labels are prepared in consideration of Directive on Water for ÇAMLI FEED PINAR WATER Reduction of sugar and salt ratios of products and development of products with richer nutritious values as well as Human Consumption and Turkish Food Codex Food Labeling and Consumer Informing Directive in 2016 products for persons who have different food preferences and sensitivities are among these efforts. as well. Good Practices and Developments from Companies Our Pınar Diary portfolio which is one of indispensable building blocks of balanced and healthy nutrition, PINAR DAIRY consists of milk and dairy products that recognized as staple food. Based on responsible production perspective, we are aiming to offer products that are natural, fresh, having well-preserved nutritive values as A company of our Group, Çamlı Feed complies with the principles created in the area of consumer/ well as complied with legal legislations and functional to our customers who is widely diversed to every customer health and safety under any condition. Our company conducts notifications to consumers and age and category. “Clean label” studies is amongst our focus areas for our products. Efforts of decreasing customers regarding products and services via various channels such as labels, advertisements, our comsalt and sugar in general is one of our main targets, and continues with prioritization based on product pany’s web site and social media tools. Our company complies to all directives and rules regarding prodcategories. According to comply with Canteen Profile studies issued by T.R. Ministry of Science and apuct/service details regulations and labeling 100% and no discrepancy was observed on the matter during plied by Ministry of National Education, we have re-formulated our chocolate, banana and strawberry the reporting period, while full compliance to the directives issued by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture flavored milk products which are offered in Children Category and decreased sugar and fat levels of these and Livestock was achieved. Conducting activities in accordance with the regulations regarding product products. Total decreased fat level all three products are 30%. In the last quarter of 2016, sugar level for promotion and marketing, our Company uses product advertisements and other marketing communicamentioned three product has been decreased by 20% without using artificial sweetener. For Condensed tion tools in accordance with the social responsibility approach. Our Company conducts active work for Yoghurt product, total fat level has been decreased 33% in 2016. For Premium Briny White Cheese prodthe advertisements to be legal, moral, accurate and honest and no discrepancy with directives regarding uct, total fat level has been decreased 17% in 2016. Eagerly following up the recent trends, we continue marketing communication occurred during the reporting period. to enhance our product portfolio with the options that allows better nutrition; we released products to market such as Lactose-Free Milk for consumers who has particular nutrition requirements as well as little portion cheddar, fresh kashar cheese and string in healthy snacks category. Besides, in our recent prodDyo Coating’s Regulation on Biocidal Products has been prepared in accordance with Directive 98/8 / EC DYO COATING uct portfolio there are valuable products such as Denge Lactose-Free Milk, Denge Lactose-Free Yoghurt, of the EU. In accordance with this regulation, our biodisal products are registered and labeled according Denge Calcium A,D,E Milk, Kido Mineral and Triangle Cheese with Vitamins, First Step Follow-On Milk, to regulations. The licensing of Teknoplast, Diogen and Nanoipekmat products has been completed in the Child Follow-On Milk, Child Follow-On Milk with Honey, Organic UHT Milk and Organic White Cheese. On past years. the purpose to support people who needs more protein like athletes, development studies of Pınar Protein Milk has reached final stages. All our products covered by the TS standard required by the Building Materials Regulation have been fully documented with the “G” certificate and the legislation has been fully harmonized. The “G” mark is used Pınar Meat created its consumer / customer health and safety policy pursuant to the Sustainable Developon the labels of our product packaging. G documents are constantly being updated. PINAR MEAT ment Policy of Yaşar Holding. Based on this principle, our company conducts its marketing communication campaigns which are an inseparable part of commercial activities in full compliance with ethical values Following the ban on the use of formaldehyde and dibutyl phthalate in Europe, our product prescriptions pursuant to its goal of “avoiding any compromise from our ethical, accountable and honest business conwere revised and the use of these raw materials was terminated. duct approach”. Our company believes that all brands conducting activities in the food area must deliver products primarily in compliance with healthy nutrition requirements and shares this belief with all of its Regulations have been implemented in the product portfolio, taking into account EU practices in R&D acbusiness partners. Pınar Meat considers delivering messages that comply with the cultural life codes of the tivities. In accordance with Directive 2004/42 / EC in force in Europe, Dyo Boya has reduced the amount local and international markets that it makes business with, their humanitarian values and social standof volatile substances (VOC) contained in products and has made all water-based products, both internal ards of judgment in the products that it will produce for the first time or in the marketing communication and external, compatible with the VOC directive. campaigns of the categories as essential ethical values. No discrepancy with directives regarding health and safety labels or with voluntary codes was observed during our company’s reporting period of 2016. 54 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 55 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety Informing Customers and Consumers and Good Practices and Developments from Companies Ethical Marketing A company of our Group, Viking Tissue earned the right to obtain the BRC Consumer Product (Level A) VIKING TISSUE and Hygienic Product GC-MARK certificates as a result of the inspections made by DQS, the German cerContinuing its activities pursuant to the nonconditional customer satisfaction principle, our tification organization in 2016. The first company to obtain these certificates, our Company proved that it Group posts notifications regarding its products and services via social media channels in conducts good quality, safe production that complies with the applicable laws under the international stanaddition to labels, advertisements and our web site. Each of our Group companies is subject dards. Our company made progress in the following areas via the BRC certificate that has been obtained: to different product / service information regulations and labeling principles depending on the nature of the industries. The companies of our Group provide 100% compliance with • Reduction of the risks that the product might bear, all directives and rules regarding the product / service information regulations and labeling. • Timely realization of consumer risks regarding the safety and hygiene of consumer products, • Possibility of examination in the public BRC Directory, No discrepancy regarding the matter was observed during the reporting period. Sharing • Compliance with legal requirements, information regarding our food products with our consumers via labels is subject to the • Good practices and constant improvement. provisions of Turkish Food Codex Labeling Directive. The provisions of the directive and the Labeling Guide issued by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock identify the Altın Yunus renovated the main building rooms, suites, lobbies and indoor pool areas in 2016 in order to exact information required to be indicated on a food product label. Moreover, activities are ALTIN YUNUS increase customer satisfaction and to improve its products and created new concepts under the names conducted in accordance with the regulations regarding the promotion and marketing of Marina Cafe Baküs Beach Kordon Kafe. It has been effective in 7 mediums in the social media in order products within the organization of our Group. Actions are taken with the responsibility to be more effective using the power of the social media in the marketing area and submitted posts every awareness while products are promoted to the consumer via advertisements and other day to increase interaction. Concentrating on digital marketing, our Company informed its consumers in marketing communication tools. both the digital environment and in printed media regarding its new products and has created awareness. Our company’s web site and online reservation module have been renewed and have acquired a userFull compliance to the Advertisement Essential Audit Board Principles issued by the “Ad Givfriendly state in addition to becoming technological in the sense of web and online reservation. ers Foundation” to which our Group is a member is ensured. This way, active effort is spent for the ads to be legal, moral, accurate and honest. Good Practices and Developments The sale and distribution strategy of YBP, a company of our Group doesn’t only focus on distribution but YBP also aims for superior presentation of products to the consumers at the sale points. Our company increaPınar Communication Center ses the issue and display quality of the products with nearly 300 sale support personnel across the country Carrying out its’ businesses without compromising from “Consumers and customers comes and its regional and dealer warehouses are regularly inspected by the Ministry of Agriculture and Health in first” principle, Pınar Diary meticulously investigates submitted requests and opinions within order to ensure health and hygiene conditions for the consumers from production to the shelves. the frame of customer-focused work policy. A web site called Pınar Professional and social media accounts such as Facebook and snapchat were Operators responds to customer demand calls incoming to Pınar Communication Center’s created for the consumption outside home channel of our company in 2015 and information was shared (PİM) 444 76 27 phone line where customers effortlessly access throughout Turkey without with customers and consumers via these accounts with descriptions regarding the contents and usage having to add area code, immediately and live in 07:00 A.M. – 11:00 P.M. for seven days areas of the products. At the same time, serious efficiency was achieved with delivery from a single point a week. to the main warehouses of direct, vendor and chain channel customers at the customer delivery part of the process as well. Pınar Communication Center that having 92% customer satisfaction rating according to satisfaction survey implemented with customers in 2016, provides effective feedback with investigating and resolving issues posted on twitter.com/InfoPınar official Twitter account. Yaşam Pınarım Magazine Issued since 2004 Yaşam Pınarım Magazine, represent valuable connection between Pınar and business partners and also academic and bureaucratic communities. Offering helpful information especially for parents, this quarterly issued and free-of-charge distributed magazine, reaches over 10.000 people for month. 56 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 57 Consumer/Customer Quality, Innovation Health and Safety and R&D Customer and Consumer Satisfaction Quality Management Our companies in our Group measure customer and concentrates on “a brand that is available everywhere”, Shaping its total quality management approach pursuant to consumer satisfaction at regular intervals and take the “a brand with large variety” and “a reliable and good the “our consumers and customers come first” approach, necessary improving actions. Considering customer quality brand” as the strongest scores. Pınar has also Yaşar Group aims to ensure constant improvement in all arand consumer satisfaction surveys and stakeholder been increasing the repurchase rates in the frozen eas where it conducts activities in line with its operational feedbacks as important tools, our Group takes decisive meat, fish and dough criteria and the loyal consumer excellence goal pursuant to its leading product and service steps to make its products and services excellent. group rates within the total number of buyers regularly approach. Our “operational excellence” which is among the since 2014. Pınar Communication Center measures the corporate values of our Group continues its progress under The customer satisfaction rate of Çamlı Feed, a comconsumer satisfaction of Pınar Dairy, Pınar Meat and light of quick decision-making systems based on effective pany of our Group for the 2016 reporting year has been Pınar Water while the Corporate Communication Deuse of technology in all areas, simple work processes, deThanks to our measured as 80% as a result of the surveys made. partments of our Companies prepare a survey of five fined working systematics and data. This way, the needs “Operational Excellence”, Pınar Meat conducts broad research on a regular basis questions revealing customer satisfaction regarding of consumers and customers are analyzed quickly and their we can complete analysis to measure both customer satisfaction and the value of Pınar Communication Center. According to the results needs are responded with a proactive and innovative approcess rapidly and offer its brands for its consumers. Such works are evaluated of the survey, the customer satisfaction rate of Pınar proach. proactive & innovative in the sense of sustainability of the Pınar brand and the Communication Center was 91,7% in 2016. The cussolutions continuity of a valuable food brand in Turkey and great tomer satisfaction measuring of Viking Tissue is made The companies in our Group use the quality standards estabimportance is attached to the analyses of the results. biennially and therefore it was not conducted in 2016. lished by international organizations in addition to standards According to the results of Tracking brand value meathat are specific to their industries. In addition to compliance suring work conducted by our company annually on a The customer satisfaction rate of Dyo’s Çiğli Factory for with these standards, the framework established with our regular basis, Pınar brand continued its leading position the year 2016 was 94% while the customer satisfaction corporate values allows us to reach high standards in all quite ahead of its closest competitor in the criteria of rate for its Dilovası Factory was 89%. of our processes. Also, suggestions received from our conthe brand that first comes to mind in the charcuterie sumers, dealers and customers in addition to those of our products category in 2016. While it is quite important Satisfaction survey was conducted for the members employees with regard to quality form a significant part of that brand recognition sticks to the consumer’s mind, of the Dyolog Loyalty System which has been active developing our quality management approach as well. This it appeared that the brand also fulfils the consumption since 2009 in Dyo Construction Paints in 2016 as in approach ranges from R&D works to consumer notification, taste, quality and reliability criteria. According to this every year and the satisfaction rate of 1,783 painters product development to process management. study, Pınar brand is also quite ahead of its competiwho took part in the survey was found to be 93,6% tors in the criteria of having its products purchased and while that of 486 sale point salesmen was found to be Our quality management approach, which has been acthe most purchased brand criteria in the last 3 months 88,5%. 2.274 surveys were conducted in 2016 in Altın cepted as a standart in all companies of our Group creates in the charcuterie products. The brand image of Pınar Yunus, a company of our Group and the satisfaction added value for the lives of our end consumers while raisrate was found to be 88,4%. ing the production standards of our suppliers. ISO, EFQM Excellence Model are among the tools we use in our quality DYO management. ÇAMLI COATING TRADITIONAL FEED ÇİĞLİ FACTORY 82% 80% 94% DİLOVASI FACTORY MODERN PINAR 89% 86% 91,7% DYO YBP COH* COATING 86% PAINTERS ALTIN YUNUS 93,6% 88,4% DEALER SALESMEN 80% 88,5% * Consumption Outside Home 58 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 59 Quality, Innovation and R&D Management Systems In our Group, the most important tool for ensuring operational excellence and constant improvement is our management systems. The quality and assurance we offer to our consumers and customers with our products and Management Systems System Pınar Pınar Pınar Dyo Altın Viking Çamlı Desa YBP services are certified via internationally recognized standards. We constantly enhance our management systems Certification Meat Dairy Water Coating Yunus Tissue Feed Energy in order to develop an effective management system and to increase traceability with the standards we apply in Organic Farming many areas such as quality, food safety, environment, customer satisfaction and energy. Entrepreneur • Certificate System Pınar Pınar Pınar Dyo Altın Viking Çamlı Desa STD-50-001 • Management Systems YBP Certification Meat Dairy Water Coating Yunus Tissue Feed Energy FSC-CoC (Forest Stewardship Council) STD-40-004 • Quality Management ISO 9001 • • • • • • • Management System System STD-40-007 • Information Security ISO/IEC 27001 • US National Sanitation Management Systems NSF • Foundation Food Safety Management System FSSC 22000 • • British Retail BRC • • Certificate Consortium Food Safety International Food BRC • Management System ISO 22000 • • • • Standart Certificate Consumer Product BRC • SAI GLOBAL Food • CFM • Safety GLOBALG.A.P Aquacuture Environment • ISO 14001 • • • • • Standart Management System Occupational National Britannia NB • Health and Safety OHSAS 18001 • • • • • Management System Halal Food Certificate TS OIC/SMIC 1 • • • Certificate Turkish Standards Friend Of The Sea FOS • Institution ISO 17025 • Good Agricultural Subcontractor EOS • Practices Laboratory Approval Mc Donald’s SQMS • Customer Satisfaction Management System ISO 10002 • • Turkish Standards TSE TSEK • • • Certificate Compliance Certificate Energy Management QUALICOAT Class 1 • ISO 50001 • • • • • Systems Good Agricultural Conformity Aquaculture • Practices Assesment General Requirements for TS EN ISO/ ESMA (UAE Standard) ESMA • • Bodies Operating IEC 17024 Certification of Blue Flag • Personnel Automotive Sector ECOCERT • and Sub-Industry ISO TS 16949 • Quality Management Hygenic Product GC • System Mark 60 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 61 Quality, Innovation and R&D Innovation and R&D Works Good Practices and Developments from Companies Focusing on long term strategic plans, our Group stands out with its innovation and R&D Works in all areas of ac• The cooking and conditioning programs for fermented sausages were adjusted, thereby reducing PINAR MEAT tivity, particularly in the branches of paint, food and drinks. Our Group provides gates to new markets in addition their production wastages. to creating added value for the sustainable growth of Turkey with its R&D and Innovation Works. In addition to the • Turkey charcuterie and poultry charcuterie departments were separated, revision of conditioning and developed products with added value, the innovative approach observed in the processes reinforces the leadership cooking program reduced production wastage by about 2% and the separation of poultry and turkey of our Group companies in their industry. charcuterie departments eliminated waiting for packaging, reducing packaging wastage by about 2%. This way our company’s efficiency was increased and more effective usage of resources was ensured. Our innovation and R&D works that create valuable output particularly in the economic and environmental parts • The following works were conducted in the automation of charcuterie production facility. Production of sustainability are steered by our market research, consumer expectations and demands, areas that will offer speed / efficiency was increased with more production capacity at a single time. Movement of producomparative superiority in competition, legal regulations and costs improvement works. Aiming to make innovative cts with a closed system was ensured and hence possible risks regarding food safety were reduced. approach a part of corporate culture, our Group encourages any initiative on the part of the employees and supLess detergents were used with the realized system and thus more effective cleaning was ensured. ports them in making innovative suggestions. Switch from PP packaging to Doypack + cardboard packaging in frozen water products allowed taking the following steps: Labor and packaging costs were reduced, less plastics were used and hence the Good Practices and Developments from Companies amount of wastes disposed to the environment was reduced. With this system, the products could be packaged directly after being frozen and therefore semi product stocks were reduced. The product • Pınar Diary has released 13 new product and 59 new product package in 2016. Produced for snack PINAR DAIRY could be better displayed on the shelves. consuming towards customer demands and nutrition trends, Pınar Go range and disposable Pınar Open and Finish Kashar and Cheddar 60 gr. products offered to customers. Due to studies made in Works to Be Conducted in 2017 the context of growing and creating new opportunities in Out-of-Home Consumption (EDT) channel, • Dissemination of transition from PP cup to Doypack + cardboard packaging in frozen products, Sour Cream 650 gr product which has been manufactured for restaurants and cafes and offered to • Amending the sausage shower unit, ensuring less water consumption and increasing food safety via chef cooks taste, has drawn great attention thanks to being one and only product in this category. faster cooling of products, • Lactose-Free product portfolio has been enhanced due to increased knowledge and demand of custo• Spending less water / detergent with the steel car washing machine device and ensuring more effemers. Therefore, Lactose-Free White Cheese has been added to portfolio following Lactose-Free Milk ctive cleaning, and Yoghurt. Having the title of one and only product in market, Lactose-Free Cheese represents a • Using less water / detergent and making more effective cleaning with dissemination of TASKİ floor great example of Pınar Diary’s innovative approach and health trends have become more important cleaning device in all production units instead of manual cleaning. than ever. The projects conducted by YBP, a company of our Group in 2016 are as follows: YBP • According to differentiate Pınar products on the shelf and to increase visual awareness, however, there has made new visual studies towards product packages. While cup ayran, bottle ayran and MT 940 triangle cheese products’ “emogy” designed packages offered to customers, there has been flower Electronic account statement (MT-940) allows the movements of companies in their bank accounts to pot, toy box and sand bucket visuals placed over yoghurt and mild cream products’ buckets and these create records in the SAP accounting system automatically. Files regarding account movements can be packages have gained another use opportunity. accessed without documents via indirect data transmission, internet, other computer based FTP receiver programs or automatically sent e-mail attachments. This way, paper saving is achieved and contribution is • Whey Recovery Project applied in the context of TÜBİTAK 1511 TEYDEP Prioritized Areas Research, made to the environment. MT-940 transactions began with Garanti Bank. Technology Development and Innovation Project, has been recognized as worth to support and studies has been started. Mobile HR Employees using tablets were offered the opportunity to benefit from the HR services offered as “self service”. E-Payroll, time management and reporting processes are carried out with mobile life, especially A company of our Group, Pınar Meat has switched to packing automation in packaging its “Open and Finworking outside the company has been ensured and they have not been dependent on the office. PINAR MEAT ish” products. This system has advantages in many areas from efficiency to marketing. P.A.R.S Our company collects the shelf prices of Pınar and competitor companies from digital platforms through our • The parcels used began to be shaped as plates instead of folding and this way the logistics of purcmobile personnel and doesn’t need to outsource price investigation thanks to technological infrastructure. hased parcels were reduced by 100 trucks / year. The data collected on a routine basis are analyzed and are presented to executives in the form of price and • Line efficiency, which is a factor that depends on people was stabilized and increased with the switch index reports. to automation. • A form of packing where products that conform to the demands of customers are lined up for the discount markets was obtained. • Labor costs were reduced and reduction in total product costs was ensured. 62 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 63 Quality, Innovation Sustainable Agriculture and and R&D Livestock Breeding Good Practices and Developments from Companies Thematic Map Reporting As natural resources began to be insufficient in the scope of the project, training program appliYBP Created via integration with the infrastructure of the BW module, which is YBP’s reporting system, thematic mapping allowed data regarding work processes such as regions and product groups to be line with the rapid growth of world population, sustainable agriculture and livestock gained major cations were realized in Izmir (Tire & Ödemiş), Eskişehir, Kütahya, Denizli, Uşak and Şanlıurfa reported on a map via a topographic base. significance. As the influence of global warming is provinces in 2016 and the training sessions were felt throughout the world, considering its negative completed while they were open for the voluntary Providing Distributors with Tablets impacts on agricultural production, effective use attendance of all producers in addition to Pınar Region based distribution team positions were added to the organization in YBP. Mobile processes of natural resources for the future of humankind Dairy. With the training sessions that took place were created for distribution personnel and; has become a more important matter. Acting with in 2016, a total of 5.800 producers were reached the awareness of its responsibility for supporting from the beginning of the project and a budget • Urgent purchase orders received from customers can be received to the system quickly in the sustainable agriculture and livestock, our Group spending of TL 45.000 was made, excluding real distribution point of distribution teams as well in order to avoid sale loss despite the availability of supports and develops all of its stakeholders, parand other expenditure. purchase order representatives. ticularly manufacturers with the awareness of its • As the distribution teams can write messages from tablets, information can be shared with the responsibility against people and nature. FundaThe project stakeholders consist of Food, Agriculsite in a fast and dynamic way. mental products of our Food and Drinks Group in ture and Livestock Provincial and District Director• Transfer of customers to whom delivery will be made to online mobile environment via SAP our Group, milk and dairy products as well as aniates, Milk Associations, Universities (Ege, Ankara, allowed more effective identification of the order of visit as well as tracking. Moreover, if the mal protein are of vital importance for a healthy Harran and Afyon Kocatepe Universities), Pınar customer has an overdue payment or if its credit limit is full, this is indicated on the list. The addsociety. Some of our works which fall under the Dairy and Çamlı Feed. ress data, sale distribution data, finance data and carts for the customers on the list can also be scope of sustainable agriculture and livestock breeding are addressed in our Report under the titles The project ranked among the top 3 projects in viewed. Transfer of information between the center and the site has achieved a faster and more “Contribution to Local Economy”, “Caring for Busithe Yaşar Group Sustainability Awards in 2016, accurate, dynamic process. ness Partners” and “Caring for the Environment”. thereby winning the Sustainability Award and Establishing a Premium System for Distribution Teams signing a major achievement. • Premium management was prepared for the distribution personnel of our company employed in Producer Support Programs Making collaboration under the scope of United 2016 and system integration was established. This way, premium payment can be made depenProject “The Future of Our Milk is in Nations Development Program (UNDP) and Busiding on the performance and employee satisfaction is ensured. Conscious Hands” ness Call to Action (BCtA) programs are among the plans of the project for the next period. This Cabinet Project Founded in order to raise awareness in the society collaboration aims to carry the project to the inter• Cabinet Project is one of the most important projects that has been started in 2016. Big part of with regard to food, health and nutrition and to national area and to increase its popularity. In this context and implementation of “Sustenance Project” which has been established to count all the contribute to well development of the society and scope, works are conducted for developing the cabinets placed in YBP area warehouses and customers, distributor warehouses and distributor operating as a non-profit organization, Pınar Instiproject content. tute continued its projects and activities in 2016 as customers around Turkey and carrying on businesses in healthy way after this process has bewell. Conducting works for the training of milk proencompleted. Pınar Newspaper ducers ever since it was founded, Pınar Institute began to conduct its works in a more systematic Conducting activities on food, health and nutrition way under the scope of Project “The Future of Our Air conditioning for the pool area in the hotel’s healthy life center was made with the air conditioning as well, our Group continued to issue the Pınar ALTIN YUNUS Milk is in Conscious Hands” for certification startcentral established in 2016. This central heats the environment from the hotel’s waste thermal water Newspaper which is a significant source of refering from 2014. “Animal Health”, “Animal Nutrition” and cools it in the summer from the hotel’s waste ro (reverse osmosis) water and operates with ence for farmers conducting milk and meat husand “Hygiene-Sanitation” training continued to be frequency converter fans. The central has become an investment where minimum energy meets bandry in areas such as stockbreeding, milk techoffered to milk producers in 2016 under the project maximum benefit. nologies and livestock health in 2016. conducted for maximizing all benefits of milk by way of ensuring proper nutrition and well-being of Our newspaper is prepared for 18.000 producers dairy animals and raising awareness among breedsupplying livestock and raw milk to Pınar. ers with regard to hygiene and sanitation. Under 64 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 65 Sustainable Agriculture and Contribution to Livestock Breeding Local Economy Animal Welfare Çamlı Feed A prominent private industry organization in Turkey, Yaşar Group has been conducting its activities pursuant to the principle of creating value for Turkey since 1945. Boasting a broad Our Group attaches great significance to animal A company of our Group, Çamlı Feed uses the contmap of stakeholders that covers different segments of the society, our Group supports regiwelfare within the framework of sustainable livesracted production model in the turkey production onal development and local economy with its widespread supply chain across the country, tock concept. The Food and Beverage Group of process and offers a source of income for villagers export volume, added value creation and the direct & indirect employment that it creates. our Group didn’t observe any discrepancy while it living particularly in the mountainous villages whiconducted many applications in this regard during ch are not suitable for agriculture in return for the The contribution of our Group to local economy is not limited to products and services and the 2016 reporting period. turkey caring service they offer. Moreover, veterithe training offered to manufacturers and suppliers, efficiency works based on cost optinary doctors in charge provide training to breeders mization, R&D projects, greenhouse reduction works and waste management approach as Pınar Meat with regard to animal breeding and animal welfare well as social investments continue with the contribution made to local economy. at least 3 times a year and any good practices Considering animal welfare as a prior issue, Pınar identified are disseminated while it is ensured that Always focusing on growing together with its stakeholders, our Group makes a point of Meat provided any resources for establishing and improper practices are ended. Fertilizers received providing all raw materials from local producers. Our Group gives priority to the goals of effectively implementing the animal welfare sysfrom the turkey pens in Seferihisar are utilized in improving the conditions of suppliers, increasing product quality and thereby increasing tem. On-site and hands-on training was obtained the fertilizer processing facility in Ören. their revenue in its relations with our stakeholders. from the experts from USA and Europe for the animal welfare practices. Our animal welfare system Breeding density that complies with the regulaTaking local elements into account in its human resources policy and giving priority to covering the necessary infrastructure and internal tions is maintained for preserving animal welfa“in-place employment”, our Group tries to source its workforce needed in the investments audit pursuant to such training was established re while work is conducted with Ege University, it makes in different regions from the human resource available in that region depending and all of our employees were trained. The effecFaculty of Agriculture on projects addressing the on the qualifications required for the respective position. tiveness of the system is verified annually with the Loading Stress of Live Turkeys and Animal Welhigh scores we receive during independent thirdfare in Pens. Moreover, the department manager continues to write a PhD thesis project regarding Offering reliable and good quality products to its consumers under the scope of product party inspections (SAI GLOBAL, UK). the Placement Density of Turkeys in Pens in Isresponsibility, our Group tries to make these products accessible. In particular, balanced tanbul University, Faculty of Veterinary Science. A and adequate nutrition of the society is considered important owing to direct impacts of At the same time, we regularly train our suppliers common study was conducted in 2015 with the food and nutrition on health and attention is paid to offer products that will provide for this with regard to animal welfare and inform them initiative of Milano University, Ege University and nutrition to the consumers. Natural resources are not only a heritage of a country to the fuwith regard to the developments. Use of any horAnimal Welfare Indicators for identifying animal ture but they also make a significant economic value. With this awareness, our Group conmone and growth enhancing medicine in livestock which make our raw material is forbidden owing to welfare criteria and for making animal welfare meducts activities with the responsible resource utilization and resource efficiency approach. the legal requirements of Turkey. Only antibiotics asurable. that are allowed for treating sick animals can be used and in this case the time needed for releasing antibiotics from the body is observed. The absence of such materials in the animals that we are supplied with is verified with regular analyses procured from independent 3rd party laboratories by Pınar Meat as well as those conducted by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock. Rules of Directive on Transportation of Livestock and Animal Products within the Country and Directive on Welfare and Protection of Animals During Their Transportation are observed while carrying the animals. 66 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 67 Contribution to Local Economy Good Practices and Developments from Companies Pınar Meat Occupational Training Unit Dyo Academy PINAR MEAT DYO COATING Leading the way in Turkey in 1998 and founding Pınar Meat Vocational Training Unit in order to resolve As the Vocational Qualifications Institution (MYK) certificate requirement was introduced pursuant to the trained personnel issue in the industry, Pınar Meat has earned vocational skills to 383 apprentice the laws, an increase is expected over time across our country in the number of demands for persons students on meat and meat products processing. who fall under the vocational group of Construction Painter and Heat Insulator. For this reason necessary infrastructure preparations were made within the organization of Dyo Academy. As the first While 49% of its graduates are employed in Pınar Meat, 42 students continue their training in the organization in the paint industry that was accredited by TÜRKAK under the TS-EN ISO/IEC 17024 Vocational Training Unit as of the year-end of 2016. Standard for issuing Vocational Capability Certificate and authorized by the Vocational Capability Organization on 11UY0023-3 Construction Painter (Level 3) National Capability, it has continued its examination and certification works since 2014. A company of our Group, Pınar Dairy carries out contracted work in 301 spots, 119 of them bePINAR DAIRY ing a farmstead for supplying good quality raw materials as of the year-end of 2016 and supports It completed its scope expansion works in 2016 and also began Examination and Certification applicaits producers whose number is over 18.000. Attaching great significance to local development, our tions on 12UY0057-3 Heat Insulator National Capability. Vocational Capability Certificate has become Company shares the quality values of the milk that it supplies from farms with producers on a “daily” a requirement in Turkey for both of these occupations which are classified as dangerous and very basis, allowing them to be knowledgeable regarding the products of producers. Moreover, it conducts dangerous works pursuant to the notification issued by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security on training programs on subjects such as milk quality, flock health, animal nutrition and protective phyMay 25th 2015. Dyo Academy Department accelerates its works to contribute to activities that increase sician works in order to provide information to its producers for producing healthy milk and to create qualified workforce in Turkey. awareness. Conducting raw milk purchase from 4 supplier groups which are village, cooperative, farmstead and company from a total of 22 provinces in Turkey, our Company buys milk samples from It conducted examinations in a total of 42 locations in 2016, 1.001 persons to attend this examination our farmsteads at least 2 times a month. The results are informed to those in charge of the farmstead and allowing those who succeed to be certified with Dyo-MYK and TURKAK Certification. and are allowed to have information regarding their quality. Pınar Dairy has completed the infrastructure for the “Supplier Performance Increase” project in selecting new suppliers and business partners for sustainable and good quality supply in 2016. The goal is to start having the suppliers undersign a Supplier Protocol stating that they observe the “Compliance with Laws and Legislations, Human Rights, Fair Working Standards, Environmental Responsibility and Anti-Corruption”, which further includes the criteria of Global Principles Agreement under scope of this project. A company of our Group, Çamlı Feed conducts all of its activities under the principle of contributing ÇAMLI FEED to local economy. Almost all of our producers from whom our company sources production services for turkey breeding comprise of families who are not able to carry out agriculture or cattle breeding in their village. With this production method, producers, who are among the most important stakeholders of our Group were offered services such as livestock, feed, veterinary services and transportation of livestock to the slaughterhouse effectively. Informative training with regard to poultry breeding and legal regulations is offered to family members during the process via information meetings and veterinarian visits that are held once a year. Çamlı Feed Turgutlu Factory, which under construction during 2016, is planned to be commissioned at the end of 2017. It will make contribution to the region of foundation in economic, commercial and employment sense. 68 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 69 Social Investment Works Yaşar Education and Culture the current issues in Turkey and worldwide from Yaşar Education and Culture Aids Granted to Other Organizations and a scientific perspective, research, emphasize the Institutions Foundation Foundation Works ways of solution and aim to announce the results thereof to the society with the broadest cover. • In Yaşar Education and Culture FoundatiFounded in 1974 by Durmuş Yaşar, Yaşar EducaSelçuk Yaşar Museum and Art Gallery on Private Education Application Center and tion and Culture Foundation conducts activities in Work Application Center, instructors and stuthe training, culture and art areas. The foundatiOpened in 1985, within the organization of Selçuk dents were offered training in order for Apple on has built many schools ever since its establisYaşar Museum which is the first private painting Technologies Education Development Proghment in addition to undertaking construction of museum in Turkey, Selçuk Yaşar Art Gallery was rams to be implemented in private education annex buildings, dining halls, sports and culture commissioned in 1990. The foundation continued and 16 pieces of 32 GB Apple iPads, 1 piece facilities pursuant to the needs of schools. Moreits activities in the gallery which is downstairs in of 4th Generation Apple TV and Apple branded over, it has responded to the needs of schools for the museum with the painting and sculpture exdevices were granted by the Foundation to be science, language, food technology and computer hibitions of Veysel Günay, Süleyman Saim Tekcan, used in the education of the students. laboratory. Ekrem Kahraman, Ergin İnan, Fevzi Karakoç, Zahit • 12 notebooks were granted pursuant to the Büyükişleyen – Nilay Kan Büyükişleyen, Ferruh Barequests received from schools within the fraYaşar Education and Culture Foundation offered şağa and Hakan Esmer in 2016. mework of education services. 100% free scholarship for 49 students who lost • Within the scope of Atatürk studies, Atatürk their relatives in Soma mine accident, master’s Having hosted artists and art enthusiasts with the corner was built for the 80. Yıl Çiftlik Secondegree, bachelor’s degree and higher education exhibitions organized by Yaşar Education and Culdary School in İzmir province, Çeşme district students studying in various departments of uniYaşar Education and Culture Foundation realized ture Foundation in the summer season for long yeand Atatürk bust Base was built for İzmir / versities and 140 successful students in need, who the panel discussion named “Autism and Puberty” ars, the Altın Yunus Art Galleries hosted the workKonak Gazi Secondary School. studied in the Anatolian Vocational High Schools in Yaşar University Conference Hall on April 20, shop works of master artists Gencay Kasapçı and • The foundation collected course books, noduring the academic year of 2015-2016. Moreo2016 with a high level of attendance in order to Şükran Ulucan as well as the young skilled artists vels, story and college preparation test books ver, Yaşar Group companies and directors offered draw attention to Autism and to contribute to awaMehmet Çevik, Kerem Atar, Sümeyya İlhan, Hayrifrom the employees of Yaşar Group who atconditional charity scholarship to 25 students. Our reness in the month of April, which is known as ye Diliuzun, Mustafa Özbakır, Rugül Serbest, Nedtended voluntarily with the book campaigns foundation has so far contributed to the education the World Autism Awareness month. ret Pekcan, Mehtap Saldıray, Duygu Sinan, Uğur “Let’s Each Donate a Book” and “So that Kids of about 6.000 students by offering scholarship. Avcı, Cansu Kuzu, Filiz Piyale, Nihal Başoğlu ÖzdeRead Books” organized 2 times within the Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation continued mir, Murat Özbakır, Mehmet Emre, Mustafa Mutlu, year in order to support schools that need boOur foundation has published about 40 works in to offer tangible support for Nysa excavations unRuken Aslan and Sevinç Çiftçi whose works receioks and the collected books were delivered to cultural field, Atatürk Publications and in various der the scope of Common Service Protocol within ved awards in Dyo Painting Awards and/or which the 7 schools in Anatolia. areas, particularly archeological and scientific arethe framework of promotion services for our cultuwere found worthy of being displayed in 2016. • The Foundation made donation to Ankara Altıas. The foundation also organizes congresses, re and history and archeological excavations supnokta Blind People Foundation for buying 100 symposiums and panel discussions that examine port works in 2016. Our Foundation was also the Selçuk Yaşar Museum white walking sticks in order to meet the neeofficial sponsor for the excavation and restoration ds of visually impaired persons. works of the Ancient Smyrna city, also known as The building relievo, restoration and restitution • Donation was made under the name “Growing Bayraklı Tumulus, located in İzmir province, Bayproject works for Selçuk Yaşar Museum, where pawith Music” to the Foundation of Music for Peraklı district. inting, sculpture, carpet and archeological works ace which was established in order to teach will be displayed on an indoor area of about 6.000 how to play a musical instrument to kids aged m2 on the real estate of Yaşar Education and Culbetween 6 and 14 who can’t afford it and theture Foundation located in İzmir province, Konak reby to reintegrate them into the society. district, Umurbey Quarter, plot no 1391, parcel no • The exterior facade painting was made for Ya2 were completed and the project pre-approval şar Education and Culture Foundation Private of Konak Municipality and the approval of the BoEducation Application Center and Work Appliard of Preserving Natural Assets were obtained in cation Center which was opened for education 2016. Application was filed to Konak Municipality in İzmir province, Güzelbahçe district in 2014 for the construction license of the museum and and continuing its education in the academic construction of the museum is planned to be comyear of 2016 2017 with 20 classrooms, 36 menced in 2017. teachers and 70 private students. 70 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 71 Social Investment Works Good Practices and Developments from Companies Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility activities are one of in which training applications were made under scoThe major projects realized by YBP, a company of our Group during the 2016 reporting period are as DYO COATING the major building blocks of Dyo Coating corporate culture. Undersigning very special works in this area pe of the project were also offered training. YBP follows: each year, our Company continues its social respon1.300 hours of training were offered by Mimar Sinan Driving Training Sister School Project sibility activities diligently. Fine Arts University to 219 painters in 10 provinces The Efficient Driving Training offered in the AnaYBP started the “Sibling School Project” as of May, across Turkey under scope of the “Value for Craftstolia Distribution Warehouse of İzmir on Sunday, 2015 under the scope of Corporate Values Projects. Supporting many projects from education to cultumanship” project which took place under “Value for November 14, 2016 took place seamlessly as it was Torbalı Göllüce Village Primary School was selected re art, sports to nongovernmental organizations in Tomorrow”. Painters who had Vocational Qualificatiplanned. It was observed prior to commencing the and the needs were identified during the process its social responsibility activities, our Company conon Certificates experienced making color and place training that drivers drive their vehicles on high reof identifying a school conducted with Torbalı Diretinues its corporate social responsibility project and composition from the eyes of an architect thanks to volution and fuel consumption is more than norctorate of National Education and Göllüce Head of approaches with the “reintegrating into the society” the training sessions. mal. The training sessions offered highlighted not Neighborhood. Feasibility plan was made for Roof principle. only reduction of fuel consumption but also safe Amendment, the most important need within the driving techniques and traffic rules. Particularly the planning for 2017. Student toilet amendment, wall Corporate social responsibility project, which aims importance and legal requirement of fastening seat plaster and painting area as well as various needs to create “Value for Tomorrow” with sustainability belts were mentioned, vehicle analysis reports of all of schools (curtain, table cloth, blackboard) were applications based on scientific data and foundation drivers were calculated and it was determined that included in our plans according to the results from and create a better future first came to the forefront there was on average 20% improvement betwebudget and costs. The school was revisited, Torbalı with the “Worth Learning” slogan. en two driving sessions. The project commission Director of National Education was visited and inwas expanded as of December, 2016 in order for formation was provided with regard to the process. Under the scope of the project, the consultation the project to continue at a sustainable function Moreover, presents were prepared for kids from the board consisting of academicians from Mimar Sinan and joint action plans were prepared with the new products of Pınar during the April 23 celebrations. Fine Arts University Faculty of Architecture and Edumembers. cational Sciences Departments prepared educational A first of its kind event happened in Turkey with contents providing information regarding color, plathe “Value for Schools” project which was realized ce utilization, heat and light components and over under scope of Dyo “Value for Tomorrow” and the PINAR INSTITUTE 25 thousand students in their 2nd, 3rd and 4th year at School Painting Guide was prepared with a scientific Project “Let’s Move With Fun and Eat Healthily” school and 1.018 teachers were reached with 1.025 content. The School Painting Guide which contains Project “Let’s Move With Fun and Eat Healthily”, realized by our Group in order to create nutritional awareness training sessions offered in 66 schools in 10 provincolor and paint options according to elements such among young kids and to raise healthy individuals was completed in 2016 within the framework of the protocol ces during the academic year of 2015-2016. The as color, venue and light was sent by the Ministry signed with İzmir Provincial Directorate of National Education. Within the framework of the training program, aim was to have kids increase their life quality and of National Education to 20 thousand schools acabout 1.000 kids were reached in 20 schools which were selected with the İzmir Provincial Directorate of National success and to gain awareness regarding aesthetic ross Turkey in order to enhance the quality of and Education from among independent preschools that are connected with İzmir province and that offer training to values with the acquisitions earned in the training improve school venues where kids spend the most kids aged between 36 66 months during the autumn period of the 2016-2017 academic year during the first sessions. Administrators, class teachers and memof their time. Moreover, the guide prepared was shaphase of the program. bers of school family unions involved in the schools red with a million teachers. 10 schools located in 10 provinces which are Adana, Ankara, Antalya, BurThe consultation processes of the project are conducted by Prof. Dr. Sedef Nehir El, Instructor of Ege University, sa, Gaziantep, İstanbul, İzmir, Kocaeli, Samsun and Faculty of Engineering, Department of Food Engineering, Food Sciences and Asst. Prof. Sibel Sönmez, Instructor Trabzon were painted by Dyo Coating as the appliof Ege University, Faculty of Education, Department of Elementary Education, Preschool Teaching. Within the fracation example of School Painting Guide accepted mework of the training program, teacher activity book (Nutrition and Action Journal Book of Deniz), 3D food pyraby the Ministry of National Education. 120 painters mid, 3D food components to be placed on the food pyramid and educational materials set comprising of 4 posters who hold a Vocational Qualification Certificate and were distributed to each teacher at the end of the Instructor’s Education Event which took place on November who received training from Mimar Sinan Fine Arts 17 18, 2016. A budget spending of TL 25.000 was made for the events and activities of the project for the year University under scope of the project painted the 2016. Following the completion of the project, 3 academic publications will be prepared and presented on scientific schools in a short time which is one month using platforms under light of the pretest final test applications made and with the obtained data. 34 tons of paint and prepared them for the new academic year. 72 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 73 Social Investment Works Good Practices and Developments from Companies Stakeholder Opinion Corporate Social Responsibility Asst. Prof. Sibel DÖNMEZ Ege University Faculty of Education Basic Education Division Department of Pre-School Education PINAR INSTITUTE Play and Education Tools for a Healthy and Balanced Diet BAP Project sharing the education materials on the platform where The goal of the project that is realized with the collaboration of Yaşar University, Faculty of Art and Design is that pre-school teachers can effortlessly access also conpreschool kids get to know food groups and informative and educative toys with regard to how much food from vatributes expansion process. Not only sharing education rious food groups he/she needs to consume in order to have a healthy and balanced diet are designed. Designed/ materials, but also including scientific researches in produced toys are intended to be used as ancillary components supporting the project “Let’s Move With Fun and application stage and offering scientific findings about evaluation of education programme that made by chilEat Healthily” in the form of licensed toys / play components / education materials of Pınar / Pınar Institute. At the dren and teachers on variety of platforms and with arsame time, it will be possible to use them as ancillary training materials for the training sessions of the Institute with ticles to different groups are also considerable aspects regard to balanced and healthy nutrition in future periods. 4 game and training tool designs which were developed for extension. as student project and which were consequently given awards continue as a Scientific Research Project (BAP) with a protocol signed between Yaşar University and Pınar Institute. In this framework, initial works began on February What are the differentiating parts of “Let’s Move 2016 with a decision made by Yaşar University Project Evaluation Commission (PDK) and via Yaşar University InforWith Fun and Eat Healthily” project, considering mation and Technology Transfer Office (BTTO). Ongoing under scope of a work spanning 17 months, the budget the other projects recently applied? of the project which is TL 42.040 is paid by Yaşar University and Pınar Institute in halves. Would you share your thoughts on “Let’s Move Actually, there are so many studies in that area but the With Fun and Eat Healthily” project? main difference is project’s target time-frame. Children Based on the 4 designs, the new design which was developed by the instructors of Yaşar University, Faculty of Arts gains main nutrition habits at 4-6 years of age. While This project focused to children in pre-childhood and Design has arrived the construction stage of the first prototypes. The new consequent design is the reinterpchildren firstly apart from home dinner table, eats with makes great contribution to Group which is aiming to retation of the Food Pyramid made of felt fabric with different areas of use. At the same time, the application for raise healthy generations in future. It is so important the children of same age and demonstrates his/her the Useful Model and Design Registration of the new design was made in December, 2016. that project is being implemented in pre-school period families’ nutrition habits and they also get highly affectwhich is individual’s the fastest-pace development time ed by new-comers of their life and teachers who has The Consumer Reception Study for Milk and Dairy Products was conducted by Prof. Dr. Gülseren Atabek, Instructor zone and also the time individual gains life skills. We significant importance for them. With this approach, of Yaşar University, Faculty of Communication, Department of New Media and is a research project supported by Pıconfidently say that program is so effective in accessboth children have been educated and teacher have nar Institute within the organization of TÜBİTAK 3001 Initial R&D Projects Supporting Program. The project aimed ing accurate information on healthy and well-balanced gained awareness around nutrition and action educanutrition especially in this period when the children tions. Additionally, thanks to creating common activito reveal the perceptions acquired by consumers via media with regard to milk and dairy products. It is observed tend to get affected by others. Besides, this project ties in all schools based on equality principle, there has with regard to milk and other dairy products that consumers usually develop negative perceptions based on false helps children to handle with difficulties arising from been provided equality in both centrum and districts. information spread from media channels. sedative life style accompanies the modern life, highConsidering children-focused composition of families, lights the importance of not only healthy nutrition for education provided to children was also reflected to This research was designed in order to reveal such perceptions, examine and analyze who they develop and how parents and targeted changes has been achieved by healthy life but also active way of living as well as creeffective they are. The study covers milk and dairy product consumers in İzmir. Within this framework, a question that indirect approach. Besides, project has not been ates awareness for variety of sports. Additionally, using form was created according to data obtained from two focus group studies comprising of 10-15 persons and those limited with school borders; due to storybook granted interdisciplinary approach within the project preparaobtained from a scanning of selected media contents spanning a year in order to identify what the perceptions are. tion and implementation process along with consulting to children sustainability factor has been included to Following a pretesting of the question paper, a 700 persons sampling was applied on this paper. With the data obwell-acknowledged professionals is increasing project’s process and parents have become more conscious with tained from here, the level of the perceptions and how they change depending on different socio-economic groups productivity. this efforts. Learning with discovery by himself/herself were found with statistical analyses. The research began with media analysis on September November 2014 and by children is centerpiece of pre-school programme. was completed after the project report was approved by TÜBİTAK on May 20, 2016. Would you explain your thoughts on expanding Playing games is a method for learning with discovery the project? and transferring the knowledge gained with this approach is the most important aspect. In this concept, This project must firstly expanded in the independent established project has differentiated from others as pre-schools connected to Ministry of National Educacomprehensive education process which supporting tion. Within the process of implementation, there must learning with doing and experience as well as having be face-to-face hands-on-education and the program fun. must become standard for all practitioners. However, 74 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 75 Social Investment Works Sponsorships Our Main Sponsorships Pınar Water • Outfit donation was made to Balçova Municipality House of Solidarity. Pınar KSK • 3rd İzmir Occupational Safety and Health Summit • Certificate of appreciation was received from Çeşme With the Pınar brand, Yaşar Group contributes to preservation of educational, sports and cultural assets under • 6 Business Women Platform th District Directorate of National Education owing to the scope of sports communication works with the “social citizenship” approach. With this corporate culture the contribution made to the efforts for teachers to approach, Pınar Karşıyaka Sports Club which has been maintained under leadership of Selçuk Yaşar, Founder • Turkish 12th Food Congress develop themselves. and Honorary President of Yaşar Holding for about 60 years continues to be supported. Since 1998, thousands • Certificate of appreciation was received for hosting • 13th Ege Human Management Summit of teen sportsmen doing sports under Pınar Karşıyaka Basketball Team as main sponsor and under its infrastruthe Biographical Concert which was organized for cture have been supported. Setting on the road with the goal of making İzmir a basketball city and supported in • İzmir High Technology Institute “Hack’n Break” contributing to purchase of musical instruments to order for the residents of İzmir, youngsters and kids to be integrated with sports, recent achievements of Pınar event Barış Kids Symphony Orchestra. Karşıyaka include Turkish Cup Championship, Presidential Cup and Turkish Basketball League Championship. • Çeşme District Directorate of National Education Pınar Karşıyaka also represented Turkey successfully in EuroChallenge and Euroleague. Moreover, in addition to • 17th Search for Excellence Symposium granted certificate of appreciation to Altın Yunus support for Karşıyaka Basketball Team, about 25,000 kids were allowed to do sports in the infrastructure and in • 4th Inter High School Beach Volleyball Tournament owing to its contribution to education. sports schools with Pınar Karşıyaka Basketball branch. • Turmepa Deniz Temiz Foundation granted a certifica• İzmir Katip Çelebi University Nutrition and Health te of appreciation to Altın Yunus owing to its works conducted with regard to protection of the environTurkish Basketball Federation Concentric Symposium ment and sustainability. Pınar offers services as the Turkish Basketball Federation and Basketball National Teams Official Drinks Supplier • Ege University Faculty of Food Engineering Career • Altın Yunus was honored with a certificate of appreunder scope of the uninterrupted support it extends to sports. ciation awarded by Çeşme Municipality and Çeşme Days Foundation for Animal Protection owing to the supOther Sponsorships and Social Investments • Turkey Innovation Week port given to Çeşme Animal Shelter since 2006. In addition to participating many fair and congress which were organized in variety of areas including quality, food, Altın Yunus Dyo Coating R&D, marketing, supporting these activities, Pınar Meat, Pınar Dairy and Pınar Water was also took place in many Support Given to Education in 2016 Sponsorship Works and Exhibition Attendance for 2016 organizations. • Attendance was made to the Career Days orga• Hasankeyf Promotional Booklet sponsorship By the way, Pınar Meat and Pınar Dairy creates meeting opportunities for industry leaders and science-people nized in Balıkesir University and Afyon Kocatepe • National Karting Sportsman Berkay Besler sponsorby taking the responsibility of sponsorship of activities organized for enhancing cookery, gastronomy and cuisine University in March, 2016, Yaşar University in Apship culture in Turkey. In this context, Pınar Meat has given to sponsorship support to 4 congress, 3 symposiums and ril 2016, Ege University Çeşme School of Higher • Turkey Football Federation A National Team spon15 activities and Pınar Diary to 5 congresses, 3 symposiums and 33 activities. Education in November 2016 and Adnan Menderes sorship University, Tourism and Hotel Management School • 17th Search for Excellence Symposium sponsorship of Higher Education in December 2016. • 25th Quality Congress sponsorship Examples of sponsorships Pınar Dairy: • Internship was offered within the organization of • Turkey Innovation Week Exhibition attendance • İzmir Economic Congress Altın Yunus to 2 Tourism Education Center (TU• Paint İstanbul TurkCoat 2016 Exhibition attendance • Milas Milk Producers Association General Assembly REM) and 2 Erasmus Plus exchange program stu• 2016 Building Exhibition attendance dents, 48 vocational high school and 41 university • Atakent-Expo Kazakhstan exhibition attendance • Şanlıurfa Fair of Food, Agriculture and Stockbreeding students in 2016. • Commemorated with sports for many years, Dyo • Yaşar University 9th Logistics Days • Sports uniform support was offered to Ege UniCoating reinforced this connection even further and versity, Çeşme Tourism and Hotel Management blazed a trail in the industry. The communication • Turkey Innovation Week School of Higher Education Football Team. works made with regard to sponsorship were plan• Yaşar University Startup Weekend ned in gradual steps which are signature ceremony, • Yaşar University Autism Panel Works Conducted Under Scope of Environment and Sopre Euro 2016, championship and post-champions• Referees Association “The Bests of Amateur” Cocktail and Award Ceremony ciety Awareness in 2016 hip. Mentioned in 208 different news, the signature ceremony reached 12.444.921 people. Moreover, • Wings For Life World Run • Food support from waste food continued to be giabout 1 million people were reached with the posts • Nutrition and Health Side-By-Side Symposium; Milk and Health 2016 Earth Day ven to Çeşme Animal Shelter in 2016. made on the social media. 76 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 77 Social Investment Works Yaşar University Aiming to raise individuals who are sensitive to the environment and to their own lives as well as Some of the projects realized by Yaşar UniVaried Distant Teaching of Turkish as a Focapable of acting with awareness of social responsibility, Yaşar University started its activities in the versity are as follows. reign Language academic year of 2002 2003. 430 academic and 291 administrative personnel are employed in Yaşar TÜBİTAK 3501 – Career Development Program Asst. University, where 8.983 active students study in the 2016-2017 academic year. Having 2 Vocational Development of Microalgae Panel Reactor Prof. Özlem Ozan Schools of Higher Education with 9 faculties, 31 departments and 12 undergraduate programs as well Prototypes and Examination of Design Paas 1 School of Foreign Languages and School of Applied Sciences, the university also has 13 master’s rameters for Use in the Building Facade The goal of the study is to develop a distant edudegree and 5 PhD programs in the Social Sciences Institute and 14 master’s degree and 3 PhD progScientific Research Project (BAP) Asst. Prof. İlker cation system that offers a varying content depenrams in the Physical Sciences Institute. Kahraman ding on the availability of the learner in teaching the Turkish language of Turkey as a foreign languThe fundamental philosophy of Yaşar University, one of the 2 private universities in İzmir is to support Renewable energy technologies used in buildinage and to evaluate its effectiveness. the academic, cultural and social development of individuals with a perspective to promote universal gs in order to ensure sustainability can generate values and free thinking. 94 students went abroad under the scope of Erasmus Program during the energy, however they do not provide active CO2 The project is limited to A1, which is a language academic year of 2016-2017 and 43 Erasmus students came to Yaşar University for studying. Moreocontainment. Microalgae can be used for both CO2 teaching step in the foreign European Common ver, 2 students are studying in USA and 15 students came to Yaşar University for studying under scope containment and energy generation or for incFramework Text. A learner who completes the A1 of the Global Exchange Program. As an international education experience is offered with the variety reasing its efficiency. The goal of this project is stage under the project is expected to be able to of student profiles in the campus, 324 part time and full time international students from 67 countries the calculation of total heat transfer coefficient (U provide for his most basic needs in daily life, intsuch as Europe, USA, Canada, Australia, Nigeria, Kenya, Venezuela, Iraq, Azerbaijan, Pakistan and value) of the panel reactors used in microalgae roduce himself, understand when another person Ecuador study in Yaşar University. production for increasing the energy efficiency of introduces himself, state his country, nationality microalgae in buildings as a result of measureand occupation and understand the same, use the Yaşar University supports the achievements of students and contribute to their education with variments and investigation of the means of use of country’s currency, food names and the names of ous scholarship opportunities, which are Education and Training Scholarship, Academic Achievement this system as a building element. the objects in his near surroundings, distinguish Scholarship, Talent Scholarship, Martyr and Disabled Veteran Scholarship, Shelter Scholarship and the sounds in the alphabet and use them while International Student Scholarship. In this framework, 57,61% of students utilize the scholarships Active CO2 containment will also be provided with talking, use numbers when needed in daily life and granted in different rates. the use of closed system bioreactors in building fause Turkish for transportation. cades used in microalgae production. FundamenYaşar University pioneers projects in the areas of software, design, work process improvement, comtal data with regard to the microalgae systems With the project, a distant teaching system that munication, perception measurement and training in a broad spectrum ranging from social projects that can be used for applications to be made on varies depending on availability and that takes into university-industry collaboration projects. A major part of these projects are supported by TÜBİTAK the building facade will be obtained at the end of dividual differences into account in teaching Turand the others are sourced from the resources of Yaşar University or industrial or other organizations the project. kish worldwide will be created for the first time. and institutions. Many universities industry collaboration projects are realized in partnership with the With the developed system, a Turkish learning Yaşar Group companies. Çamlı Feed provides microalgae culture and techcontent that takes individual differences into acnical support as the supporting organization. The count and that is independent of time and space data obtained in the project will be used in desigwill have been prepared. In this sense, it is stipulaning the facade for the “Positive Energy Building” ted that the project will be a model and will make which will be constructed by Nilüfer Municipality serious contribution to closing the existing gap in and a model implementation will be made in order the area with regard to distant teaching of Turkish for buildings to reduce their active CO2 emission as a foreign language. alongside passive systems. In addition to being the first of its kind in Turkey, this application will Massive open online course (MOOC) for teaching be one of the few model applications made in the Turkish to foreigners: At the end of the project, world and will provide the technical knowledge nethe system will be opened for use of the world free cessary for a product that can be implemented in of charge on the Yaşar University Open and Disan international sense. tant Learning Center servers in the form of massive open online course. 78 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 79 Yaşar Group Sustainability Performance Caring For Employees 80 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 81 Employee Profile Main business in our holding and affiliated companies is carried out by permanent white collar and blue Distribution of Total Workforce by Region and Gender collar employees. In case of need, sub-contracted relationship can be established and labour force is employed in this framework. Human resources of Yaşar Holding, investing mainly in Aegean Region, is 64,5% in Aegean Region. Our Group spreading all over Turkey over the years has created employment in all regions of Turkey with our Total number of employees in our companies included in reporting is 6.922 as of the end of 2016. Due to latest investments since 2016. the sale of Dyo Printing Inks to ToyoInk SC Holdings Co. Ltd. on January 15th 2016, this company’s employ2014 2015 2016 ment data was excluded from the 2016 report although it was included in 2015 report. REGION FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE Total Workforce by Agreement Type Aegean 12,1% 53,1% 11,4% 51,8% 12,2% 52,3% Marmara 3,0% 16,7% 3,5% 17,0% 2,1% 16,9% INDEFINITE TERM FIXED TERM GENERAL Central Anatolia 1,8% 9,9% 2,1% 9,7% 2,1% 10,0% Temporary/Contractual Total Mediterranean 0,3% 2,3% 0,3% 2,2% 0,2% 2,0% MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Black Sea 0,1% 0,4% 0,1% 0,4% 0,1% 0,5% NUMBER 5.628 1.135 135 24 5.763 1.159 Southeastern RATIO OF TOTAL 0,1% 0,3% 0,1% 1,4% 0,1% 1,4% 81,3% 16,4% 2,0% 0,3% 83,3% 16,7% Anatolia EMPLOYEES *The total number of employees consists of the total number of permanent and sub-employer’s employees. Eastern Anatolia 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% 0,1% TOTAL 17,3% 82,7% 17,4% 82,6% 16,7% 83,3% *The total number of employees consists of the total number of permanent and sub-employer’s employees. Percentage of Labor Force by Employment Type KEY WHITE COLLAR BLUE COLLAR TEMPORARY TOTAL MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Percentage of Total Employees Subject to Employment Agreement 2014 4,5% 1,4% 32,7% 10,5% 42,8% 4,3% 3.,1% 0,7% 83,1% 16,9% DYO COATING PINAR MEAT PINAR DAIRY VIKING TISSUE 2015 4,4% 1,3% 31,8% 10,9% 43,5% 4,7% 2,9% 0,5% 82,6% 17,4% FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE 2016 4,5% 1,3% 33,2% 11,1% 42,7% 4,4% 2,5% 0,4% 82,9% 17,1% 2014 1% 53% 13% 60% 7% 56% 0% 59% *Sub-employers are excluded in the total permanent employees table 2015 1% 54% 14% 60% 7% 54% 0% 62% 2016 1% 55% 14% 62% 7% 55% 0% 64% Total Labor Force by Employees and Supervised Workers SUPERVISED OUR OWN EMPLOYEES GENERAL 2015 2016 WORKERS Total Total Total PINAR MEAT 74% 76% 2016 MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE VIKING TISSUE 62% 64% NUMBER 4.489 929 1.274 230 5.763 1.159 PINAR DAIRY 61% 62% RATIO 64,9% 13,4% 18,4% 3,3% 83,3% 16,7% DYO COATING 55% 56% *The total number of employees consists of the total number of permanent and sub-employer’s employees. 82 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 83 Employee Profile Newly-Hired Employees by Age Group Employee Turnover Rates by Region EXCEPT TEMPORARY AND INCLUDING TEMPORARY AND 2014 2015 2016 SUB-EMPLOYER SUB-EMPLOYER REGION FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE Number Of Total Employees Recruited Number Of Total Employees Recruited AEGEAN 0,0% 4,1% 6,3% 4,2% 11,4% 10,6% AGE MALE PERCENTAGE FEMALE PERCENTAGE MALE PERCENTAGE FEMALE PERCENTAGE MARMARA 11,1% 9,7% 9,8% 7,8% 21,5% 21,0% UNDER 30 271 37,5% 77 10,7% 1.079 54,9% 178 9,1% CENTRAL ANATOLIA 0,0% 12,0% 8,3% 16,4% 9,9% 7,7% BETWEEN 30-50 320 44,3% 44 6,1% 571 29,0% 118 6,0% BLACK SEA 15,6% 8,7% 9,2% 6,0% 0,0% 0,0% OVER 50 9 1,2% 2 0,3% 14 0,7% 6 0.,3% MEDITERRANEAN 0,0% 16,7% 0,0% 15,2% 11,8% 10,3% TOTAL 600 83,0% 123 17,0% 1.664 84,6% 302 15,4% SOUTHEASTERN 12,3% 12,7% 11,9% 12,8% 33,3% 14,0% ANATOLIA Newly-Hired Employees by Region TOTAL 11,5% 10,1% 10,0% 8,8% 13,5% 12,6% EXCEPT TEMPORARY AND INCLUDING TEMPORARY AND SUB-EMPLOYER SUB-EMPLOYER Rates of Returning to Work and Staying At Work After Birth Permit Yaşar Group guarantees the social rights of all employees, especially women. Number Of Total Employees Recruited Number Of Total Employees Recruited REGION MALE PERCENTAGE FEMALE PERCENTAGE MALE PERCENTAGE FEMALE PERCENTAGE Total number The total number of employees Total number of Total number of of employees returning to work after the AEGEAN 272 37,6% 66 9,1% 822 41,8% 176 9,0% employees entitled employees granted returning to work end of parental leave and still to parental leave parental leave after the end of working after twelve months MARMARA 267 36,9% 42 5,8% 471 24,0% 52 2,6% parental leave from returning to work CENTRAL ANATOLIA 45 6,2% 12 1,7% 328 16,7% 54 2,7% 2016 FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE MEDITERRANEAN 5 0,7% 2 0,3% 22 1,1% 17 0,9% TOTAL 46 278 46 278 43 278 41 266 SOUTHEASTERN RATE OF RETURNING TO WORK RATE OF RETENTION AT WORK 8 1,1% 1 0,1% 18 0,9% 3 0,2% ANATOLIA FEMALE 93% 89% BLACK SEA 3 0,4% 0 0,0% 3 0,2% 0,0% MALE 100% 96% TOTAL 600 83,0% 123 17,0% 1.664 84,6% 302 15,4% The 5-day paternal leave which is defined by law is given to our male employees in case their wife gives birth. Employee Turnover Rates by Age Distribution of Employees Working in Governance Bodies by Gender and Age (%) The ratio of female managers authorized in decision making mechanisms in Yaşar Group companies is 2014 2015 2016 25% at the level of directors and 17% in senior managers. AGE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE 2014 2015 2016 UNDER 30 15,6 11,9 10,0 9,9 16,2 13,9 FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE BETWEEN 30-50 9,5 9,2 10,1 7,7 12,1 11,8 SENIOR MANAGER 18% 82% 20% 80% 17% 83% OVER 50 22,2 21,2 9,5 25,3 18,2 25,3 DIRECTOR 22% 78% 23% 77% 25% 75% TOTAL 11,5 10,1 10,0 8,8 13,5 12,6 * Senior management group (consisting of members of the Board of Directors, CEO, Executive Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, Coordinators and General Managers). 84 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 85 Employee Profile 2014 2015 2016 Gender Distribution in the Breakdown of the Employee Category by Companies SENIOR SENIOR SENIOR AGE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR KEY 2014 2015 2016 MANAGER MANAGER MANAGER UNDER 30 0% 0% 0% 2% 0% 0% COMPANY MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE BETWEEN 30-50 39% 74% 32% 71% 21% 75% YAŞAR HOLDING 50% 50% 44% 56% 43% 57% OVER 50 61% 26% 68% 27% 79% 25% PINAR DAIRY 65% 35% 70% 30% 67% 33% * Senior management group (consisting of members of the Board of Directors, CEO, Executive Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, PINAR MEAT 71% 29% 75% 25% 76% 24% Coordinators and General Managers). PINAR WATER 77% 23% 76% 24% 83% 17% Rate of Disabled Employees in Governance Bodies YBP 92% 8% 92% 8% 91% 9% There is no disabled employees in governance bodies. ÇAMLI FEED 84% 16% 88% 12% 91% 9% DYO COATING 76% 24% 76% 24% 75% 25% Gender Based Representation of Individuals in Governance Bodies of the Company VIKING TISSUE 100% 0% 100% 0% 100% 0% KEY WHITE COLLAR BLUE COLLAR TEMPORARY ALTIN YUNUS 71% 29% 86% 14% 86% 14% FEMALE 21,9% 25,0% 9,3% 15,1% ASTRON 90% 10% MALE 78,1% 75,0% 90,7% 84,9% DESA ENERGY 80% 20% 67% 33% 75% 25% TOTAL 76% 24% 77% 23% 78% 22% Percentage of Employees’ Diversity Categories Per Employee Category 2016 KEY WHITE COLLAR BLUE COLLAR TEMPORARY WHITE COLLAR 2014 2015 2016 UNDER 30 0% 22% 26% 55% COMPANY MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE BETWEEN 30-50 84% 76% 73% 40% YAŞAR HOLDING 43% 57% 44% 56% 50% 50% OVER 50 16% 2% 1% 4% PINAR DAIRY 67% 33% 66% 34% 66% 34% PINAR MEAT 69% 31% 70% 30% 70% 30% Distribution of Disabled Persons by Employee Category PINAR WATER 75% 25% 76% 24% 75% 25% YBP 86% 14% 85% 15% 86% 14% NUMBER OF DISABLED EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES PERCENTAGE ÇAMLI FEED 71% 29% 73% 27% 72% 28% 2016 134 5.394 3 DYO COATING 73% 27% 71% 29% 72% 28% 2015 144 5.683 3 VIKING TISSUE 83% 17% 75% 25% 71% 29% ALTIN YUNUS 79% 21% 76% 24% 77% 23% WHITE BLUE KEY RATIO RATIO RATIO TEMPORARY RATIO TOTAL COLLAR COLLAR ASTRON 61% 39% Number of DESA ENERGY 88% 12% 87% 13% 79% 21% Disables 0 0% 52 39% 82 61% 0 0% 134 Employees TOTAL 76% 24% 74% 26% 75% 25% 86 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 87 Employee Employee Profile Rights BLUE COLLAR 2014 2015 2016 Equality in Opportunity and Non-Discrimination COMPANY MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Within Yaşar Group, equal opportunity is given to employees in all human resource processes such YAŞAR HOLDING 67% 33% 67% 33% 58% 42% as recruitment, rewarding, performance evaluation as well as promotion, assignment, training and development. In 2016, our employees did not have any complaint about discrimination in PINAR DAIRY 89% 11% 89% 11% 90% 10% our Group where the criteria such as religion, sex, age and marital status are not determinative PINAR MEAT 82% 18% 81% 19% 82% 18% in human resources processes. PINAR WATER 90% 10% 87% 13% 90% 10% Our Group, which believes in the principle of continuous improvement, promotes the health, YBP 100% 0% 100% 0% 100% 0% safety, education and personal development of all our employees, regardless of whether they are men or women. As stated in our corporate web site, there are competencies and qualifications set ÇAMLI FEED 97% 3% 98% 2% 98% 2% for each open position. While the qualifications and competencies required by the position in the DYO COATING 98% 2% 99% 1% 99% 1% recruitment process are assessed on the basis of the applicant’s suitability, there is no difference VIKING TISSUE 100% 0% 100% 0% 100% 0% in recruitment and remuneration between men and women. ALTIN YUNUS 87% 13% 83% 17% 83% 17% Supporting the empowerment of women in every sector we operate, our Group signed the “UN ASTRON Women’s Empowerment Principles CEO Support Declaration” in 2012; and “Equality Platform in Business” and “Women’s Empowerment Working Group” established by the Board of Directors DESA ENERGY 100% 0% 100% 0% 100% 0% of Global Compact Turkey, which were brought to the agenda by the World Economic Forum and TOTAL 91% 9% 90% 10% 91% 9% continued under the leadership of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, took place in our Group. For the empowerment of women workers; TEMPORARY 2014 2015 2016 • Female employees accounted for 21% of the advancements in executive level during the COMPANY MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE reporting period. Studies are planned to increase the number of female managers in the coming period. YAŞAR HOLDING 0% 100% • Female students ratio is 69% and male students ratio is 31% in the internship programs, PINAR DAIRY 100% 0% 0% 100% which are considered as an important work force pool for recruitment. PINAR MEAT 0% 100% 100% 0% Working hours fot the pregnant and nursing employees are aligned with the related law. Women PINAR WATER 90% 10% 84% 16% 95% 5% who return from maternity leave are employed at the same position prior they leave. BreastfeedYBP 67% 33% 100% 0% 50% 50% ing rooms have been established in Group companies for employees who give birth. In addition, contracted nursery where employees can benefit from advantageous conditions, career promoÇAMLI FEED 80% 20% 100% 0% tion programs for daughters of the employees and career support programs for our female emDYO COATING 88% 13% 87% 13% 89% 11% ployees are among our plans for the next term. VIKING TISSUE ALTIN YUNUS 80% 20% 72% 28% ASTRON DESA ENERGY 100% 0% TOTAL 82% 18% 85% 15% 85% 15% 88 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 89 Employee Rights Suitable Working Conditions Recruitment Work and Workforce No incident involving forced labor or compulsory Considering human resources by objectively evaluating the criteria of knowledse, skill and experince required by position under the light of “science, unity, succes” principle, our Group aims to Our Group, which manages its human resources work has ever been brought into the jurisdiction gather employees together who are caring for knowledge sharing and concept of being united, policy with the target of employing innovative, in 2016. open to all science-based developments, embracing participatory management approach and motivated and high performance and qualified Union and Collective Labor success-oriented working as well as well-educated and experinced through human-focused manworkforce and increasing their engagement by agement initiative. making this workforce sustainable, has placed Agreement the top rank in the list of “companies being desiIn Yaşar Group companies, under the Labor Law Candidates wishing to work in our Group, which conducts all activities in the light of universal red to work in” with the principle of “putting right No. 4857, an indefinite period of employment human rights standards, have the right to apply through Yaşar Holding’s website, recruitment people in the right job”. agreement is made with all employees. It is also sites, directly or through consulting companies. Yaşar Holding can publish internship and job adcompulsory that the workers of contractors and vertisements via its website as well as can save their personal backgrounds in the application pool. After the assignment of our employees to anotsubcontractors who have partnership with the her position, the replacements are carried out in Group companies are insured. The evaluations made by the human resources department of our Group companies continue with accordance with the procedures specified in the Labor Law No. 4857 and in the Personnel ReguYaşar Group Companies, which are known to be the reference control and after this process the candidates who are deemed eligible are offered lation, and for the employees included in the Colthe first in the sectors they are in, are taking job proposals. Candidates who cannot be evaluated positively are notified by career portal, e-mail lective Labor Agreement, the periods specified in important steps in unionization; Dyo Coating is or phone. the Collective Labor Agreement are valid. the first company where the collective labor agreement has been implemented in the paint seHaving conducted recruitment procedures in accordance with Labor Law No. 4857 and Yaşar Child Employment ctor. Our employees are respected for their right Holding Personnel Regulation, our Group has been awarded “Human Respect” for the sixth time to join the union without without any hesitation. in 2016 by Kariyer.net. In Turkey, child employment is regulated according to the Labor Law No. 4857. The relevant Constructive relations are always established with our employees who are members of the leOur Group companies’ employees are informed by the Company Personnel Regulations which provisions do not allow persons under 15 years regulate the working conditions, rights, duties and responsibilities of the employees and the old to be employed, except for those who have gal union. Within this scope, the rights of employees are secured by the workplace and busipersonnel policies and principles that apply when the recruitment process of the employees is completed 14 years of age and completed pricompleted. The new employees employed within the Group are receiving the “Yaşar Group Orienmary education for working in light jobs and liness collective labor agreements made between the employer and Petrol-İş Trade Union in Dyo tation Training” on the same day and participating in the “Company Orientation Program” which mited periods of work that will not impede their is specially designed for each company. development and education. Although there is Coating, Tek Gıda-İş Trade Union in Food Group no legal requirement, Yaşar Group companies companies Pınar Dairy and Pınar Meat, and Selüadopted the principle of not employing personloz-İş Trade Union in Viking Tissue. nel who are under 18 years old. Percentage of unionized employees Forced Labor and Involuntary 2015 2016 Servitude PINAR MEAT 74% 76% In all Group companies, working days and times are announced to employees by defining officiVIKING TISSUE 62% 64% al, general and weekly holidays. Overtime work may be necessary because of the nature of work or increase in production; in such cases, related PINAR DAIRY 61% 62% law provisions are applied and wages are paid accordingly. New employees are notified with DYO COATING 55% 56% their job description, prescribing for the Group employees, when they start work. All current and accessible documents are kept in a joint system in line with the ISO 9001. 90 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 91 Employee Rights Rights Offered to the Employees Good Practices and Developments from Companies Yaşar Group makes labor productivity sustainable by offering comprehensive social rights for its employees. • In 2016, working offices has been renewed, training, meeting halls and social activity area has PINAR DAIRY been established due to enhancing physical conditions. • To let new recruits better adapt to the company environment, an experienced employee is asSocial Rights Offered to the Employees KEY WHITE COLLAR BLUE COLLAR* TEMPORARY signed to guide the recruit as part of the “Compass” practice which is simultaneously in place Certain Stages with orientation process. Two times a year, new recruits gather with the Company’s President (the company (company pays)* Employee pays the and Top Management at the Welcome to Pınar Dairy Dinner; every year, female employees Health Assistance pays) premium himself* Employee pays the come together with the Company’s President at a breakfast event, and the Top Management premium himself* and white-blue collars meet at exchange meetings held two times a year. These meetings create Parental Leave horizontal and non-hierarchical environments in which company employees may present and The New Year Gift develop their ideas, finding a chance to further share them and receive feedback. Box Ramadan Box • With expert psychologists, an Employee Support Center was established within the Company, which aims to help the Company employees in coping with problems and challenges such as Food Price Payment for stress, anxiety, pressure, conflict, etc., raise their awareness and foster their motivation. Also, a Fasting series of sports activities including Zumba, Dragon Cup, and Pınar Classical Turkish Music Choir continued, and new activities were launched such as yoga, basketball, football, table tennis, Fuel Allowance Certain Stages chocolate workshops, etc. Certain Feast Allowance Certain Stages Companies • In cooperation with Yaşar University, 222 employees received, in total, 921 hours of Cinema Therapy Training, which aimed to raise the cognitive awareness of employees and let them Food Allowance freely reflect their personal impressions within the group. Road Toll • The Company employees participated in sustainability training sessions provided by in-house Certain Marriage Certain Stages Companies trainers to let us internalize the concept of sustainability and realize our responsibilities to create a more sustainable world. 980 employees received a sustainability training of 1.046 hours in Certain Birth Certain Stages total. Others Companies Certain Death Certain Stages Companies March 8, International Women’s Day YBP Car Certain Positions • A seed card was sent to female employees • The tricks of makeup were explained by the makers of a well known firm Fuel Certain Positions • Seminars on “Feminine Energy”, “Breast Cancer” and “Skin Care” were given Cell Phone Device • We came together with women and celebrated International Women’s Day Certain Positions and Line Seniority Employee Consultation Service Efficiency Wages • The implementation of the employee consulting center, which started in Istanbul in 2014, beClothing Certain Positions Certain Positions Certain came widespread in İzmir in 2016 as well. Positions • Occupational psychologists meets with employees one day a week and provide individual conSales Premium Certain Positions Certain Positions sulting services in accordance with the privacy principle. Performance • Our employees receive individual consulting services on all issues that may arise from work, Certain Positions Certain Positions Premium social life, family and daily life. * Unionized blue collar social rights are not specified. Pilates • In October 2016, 50 minutes pilates lessons were organized in lunch time 2 days a week for employees. The application continues in Izmir and Istanbul offices. YBP Single Hoop League • In the year of 2016, we participated in the inter-company basketball league. • In the year of 2017, we are participating in the inter-company basketball league for the 2nd time. 92 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 93 Employee Development Training and Development goals, have begun to be used in the evaluation Career Management System each manager, co-coaching system introduced and Activities system based on the Balanced Scorecard techThe career paths of our employees has been creatPersonal Development Plans prepared. The program nique, while the performance evaluation results ed based on performance, competence and develis continuing with practical learning projects. Our Group, one of Turkey’s leading holdings, are reflected in individual development, career opment of them with Career Management System, actively supports the continuing professional planning and rewarding/remuneration. The Perwhich our Group has chosen to implement in pilot Mentorship development of its employees as well as their formance Management System, which has been region in 2013. In line with these criteria, employees “The Mentorship Program” has been introduced topersonal developments. Within the scope of our in use since 2005, was revised in 2016 and is are evaluated every year and the human resources wards the potential important managers who are Group, numerous training programs aimed at targeted to be implemented in 2017 as revised. needs of our Group companies are fully met. likely to take significant responsibilities in achieving increasing their competencies from orientation Our Group, which operates in line with the principle Yaşar Group’s objectives and futures successes by training to on-the-job training, personal developEmployees of our Group companies benefit from of “raising its own manager”, aims to review and relying on the knowledge and experience of the curment training to management skills training are the Yaşar Group Core Competencies and Busiextend the Career Management System in 2017. rent managers. The program started in April 2016 actualized and our Group’s competitive advantaness Family Competencies for their personal and with the participation of 43 mentor and mentees, ges are kept sustainable. professional development. Our Group’s employeLeadership Development Programs which will last for a year. es determine the competencies they see as development areas with their managers, and they I live as a Leader With “the Mentorship Program”, it is aimed to transOur training platform, which was created by can choose among these areas through personal In line with Yaşar Group’s philosophy “cultivate its using our e-learning methodology with the brand fer the existing corporate knowledge, experience development forms. Through these forms, the own managers by itself”, since 1996 it has been “Yaşar Akademi” in 2012, continued its business and culture to across the generations, swift assimtraining and development needs of the employee continuing to implement various training contents, successfully in 2016. ilation and development of the corporate culture, are determined and training plans are prepared projects and mentorship applications. feeding of the Group with its resources, widening In total, 112.345 hours of training was conducafter the analyzes. and strengthening of intra-corporate communication In 2016, in line with Yaşar Group’s vision and stratted in 2016 throughout our Group, network across the companies, raising of corporate The evaluations made at the end of the year egy, it was started to implement “I Live is a Leader and the average training time per employee was loyalty of employees and strengthening of leaderare reflected in performance reports at specified Development Program” which is aimed to lead our 16 hours. The average training hour per woman ship qualities. Mentees are consisted of the future ratios. Employees’ performance reports in 2012 work and human resources most efficiently, develop was 18, and the average training time per man leaders who have high performance and potential and Personal Development Forms in 2013 were leaders promoting our values, cultivate new leaders, was 16. The average training time per key empin the Group, open to learning and development integrated into the SAP system and the human support the develop of leaders and create common loyee was 18, the training time per white collar and holding management qualities for future. Parresources information systems infrastructure leadership culture in order to sustain competitive employee was 15, the training time per blue colticipant “mentor” managers are passing on the exwas strengthened. The Performance Manageadvantage. Within the specially designed program lar employee was 17, and the training time per isting knowledge and experience to “mentees” by ment System, which has been in use since 2005, for the serving top management, “Leadership for temporary worker was 55. allocating the required quality time. Apart from the currently includes only white collar employees. Yourself”, “Leadership for Organization” and “Leadmentor-mentee meetings, the program is supported ership for Others” training modules were given, perPersonnel Management System with variety of trainings. Percentage of Employees Included in the sonality and leadership measurement inventory acPerformance/Premium System tivities carried out, coaching meetings provided for Within the scope of our Group, Performance Management System is regulated with premi2016 (%) um regulations for sales function employees and with Performance Evaluation Regulation for otFEMALE 30 Educational platform users created using the e-learning methodology with the Yaşar Academy brand her employees. Our Group, which has adopted MALE 14 in 2012 were increased in number in 2013 and 2014 and all white collar employees and blue collar a holistic management approach in line with its employees, leading a team, were included in the system. The learning platform, in which 3.002 main objective and aim to reach strategic tar2016 (%) people is included in 2016, is divided as optional and mandatory based. gets, aims to realize personal targets in parallel with company targets with the Performance MaKEY 77 317 training and 306 videos has been loaded to the system and is open to employees access at nagement System that has been implemented regular intervals. In addition to the ready-made content, Yaşar Academy’s learning platform is also since 2005. Critical Success Indicators (KPIs), OUT OF SCOPE 23 shared with the employees through the preparation of the Yaşar Group companies’ policies, procewhich were passed in 2015 and agreed on their dures or ways of doing business. 94 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 95 Occupational Health and Safety Our Group considers providing unconditional empworkplace physician and health officer provide heOHS Committees loyee satisfaction among the most important comalth services between 2 and 5 days. In order to Our Group companies follow the rules set out in the relevant laws and regulations in line with our occupaponents of its financial and operational performanprevent possible work accidents and occupational tional health and safety programs. In this context, we have the Occupational Health and Safety Committee ce. Our Group, which attaches great importance diseases, the Occupational Health and Safety Boin our companies where there are more than 50 employees and more than six months of continuous work. to the continuous improvement of the quality of ard has been established within the scope of the OHS Committees in our companies represent 100% of the permanent employees. life of its employees, contributes to community Occupational Health and Safety Internal Regulatihealth by organizing training programs on waist on in all our companies, and the board formation Furthermore, in accordance with the Regulation on Occupational Health and Safety Committees a) If the actual employer and the sub-employer have fifty and more employees, respectively,the actual emdiseases, diabetes and obesity, harms of smoking and meeting frequency have been determined as ployer and the sub-employer will separately establish a committee. Business cooperation and coordination and quitting methods, family planning, healthy described in the related legislation. In accordance for the implementation of occupational health and safety activities and the implementation of decisions nutrition and obesity in children to support both with the Seveso II Regulation, the necessary dectaken by the committees are ensured by the actual employer. their employees and their families. larations have been made regularly to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization in order to preb) If only the number of employees of the actual employer in a workplace is fifty and more, then the comWorkplace health units in our Group companies vent major industrial accidents. mittee is established by the actual employer. The sub-employer who is not obliged to establish a committee appoints an authorized representative by proxy to coordinate the implementation of regularly follow the health checks of employees the decisions taken by the committee. as well as carry out porter and odiometry examiAn agreement has been reached on the need for nations of employees, take throat cultures, make workers to be trained and supervised in this area c) If the number of employees of the sub-employer is fifty or more and the number of employees of the gaita culture scans and shoot chest films within by ensuring that the right to life, which is the most actual employer is less than fifty, the committee is established by the sub-employer in the workplace. The the scope of fight with tuberculosis. fundamental and indispensable right for our comactual employer appoints an authorized representative to provide the business association and coordination panies, which are collective bargaining with empwith the committee formed by the sub-employer. In some areas where our Group operates, it is loyees, and the productivity of the production are d) In cases where the number of employees of the actual employer and the sub-employer are under fifty crucial to actualize more comprehensive occupatiincreased in terms of health and safety. Subject separately and the total number of employees is more than fifty, provided that coordination shall be esonal safety and health applications. Dyo Coating, headings including compliance with occupational tablished by the actual employer, the committee is established by the actual employer and sub-employer who does not compromise on his responsibilities, health and safety rules in collective labor agretogether. In the formation of the Committee, members are appointed by the joint decision of both employers has its employees undergo heavy metal and solements, strict adherence to the measures taken according to Article 6. vent analysis, lung scanning, respiratory function by the Safety Council, appointment of employee OHS General Information About The Companies testing in every three months and blood test once representatives to represent employees in the Laa year. bor Safety Committees, use of personal protective Workplace Hazard OHS Percentage of employees represented by COMPANY Class Committee the OHS committee equipment and disciplinary punishments in case of All of the measures taken in the light of internon-compliance are included in the agreements. YAŞAR HOLDING LESS DANGEROUS YES OSH committee covers all permanent staff. national agreements and legal regulations have PINAR DAIRY DANGEROUS YES OSH committee covers all permanent staff. been fulfilled in our Group companies where the PINAR MEAT DANGEROUS YES OSH committee covers all permanent staff. OSH committee covers all permanent staff. However, Total Training Total Number of Average Training PINAR WATER LESS DANGEROUS YES there are members representing Sub-employer’s employees in the Committee. Time Employees Time YBP LESS DANGEROUS YES OSH committee covers all permanent staff. FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE Ören Business is 6.407 35.643 1.159 5.763 5.5 6.2 VERY DANGEROUS / ÇAMLI FEED Other businesses are YES OSH committee covers all permanent staff. DANGEROUS DYO COATING VERY DANGEROUS YES OSH committee covers all permanent staff. OSH committee covers all permanent staff. The subVIKING TISSUE DANGEROUS YES employer also has OSH committee. ALTIN YUNUS LESS DANGEROUS YES OSH committee covers all permanent staff. ASTRON LESS DANGEROUS YES OSH committee covers all permanent staff. DESA ENERGY VERY DANGEROUS NO 96 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 97 Occupational Health and Safety Work Accidents and Lost Days Good Practices and Developments from Companies We have not encountered any occupational diseases in our Group and the following table shows the occupational accidents and information. Occupational health and safety studies at Pınar Dairy are carried out with the slogan “BEFORE HUPINAR DAIRY MAN, TARGET ZERO ACCIDENT” Many studies have been conducted and started to reduce work ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE LOST DAY RATE ABSENCE RATE accidents and prevent possible accidents. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) procurement has 2016 FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE increased by 2.5 times and it has been used with the audit activities. In this context, the follow-up PINAR DAIRY of dangerous works has been provided by recording various work permits (At Height, Closed Area, Aegean 37,27 58,2 0,07 0,3 0,058 0,030 Hot Work, Electricity, Subcontractor) with the Work Permit Form. In addition, under the name of OHS Central Anatolia 43,86 38,73 0,47 0,23 0,035 0,024 Awareness-raising activities, employees have been informed about taking OHS precautions through Visitors-Contractor Film, Service Road Tunnel OHS precautionary warning billboards, LED sliding in Southeastern Anatolia 0,00 4,9 0,00 2 0,024 0,015 various places in Manufacturing Unit. Employees of the Emergency Team have been given theoretical PINAR MEAT and practical trainings every year to minimize the consequences of possible emergency situations. Aegean 15,83 41,61 0,15 0,28 0,099 0,033 Annually, regularity and preventive activity is established for the relevant units for the regions where PINAR WATER the Environmental Measurements (noise, vibration, thermal comfort, chemical) are made every year Aegean 0,00 8,03 0,00 0,034 0,00 0,001 and the regions are inappropriate. Marmara 0,00 10,16 0,00 0,053 0,00 0,001 Pınar Meat set the target of reducing the rates of KSO and KAO by 10% as the OHS tarPINAR MEAT YBP get for 2016 and the KSO rate decreased by 10,64% and the KAO rate by 11,79%. Pınar Aegean 10,10 10,65 0,02 0,00 0,015 0,00 Meat determined its OHS target for 2017 as “Zero Work Accidents”. Marmara 8,55 16,57 0,00 0,04 0,00 0,039 Pınar Meat, among our Group companies, aims to provide a safer environment due to the value it Central Anatolia 0,00 3,50 0,00 0,00 0,122 0,175 gives to its employees. In addition to its legal obligation, our Company attaching importance to emMediterranean 23,42 10,48 0,12 0,19 0,00 0,00 ployee health and safety trainings with the aim of spreading safety culture, has continued its’ efforts ÇAMLI FEED successfully to raise the awareness. Pınar Meat, among our Group companies, has continued preparAegean 9,46 21,86 0,04 0,10 0,021 0,023 ing preventive plans for work accidents and occupational diseases by conducting occupational health DYO COATING and safety risk analysis and it has conducted these activities with the cooperation of employees. Aegean 0.,00 33,99 0,00 0,30 0,031 0,051 Our company, which fulfills its obligations such as environment measurements, periodic controls, Marmara 21,5 1,8 0,001 0,001 0,013 0,021 grounding and lightning controls, trainings, risk analyses, without fail, has ensured compliance with VIKING TISSUE legal obligations by checking subcontractors worked together. Aegean 47,95 42,24 0,18 0,57 0,001 0,002 Eliminating or minimizing insecure situations and insecure activities at workplaces for the prevention ALTIN YUNUS or reduction of work accidents, frequently observing working conditions and resorting to prevenAegean 0,00 4,15 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 tive measures in failing issues, providing sources for these precautions and reviewing the policy DESA ENERGY according to changing conditions constitute the working principle of Pınar Meat having TSE 18001 Aegean 0,00 25,04 0,00 1,41 0,000 0,330 Occupational Health and Safety Management System document. In 2016, our company continued to conduct the Occupational Health and Safety Committee meetings by taking the opinions of the employees, without disruption and by improving. Due to its corporate structure, our company has TYPES OF INJURY controlled the legal conformity of the companies which it will work with considering the safety of contractors and suppliers. Informing the companies working with our company on the changing regulaFEMALE MALE tions, our company had set to achieve the goals of achieving reduction of 10% Accident Frequency FOOT SLIPPAGE, FALL HAND CUTTING Rate (AFR) and Accident Weight Rate (AWR) in health and safety objective and achieved 10,64% in ENTRY OF A FOREIGN OBJECT INTO THE EYE FOOT SLIPPAGE, FALL AFR and 11,79%. For 2017, the goal of “Zero Work Accidents” is set for the employees to work in a JAMMING IMPACT safe and peaceful environment for 2016. IMPACT HAND JAMMING In order not to encounter a problem when lorry drivers (transporters) are trying to cover the trucks PINAR WATER CONTACT WITH CHEMICALS CONTACT WITH CHEMICALS with canvas in Madran facility, a steel rope was mounted in the form of a ropeway by penetrating MATERIAL PART FALLING ENTRY OF A FOREIGN OBJECT INTO THE EYE poles in front of and behind the truck along the truck and protection was planned by mounting a TWISTING FOOT JAMMING rope with parachute casing. The project planned in 2016 is targeted to be completed in 2017. HAND JAMMING TWISTING SLIPPAGE/FALLING MEDIUM DEGREE BURN CUT ELECTRIC SHOCK 98 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 99 Occupational Health and Safety Good Practices and Developments from Companies Among the companies of our Group, the major projects that YBP lived in the area of Dyo Coating, one of our Group’s companies, provided occupational health trainings to employees YBP DYO COATING occupational health and safety in 2016 are as follows: to reduce work accidents in 2016 within the scope of OHS and organized oral and visual trainings among employees on causes of accidents and prevention methods. Risk analyses of work accidents • Emergency trainings were given in four regional warehouses of YBP (Asia, Europe, Thrace and have been carried out after the occurrence of work accidents and information about the causes of Izmir) and building evacuation-firefighting drills were performed. the accident and ways of protection have been given to the employees by providing job accident • A total of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Committee meetings were held in 7 regional offices trainings after sufferer returned to work. In the risk analysis of work accidents, the studies required and 1 sales office (Ankara, Antalya, Asia, Europe, Bursa, Izmir, Thrace and Ankara sales office). to prevent the accident from being repeated during the accident caused by the working environment have been indicated and actualized. The working environment has been tried to be made • In total for YBP and Dinçtem employees in 2016; 3.784 hours of occupational health and safety, safer by decreasing the risk grade, in order to provide ergonomics and increase productivity in the 162 hours of ergonomics, 16 hours of post-work accident training, 24 hours of on-the-job trainworkplace, it has been tried to provide the ergonomics that makes the transportation of the vacuum ing and 120 hours of first aid training have been provided. trucks easier for the packaged chemicals used in the tanks in production, and after its efficiency was • 9 employees whose first-aid training certificates have been expired were trained and their certifseen, it has been extended in various fields (paint production, first mixing, powder feed). In order icates were updated. Besides this, 3 employees have been provided with basic first aid trainings. to prevent the occurrences of the near-miss events, near-miss boxes were placed in various places of the factory, near-miss events reported regularly in these boxes were investigated and measures • Training brochures have been prepared taking into account the risk assessment of workplaces in were taken before work accidents. “0” accident target of our company related to work accident has order to provide job training on Occupational Health and Safety for new recruits. been revealed. • Special training has been given to the workers’ representatives and representatives of the employer on their duties and responsibilities. Work hygiene measurements and controls were executed in the working environment of our employ• Members of the Committee and related employees were informed about the amendments to the ees working with hazardous chemicals and proper working conditions and order have been ensured Occupational Health and Safety legislation of our Company. by taking additional precautions according to the measurement results. With the improvements in the ventilation systems, a healthier work environment has been provided in the production area. In • The investigations and the period to be made to the employees during the new recruitment and accordance with the Seveso II Regulation, the necessary notifications have been provided to the during the execution of the work are agreed by the joint work with the Occupational Physicians. Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning in order to prevent major industrial accidents. Following • Convex mirrors were placed in blind spots in the warehouse. these notifications, relevant measurements, controls and necessary arrangements shall be started in accordance with the Seveso and Work Equipment regulations and shall be executed within the • Hygiene training has been given to employees who contact with food and are not involved in program scheduled for 2017. In addition to conformity checks of ATEX and EX equipment, employhygiene training. ees are provided with necessary training. Control of the identified risky equipment is intended to be • Assistants have been appointed for the employees who need special policy among the colcarried out in accordance with the planned program. leagues to assist them in case of an emergency. Within the scope of the First Aid Regulation issued by the Ministry of Health, the first aid trainings are • The number and content of the first aid kits in our workplaces have been inspected by our ocgiven in order to be able to perform the first intervention in possible accidents. Through trainings, cupational physicians and necessary regulations have been made. it is aimed that the staff to obtain information that can be lifesaving in extraordinary situations for • Emergency escape routes were illuminated in Ankara and Izmir district buildings. himself/herself, his/her environment and next of kin’s and to intervene with calmness. • The interior fire cabinets in İzmir region have been replaced and renovated. Trainings such as Occupational Health and Safety Training, Safe Use of Chemicals Training, Fire Ex• Building fire alarm system in İzmir Region has been activated. tinguishing Training are organized in order to improve the technical competencies of the employees in their business areas. In addition, related vocational trainings are given within the context of the • The pergolas in Antalya and Bursa Regional Offices were covered with canvas for protecting the “Communiqué on Vocational Trainings of Workers to be Employed in Heavy and Dangerous Work” employees from cold in winter. prepared on the basis of the Labor Law No. 4857. 100 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 101 Occupational Stakeholder Health and Safety Opinion Good Practices and Developments from Companies VIKING TISSUE In order to avoid the risk of fire in the our Company’s campus, it oil-driven forklifts has been changed with electrically-driven forklifts and a “Battery Charging Area” has been built in accordance with the legislation. Drive-in Shelf system has been checked and the damaged materials which were unsuitable for use have been eliminated pursuant to TS EN 15635 standard and the shelf system has become ready to use. Research reports have been drafted for work accidents and near-miss events prepared within our Company, these reports have been shared with the department officials and training sessions have been organized in order to inform the operating staff about the details of the work accidents and preventive principles. Apart from this, “Applied Sufferer Training” has been given to employees after their return to work from accident report. ALTIN YUNUS In 2016, Altın Yunus, one of our Group companies that set off with a zero accident target, experienced an accident. In order to ensure full health and safety in our company, residual current relays YEŞİM KOÇYİĞİT have been mounted, some of the problematic panels have been replaced and the electrical equipMarketing Service Manager ment compatibility has been provided. The use of personal protective equipment has become a habit, as well as warning signs hanged everywhere. For how long have you been working at Pıcommunications have become archive “classics”. The working instructions have been distributed to the employees against signature and the risks in nar? risk assessment has been largely eliminated. Periodic checks of electrical and work equipment were What is your opinion about Pınar Painting performed, hazard identification forms and near-miss reports were made available. OHS Employee I have been working at Pınar since 2005. Contest for Children and Children’s Theater? Satisfaction Survey was conducted for the employees and all board members were informed about How do you feel about being a member of Organized for 35 years with more than four million the risks that could not be eliminated. Pınar? participants, Pınar Painting Contest for Children is one of those long-term events that bring Pınar In addition to the emergency action plan renewal, fire drills were carried out and training was given Given that I grew up in Izmir and appreciate the together with the intelligent and talented youth. for an average of 12 hours per employee. brand Pınar, I really love working at Pınar. I truly The Contest also represents a major international appreciate it because it is one of the very few platform where children can share their feelings brands “of this land”. I want it to be further appreand thoughts. Pınar Children’s Theater, which has ciated and climb higher, I hope it is not very cliché reached more than three million children for 29 to say so. years, aims to popularize theater among children What is your view on the marketing and and contribute their cultural and personal devecorporate responsibility works carried out lopment. This work is of great value and truly beby Pınar? fits the Company values and its corporate stance. The consumers find our products “of highest quThe brand will be further embraced by the consuality” and “most reliable”. In terms of marketing, mers if those platforms achieve a higher level of our work has touched the consumers’ hearts and recognition and reach more people in the upcocreated a strong emotional bond. Many of our ming period… 102 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 103 Yaşar Group Sustainability Performance Caring For Environment 104 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 105 Environment Management Our Environmental Targets As Yaşar Group, we follow every kind of progress The tools we have developed in order to mana“Water management”, “energy and climate change” and “waste management” that will enable the development of the industry ge our environmental impact effectively; enviwhich we have determined within the scope of sustainability approach of our in harmony with the environment in the sectors ronmental and biodiversity protection, use of Group are our basic priorities in environmental sustainability. Our Group, which we are in. Our Group, which manages to meet the resources in a responsible way, development of has actively contributed to the battle against global climate change, has succeswater, basic food, hygiene and energy needs of environmentally friendly business processes, and sfully continued its greenhouse gas inventory management system studies in mankind, is aware of how important to the proteinvestment programs based on environmental im2016, which has allowed the Group companies to collect and monitor data related ction of the environment in order to meet these pact assessments. In this context, our efforts to to the Group companies in a single system since 2014. Our Group aims to keep basic needs. reduce carbon emissions and toxic and chemical up with the developments in global platforms and to continue its work in this area usage, activate water management, reduce the with persistence in the next period. The existence of a centralized management apamount of wastewater and extend good practiproach and policy for global environmental proteces have continued successfully in 2016. Within Water footprint studies, which have been carried out since 2013 under the coction is a matter of existence beyond our sincerity the scope of our investment decisions, environordination of the Sustainable Development Committee, have provided significant for our Group. Preservation of water resources mental impact assessments are carried out in the gains in water use and wastewater fields. includes protecting “water” and the presence of business process taking into account the flora and aquatic species, preservation of land-life includes fauna of the related region. Risks and improvement areas have been identified in the facilities where risk asprotecting land-oriented species and the support sessments have been completed, and works have continued to reduce water use of climate action means supporting all of our toYaşar Group, which attaches great importance to per unit of tonnes and points for which wastewater can be assessed for savings. tal natural diversity and beauty. In this frame, at the stakeholder dialogue every year, is taking the Focusing on maximizing recycling in the use of packaging in the direction of efour production areas zero waste policy is aimed time to refer to the environmental management fective resource utilization, our Group has begun to follow a design process that and very important levels have been reached to policies that it has brought to its stakeholders starts with the design phase to use less material to produce less waste after proachieve this. with reference to good practices and evaluations duction and consumption. Our efforts to increase the recycling in all our Group’s of various initiatives such as UN Global Compact value chain and to produce less waste continues uninterruptedly. Starting from the past year, we have been reasand CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) as well as sessed in accordance with the global targets of international standards. Scientific and technologithe world. In order to be able to turn this sincere cal developments in the areas of activity that our approach into an active and interoperable enviGroup focuses on offer continuous development ronmental management, it is aimed to utilize the opportunities in terms of our environmental manew possibilities provided by Industry 4.0. With nagement policy. System security of our environthe Astron company, the creation of the infrastrumental management tools is made sustainable by cture of a more integrated environmental manaISO 14001 Environmental Management System, gement, which can be followed up simultaneously which is accepted as the basic methodology in by all the companies of our Group, is accelerated. this area. Our trainings on the environment are effective in increasing our environmental manageOur Group has adopted a sustainability approament performance and increase the awareness of ch by closely following international sustainability the trainings we offer to our suppliers, our emploefforts and focuses on reducing environmental yees and our dealers, and provide diversification impacts, improving business processes and using of environmental protection methods. resources efficiently, from investment decisions to production processes, from distribution to final consumption. 106 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 107 Water Management Good Practices and Developments from Our Companies The environmental targets of Yaşar Group are focused on the conservation of water basins, the development of efficient energy use to support climate action in general, and the provision of zero waste production on land PINAR MEAT and in water that does not threaten life. As an organization of Yaşar Holding that has signed the Global Compact, Pınar Meat highlighted it as a priority to value mankind and environment, use natural resources efficiently and engage in As a Group, we are aware of the fact that the sustainable future of all species in the world and the mankind reducing environmental pollution and establish targets by complying with the requirements of envidepend on water conservation. We think that, in the upcoming period, we must fight more actively on almost ronmental management system standards. every platform with the understanding that water is limitless due to the circular character of nature. We aim to support the development and dissemination of water policies and activities on a local and global scale more In the facilities of Pınar Meat in Kemalpasa OSB, DSİ licensed groundwater is used in the framework actively. of OSB regulations; and mains water is used in Işıkkent plant. Groundwater wells are not located in the protected area. In Gediz Basin, industrial areas are within 10% of the total area of the basin. With the global climate change process, the pressure on freshwater resources has begun to increase day by day. The fact that less than 1% of the water resources from the primary sources of existence are suitable for In 2016, Pınar Meat has saved about 6% water per ton product compared to the previous year and human use, has made effective water use strategies mandatory. When it is evaluated from the perspective of targeted to reduce the water consumption by 10% in 2017. our country , which is not rich in terms of water resources, reduction of water consumption per person and per unit production and increase in the amount of water available are emerging as an urgent necessity. Since Water Consumption at Pınar Meat by Years 2014, our Group has been working on water footprint and water efficiency studies in different regions of our companies in the light of effective resource utilization strategies. Our Group continued to provide voluntary 2014 2015 2016 support to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Carbon and Water Transparency Program Initiatives in 2016. m3 water/tons of 18,34 17,26 16,17 product Good Practices and Developments from Our Companies m3 839.425 732.564 691.752 • Pınar Dairy, a company of the Group, has successfully implemented the TSE EN ISO 14001 EnviPINAR DAIRY ronmental Management System and continues to develop systems to minimize the utilization of Within the scope of water footprint studies, project studies were started to monitor and follow-up water, which is a natural resource. Moreover, the “water footprint” measurement work, launched water meters by computer. In 2017, the application will be made to the CDP Water program and in 2014, continued in 2016 as well. The “Blue Water Footprint” (indicates river and groundwater the 2016 year data will be verified by the confirming company and the program will be voluntarily utilization) and “Gray Water Footprint” (evaluated according to the chemical criteria for the water applied. outlet from the Company’s water treatment facilities) have been calculated and their changes are being monitored. 12.026 tons of water which is equal to the sum of the water used in packaging machine for cooling • As part of the “Sustainability Training” sessions provided to all employees in 2016, the trainers and boiler filtration were re-used by Pınar Meat in 2016. The amount of reused water is 1,85% of the highlighted the importance of saving water. With the motto “Wasted water is wasted future. total water consumption. Increasing the amount of re-used water one of the environmental targets Let’s hang on to our future.”, the Company aimed to raise the employees’ awareness of water in 2017. consumption. • The cooling water through the process lines was recycled in order to reduce water consumption through reuse. A steam survey was conducted to reduce the amount of wastewater through the recycling of steam condensing water. • The capacity of reverse osmosis was increased, which reduced the amount of wastewater in steam boilers. A plan was produced to collect utilizable wastewater and use it for garden irrigation purposes. • A water saving plan was drawn to equip the garden irrigation system with automatic spraying sprinklers for saving water. • Since 2015, Pınar Dairy has volunteered to participate in the CDP which is an NGO focused on the protection of world’s natural resources and which seeks to mobilize the private sector for water resources. In 2016, as part of the CDP Water Program responded by 19 companies, Pınar Dairy was one of the three companies granted the “CDP Turkey Water Leaders Award” and the only leading company operating within the food/dairy industry. 108 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 109 Water Management Good Practices and Developments from Our Companies Pınar Water bottles the spring water that it has obtained purely and naturally from nature with the Viking Tissue, one of the Group’s companies, is aiming to reduce the dependency on water as its PINAR WATER VIKING TISSUE same meticulousness and with its most natural state and presents it to consumers. The policies that biggest goal in the medium term. Our company conducts systematic studies for its activities to be our company actualized in its manufacturing facilities in the direction of its effective water consumpinfluenced least by possible consequences of its water scarcity. tion target are as follows: Our company’s fresh water consumption per ton tissue has decreased by 5,5% compared Bursa Facility to the previous year. Safety ventilators (max. 5 bars) are fitted to the water inlet of the facility, so that measures have been taken against leakage of water from the pressure line in the water supply line. According to Viking Tissue fresh water extraction from the underground in 2016 was 1.080.000 m3, and the fresh the data of the year of 2016, 15.376 tons of DKS were used for the purpose of process. This amount water used in the process was re-used with internal operations (fiber and water recovery equipment). corresponds to source water of 14,98% for unit production. Isparta Facility Resources and rents in the region have been followed up in terms of water resources, so no change ALTIN YUNUS Altın Yunus, an organization operating in the area of accommodation services of our group, has actuhas been recorded in terms of current resources over the years. The last 4 km of the undeveloped alized effective water consumption policies in the light of “you cannot control something you do not part of the 8 km of the freeway has been renovated and it has been a totally fusion-based relief line. measure, you cannot rule anything you do not control” principle. Monitoring daily water consumption, This led the line to a more durable level against possible leakage.. our company avoids potential water leaks and excessive consumption. Our company, which prefers to 3 lt/sec is leased in our facility where the use of spring water is valid only. According to the functional use efficient water usage equipment during the purchase, is using the biological wastewater treatment products produced, the amount of this lease was sufficient and resources were regularly monitored plant in the hotel to refine the waste water and reuse it in the garden and forest irrigation. in order to lease more flow from the same source or to close other sources in line with strategic plans covering all facilities. Altın Yunus’s work on water saving was awarded in the Green Star inspections in 2016 and got full marks for these issues. Sakarya and Aydın Facility By installing hand-free sensory faucets in the sink unnecessary use of water has been eliminated and the process waste water has been reduced by 10% since the production of PCs has stopped and there is no rinse rinsing on the two sides of the pet. In Sakarya Facility, the pet lines were replaced with the boiler system and the rinse rinsing process of the bottles after the inflation was removed. In Aydin Facility, groundwater is used for cooling water, boiler water, cleaning and garden irrigation. Çamlı Feed, one of the Group’s companies, extracted 3.037.125 m3 of surface water and 1.947.723 ÇAMLI FEED m3 of underground water in 2016. There are no recycled or reused water. There is no source influenced significantly by the extraction. Dyo Boya has adopted a holistic water management policy in line with its effective use of natural DYO COATING resources strategy. Our company, which organizes trainings for conscious water consumption among our employees, is at the forefront with the reference projects in the field of waste water management. Our company, placing stoppers in the rain drop-off rugs against any contamination that may occur in rain water, performs pollution inspection and keeps records on all channels every two hours. When any pollution is detected, the channel outlets are closed and all the waters in the rain channels are transferred to the treatment plant. Our company’s objectives in water management are as follows: 10-25% reduction in Blue Footprint and 10-15% reduction in Gray Footprint. 110 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 111 Energy and Climate Change As Yaşar Group, we follow closely all kinds of technoOur Group, which has carried out enterprise-based carOur companies in our Group have made significant progress in their areas of resource logical developments that will facilitate the efficient use bon footprint calculations for 9 companies, announced efficiency and optimization by prioritizing the concept of “green logistics” in business of energy and give priority to efforts to transfer reliable in 2012 that it aims to reduce the average carbon processes. solutions to our business processes in a planned manfootprint per unit of production 15% by 2020 with the ner. Greenhouse Gases Reduction Project. As of 2016, a reOur Group has achieved significant productivity increases in intercity land transportation duction of 8,93% was achieved in carbon footprint. operations with its route optimization model in the direction of fuel saving target and has One of the most important components of the carbon made significant contributions to environmental sustainability with its model based on footprint that arises from the production processes that Our Group uses national and international criteria and more transportation volume with less distance. aim to meet the increasing needs of humanity with a standards for carbon emissions activities. ISO 50001 rational understanding is the energy used during this and ISO 14064-1 system standards guide our works. production. Our production approach, which focuses In our reporting activities, ISO 14064-1 “Guidelines Total Energy Consumption (Gigajoule) on its efficient use prior to the saving of energy, may and Specifications for the Calculation and Reporting of in some cases include a numerical increase in relative Greenhouse Gas Emissions at the Establishment Level” According to Primary Energy Source 2014 2015 2016 terms, but we observe that we have a more efficient is used. Greenhouse gas inventory management sysuse compared to past years. tem studies, which enable our companies to collect Direct Energy Consumption 2.142.514 1.812.181 2.273.265 data in a single system is continued to use in 2016. We note that the negative effect of energy use can be Indirect Energy Consumption 328.385 385.484 408.938 reduced by using cleaner energy, instead of less energy. While our Group identifies common goals for all our For this reason, we are gladly monitoring and actively companies in climate change and energy issues, it also As of 2016, a reduction of 8,93% was achieved in carbon footprint. supporting the policies on the production of renewable takes into account the specific circumstances of the and clean energy in our national energy policy. geographies in which we operate. Projects were also continued to be developed in 2016, to reduce energy Non-renewable energy sources in Yaşar Group companies are electricity, natural gas, LPG, LNG, To make the world a more livable and sustainable place, consumption and increase productivity in business units coal and vehicle fuels. The use of renewable energy sources isn’t available for the time being. In renewable and clean energy investments need to be throughout all of our Group companies. all companies, energy consumption, electricity consumption, heating consumption and steam consupported both locally and globally and its production sumption are not separately calculated but carbon footprint calculation studies are applied to cover must be encouraged. all these energy consumption. Desa Energy, a company of Yaşar Group, is a power generation company, and the company’s product is electricity and sold. Desa also produces steam and sells to Climate change has become a subject that requires the Group companies. The energy consumption mentioned above is converted to GJ and reported global struggle in the direction of common goals today. as Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption. The consumption quantities of all energy types are The period’s impacts on human life and the economy converted into GJ by means of energy unit conversion factors. have brought companies to develop new business models, as well as the transition to a low-carbon economy. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Our Group assesses the potential impacts of global clikg. CO2/year 2014 2015 2016 mate change on the basis of risks and opportunities and adopts a sustainability-focused corporate developScope 1 145.045.791 155.459.916 155.588.764 ment line. Scope 2 104.187.482 107.313.700 109.354.773 Direct and Indirect Energy Greenhouse Gas Emissions are calculated in accordance with ISO 14064 Part 1. The calculations include the greenhouse gases (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6) mentioned in ISO 14064 and there is no biogenic emission. In the calculations, the base year (base year) selection was chosen as 2010 or 2011, with a difference for each company. Base year selections were elected for years in which they worked closely with the ideal arrangements of the enterprises. Emission factors were obtained from annual reports of domestic public institutions (such as TEIAS) or annual reports of international organizations such as IPCC or UNFCC. The preferred consolidation approach for emissions is an administrative control approach. 112 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 113 Waste Management Good Practices and Developments from Our Companies The widespread understanding of the production philosophy of the world that “one is the input of the other” is a welcome development. Today we are working with a philosophy that does not see anything as waste in our manufacturing operations. The basis of the waste management concept of Yaşar Group lies Among the companies of our Group, Pınar Dairy considers waste and management as one of the PINAR DAIRY in the approach that “no output is waste”. most important agenda items within our environmental responsibilities. Considering the environmental legislation requirements in collection of wastes in the facility, temporary storage and transferring For this reason, as Yaşar Group, we are looking for ways to reuse not only the disposal of the wastes licenced facilities, our company has evaluated the environmental effects through the environmental generated during the production process but also the waste. We work with the aim of developing this undimension evaluations it has been experiencing and passed preventive activities at necessary points. derstanding not only in production but also in post-production and consumption lines, and we accept our Our company has been organizing trainings for environmental awareness and management of wasconsumers as a shareholder of this waste management. tes throughout the year by the environmental officer. The company has included this title in its yearly training plan and has provided feedback to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization every year Our Group, which is involved in sincere initiatives for this purpose, is also among the founders of ÇEVKO about wastes. (Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Recovery and Recycling Foundation). Our Altın Yunus facilities share our understanding of the environment and waste management policy with our guests and Our company’s targets for waste reduction were followed up in 2016 under ISO 14001 system, and convey the importance of waste management to environmental protection for every person in contact with wastes other than municipal waste received by the municipality were transferred to 100% recycling us. facilities. In accordance with the Packaging Waste Regulation, it is aimed to gradually reach 60% of the basic packaging materials such as plastics, paper carton, metal and glass by 2020 in terms of Resource efficiency and waste management are now vital to the effective use of natural resources. Our recycling obligations over the years. Group considers that this is one of the main priorities for all our companies to provide training on waste management in general, using packaging materials that will produce the least amount of waste in the Our company, which carried out revision in Eskişehir Factory wastewater treatment Plant in 2016, entire life cycle and give the least damage to the environment, and do innovative work on industrial waste has carried out studies to increase the efficiency of treatment by installing a diffuser system instead recycling. In addition, it is signed by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization in cooperation with liof old and non-working aerators. Diffusing system provided proper ventilation and sludge recircucensed organizations following the packaging waste management plan which is prepared in the framework lation enabled bacterial activity, reducing the amount of chemicals used. In order to dehydrate the of the contracts and presented to the Ministry. sludge, the decanter system has been replaced instead of the old filter-press and regular sludge purchases have begun to be realized. In 2016, the odor removal system was activated at Izmir Factory wastewater treatment plant to eliminate the environmental odor. Amount of Recovery By Years (%) Pınar Meat has contracted with ÇEVKO Foundation, one of the authorized institutions of Turkey, for PINAR MEAT Type of Package 2014 2015 2016 2017* the waste management, approved by the Ministry of Urbanization in the direction of effective rePaper-Carton 44 48 52 54 source utilization strategy. The recycling of Pınar Meat product packages that were put on the market at the rates determined in the regulation and the recovery/transformation were realized through ÇEVKO Foundation and the “Green Spot” brand was started to be used in all the products that were Plastic 44 48 52 54 signed by the contract. The Green Point mark, an international model that stands for industrial responsibility, shows that the economic operator who takes the packaged product market places its Glass 44 48 52 54 legal obligations in the recovery of packaging waste. Our Company, which continues to plant 1 seedlings on behalf of employees who bring 10 waste Metal 44 48 52 54 batteries every year, planted 100 seedlings thanks to the waste batteries collected in 2016 through Directorate General of Forestry. Wood 5 5 7 9 PINAR WATER Pınar Water, as the founding member of ÇEVKO, delegated the responsibility of recycling its packaing * Intended waste to accredited institution, to ÇEVKO. All of the products our company uses in its production activities are made up of materials that can be recycled in the environment and recycling quantities in accordance with the targets set by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. 114 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 115 Waste Management Good Practices and Developments from Our Companies Dyo Coating carries out waste management in accordance with the regulations issued by the MiDYO COATING nistry of Environment and Urbanization. The disposal method for each waste type is specified in the relevant regulations. VIKING TISSUE Viking Tissue, describes its waste management policy as carrying out activities to reduce waste generation, the system for collecting waste at the source of the waste, the provision of collection facilities, temporary interim storage, prevention of environmental damages during transportation, appropriate disposal / recovery methods, research and realisation. Our facility is renovated every year with a specialist environmental consulting firm and has consulALTIN YUNUS tancy services in this regard. All new legal legislation is followed and action is taken accordingly. Both the consultant firm and the ministry officials organize trainings to the plant personnel. Waste follow-up reports are kept up-to-date and necessary declarations are provided by the environmental engineer of the consulting firm. Waste management is a priority and follow-up issue for our green star facility. Throughout 2016, a total of 98.050 m3 of thermal water was discharged into the sea. The facility is not evacuated as it is reused in the waste water treatment plant. Since the Reverse osmosis device operates at a yield of 50%, a total of 135.806 m3 of water (osmos + thermal) is supplied to the sea. In our facility, hazardous wastes are stored at the workplace and the total amount of hazardous waste for 2016 is about 400 kg. As a recovery, the water recovered to the garden water in the wastewater treatment plant can be exemplified and a total of 75.512 m3 of water was recovered for the year 2016. DESA ENERGY Desa Energy, one of our Group companies, aims to recycle waste by collecting waste at its source. 116 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Yaşar Group Sustainability Performance Caring For Business Partners 118 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 119 Supply Chain Management Good Practices and Developments from Our Companies Moving from the premises of “encouraging the maof making it widespread among our partners who Continuing its production activities in the factories of Izmir and Eskişehir, and the recently opened one in PINAR DAIRY nagement practices for the environment, social and are influenced by the principles and values of Yaşar Şanlıurfa, Our Company contributes to the local development by supporting more than 18.000 producers economic effects throughout the life cycle of proGroup. while working in a contracted manner with 301 separate locations of 119 farms for the supply of quality ducts and services, as well as the practices for well sources. governance”, our Group determined our supplier poWithin the scope of our strong experience and exlicy and developed strong bonds with our partners pertise that our Group has in the field of supervisiThe purchase of raw milk is implemented through 4 supplier groups within the borders of Turkey, from 4 in the supplier map within the scope of this policy. on, we implement auditing and inspection in a wide supplier groups of 22 provinces, villages, cooperatives, farms and companies. We manage with the principles that we determine field ranging from the quality and production to the the supply process with, objective selection criteria, human rights and ethical practices for our suppliers. In order to reach the quality milk source, milk is supplied through 301 separate points in total consisting supply contracts, standard procedures and tools. During the inspections, apart from determining the of 11 farms “Facilities Free from Diseases”, 6 “EU Approved Facilities” certified 119 farms. By sharing the The given principles and procedures are increasingly current condition and areas of improvement for our quality value of the milk it supplies from the farms “daily” with the producers, Pınar Dairy provides the used for making use of the points of influences such suppliers, we also provide know-how support on the producers getting informed about their products. Additionally, Pınar Dairy carries out training programs in as human rights, job health and security, working issue of action plans that our suppliers plan to put subjects such as milk quality, herd health, animal nutrition, preventive medicine for the purpose of informconditions, animal welfare, environment, supply of into practice. Besides this, the performance of our ing and creating awareness for the producers for producing healthy milk. raw materials and social factors on the hand of our suppliers are regularly monitored in order to execute suppliers. the follow-up of the action plans created and to eva83% of the total purchase of raw milk amount is provided from Çamlı Feed, a company among the Yaşar luate the rates of implementation. Our Group shares Group companies. Pınar Dairy implements long term collaborations through determining its suppliers in Our Group, which carries out continuous training the “exemplary practices” implemented by our suppline with “Pınar Quality Criteria” (together with Purchasing, R&D and Quality Assurance Managements). activities for our suppliers within the scope of actiliers with other partners thanks to the expertise we Having developed collaborations benefiting mutually with more than 18.000 raw milk producers, it apvities that we have defined as a value chain, steado have in the field of supervision and risk manageproaches to the issue of sustainable and quality supply neatly. Together with the Procurement Departdily improves the superior quality standards in line ment. Our suppliers that we support for rendering ment, it carries out purchases from the approved suppliers for the purchase of the sources outside the with the full compliance with the legal legislation as their successful performance sustainable stand out purchase of raw materials, food auxiliary materials and packaging materials. Pınar Dairy coordinates with well as the export activities carried out in different in competition by consistently carrying out the quathe Procurement Department, R&D and Quality Assurance Managements within the scope of Procedure countries. The training activities we implement for lity standards in the fields where they are business for Creating Alternatives and Entering the Suppliers’ Lists. The companies able to provide suitable masuppliers are considered as an opportunity in terms partners with our Group. terials fitting to the Pınar Quality Criteria are determined as the suppliers and in the event of a positive conclusion out of the comprehensives trial works, the suppliers are included in the system. Moreover, the suppliers are assessed per criteria created out of the Supplier Assessment Procedure in terms of price, delivery, quality, service and amount each year. It is aimed that the supplier works shall develop correctiveAs a whole, we see it preventive measures as a result of the assessment. as a responsibility to make our understanding Pınar Newspaper Published quarterly on the providing livestock and milk producers for Pınar, Pınar of sustainability Newspaper continued its publication successfully in 2016, as well. Our Newspaper reaching to 18 thouwidespread among sand producers maintained itself being the source of a significant appeal for the farms producing milk and our suppliers that we meat. are interacting with beyond our corporate structure, operations Pınar Institute A non-profit and none trading organization founded for the purpose of contributing and production. to the healthy development of society and creating awareness for issues of food, health and nutrition, Pınar Institute continued its activities and projects successfully in 2016. The institute, organized numerous trainings with the voluntary participation of all producers aside from the supplier milk producers in the provinces of İzmir (Tire & Ödemiş), Eskişehir, Kütahya, Denizli, Uşak, and Şanlıurfa within the scope of the Project “The Future of Our Milk is in the Hands of those Aware”: a Project that it has carried out for a long Within the scope of this responsibility, in order to carry out our practices more efficiently, Yaşar time. These activities carried out by the Pınar Institute are works in the reference quality in terms of the Supply Chain Risk Map Work was implemented in July 2016 on all the Group companies, and risk significance it attributes to the local development. Together with the trainings implemented in 2016, the analysis was implemented specially to each supplier group companies on the titles of sustainability number producers accessed to since the beginning of the Project has reached to 5.800, and the project criteria, and it was targeted to create action plans according to this map for all companies. partners has been Provincial and District Administrations of Food, Agriculture and Livestock, Milk Producers Unions, Cooperatives and Universities (Ege, Ankara, Harran & Afyon Kocatepe Universities), as well as Pınar Dairy and Çamlı Feed. 120 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 121 Supply Chain Management Among our Group Companies, Pınar Meat supplies the materials and services it needs in line with all While selecting the suppliers, Our Company sees it as a principle priority for the companies to certify PINAR MEAT PINAR WATER the legal regulations, as well as Pınar Meat Purchasing Regulations and Procedures in addition to the their management systems (such as ISO 9001, 14001, 18001, Food Safety). While choosing new ethical and moral rules. Thanks to its really strong supplier risk analysis, Pınar Meat is able to transsuppliers, on the other hand, the candidate companies are visited for inspection by the quality assuform its production process into strong chain of values. The primary supply books of our company rance and purchasing teams. consist of livestock purchase, food auxiliary materials, packaging materials, operation materials, spare parts, investment and equipment purchases. While our company provides nearly 90% of its Pınar Water, created inspection plans by the separating its suppliers into two categories; those being animal supply domestically, the regional supply is provided from Aegean and Mediterranean Regions contacted by R&D and Quality Assurance Management and those who are not. It has been adapted in the rate of 90%, and partially from the Central Anatolian Region. as a principle that the suppliers contacted for the product are inspected once a year, whereas those who are not are to be inspected twice a year at least. The concerning departments of our company Pınar Meat portrays an extremely neat approach in working with the suppliers having parallel princarry out the inspection onsite and inquire for the compliance on Quality, Food Safety, Job Health ciples in Food Safety, Quality, Environment, Job Health and Security, and Energy Management sysand Security and Environment Systems. tems. The company inspects the suppliers it collaborates with within the framework of this aspect, and demands for improvement in the areas where it considers necessary, while supporting the corporations it receives services from. The representative of our Group in the field of feed production sector, Çamlı Feed supplies 60% of ÇAMLI FEED its source inputs through import and 40% of them from domestic sources. The products produced Carrying out developing the supplier risk analyses, Pınar Meat has even detailed its supplier assessin the Pınarbaşı Feed Production Facility of our company are brought to the customer categories ment criteria further in 2016. The amount of inspections to be carried out within the light of these such as large farms, cooperatives and dairy unions where sales are made directly. Aside from this, assessments were determined and Supplier Report Cards for the products and raw material suppliers significant amount of added value is provided through using a part of the production in the facilities were created. for turkey and fish production. The monitoring and evaluation of the supplying company in the current supply assessment system is The concentrate feed sources used in the Organic Milk Facility of Our Company is provided by the implemented through the joint collaboration of the Purchasing and Quality Assurance unit. Our supsuppliers certified for organic agriculture domestically, while the sources for roughage are organically pliers assess within the scope of the criteria designated through “Supply Evaluation Procedure” and grown in the areas owned by the facility. While some portions of the roughage are produced by the try to develop corrective and preventive activities. Within the scope of the Supply Assessment Syscontracted farmers in the region, the organic milk produced is sold to Pınar and the calves brought tem, alternative suppliers are evaluated onsite and in the event that their compliance is approved, are sold to the other breeders in the region. collaboration and joint work is sought. For the current suppliers, risk analysis is made and their assessment frequencies and ways are determined. With the inspections and assessments made, The fertilizers used in the Plant Feed Facility of Our Company are collected by the Organic Milk Facilproduction of suppliers in line with legal regulations, food safety and Pınar quality is provided. After ity and other farmers in the region. The fertilizers made into compost forms in the areas owned by the reporting of the determined lacks and their corrections/improvements on the fields desired to the the facility are dried after they are pelleted and following this, they are packaged. The fertilizers are suppliers, their corrections are demanded. The companies not implementing the required improvebrought to our customer farmers through our strong dealership networks. ments in the fields demanded for correction within the time period are eliminated out of the list of suppliers and the purchases are halted until the desired improvements are provided. In addition to The eggs used in the turkey production at the Poultry Production Facility of Our Company are supthe quality systems of the producing companies in supplier assessments, Environment Management plied from Canada by a representative in the country, being transformed into chicks within 28 days Systems, Job Health and Security Management Systems, and Social Responsibility issues are evaluin our hatchery located in Seferihisar. The chicks are transferred to the poultry-houses of our proated the Quality Assurance teams, as well. For 2017, works on the the inclusion of the sustainability ducers we receive the care service from through our logistic supplier and the animal performance criteria to this assessment system are initiated, as well. is monitored through the weekly visits of our veterinarians responsible for the field throughout the Our company acts within the frame of the regulations on the Transport of Livestock and Animal production process. By the end of the 4 month breeding process, the grown-up turkeys are loaded Products and the rules stipulated by the Protection and Welfare of Animals during their Transport. from the poultry-houses through another logistic supplier of ours and they are sent from our GroupOur Company implements the purchase of livestock together with the team of veterinarians and Companies to Pınar Meat. agricultural engineers within the Meat Sources Purchasing, and the purchased animals are checked for compliance to the standards following their inspection. Contracted production model is used in the process of turkey production and it offers a source of income for the villagers living in the mountain villages where it is not very convenient for especially The livestock purchased by the Management for the Purchase of Sources are carried by the livestock agriculture in exchange for the care service they provide for the turkeys. Additionally, the responsible transport vehicles authorized by the Provincial Agricultural Administrations. The animals transported veterinarians provide trainings for at least 3 times a year on animal breeding and animal welfare to for long distance are put into operation after they are kept for wait in the rest paddocks. Pınar Meat, the breeders; while the positive examples are made widespread, the wrong practices are discouroffers chances of improvement with the periodically arranged visits by the expert veterinarians to aged and terminated. While preserving the requirement for breeding in line with the regulations in the contracted farms where it supplies animals to, as well as providing trainings in the field of animal order to protect the animal welfare, our breeders especially work on projects with the Faculty of health and welfare, and demanding their improvement. 122 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 123 Supply Chain Management Agriculture in Ege University on the Loading Stress of Live Turkey and Animal Welfare in the PoultryThe following principles are taken into account when choosing the logistics supplier for ÇAMLI FEED House. YBP the warehouse / shipment processes of YBP; • Company has a good corporate structure Our company carries out its choice of suppliers in the light of the Directives for Supplier Selection and Evaluation Criteria and Methods. While effectively inquiring on the required quality, food safety and • The company has a certain level of financial and service volume sustainability standards for each product, the quality documents available are asked to be provided • Company has got references. for the suppliers supplying fish meal and fish oil; and if available, the sustainability policies of the country and/or company where the fish meal and fish oil is produced, the MSC, IFFO documents, One of our Group companies, Dyo Coating, supplies the main raw materials for production such as DYO COATING the certificate of origin designating the type of fish used in the production pf the products (if posresin, solvent, monomer, titan, pigment and filling materials with additives through a wide network sible, the rates of origin included) and/or documents or notifications complying with the concerning of suppliers. It works with 1.604 suppliers; 767 being in the field of service, 356 being in the field permission and legal hunting. of raw materials and packaging, 25 being in the field of commercial products, 180 being in the field of machines and spare parts, 45 being in the field of shipment, 58 being in the field of marketing, In the supply of the fish meal/fish oil used in the production of fish feed, it is checked whether or and 173 being in the field of consumption and auxiliary materials. Dyo Coating has been given as a not the type of fish the product is made from takes place in the list of IUCN Rejection based on the reference to all the global suppliers for the concepts under the field of sustainability strategies such regions of production for the suppliers in each instance of receiving. If the type of the origin for the as business ethics, environment policies, child labor, laborers’ rights, fair commerce, social responsiproduct is in this rejection list, no purchase or sales of this product takes place absolutely. bilities, equality and education. The Purchasing and Quality Departments of Our Company once a year takes the supplier where the The structure of suppliers maintains their dynamism and variability like the former years due to the purchase is made from under an assessment procedure. If necessary, the Quality Management of fact that in 2016, the structure of suppliers in the chemistry sector comprised either of company Our Company carries out an inspection on the supplier to assess the product supply competence. integrations or separations as different companies for several work units, and aside from this, that In addition to researching on alternative suppliers for suppliers falling below 80 points, improvement the global actors also played significant roles. Despite this, Dyo Coating selects its suppliers based on works are implemented. Our Company has the principle of not working with suppliers below 50 certain criteria, evaluates them and contributes to their development. Inspections and technical visits points and revises its list of Approved Suppliers List every year. are implemented based on the supplier development plan prepared annually in order to contribute to the development of our suppliers as well as to learn about the beneficial practices mutually and It places huge care in the selection of the customers it shall serve outside our Group. Special care put them into practice for them while they are being evaluated and selected through concepts such YBP is given to the fact that the customers coincide with the Pınar brand values, that they are in the as quality, service, pricing, on-time delivery, and sustainability declarations. complementary and supportive quality with Pınar products, that it complies with the laws and ethical values, and that it places significance to consumer health and product quality. Basing on the inspeAs it is explained in the technical procedures of our company, onsite inspection for our suppliers is ction and control criteria founded by the quality systems specific to Nar’ca Group – one among our among the main priorities. On the other hand, it is a requirement for our suppliers not applied with suppliers out of the groupan inspection company reports once in a year the Food Safety and food an onsite inspection to fill in the Supplier Inspection Inquiry Form and send it through email or fax. quality in its scope of inspection. The inspection departments of our company prepare reports and determine inspection points following the inspections they carry out with the suppliers. In addition to this and under circumstances For the Nar’ca Suppliers; where required, a follow-up inspection is planned in accordance with the Caution and Corrective Action Report (CCAR).” The main principles embraced in the field of YBP supply management carrying out its activities in the light of our Group are as follows: Only the issues with problems are inspected in the follow-up inspections and no second inspection is carried out. The items being subject to the follow-up inspections are not scored again. Having carried • All the supplier companies planned to be worked with are subject to the production quality insout 20 supplier inspections in total within 2016, our company aims to inspect 53 suppliers in 2017. pection and a checklist in the format of ISO 22000. • The production inspections are implemented regularly and annually basis. Continuing to audit our suppliers in terms of environment, Our Company scanned all its suppliers separately in terms of raw materials, packaging and commercial products pursuant to the TSE EN • CPA plan is asked from the supplier company for the parameters determined with noncomplianISO 14001 Environment Management System providing the criteria for environment. ce. The CPA plan received is sent to the YBP inspector’s approval and its competence shall be inquired. • Based on the approval taken for competence, a collaboration plan is made with the supplier company. • It is targeted that the inspection works are repeated once a year. 124 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 125 Supply Chain Stakeholder Management Opinion Among our Group Companies, Viking Tissue considers the powerful relationship it built up with its VIKING TISSUE MEHMET ERBİL suppliers as a one of the constituents of a sustainable business. Because Our Company does not proBoard Member, Gözde Corporate Group duce cellulose the raw material for paper in Turkey, it supplies the raw material from regions and countries such as Finland, Sweden, North America, Russia, Spain, Portgual and South America (Brazil Based in Manisa Central District and Kemalpaşa, Gözde Group offers distand Chile). Viking Tissue, which successfully carries out this foreign supply process that carries sigribution services to leading Turkish companies with a professional sales nificant risks in terms of prince range and competitive power, supplies its packaging and chemical team of 25-years’ experience and a fleet of 85 pieces. Our Group aims to material supply from companies that has strong bonds with it. Coming together with its suppliers operate by keeping the high level of trust, customer satisfaction, rapid and especially in activities such as fairs and seminars, Viking Tissue gives priority to the internalization of high-quality service, and by constantly adapting to the technology. Since any type of development in the fashion to increase its production capacity and quality. 2001, we have been business partners with Yaşar Group with whom we Constantly observing the production, storing and loading conditions of its suppliers, Our Company walk together on this journey towards those goals. checks whether or not what is required by the quality certificates and quality certificates are impleWe follow the educational and social support that Yaşar Group has provimented through the supplier inspections. Viking Tissue, which assesses its suppliers through the ded for many years. Especially the painting contest for children and the terms of the quality, delivery, price performance and point system, applies the CPA (Corrective PreYBP’s sister school project represent a significant contribution to education. ventive Activity) follow-up system for the purpose of preventing the quality problems experienced. We fully support every product marketed by the YBP. The brand Pınar represents quality and being pioneer in The problems determined are shared with the suppliers and the necessary measures are taken; its field. We receive rapid support from the YBP staff and find solutions to problems that we ever experience in their results are monitored neatly. Embracing operational perfection as an institutional target, Viking marketing products. We attach big importance in taking part in joint projects which progress further our mutual Tissue implements the optimization works for the effective cost management and operational costs capacities with the YBP. We hope to keep walking with Yaşar Group on this journey for many years to come… in the field of supply. Our company analyzes, evaluates and carries out production inspections for what is foreseen as suitable together with its suppliers for the new chemicals, packaging designs and technical developAKAN ABDULA ments through following closely the most recent improvements in the sector. Within the scope of Future Bright, Managing Partner this, aside from the current quality of cellulose in the delivery of raw materials in 2016, alternative product trials were given value, as well On the other hand, in the field of the supply for scrap paper For how long have you been working with Pınar? the raw material for the recycle product constant works on finding alternative suppliers were carried out and 10 new companies were included in the list of scrap paper supplier list in total within We have enjoyed the privilege of serving Pınar Dairy for the past five 2015 and 2016. years. This is a significantly long period given that our business is just a local company founded six years ago. Placing huge importance to sustainability in terms of energy consumption awareness, Viking Tissue shares with its suppliers in addition to receiving the ISO 50001 Energy Management System The period of time indicates that Pınar Dairy likes to establish strong Certificate. For the purchases of energy consuming equipment and devices, it is demanded from bonds with its suppliers. It not only benefits from suppliers but also helps the suppliers in the placed orders that the devices to be proposed should have their energy classes to improve them while establishing sustainable relations with them. determined and that they should Show complies with ISO 50001 standards in their assessments So, how Pınar Dairy teams, your service partners, have contriwhile purchasing. buted to you? Being the representative of our Group in the tourism sector, Altın Yunus takes environmental policies First of all, Pınar Dairy teams are among the most detail-oriented teams ALTIN YUNUS and corporate reliability as a main priority while selecting suppliers. Our Group, which implements in the world of marketing. The Company is highly capable of coming inspection once a year to its food suppliers, demands corrections through providing detailed feedup with new solutions to very complex details. We have always been back to the supplier concerning the issue of any noncompliance. Provided that the demanded level fascinated by their skills to put a vast amount of information in coherent of correction is not taking place, a new supplier is sought. In the following term, Our Company plans series of ideas as well as their culture. the inclusion of additional indicators for environmental and social issues in its selection criteria selecFor the past five years, they mostly contributed to us with those qution for suppliers, while as for the quality target, it is aimed to inspect 75% of the suppliers, primarily alities. Pınar Dairy has a very powerful culture and Future Bright will starting from the food suppliers within the period of a year. continue to adapt to this rich culture in the years ahead. Our company that continues to supply the vegetables and fruits that make up 5% and 10% of its total supply from local areas prefers nearly all of its products grown in the Aegean Region. Besides the meat and meat products, our company supplies its water, milk and dairy products from Yaşar Group Companies, while supplying the products it offers to its customers from well-reputed brands domestically through its dealerships. Our Company receives outsourced services for safety, garden disinfection, landscaping and stipulates as a condition items related to occupational health and safety (OHS) in its supplier agreements. 126 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 127 Appendix GRI G4 Content Index STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT General Standard External Location Page Number G4-24 Stakeholder Dialogue 45 No Disclosures Assurance G4-25 Stakeholder Dialogue 45 No STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-26 Stakeholder Dialogue 45 No G4-1 Joint Statement 6-7 No G4-27 Stakeholder Dialogue, Sustainability Priorities 45, 15 No G4-2 Risk Management 49 No REPORT PROFILE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-28 About The Report 8 No G4-3 About The Report 8 No G4-29 Sustainability Management 44 No G4-4 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 16-19 No G4-30 About The Report, Sustainability Management 8, 44 No G4-5 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 16-19 No G4-31 About The Report 8 No G4-32 About The Report, GRI G4 Index 8, 130 No G4-6 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 16-19 No G4-33 About The Report, GRI G4 Index 8, 130 No G4-7 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 16-19 No GOVERNANCE Yaşar Group in Brief, Sustainability Managemet, Corporate G4-34 16, 44, 46-47 No G4-8 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 16-19 No Governance 19-20, 40-42, G4-9 Corporate Profile, Economic Performance, Profile of Employees No 82-88 Identified G4-10 Profile of Employees 82-88 No Omission(s) DMA and Page External Location / Explanation G4-11 Profile of Employees, Employee Rights 83, 90 No Indicator for Number Assurance Omission(s) G4-12 Caring for Business Partners 120-127 No MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 20-22, 36-37, 120G4-13 Important Developments in 2016, Caring for Business Partners No Caring for Business, Economic Performance, Sustainable 127 28-29, 42, G4-DMA Agriculture and Livestock Breeding, Contribution To Local No 65, 67 G4-14 Ethics and Compliance, Risk Management 48,49 No Economy 40-41, 69G4-15 Sustainability Management 43,44 No G4-EC1 Economic Performance, Contribution To Local Economy No 70 G4-16 Memberships 50,51 No 28, 37, 106Caring for Business, Caring for Business Partners, G4-EC2 107, 112No IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIE Environment Management, Energy and Climate Change 113 G4-17 About The Report, http://www.yasar.com.tr/ 8 No Important Developments In 2016, Quality, Innovation and 22-24, 62G4-EC7 No R&D 64 G4-18 About The Report, Sustainability Priorities 8, 14-15 No Important Developments In 2016, Quality, Innovation 20-22, 62G4-19 Sustainability Priorities 14-15 No G4-EC8 and R&D, Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding, 64, 65-67, No Community Investment 70-79 G4-20 Sustainability Priorities 14-15 No MATERIAL ASPECT: SOURCING PRACTICES G4-21 Sustainability Priorities 14-15 No Economic Performance, Sustainable Agriculture and 42, 65-66, G4-DMA No Livestock Breeding, Caring for Business Partners 120-126 G4-22 About The Report, Our Sustainability Journey 8, 10-12 No Management Systems, Sustainable Agriculture and G4-23 Sustainability Priorities 14-15 No FP-2 60-61, 66 No Livestock Breeding 128 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 129 Appendix GRI G4 Content Index MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Environment Management , Environmental Targets, 106, 107, G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 96-102 No G4-DMA No Energy and Climate Change 112 G4-LA5 OHS Boards 97 No G4-EN3 Energy and Climate Change 112-113 No G4-LA6 Work Accidents and Lost Days 98 No G4-EN4 Energy and Climate Change 112-113 No G4-LA7 Work Accidents and Lost Days 99 No 112-113, G4-LA8 OHS Boards 97 No G4-EN6 Energy and Climate Change, Quality, Innovation and R&D No 62-64 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-EN7 Quality, Innovation and R&D 62-64 No G4-DMA Employee Development 94-95 No MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-LA9 Employee Development 94-95 No Environment Management , Environmental Targets, Water 106, 107, G4-DMA No G4-LA10 Employee Development 94-95 No Management 110-111 G4-LA11 Employee Development 94-95 No G4-EN8 Water Management 110-11 No MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-EN9 Water Management 110-11 No G4-DMA Employee Rights 89-91 No G4-EN10 Water Management 110-11 No G4-LA12 Profile of Employees 85-86 No MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES Environment Management , Environmental Targets, Energy 106, 107, G4-DMA No and Climate Change 112 Occupational Health and Safety, Caring for Business 96-97, 120G4-DMA No Partners 125 G4-EN15 Environmental Targets, Energy and Climate Change 112-113 No Occupational Health and Safety, Caring for Business 96-97, 120G4-EN16 Environmental Targets, Energy and Climate Change 112-113 No G4-LA15 No Partners 125 G4-EN19 Environmental Targets, Energy and Climate Change 112-113 No MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Ethics and Compliance 48 No Environment Management , Environmental Targets, Waste 106, 107, G4-HR2 Business Ethics 48 No G4-DMA No Management 114-116 MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-EN22 Waste Management 114-116 No Caring for Business Partners, Ethics and Compliance, 32, 48, 89G4-DMA No G4-EN23 Waste Management 114-116 No Employee Rights 91 G4-EN24 Waste Management 114-116 No G4-HR3 Employee Rights 89-91 No MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 36-37, 120G4-DMA Caring for Employees, Employee Rights 32-90 No G4-DMA Caring for Business Partners No 127 Caring for Employees, Employee Rights, Caring for Business 32, 90, 120G4-HR4 No G4-EN22 Caring for Business Partners 120-127 No Partners 125 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Caring for Employees 32, 82 No Business Ethics, Supply Chain Management, Employee G4-DMA 48, 120, 89 No Rights G4-LA1 Profile of Employees 84-85 No Business Ethics, Supply Chain Management, Employee G4-LA2 Employee Rights, Rights Offered to the Employees 89, 92 No G4-HR12 48, 120, 89 No Rights G4-LA3 Profile of Employees 85 No 130 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 131 Appendix GRI G4 Content Index MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Our Sustainability Journey, Caring for Business, 12, 28-29, G4-DMA Consumer/Customer Health and Safety, Quality 54-59 No G4-DMA No Sustainability Management, Anti-Corruption Practices 46-49 G4-PR3 Customer and Consumer Informing and Ethical Marketing 57 No Our Sustainability Journey, Caring for Business, 12, 28-29, G4-SO3 No G4-PR4 Customer and Consumer Informing and Ethical Marketing 57 No Sustainability Management, Anti-Corruption Practices 46-49 Our Sustainability Journey, Caring for Business, 12, 28-29, G4-PR5 Customer and Consumer Satisfaction 58 No G4-SO4 No Sustainability Management, Anti-Corruption Practices 46-49 MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Our Sustainability Journey, Caring for Business, 12, 28-29, G4-DMA Consumer/Customer Health and Safety, Quality 54-59 No G4-SO5 Sustainability Management, Contribution To Local Economy No 46-49, 68 (Pınar Dairy) G4-PR7 Customer and Consumer Informing and Ethical Marketing 57 No MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA Ethics and Compliance, Anti-Corruption Practices 46-47 No G4-SO7 Anti-Corruption Practices 48 No UNGC Principles Index MATERIAL ASPECT: ANIMAL WELFARE UNGC Principles Page Numbers G4-DMA Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding 65-67 No HUMAN RIGHTS Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding, FP-9 65-67, 60-61 No Management Systems Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding, proclaimed human rights. FP-10 65-67, 60-61 No Management Systems 6-7, 12, 29, 68, 91, 120 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding, FP-11 Management Systems 65-67, 60-61 No abuses. Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding, LABOR FP-12 65-67, 60-61 No Management Systems Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock Breeding, recognition of the right to collective bargaining. FP-13 65-67, 60-61 No Management Systems Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY compulsory labor. 82-102 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety, Quality, Innovation Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. G4-DMA 54, 57, 59 No and R&D Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of G4-PR1 Management Systems 60-61 No employment and occupation. G4-PR2 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety 54 No ENVIRONMENT FP-5 Management Systems 60-61 No Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Percentages are challenges. FP-6 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety 54-57 No not reported. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 106-116 FP-7 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety 54-57 No responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 12, 48 extortion and bribery. 132 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 133 Yaşar Holding A.Ş. “Yaşar 2016 Sustainability Report” is prepared exclusively for informing purposes. Sources and information believed Head Office to be true and reliable pertaining to the period covered by the report were used. The content appearing in the presŞehit Fethi Bey Cad. No: 120 ent report may not be interpreted as a statement, guaran35210 Izmir Turkey tee or commitment, and the completeness and unchangePhone: +90 232 495 00 00 ableness of the relevant content is not guaranteed. Fax: +90 232 484 17 89 483 46 59 E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr All rights pertaining to the present report belong to Web: www.yasar.com.tr Yaşar Holding A.Ş. Istanbul Representative Office Setüstü No: 23 Kabataş 34427 Istanbul Turkey Phone: +90 212 251 46 40 (Pbx) Fax: +90 212 244 42 00 E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr Ankara Representative Office Gazi Mustafa Kemal Bulvarı Ali Suavi Sok. No: 11 Maltepe 06570 Ankara Turkey Contributors to the Report Phone: +90 312 294 92 00 (Pbx) Content and Reporting Consultant Fax: +90 312 232 01 82 232 16 73 SuCSR Corparete Sustainablity Consulting www.sucsr.com E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr 134 YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT YAŞAR 2016 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 135 www.yasar.com.tr Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No: 120 35210 İzmir Turkey Phone: +90 (232) 495 00 00 Fax: +90 (232) 484 17 89 483 46 59 E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr
