2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 Table of Contents Inspirational Thoughts 4 Innovation 24 Message froum our CEO 6 Our Key stakeholders 32 Welcome to our Sustainability 8 Our Guest 36 Report 2016 Partnerships and About Us 9 Collaborations 41 An Inspiring Vision 10 Awards and Recognition 46 10 years sustainability 12 Infinitive Sustainability 50 Priorities Journey Governance & Leadership 14 The Way forward 89 2 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 SUSTAINABILITY INSPIRATIONAL THOUGHTS The Goal of the UAE’s Green Economy for Sustainable Development initiative is to build an economy that not only protects the environment but also allows the economy to grow. Within the vision 2021, we are striving to build a diversified economy based on knowledge and innovation, through which we can provide excellent employment opportunities for our citizens. Through this, we can protect our natural and environmental resources and strengthen our competitive position in global markets, especially in the areas of renewable energy products and technologies in the green economy. His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Rashid Al Maktoum Vice-President, Prime Minister of UAE and Ruler of Dubai 4 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Today, Dubai has focused its economy Accordingly, we have made a conscious on tourism by building world class hotels and effort to support the ten principles of United developing real estate and has become a global Nation Global Compact (UNGC) in respect tourism destination with cuisines available for to Human and Labour Rights, Environment every palette. However in the last two years Dubai and Anti-Corruption and this report is a clear has been traversing through difficult economical communication and expression of our continued times. Customer Relations Management (CRM) support in advancing those principles within our has taken a turn as everyone in the hospitality sphere of influence. Further in committing to industry vies for the same market share leading to making UNGC’s principles central part of HIAB vociferous competition strategy, culture, and day to day activities we submit annually the Communication of Progress In my opinion, to attract guests, hoteliers are losing (COP) that describes our effort, progress and their sense of responsibility to the Planet and success in implementing the ten principles. People, concentrating on attracting Profit through irresponsible business practices Energy is being In supporting public accountability and dissipated, wastage of food and resources has transparency, we have undertaken the increased and not enough consideration is being commitment to make a clear statement to given to the landfill by hotel operators. our employees, supplier, partners, clients, the public and all our stakeholders aware of this We at Holiday Inn Al Barsha have tried not to fall commitment. trap to the current trends and have entwined our business strategies with sustainability, in trying to I truly believe Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha make our future the cause of the present. is a “hotel with a heart”, socially responsible in Roxana Jaffer Chief Executive Officer, Sovereign Hotels Group 6 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT every way, enabling meaningful wealth We are truly humbled and would like creation, totally encompassing all aspects to thank our staff in ensuring we of business in embracing responsibility remain Sustainable. for the company’s actions to encourage an affirmative impact through its We also thank all our stakeholders, activities not only on the environment especially our guests for believing and the community we operate in, but the in our hospitality offering and employees and all other stakeholders of the recognising our efforts in public sphere who we may encounter. Sustainability and making us the hotel we are. We are proud to state, that our motto “Our Monetary Profit should only be defined by putting People and Planet first”. is escalated down the line to all the, which enabled a wonderful recognition this year: WinnerArabia CSR Awards, 2016 Under the patronage of The League of Arab States and as part of the 9th Cycle of Arabia CSR Forum 2016, Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha was declared winner in the Medium size Business Category as selected from 13 Arab countries by an international jury. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 WELCOME TO OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Whilst Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha (HIAB) is proud The IHG Green Engage™ system is our group-wide and happy to present its 3rd Sustainability report, it online environmental programme. It allows us to track, is proud also to announce it has been committed to measure, improve and report on carbon footprint and sustainability from the outset, from when the doors utility consumption as well as plan Green Solutions to opened in the recession of 2008. help us to perform better in our sustainability targets. Our commitment to diligent business has been One of our prime objectives is to ensure a culture of part of our Hotel’s Corporate DNA and is the base uprightness. This is the purpose of the “Way of life” of all practices that inform our business strategy. and is reflected to our employees’ passion to serve HIAB takes prides in its voluntary commitment the guests with professionalism, care and comfort. to sustainability knowing that corporate success Our employees feel valued and know we invest in their is interdependent on its social well-being and is development and it shows! committed to improving its economic, socio-cultural and environment and energy practices. Beyond the boundaries of our business, everyone in HAIB contributes in making our society a better place Management of this small enterprise is by ensuring to live. Through the “Holiday Inn Dubai Loves You effective communication of our sustainability Campaign”, we serve the community and help to message is made to all stakeholders: Our business improve conditions in underprivileged communities and approach goes beyond mainstream business, health make a difference in the lives of people who need a and safety, anti-corruption, human rights protection, helping hand. to the fortification of the environment and building a fair civil society. We expect our principles to be With these three pillars, our hotel, YOUR hotel enjoys understood and practiced by employees, internal giving superlative service, knowing that wealth creation and external stakeholders, through a culture of one is a meaningful exercise. thought of uprightness and transparent business. In this report we present our corporate and governance structure, as well as the three pillars of our Sustainability strategy. 8 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT US HIAB is an owner managed franchised hotel with a Without doubt the bonds developed internally enable We are proud to state that due to our distinctive tag line “The 4Star hotel with a 5Star numerous awards including the “The Best Business strong family culture, business ethics, and look” enhanced by the quality and diversity in the Hotel Dubai Hospitality India Travel Awards service quality that HIAB has enjoyed great different facilities the hotel has to offer. 2016‘’, “The Best Corporate and Business Hotel” in popularity as a corporate and leisure hotel the Middle East North Africa region for three consecutive since its opening in 2008. HIAB is operated by Splendid Commercial Investment years and “The Quality of Excellence” by IHG. LLC under the license from InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG) and is a proud franchisee deeply committed in protecting the reputation of the Holiday Inn Brand. HIAB is a 309 room 4* Deluxe Hotel located in the heart of Dubai on a prime thoroughfare of Sheikh Zayed Road. It boasts 9 Food and Beverage outlets, some of which are award winning and employs 264 colleagues from 18 nationalities and is a hub of dissimilar cultures. It prides itself in the superlative service it provides where safety of our stakeholders is super most to become “The Best 4star Hotel in Dubai”. Our road to success to sustain market positioning has been by maintaining quality and service standards. HIAB benefits from the overarching umbrella of the international IHG group, giving an edge over its competitors as it directly sets its pricing, promotions and distribution strategies, but by keeping a vigilant eye on the world markets and the changing dynamics of the industry. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 rshi p ea d e nd L ce a r n an o ve G An Aspiring Vision 10 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AN ASPIRING VISION Vision Corporate Focus As an aspiring goal for all our work colleagues our vision is: We try and achieve our vision, mission, and sustainable corporate goals by setting targets and indicators at corporate and departmental levels, direction and progress of which are “To be the best 4Star Hotel in Dubai” communicated to the entire team though regular meetings, training, and shift briefings. Corporate and departmental goals and objectives are aligned and focus on: Mission To make our Vision a reality, our Mission is: How we engage with our team members so that they love their People Management jobs and want to stay with HIAB “To make a difference in the lives of the individuals we touch every How we inspire, motivate and guide our team to deliver day, by working together, to deliver commitment, personalized Guest Experience exceptional service so that guests return service and a superior hospitality product by upholding a strong How we show we care for the environment and the community moral system and actively participating in the community.” Responsible Business in which our hotel operates How we grow revenue and profit by operating efficiently, beating Culture Financial Returns the competition and getting guests to spend more at your hotel Our Mission is driven by a Unified Culture that withstands test of time, difference in opinion and helps to translate diversity to become strength rather than remain a weakness Allegience to U.A.E. HIAB'S CULTURE Uppermost entwined in our business practices is allegiance to our country UAE Flag Human Formation by our people Do the Show Aim Celebrate Work better Right thing we care Higher Difference Together HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 rshi p ea d e nd L ce a r n an o ve G Ten Year Sustainability Priorities 12 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TEN YEAR SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES 1 3 We recognize that every business has to play a critical role in addressing global challenges. That is why Social Management Value Chain and • Community Involvement we continuously engage with internal and external • Strengthen Municipal Ties Business Impact stakeholders to address issues so we can become • Embedding Sustainability in all responsible and diligent in the following areas: • Philanthropy Business Activities • Help Global causes 1 Social Management • Make all Stakeholders more Socially responsible HIAB's efforts in reuniting • Health and Safety Measures mother with terminal Illness • Uniform leadership style negating 2 with her son after 20 Years individualism Talent Sustainability • Leading by example 2 • Growth through Skills Talent Sustainability • Practice good Corporate Governance Enhancement Program • Accountability Recitation of the Qur'an by • Treat Diversity as Strength not a 4 different cultures unfiying Weakness as one • Engendering growth Provide Environment Protection complimentary ‘English for • Carbon Footprint Reduction 3 Value Chain and Business Impact Hospitality’ special formulated • Energy Use Reduction learning at work • Landfill Consciousness Uniformity in Leadership practiced by all managers Our 10 year sustainability priorities remain our strong focus, and are key to the way we operate and make decisions. These key material issues are central to our Sustainability strategy and business approach and in 4 Environment Protection particular to our system of ethics, culture and behaviours that we apply and promote. Strategy for segregation of Our material issues are the outcome of dialogue with our employees and stakeholders, observation of the waste and energy conservation environment in which we operate passion to apply our vision and conviction that we can and will make a for a better tomorrow difference. The key priorities above under our 4 key themes are compliant with the 10 UNGC Principles and form the material issues this report is focusing on to make us a “Hotel with a Heart”. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 rshi p ea d e nd L ce a r n an o ve G Leadership and Governance 14 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE Leadership Style At HIAB we promote an open-door leadership policy which is in turn practiced by the management team. Additionally, the CEO practices a unique style in leadership, expecting her team to do the same leading by inculcating a heart of a servant . Under her helm all directors and managers practice this style and are taught through seminars to see the merits in the uniform style of leadership as driving consistent success in hospitality. Leadership style practiced at HIAB, promotes specific aspects, viz: Zero tolerance is practiced, when leaders undermine these necessary attributes and misuse their position weakening the strong foundation of ›› Empowerment and development of others a family culture. ›› Being Humble In the past GM’s have been dismissed when not complying and ›› Being Altruistic respecting the above principles. ›› Engendering Agapao (Greek) moral love to do the right thing ›› Acceptance of belief in the individual as worthy The CEO is an accomplished motivational speaker as she extends her teachings to external organisations as reported in the local newspapers ›› Developing a dyadic (two-way) relationship of Trust see below Al Bayan reporting on the CEO representing HIAB at ‘The Arab ›› Being Accountable Women in Leadership and Business Summit’ ›› Being Authentic This recognition comes from success of the uniform leadership style at ›› According interpersonal acceptance and stewardship HIAB as unitedly management navigate day to day with business and ›› Demonstrating a strong focus on sustainability and Social Responsibility sustainability strategies. Arab women in Dubai discuss challenges of leadership Roxana Jaffer Director of Sovereign Hotels was invited at the seminar on Transforming Vision to Reality through her own experiences in HIAB Servant leadership is not about I nor is it as a leader of repute. about we it is about them HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 Leadership Hierarchy Business Leadership HIAB is strictly governed through an organised responsible divisional matrix. CEO CEO Hotel Manager Exec. Secretary Director Director Director Director Director Director Sales Food & Bev. Engineering Marketing & QA HR & Training Finance Front Office Executive Executive Security Manager Chef Housekeeper Manager Asst FOM Asst ADOS Asst F&B Mgr Cheif Sr. Sales Mgr Restaurants Mgr Accountant Duty Mgrs. Sales Mgrs. Outlet Engineer Marcom HR Officer Asst HK Security Night Mgr Reservation Mgr Managers Shift Leader Executive L& D Officer Manager Supervisor We have assigned clear responsibilities for environmental, social and governance issues, with direct reporting lines to the organization’s leadership. 16 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Leadership CSR Executive Board (CEB) (new appointees mid 2016) CSR Steering Committee (SC) (new appointees mid 2016) Roxana Jaffer Vincent D' Souza Kezia Da Rocha Mukhtar Hussain Caroline D' Souza Soumya Mukherjee Hassan Khan CEO Director of Finance Director of Marketing Director of Engineering HR & Housing Officer Front Office Manager Engineer Shift Leader The CSR Executive Board (CEB) serves as a Policy Board for the whole organization, so Our 3 SCs are led by chairpersons appointed by the CEB from HIAB’s every aspect of business strategy is steeped in furthering the 10 principles of UNGC’s management team, who report directly to the CEO on environmental, and the 12 out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) we have committed to. social and governance issues. Although the CEO is personally accountable for the performance of the CEB and SCs, all employees The function of the CEB is to be an Advisory body, and it’s members to be role-models for are ambassadors of Sustainability in HIAB and carry the responsibility the Steering Committees (SC) the implementers of sustainable strategies that are interto make our vision a reality. As we take sustainability to the next level, woven with day to day business norms and which are being: the HACCP officer and the Director of Engineering are employed with expected expertise in sustainability, and sustainability criteria forms • Strategic thinkers (Think tank) part of their Job Description mandate. • Decision makers • An Advisory body Chairpersons have to protect resources, define purpose, be • Guidance providers accountable and transparent, lead by example and drive ethical • CSR Brand Ambassadors company endeavours. Wellness, corporate consciousness, risk • Leadership empowerment officers management are some mandatory attributes that are practiced top • Enthusiasts for down the line down, by each committee member. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 ESG Steering Groups Our 3 Chairpersons manage and lead Environmental 3 steering groups, each branded under a unique logo, with a separate mandate The Role of the “Green Engage” focus group is to enthuse both, our internal and overseeing three different areas of external customers to constantly abide to best practices of 4 “Rs” of Sustainability sustainability: i.e. rethink, reduce, reuse and recycle, as an continual innovative sustainable process by helping the environment through energy saving methods and reduce The three registered, established focus carbon footprint for a better tomorrow. groups are: Social Members on each of the focus group are nominated based on their passion for achieving sustainability goals. The Role of the “HI-LUC” focus group is to enhance corporate core values, work with community organizations, assist selected NGO’s, plan and execute self-sustaining drives. With a backdrop of Prophets Mohammed’s words “Life is only worth living if lived for someone else”, team members help to inculcate in colleagues, the importance of giving of themselves both in time and monetary contributions, so others less off than themselves no matter what gender, creed or culture are ably assisted in improving their life conditions. Governance The Role of the “Way of Life” focus group is to develop a unified work culture, so that all 264 colleagues follow a remit of upholding a moral understanding of ethical values, tolerance, accepting diversity at the workplace, caring for nature, the environment and society, championed through core ideals titled “Show We Care”, “Celebrate Difference”, “Aim Higher”, “Work Better Together” and “Do the Right Thing”. 18 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Governance Code of Business We have articulated clear and robust commitments and policies on human rights. We conduct an assessment of environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities. We have implemented grievance mechanisms, communication channels and other procedures (e.g. whistleblower mechanisms) to report concerns or seek advice. Corporate We have publicly stated a formal policy of zero-tolerance for corruption. Governance Our community involvement policy especially takes into account regional Framework and local cultural, social and environmental needs. We have established a clear policy to identify and prioritize our partnership and collaboration engagements that are best suited to our sustainability context. We conduct internal awareness-raising and training on labour standards for employees. We involve suppliers in our initiatives to reduce our environmental footprint. We conduct environmental risk and impact assessments on a regular basis. We understand our impact on or how we are impacted by issues Code of Business such as: Sustainable Consumption and Production, Waste, Energy Principles of Governance Code consumption and efficiency, Water scarcity, Water pollution, Emissions, Biodiversity, Transport, Renewable Energy. Policies HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 Principles of Governance The Dubai Code of Conduct decency rules and laws Transparency Accountability Swearing, profanities, insults and all kinds of vulgar language are strictly forbidden and are legally reprehensible in case of complaint. All kinds of aggressive or offensive gestures are considered a public offense and are subjected to fines or imprisonmvent. Basic rules of courtesy impose on people to respect public places’ calm and quietness by avoiding loud conversations or answering their phones where it might Fairness Responsibility disturb others e.g. in movie theatres, conference rooms, quiet shops and restaurant, hospital etc. HIAB is pleased to announce that it upholds Dubai’s culture and laws to ensure that dignity and self respect of everyone is upheld to the highest standards, regardless of where people come from as per the law on Our governance framework and sustainability practices are defined by policies improper behaviour and vulgarity in the Emirates.In keeping with ensuring and procedures, and strictly adhered to by every employee of the hotel. the sanctity of our guests in the hotel space, we exercise ZERO TOLERANCE when other guests pollute their space, even if it at a loss of business. HIAB’s, corporate governance framework demands direct communication between the company and the stakeholders to assure abiding according to our framework. In Jan 2016, an American white lady of mature years gauded by others, used profanities in a loud and offensive manner gesticulating with her Procedures for distribution of responsibilities, rights, rewards and conflict of fingers which was not only offensive to the persons addressed, but in the interests as well as procedures for monitoring, auditing, control, and proper public meeting place to all who were present. The lady with her group were information-flow are in place to assure compliance with the framework. asked to leave the hotel and the lady reported to the security to place a ban on her. The annual contract with the organisation was rescinded resulting in loss of business to HIAB. 20 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Policies HIAB believes that a strong moral system, with compliance To ensure our key policies and procedures are understood by all our staff, we translate them in 8 to the laws and regulations of UAE, should go hand in hand languages and prominently exhibit them at the “Heart of the House” (our back of house dedicated to with the company's mission that we are committed to uphold. our staff). We support and protect human rights as part of our corporate governance structure implementing several policies besides Grievance Policy these we highlight. We ensure fair and just solutions are provided always through solid policies and an environment of a “Listening Leadership Team” as promulgated by the CEO through her “Open-door Policy”. Through our policies we commit to support protection of our employees respecting their rights, providing a safe and Harassment Policy healthy work environment, allowing growth and promoting HIAB strives to provide for all employees a professional and congenial work environment, so all employees diversity through our core values and culture 'Way of Life . are treated equally, with courtesy, consideration and professionalism. We do not support exploitation of imported labour and have processes to uphold Ethical Behaviour, Anti-Corruption , IHG Human Rights Policy promoting fair competition. We ensure suppliers are also HIAB strictly adheres to this global policy as a responsible business, to support protection of human rights, bound to respect our principles. respect our employees’ rights to voluntary freedom of association, provide a safe and healthy working environment and does not support forced and compulsory labour or the exploitation of children. Further we support the elimination of employment discrimination and promote diversity in the workplace, whilst not supporting corruption. We conduct our business with honesty and integrity in compliance with applicable laws of the country. Selection & Hiring Policy HIAB ensures all recruitment activities are transparent, just and within the framework of the Company’s recruitment norms. Discrimination on grounds of gender, nationality, religion, regional affiliation, cost, creed or colour during any of the hiring process has a “zero tolerance”. We have assigned management responsibility and accountability for the implementation of our AntiCorruption, Human Rights and Grievance policies and all our employees across the board are aware we operate a “zero tolerance” system. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 Quality Risk and Process Management HIAB designs its key operations and processes in line with the corporate strategy by optimizing the use of resources, reducing costs and ensuring profitability. We adhere to international standards and operate in a manner that does not compromise the safety of our services and the protection of the environment. Organisations that effectively manage risk often display a number of common characteristic. Our goal is to achieve to compliance to safety standards and build strong safety culture at our Hotel. We conduct fire safety trainings for staff on regular interval to prevent, prepare and response to the crisis situations effectively. Food Safety Crisis Response Plan Managed through the internationally recognized food safety standard “Hazard Analysis Our Crisis Response Plan provides a systematic framework for the planning, Critical Control Point” (HACCP), we address food safety through the analysis and mitigation, response, continuity and recovery for disruptive incidents which control of biological, chemical, and physical hazards from raw material production, may impact the hotel, which include natural disasters, environmental procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the accidents, technological mishaps, and man-made disasters. finished product. HACCP is certified by Dubai Municipality and regular audits help us maintain our food safety levels. The food safety framework is one that is tailored to Our intention is to develop the leaders at all level who will ensure that, as far as the setting and environment in which we operate to assure HIABs industry leading reasonably practical our organization and functions are resourced, organized position as food and beverage providers. and trained to deal with crisis situations. Fire Life Safety The plan contains crisis-specific procedures with the following priority objectives which are reviewed and enhanced on timely basis. Our internationally recognized IHG fire life safety standard goes beyond local authorities’ standard. We effectively manage risk following recommended best ›› Preserve life safety ›› Maintain critical hotel management practices that form the foundation of our risk management system. ›› Protect assets operational continuity ›› Prevent further escalation ›› Resume normal operations Steps are taken to prevent the probability of a fire. The safety of life overrides other ›› Minimize length of disruption ›› Protect hotel and brand considerations, such as saving property and extinguishing fire. Systems are in place to the hotel reputation to deal with this risk; fire evacuation drills, fire safety system check, inspections of the means of escape, maintenance of fire warning systems and fire-fighting equipment According to the hotel Crisis Response Plan, a Crisis Management Team is take place regularly. Employees are trained and regular training program is in place responsible for managing the response plan and Emergency Response Team for basic fire prevention measures. In addition to training fire safety systems are actions the response. Crisis Response Training is provided to colleagues from checked and maintained according to the requirement of local authorities rules all shifts, and include: Fire training, Fire Drill and Evacuation, Monthly 10 regulation and IHG fire life safety standard. Minutes Safety training, Disabling guest evacuation training. 22 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Health & Safety Protect Yourself and Our Guests Never leave guest room door open or ajar! The working environment within in a hotel can pose a number of hazards including confined spaces, lone working, ventilation, noise and working at height. HIAB is committed to undertake all reasonable measures to protect the health, safety and welfare of our colleagues, guests, contractors and other stakeholders. Workers performing work for HIAB are given instruction and training necessary to enable the safe performance of work activities. Safety trainings are taking place frequently to maintain highest level of health and safety in the organization. Certain good practices are being maintained in the operation on day to day basis to maintain the health and safety aspects effectively. Security Establishing and developing effective hotel security regimes through Together as a team, we can prevent fire... Security Threat and Risk Assessments, Security Policies and Plans, Operational Security Management and Security Reports. Hotel ...by following and checking safety guidelines. security management assures a consistent, effective methodology of managing security threats and risks in the hotel, including those posed by terrorists, criminals, civil unrest and dishonest staff. Brand and Service Standards HIAB is aware of the merits of its global brand value and will protect its reputation at all costs by upholding its brand and service standards. At every level of service, there are set standards which are implemented effectively and validated through quality audit processes. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 rshi p ea d e nd L ce a r n an o ve G Innovation 24 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INNOVATION HIAB believes in continual improvement and innovation across the business. This is demonstrated via a number of ideas coming forward leading to small and big improvements that make a difference. HIAB, whilst being a small hotel, is big on innovation. To support its very large voluntary commitment and to achieve our sustainability goals, we have realised that corporate success is interdependent on social well-being and sociocultural performance as well as finding ways to further environment protection and we are therefore constantly innovating and striving to identify new ways, partnerships and small initiatives and long term programs to help us support our mission. We have several innovative initiatives that have help our Sustainability Mision. GOALS ACHIEVED HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 Initiatives Themed Staff Parties The 2016 Annual Staff Party had a theme of ‘’Go Green – Save the World”, where different departments showcased their affirmation through innovative performances. One way that has proved successful, is in giving learning through fun to our stakeholders work Performances from various departments were based on topical messages “Contradiction in society between colleagues. Our annual Staff parties have been laced landlord and landless” ; “ World Peace is Paramount “; “Tolerance is needed for Equality to Prevail”. with salient messages Love and 2014 Peace Wellness 2015 Go Green Save the World 2016 26 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Celebrate Service Week (Celebrated annually to accolade our true heroes) 2016 took the form of “Recycle Mania Competition”. All 13 departments participated involving all HIAB colleagues, producing 26 creative items. Artistically designed items made from of plastic and glass bottles, old newspapers and magazines, bamboo stick, recycled boxes, plastic bags, etc. were made into beautiful usable items. Judges had a hard time deciding on the winners. TMENT AR DE ot ant N P t , W ste No Wa NS IO CO M PETIT HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 Flag Day November 3rd from 2016 has been officially designated as the Flag Day, to commemorate the anniversary of the inauguration of Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan as President, and commemorate the foundation of the UAE. Holiday Inn DubaiAl Barsha to show its allegiance, proudly participated at the Flag Raising Ceremony , in presence of Mr. Yousuf Adbdulla Ibrahim – Department of Tourism & Commerce Marketing (DTCM). HIAB staff, showed respect by joining others in the nation stating UAE Flag Day “is a day to honour all it stands for.” The symbolism of the colours were explained by HIAB’s proud staff donning the colors RED: Representing hardiness, bravery, strength and courage. The vertical red band can be interpreted as binding all the other meanings together in unity GREEN: Representing hope, joy, optimism and love. It also symbolises the country’s prosperity WHITE: Representing peace and honesty. White being the purest colour, it is interpreted by some to symbolise cleanliness BLACK: Contrary to popular belief, the black band does not represent oil. It stands for the defeat of enemies, and also strength of mind Holiday Inn Al Barsha (HIAB) wishes the UAE Residents a Very Happy & Prosperous Flag Day! 28 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Tolerance Day Tolerance, as she promotes tolerance to become a strong value for the UAE community, HIAB encourages at the workplace intercultural respect Participating in UAE’s Designated International and reverence for different nationalities. Holiday Tolerance Day November 16th 2016, HIAB Inn Dubai Al Barsha is proud to state that since took it upon wholeheartedly to understand the inception 8 years ago, it has been promoting under significance of Tolerance Day. a strong culture, the same ideas through its 5 core values: Do the Right Thing; Show We Care; We understood it to be a day when everyone can Aim Higher; Celebrate Difference; Work Better spare thoughts on respecting and recognizing Together rights and beliefs of others. It is also a time of reflection and debate on the negative effects of Today HIAB is proud to know that our staff hailing intolerance. Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha family from over 25 nationalities, work in comfort, pledged by this sticker of peace on our faces and knowing they are part of one single family as we wearing white colours of peace, that we promise work united by breaking through the boundary of to co exist with these wonderful values uphold RACE, RELIGION, LANGUAGE, GENDER & COLOR. that TOLERANCE of PEACE, HOPE & JOY FOR A BETTER WORLD. This was eagerly explained in words by our hotel team as TOLERANCE standing for: A celebration took place at hotel Lobby where different departments showcased their talent by presenting various arts to display their efforts for Tolerance. We were honoured by the presence Togetherness of personnel from Al Noor Training Centre for Openness Persons with Disabilities, CSR Al Ahli Group and of Love course our prestigious hotel guests. Eagerness Rational It was a joyous event with cheerful faces and white Amicable dress code to promote PEACE. Non Violence Care In support of HE Sheikha Lubna bint Khalid Al Effort Qasimi, the newly appointed Minister of State for HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 Celebrating Diversity Embracing Christmas Embracing Ramadan HIAB promotes togetherness where anti-religious “Christmas Choir” A Backdrop that is synonymous to Holiday Inn slogans are frowned upon and instead religious made up of individuals of multi faiths Dubai Al Basha , where the holy month is occasions are promoted to be celebrated together singing hymns be they Christians, celebrated by people of all nationalities. HIAB regardless of cultural or alternative faiths. Muslims, Hindus, and Buddhist. asks guests to Break your fast with us and help feed the needy as a dollar gets donated to United Nation World Food Programme. 30 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Technology Embracing Diwali Eid Celebrations We at Holiday Inn Dubai – Al Barsha embrace CSR Chat Group for innovative ideas and best diversity and share each other’s joy and sorrow. practices to be constantly shared and analyzed for further beneficial implementation and knowledge. Coming from 23 different countries it gives us a chance to be unique whilst celebrating differences we have”. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 rshi p ea d e nd L ce a r n an o ve G Our Key Stakeholders 32 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS Communication with our Key Stakeholders To support our responsible business strategy, we make a special allowance to understand the needs of our stakeholders and engage regularly and actively with them. We do this through meetings, conferences and surveys, as well as through understanding their profiles before strategic partnerships are formed Since inception it has been our strategy to make internal and external stakeholders socially aware and responsible through a strategic communication understanding. Our Sustainability goals are highlighted at the outset, so stakeholders understand our direction and help us to meet our targets through a very strategic and goal based annual plan. The Chart below of sustainability target 2016 as shared with our stakeholders Environment Social Areas Target Method Areas Target Method Encourage more sports Walking up instead of the lift To reduce water usage by To Install water reduction Save Water and weekly yoga for Greater partipation in 4% VS last year shower caps. Wellbeing management and monthly interhotel sports events yoga for housekeeping Participating in Global Yoga teams Day Recycle paper. Use digital To reduce paper usage by Save Trees communication and reduce 10 reels per month Governance print. Areas Target Method To be committed to our Waste going to To reduce waste by 15% Code of Conduct encourage Tighter controls landfill VS last year responsibiity in speaking up Confidential More training in each about breaches of the Code To reduce electricity Reporting department Concious action for LED such as Falsifying records, Electricity consumption by 3% VS fraud or theft, Bribery or lighting last year conflicts of interest. Carbon foot To reduce Carbon foot Effective recycling To have zero tolerance Consitence core value print print by 3.5 % VS last year refurbishment Human Rights toward Gender, Racial and refresher Religious discrimination HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 Communication with our key Stakeholders Franchisor Guests & Corporate Clients Local Authorities We work with industry peers to share knowledge and IHG is a renowned global institution, a member of the We engage with our clients through our websites, resources, develop policy and implement programmes FTSE4 Good Index. HIAB as an independent owner our loyalty programmes IHG® Rewards Club -, and which have a positive social, economic and managed franchisee takes advantages of its offerings our social media channels. Pursuant to information environmental impact. HIAB participates with DTCM that suit its sustainability remit. We communicate being received of HIAB’s sustainability commitments Road Shows, Travel Markets and DTCM Green Tourism, our Responsible Business approach in the dedicated our guests are encouraged to participate in our social winning several awards. sections of our Annual Report and our website. initiatives (as judges for our internal competitions), participate in 'Ramadan for a Cause' Iftars and IHG kindly posts our achievements on their news support our causes monetarily letters for other global franchisees to learn from. Suppliers & Vendors IHG was the first hotel company to receive approval for LEED pre-certification for both existing and new Local Communities Where possible, our purchasing department is hotels. Further, in 2014 IHG launched a partnership encouraged to source local goods and services to with Green Globe and Green Key Global for third-party support local producers. It has been HIAB’s strategy to HIAB creates a positive impact on a huge number internal certification of the IHG Green Engage system. continuously engage with its supply chain so business of local communities. The jobs created and word of By virtue HIAB, too is a partner with Green Globe dealing remains above board and products supplied mouth marketing by our guests, colleagues, partners and Green key Global and take advantage of all its follow responsible standards. MOU’s are signed and suppliers has a wide impact as we support local certifications and learning in helping to protect the with suppliers whereby it is clearly stated that foul communities and become influencers. environment. practices like retainers, bribery will not be tolerated and business relations will be cancelled. Especially for vendors, our Selection Policy dictates that we Work Colleagues practice due diligence in selecting vendors, suppliers Owners and business associates. Contracted suppliers have We engage with colleagues through training sessions, to follow the food hygiene and safety regulations of HIAB is privately owned by a UK based businessman our intranet, internal engagement events and our Dubai Municipality as laid down in HACCP (Hazard Mr. Bashir Nathoo who has appointed as CEO Mrs inhouse publications. Staff parties and Back of house Analysis Critical Control Point) Manual. Through official Roxana Jaffer. HIAB being the primary SME with a displays are channels for discussions, sharing of energy communications, suppliers are made aware of HIAB’s dedicated sustainability mandate, influences other saving statistics and deeper understanding of 3R’s of sustainability commitments and are encouraged to sister companies in Dar a Salaam and London. sustainability “reuse, recycle and reduce”. A notion that actively participate in our social initiatives to support Communication on HIAB's pursuits are through internal when looking after the environment there has to be fall our causes when they have donated provisions on communication channels. out benefits to the bottom line. several occasions. 34 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Suppliers & Vendors (cont.) “Our Vendor Code of Conduct” sets out the requirements, principles and practices that we adopt to promote ethical conduct in the workplace. These are the minimum standards under which hotel vendors are expected to operate, and we encourage vendors to exceed the requirements of compliance to the laws and regulations of the country as well as international laws related to the conduct of business. We keep all stakeholders informed of the company’s sustainable approach and adopt a strict code of conduct for business partnerships. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 rshi p ea d e nd L ce a r n an o ve G Our Guests 36 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR GUESTS Guest focus is central to HIAB and is embedded within the corporate management system and culture. Cleanness, condition of the property, brand safety, product and service and HACCP compliance (certified annually) is monitored and measured by external auditors. This way we can guarantee service quality and ensure our products and services consistently meet customers’ needs. Our Guest Management strategy is founded on “Great Hotel’s Guest Love”, IHG’s slogan shared with the world. It is beyond a slogan, and indeed the true way in which we serve every guest who walks through our door. We take pride in knowing that our Team: ›› Is treated with respect and guarantee they have all tools to make a great start. Customer ›› Will have an opportunity to work with Satisfaction is #1 great teams, be transparent, and make a real difference in our workplace. in our priorities ›› Will be supported and given opportunities to develop themselves and pursue a rewarding career. ›› Will be rewarded and recognized for their contributions and that we will value the significance of their life beyond work. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 Stay Real Every guest comment via online reviews, feedback forms or emails is instantly voiced to our team members and a thank you card for living the “Stay Real Behaviors” is handed over to the quoted staff member. 2015 Threshold 2015 Score Cleanliness 85% 98.3% Brand Safety 85% 94.8% Product 85% 85.1% Condition 85% 94.4% Service 85% 95% 2016 Threshold 2016 Score Cleanliness 85% 86.67% Brand Safety 85% 100% Product 85% 80.6% Condition 85% 83.9% Service 85% 81.8% 38 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guest Feedback Procedures are also in place to regulate, manage, respond to feedback, which are regularly audited IHG being an international hotel chain focuses on the loyalty of the guests and promotes IHG Rewards Club and reviewed. Key issues are recorded in a system a Largest Hotel Loyalty Rewards programme. The Front To enable business intelligence, ensure continuous termed “problem tracker” where necessary analysis Desk colleagues proactively enrol guests upon arrival improvements to meet market changing expectations and measures take place. Feedback and data are for the free membership programme. The existing HIAB evaluates the feedback received from customers summarized to generate daily, monthly and yearly members are recognized and offered services as per via various channels such as “HeartBeat” customer scores. their entitled benefits. online survey: “problem tracker” system: “rate my stay” cards : and “IHG social listening tool”. Guest feedback is discussed on a daily basis at Our hotel is focused on improving customer satisfaction morning briefings and actions are taken thereafter to and exceeding guest expectations. For 2016 our improve performance. We meet or contact guests to “HeartBeat” scores proved to be outstanding. Overall discuss comments with them and resolve any issues Satisfaction Graph of “HeartBeat” an internal system arising. In fact we treat a complaint like a gift so we generated report by IHG Merlin gave an average overall can learn and improve our offerings. At the same time, score for 2016 of 81.26( till 14/12/2016)as updated feedback from guests has been inspirational as they by Soumya make an informed choice staying with us and support responsible business. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 Additional tools, IHG intranet – “Social Listening Tool” “Revinate Dashboard” generates graphs that demonstrate how HIAB is rated the No 1 in Al Barsha, compared to competition. Data /source – Revinate dashboard – Jan 2016 to date … 40 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT rshi p ea d e nd L ce a rnan ove Partnership and G Collaborations HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 PARTNERSHIP AND COLLABORATIONS (Local & International) Government and Community Organisations Dubai Chamber HIAB promotes gender equality (Sustainability Development Goal 5 of UNGC). Hence with this partnership with Dubai Business Women Council (part of Dubai Chamber) promotes growth of women giving female managers access to norms in Dubai strengthening bonds between women. Dubai Municipality HIAB take pride in participating in DM 's Drives. In Dec 16, delegates took pride in being part of 'Clean Up The World, 2016' as they flagged off the mission at Al-Qouz energized to remove litter with a vision to keep Dubai Clean. Emirates Environmental Group HIAB as a standalone institution has forged a partnership with EEG participating in various activities such as “Clean up UAE”, “Your Can for a Tree and Can Collection Campaign” See images in next page from the initiative in Dec 16 flagging off the mission in the Nad Al Sheba area. Green Emirates The tag line of Green Emirates We encourage stakeholders to commit to our strict social, governance and Environmental standards’’ resonates with HIAB’s sustainability remit and helps to put our targets and goals into focus when communicating to our stakeholders. HIAB is listed as an approved SME’s “Helping Green Business in the UAE ' under the category of Green Hotels in the Gulf” to make it a GreenEmirates. DTCM Participating in ' Annual Green Tourism Programmes Clean Up the World Campaign' one of the largest environmental voluntary initiatives in the UAE was a great honour for HIAB colleagues 42 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Participation in Government and Community Initiatives Dubai Business Women Council (part of Dubai Chamber) Can Collection Day Clean Up the World Clean Up UAE (Nad Al Sheeba) Earth Hour HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 NGO's United Nations World Food Programme (UNWFP) HIAB has established several partnerships and collaborations under its sustainability remit. United Nations World Food Programme (UNWFP), the largest humanitarian agency fighting hunger worldwide. The partnership was consummated in Dec 2012 to help further WFP’s Strategic Plans in achieving a world with zero hunger, under its operational framework. Since this time, HIAB has pursued its partnership, in the MENA region allowing activities to be sanctioned by Islamic Affairs and Charitable Activities Department of the Government of Dubai. HIAB is proud to announce that till the end of 2016 with efforts and endeavours of the staff the hotel has managed to raise funds and managed to feed 366,582 hungry children in the world. Through UN World Food Program HIAB was able to feed 64.987 hungry persons in the world. Till date we have been able to feed * hungry persons in the world HIAB’s support to UN WFP to eradicate hunger in the world against an annual target of 50.000 people *366.582 44 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT advent for building human capital (abc) Since 2014 HIAB has forged a collaboration with and is a patron for the Dubai Chapter of abc Foundation – “An advent for building human capital”. abc is an NGO with a mandate training hospitality staff to become competent through its “English for Hospitality Professionals (EHP)” Program. The program is delivered by trained teachers to our employees (complimentary) and others externally (at a nominal charge). Growth is encouraged and we feel proud when our staff move to greater pastures. Positive change in graduates of the EHP Program is apparent in their skills and confidence and their ability to climb up the career ladder, proving our collaboration to be an enabler of growth. As can be seeing from the chart below. Batch Assessment Enrolled Graduated 1/16 12 8 7 2/16 15 9 8 3/16 13 13 12 Total 40 30 27 Batch On Job Promotions Cross Training 1/16 7 1 2 2/16 8 1 2 3/16 11 2 * Total 26 4 4 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) In July 2015 HIAB became a member of the United Nations Global Compact. With this allegiance, HIAB is committed to aligning operations, culture and strategies with UNGC's Sustainable Development Goals (SDG's). HIAB upholds 12 of the 17 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. HIAB aligns its business practices with the following sustainability development goals to help transform the world; No Poverty; Zero Hunger; Good Health and Well Being; Quality Education; Gender Equality; Clean Water and Sanitation; Affordable and Clean Energy; Decent Work and Economic Growth; Reduced Inequalities; Sustainable cities and communities; Responsible consumption and production and Partnerships for the Goals. Soumya Mukherjee, our Front Office Manager pledging his preference to SDG Goal No.8 46 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Academic Institutions HIAB has forged a relationship of repute, with leading academic institutions to be invited to give various empowerment presentations. American University of Sharjah, Harvard College in Asia Program Modern Day Leadership Influenced technology By virtue that our CEO is considered “Thought Leader, Motivator, Social Entrepreneur, Zayed University Abu Dhabi Strategist, Change Agent see Can Women Leaders excel in the UAE? her Linkedin profile), HIAB United Nations Global Compact Network UAE gets invited as a speaker at Putting Sustainable Development Goals into action entrepreneurial conferences , Why Leadership Matters travel and tourism industry seminars and several leading College of Tourism & Hotel Management (COTHM) Lahore Pakistan academic institutions to Winning Leadership Style empower young budding graduates, both in UAE and Business Women Forum, Grosvenor House Hotel, Dubai abroad. Women in Male dominated professions As part of her altruistic Hotel 360 Grosvenor House Hotel, Dubai nature, in wanting to give How to increase your competitive edge of herself, all lectures and presentations are carried out Arab Women in Leadership and Business Summit ex-gratia The Female Entrepreneur: Turning Vision To Reality HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 Registered charities in UAE Before HIAB forges a Al Noor Al Noor Despite his disabilities, he proudly performs his tasks partnership with an NGO, with excellence and commitment. His happiness is Training Centre transmittable to our entire team members. a due diligence study is for persons with undertaken framing responses Disabilities to these questions before positive actions are undertaken: HIAB is committed to its advocate for People With Disabilities (PWD) and hence has maintained -What is the purpose/ support, since 2012 Al Noor and hosts the objectives of the NGO/ challenged and teachers for Valentine parties or initiative? offering our staff as volunteers for their events. -What are the achievements, In keeping with HIAB’s policy to ensure that results and success of the recruitment is on merit without gender, culture and NGO/initiative? colour discrimination and avoiding nepotism and -How are donations dealt in line with our long term goal and commitment of fairness to society, HIAB encourages people with with? Are all the causes special needs to be in our employ. and expenses certified? Accordingly we offer internships and employment for challenged students in our housekeeping department and awareness is created about the challenged and colleagues learn to appreciate their own faculties. Further it allows dignity and worth to the challenged individuals. Mohamed Rafey diagnosed with Down Syndrome is a great example and has been in our employ since October 2012. 48 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT E7 Daughters of the Special Needs Future Development Emirates Center (SNF) As a corporate upholding integrity and ethical practices, HIAB, SNF focuses on empowering young adults with special needs, by offering personalized and professional continuously supports initiatives that aspire a better society. support to students above the age of fourteen years, SNF strives to aid them in becoming self-sufficient, personally, and professionally. HIAB Partnered the e7 Girls Summit A Promise of a Generation ( POAG) in April with inspirational trainings, talks Ramadan being a time to indulge in acts of charity, kindness and benevolence and as part of the hotel's and networking sessions with a visionary outlook to empower CSR initiative endeavour, Holiday Inn Dubai Loves U Campaign' incepted 8 years ago in its drive to women. The summit brings together 5 female participants who make the world a better place for all, has an initiative called 'Embracing Ramadan', when we invite are inspired by community leaders, trained in design thinking orphans, children with special needs, or labourers from Dubai's society . and will be supported with ongoing learning opportunities. HIAB was proud to sup­port SNF in its cause, as we successfully helped to integrate a number of The POAG initiative, brings together young women ages students, with their parents and teachers into mainstream society, when they broke fast and enjoyed 18-25 to develop and implement team projects that benefit the specially laid down Ramadhan fayre. their communities. Every year, 35 participants –3 Emiratis and 2 long time residents from each emirate– are inspired by In her thank you speech, SNF Director, Safia Bari stated: We hope to receive your support in any way community leaders, trained in design thinking, connected to possible, as I am well aware from my experiences in the past that every little bit helps. I am confident mentors and supported with ongoing learning opportunities. that with your support, our Center and more importantly, our students will only achieve greater heights”. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 rshi p ea d e nd L ce a r nan o ve G Awards and Recognition 50 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Arabia CSR 2016 Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha gets its most coveted award from Arabia CSR in the Medium size business category selected from 13 Arab countries HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 UNGC United Nations Global Compact UAE Local Network “Holiday Inn Dubai – Al Barsha being decorated for being a Responsible Business: • In Looking after the Environment by saving energy and reducing carbon footprint; • In Looking after People by helping to feed over 400,000 hungry children in the world; • In Helping to Build Local Civil Society by joining hands with organisations like Al Noor Training Centre for Persons with disabilities, adopt-acamp , UNWFP, Dubai Cares, etc. Roxana Jaffer, CEO, Sovereign Hotels Dubai and Director, Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha stated: These are some initiatives that earmarked this recognition, driven by our staff drive who are truly socially Responsible and to whom this award belongs.’’ Putting Sustainable Development Goals into Action’ CEO Dialogue ‘Why Leadership Matters?’ 52 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SNF Special Needs Future IHG InterContinental Development Center Hotel Groups SNF Special Needs Future Development Center saying Thank You to Holiday Inn The proof of the pudding on how our tag line is so strongly upheld is that within two Al Barsha, Dubai for their support towards their cause for young adults with special years of opening, in Nov 2010, HIAB was accorded “The Quality Excellence Award” needs. #SNFFunFair2016 #Support #MyDubai #SpecialNeeds #ThankYou’’ by the Intercontinental Hotels Group from 700 Hotels worldwide and Best 4Star Business/Corporate, Silver Award: MENA Travel Awards 2012, 2013 and 2014. A great achievement for HIAB was to be quoted as one of the Five Best Employers in UAE. This recognition is given to hospitality industry every four years that excels in employee engagement in driving workforce performance which is illustrated thought high customer satisfaction and low staff turnover. In Dec 2016, IHG Recognized as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality Hotel Group Scoring 100% on Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Annual Corporate Equality Index for Third Year Running HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 rshi p ea d e nd L ce a r nan o ve G Infinitive Sustainability Journey 54 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INFINITIVE SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY How We Drive Sustainability Sustainability Forward Roots Our sustainability journey is based on our deep rooted view that HIAB In 2008, our CEO, inspired is “Hotel with a Heart”; and our by a quote, “Life is not worth living unless lived for someone journey of infinity is based on 3 Sustainability else” planted the seeds to be pillars (“Holiday Inn Dubai Loves You Campaign”, “Green Engage”, Mission interwoven in our business “Way of Life”) representing dealings, of what were to become our fundamental approach to our long term strategy for environmental sustainability, social To make a difference in sustainability. A truly sustainable responsibility, corporate governance the life of the individuals company makes a difference and and ethics. we touch every day, to successfully incorporates in its deliver, through unparalleled DNA the principles of economic Sustainability commitment, a superior prosperity, social justice and Each one of these pillars is managed individually, with different mandates, Vision hospitality product by environmental protection. Simply, different steering committees, upholding a strong moral our sustainability remit is to help objectives and deliverables. Specific system that actively improve quality of human life, objectives and annual targets are To permeate an ethos of contributes to improving through responsible business achieved through planned initiatives, social and environmental its economic standing by practices. This approach needs which are assessed for impact responsibility in all areas improving socio-cultural, to be rooted deeply in each being made through measurable of business operations and environmental/ employee and underpin all performance indicators and through and to all stakeholders, energy practices through business strategies, in order to stakeholder feedback. so sustainability becomes responsible business enable HIAB to leave a legacy for HIAB's Driving Force. reforms. future generations. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 Pillar Achievements 2016 Green Engage Reduction in water usage 1.24% electricity usage 5.41% Reduction in Loves You Campaign carbon footprint 5% Reduction in Way of Life Recycling: Wood, Oil, Soap Baseline for all above is 2012 79 Unified culture of Responsibility 366,582 30 Unified mode of Leadership victims of natural disaster helped through 80 Staff Trained on Sustainability UN World Food Program (2012 to Date) 7 Social Initiatives* *(Flag day ,International Tolerance Day , Clean Up The World, Can Collection, Martyrs Day, Embracing Ramadan, Earth Hour) 56 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental Responsibility Green Engage IHG GREEN ENGAGE™ SYSTEM HIAB through Green Engage, online system, monitors Is an online system designed to help hotels monitor, reduce and manage their energy, water, waste and manages energy and water saving, waste consumption and carbon generally help to achieve 15-25% in energy savings. consumption and carbon output. Green solutions are adopted on a basis of more environmentally sustainable • enables hotels to input utility data (i.e. Energy, water and waste) on a monthly basis. choices, which enhance guest experiences and • includes a checklist of over 200 actions called “green solutions” that hotels can take to be educate stakeholders for a better future. environmentally sustainable; taking into account costs and guest experience. Green Engage mandate is to assess environmental • provides a step-by-step implementation guide for each Green Solution, highlights expectants issues, execute awareness drives for guests as evidence for completing an action, case studies, and financial considerations. and employees, initiate and oversee effective implementation of energy saving drives through precise • generates reports that help hotels improve performance by sharing data and tracking staff training. progress. • enables hotels to benchmark energy performance against similar hotels worldwide, based on climate and other environmental factors. • contains a carbon calculator, which uses an industry agreed methodology for calculating the total carbon footprint of a hotel, carbon per occupied room and footprint of a meeting. Through our IHG Green Engage system we are putting the environment right at the heart of how we operate. Green Engage is a powerful demonstration of our commitment to a greener future, a guarantee of our long-term success and the well-being of our guests. Green Engage as well as Fire, Life and Safety (FLS) are led by the Director of Engineering with a team of 12 personnel from different departments of the hotel, so consciousness of both areas is driven throughout the hotel. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 Waste Reduction 58 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy and Water Saving Besides the quick return on the investment, implementation of a waste compactor and bailing To support the U.A.E Hotels and to enhance the environmental performance by reducing the carbon foot print, machine has helped: Emirate Green Building Council has conducted survey and collected data to create benchmarking for U.A.E Hotels. 46 hotels have participated in the survey and we were one of them. HIAB has been rated excellent in • Improve staff efficiency terms of water consumption and average in electricity consumption. • Increase productivity • Improve sanitation Water Analysis: • Improve image • Improve staff enthusiasm Holiday Inn Al Barsha operates between the • Improve customer service 5th percentile and 25th percentile of the WUI data. EmiratesGBC Energy and Water Benchmarking Recyclable Waste which includes Cardboards, Paper, for UAE Hotels – 2016 Report This indicates your hotel performs better than 755 of Plastic, Cans, Wood & Glass participating hotels based on WUI data. Recycling one glass bottle or jar saves enough electricity to light a 100-watt bulb for four hours. Reduce. Reuse. Recycle’’ is our MOTTO HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 Recycling Totals for 2016 Tonner collected Cans collected 2014 2016 2014 2016 2014 193 pcs 2014 328 kg 2015 158 pcs 2015 548 kg 2016 139 pcs 2016 274 kg 0 50 100 150 200 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Wood recycled during 2016 Aluminum Coffee Capsules 2016 (by hotel guests) 25 Apr 2,370 kg 2016 540 pcs Recycled 9 May 2016 2,300 kg 8 Aug 2016 2,020 kg Total 6,690 kg 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 60 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Need Something to add for here HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 Environmental Programs Emission from Use We implement a number of initiatives Eco Friendly Kitchen Equipment which run efficiently remitting The following table details emissions arising froom the use of the chafing heaters during the example scenario “Green Values” and maintain Burners continual implementation of “4 Rs” of Ecoburner Sustainability: Rethink, Reduce, Reuse This newly introduced developed technology in the Fuel Used (g) 40 and Recycle. market for restaurants buffets to keep food warm to Emissions (g CO­2e) 119 required food safety standard has been introduced. It uses less fuel than conventional burners, allowing Industry Standard (Methanol) Our efforts emit positive impacts on Fuel Used (g) 3463 more efficient and complete burning of fuel running resource depletion such as Waste, Energy, at “0” Smoke, therefore cutting harmful emissions Emissions (g CO­2e) 375 Water scarcity, Water pollution, Carbon of toxic Carbon Monoxide into the atmosphere. Industry Standard (Ethanol) Emissions, Biodiversity and Transport Eco burners are recyclable and cost effective with Fuel Used (g) 346 issues. We conduct environmental impact zero fuel waste.newspapers to guest rooms, which are made from jute an eco-friendly and recyclable Emissions (g CO­2e) 526 assessments for environmental initiatives. We implement a series of practices and material. Laundry pick-up bags are made of nonTotal emission relating to the use and disposal of each procedures so that we can take pride in woven material and are eco-friendly. products as listed stating publicly our commitment to the Ecoburner prevention of environment. Ovens Usage Emissions (g CO­2e) 119 Disposal Emissions (g CO­2e) 6 HIAB has adopted an environmentally preferable An intense Preventative Maintenance Total Emissions (g CO­2e) 125 purchasing policy by working with vendors to Plan is in operation listing performance identify products that meet needs of hotel, keeping Industry Standard (Methanol) and maintenance procedures along with to our brand standards whilst being eco-friendly Usage Emissions (g CO­2e) 375 their frequency. This is carried not withstanding a higher cost. An example is the Disposal Emissions (g CO­2e) 179 out for each and every system and convection oven for the kitchen (Rational brand) Total Emissions (g CO­2e) 554 equipment, helping not only to reduce which whilst being more expensive than others is consumption and cost of utilities but one of the best ecofriendly combi-ovens in the Industry Standard (Ethanol) increase safety for our guests. market. Rational after intensive research prides Usage Emissions (g CO­2e) 525 itself with a line of ecofriendly oven systems that Disposal Emissions (g CO­2e) 179 also are able to save 60% less power compared to Total Emissions (g CO­2e) 704 traditional ovens. 62 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Eco Friendly Products Ergonomic Mouse Pads to give stress relief to Comparatively, most bottled water is packaged in wrists were another favourite Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET) plastic bottles which are derived from crude oil taking up to three litres of Kitchen Products water to produce a one litre water bottle. Repetitive stress movements, made with a Our purchasing department works closely with vendors conventional mouse, can cause tension and stress Further transportation of bottled water around the world to source eco-friendly products by analyzing cost and in the hands, forearms and shoulders. requires burning of fossil fuels. Although plastic bottles effectiveness to help reduce our environmental footprint. are recyclable, many end up in landfill and take up to Chemicals / Detergents used in kitchen operation An ergonomic mouse pad designed to fit the hand 1000 years breaking down. When littered they often cleaning and housekeeping are bio-degradable and naturally, avoiding painful positions and allowing end up in the sea where they break up in small pieces, eco-friendly such as all-purpose cleansers, glass mirror work throughout the day with ease.These mouse killing marine life that mistake them for food. cleansers, toilet bowl cleansers and room fresheners. pads help to keep losing strength in arms and Further refrigerants used for refrigeration and airpossibly avoid surgery in the years to come. conditioning are eco-friendly such as 134a and 410a. Stress Balls We also strive to use recycled items where possible, including corporate gifts bags and bags for delivering To Relieve tension are presented to those working in newspapers to guest rooms, which are made from offices under pressure. jute an eco-friendly and recyclable material. Laundry pick-up bags are made of non-woven material and are eco-friendly. Fresh Water Quality Corporate Gifts (selected to enhance values To give clean and fresh drinking water to staff, we have invested in reverse osmosis water system rather than the aesthetics) technology which has been designed to tackle water pollution issues. Humidifiers Through this system we get fresh healthy water on Were well liked by our guests as they add moisture tap against traditional stored bottled water. to air to prevent dryness that can cause irritation in The system negates manual handling, not requiring many parts of the body. Humidifiers can be particularly physical efforts to lift heavy bottles, and being 100% effective for treating dry skin, nose, throat, and lips. chemical free has a positive environmental impact. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 ECO Burner Mousepad Stressball Fresh Water Quality ECO Bag Humidifiers 64 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Energy Consumption Basement Car Parking Guestroom LED Light HIAB has replaced the entire car parking lighting system in its two basement LED lights are extremely energy efficient and consume comparatively less floors from fluorescent tube light to LED which consume 4 times less energy. energy than other traditional lights, having several benefits such as long life, Payback through lesser energy costs are expected in less than a year. energy efficient, eco friendly and zero UV emission etc. The full guestroom inventory of 309 rooms went 'LED Smart' notwithstanding a capital cost expecting a return of a positive impact on the environment and a saving of energy costs for the bottom line HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 Recycling Awareness Facility Management The world population is growing with each human being adding significant Description of system procedures for building mechanism have been prepared by waste to the planet. To help make a difference in the world so it becomes toxin HIAB engineering team which helps to provide system level documentations that and pollutant free, HIAB drives initiatives for its staff to minimise waste by defines what operational states are desired under what condition in the building. practicing four R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and Rethink) through competitions This includes sequence of operation, building operating plan and system narrative. to create different arts with recyclable material. Entire departments displayed The documentation help to keep all important information needed to identify and their work of art by recycling used items. resolve faults in the system and defines the conditions required by management and occupants for successful operation of the building. 66 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Segregation of Waste Strategy for segregation of waste is super mount in HIAB’s housekeeping and Food and Beverage management procedures. HIAB participates in several local environmental initiatives. Our steering committee members attend Dubai Municipality Seminars and join hands for encouraging local initiatives. Initiatives like the No Smoking Day, Clean Up the World, Earth Hour have been a great training ground in increasing environmental awareness for our work colleagues. We promote our management team to participate in forums with Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) and Dubai of Tourism Commerce Marketing (DTCM) as ideas that are brainstormed and bear amazing fruit. One initiative that was borne from such a forum was the “UAE Green Festival” where Recycled waste items were put to great use and served as learning for hotel guests as well. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67 Social Responsibility Holiday Inn Dubai Loves You Campaign The “Holiday Inn Dubai Loves You Campaign” (HI-LUC) campaign was initiated in 2007 and is devoted to developing a self-contained civil society in the UAE. The campaign extends a helping hand also to the worldwide victims of ecological calamities, political and economic crises. Charitable programmes that fall under the HI-LUC include tea parties for children with special needs, Iftar for orphans and under privileged children, and various marathons. HI-LUC mandate is to support initiatives for compassionate causes, to plan initiatives for raising resources and funds for building civil society and upholding global partnerships, helping in global disasters and ensuring that pledges are realised. HI-LUC is unique in its appeal that all members of the staff, regardless of rank, color or creed, come together to achieve its objectives. The backdrop of Prophet Mohammed’s words “Life is only worth living if lived for someone else” helps to inculcate an ethos of giving, of putting another person before oneself that in turn reflects into service accorded to the guest that in turn helps to deliver the business objectives. 68 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Selected Social Initiatives Pre-2016 HIAB has several initiatives, partnerships and collaborations under its sustainability remit and focus group HI-LUC. A number of Initiatives run throughout 2016 have enabled us to feed 64,987 hungry people in the world HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 Selected Social Initiatives Pre-2016 70 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social Initiatives 2016 A successful formalised drive running since 2012 is This year HIAB hosted SNF Special Needs Future HIAB’s pledge to feed 4 hungry persons in the world Development Center and the following was the tangible from each Iftar bookings with United Nations World impact against our set targets. Food programme (UNWFP). The roots of this drive was in Sep 2007 at pre-opening when Labourers (not on The intangible target was even greater as we educated HIAB’s employ) who built the hotel were appreciated our staff to lend a hand towards the less fortunate sect for their hard work by a mass Iftar served by the of society. management. HIAB at its annual corporate Iftar, brings people from different walks of life – those who are privileged (as guests who pay) and those who are not so privileged, hosted for free – labourers, orphans and Soap for Hope underprivileged to break their fast and dine together to feel part of the mainstream society. Guest left-over soaps, instead of being discarded get sent to “Sealed Air Diversey Care” for recycling and HIAB has hosted in the past Orphans and Under donated to labourers in Dubai. In the 12 months Privileged children and labours through their HIAB managed to donate 1,545 standard soap bars partnerships with “Action Care”, “Al Noor Training (30gm each) Centre for persons with disabilities ” and “Adopt-aCamp” . Embracing Ramadan Objectives: Parameter Targets Achieved Variance to spread the message of share and care Invitees 200 155 45 to make the specially-able children feel a part of the society Food / Bev Cost ** 4438 ** to make the community aware of the initiative to raise funds towards contributing to Zero Hunger Funds 5000 4700 300 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 Charity Bazaars Karaoke / DJ Nights Bridge for a Cause Hotel Guest Participation Charity Bazaars Karaoke /DJ Nights In 2016 the tournament was dedicated to raise funds to help disaster victims of the war in Syria whereby 11,739 hungry were given sustenance through UN Friends of HIAB are invited to clear their homes of HIAB organises evenings where work colleagues all WFP. new and nearly new items, unwanted gifts, books and get a chance to sell entry cards to their friends. HIAB educational material to be donated for our cause. provides a venue, free drinks and food. All revenue Our organized bazaar team sifts through the items, raised on door sales are aggregated to support an Hotel Guest Participation prices and sells them at a much reduced price then initiative by the steering committee. Whilst we did listed. not have a Karaoke Night in 2016, the DJ Night Our main stakeholder, our hotel guests from various generated funds to feed 3,845 hungry children in communication channels (newsletters, website, The results are phenomenal: Affluent people get the world. notices, etc) discovering our philanthropic endeavour, a chance to clear their homes, people of humble requesting for their participation is accepted through a backgrounds get a chance to own items at a much reduced price and the funds generated help to feed the Bridge for a Cause voluntary addition to their bill upon checkout. Jeff you please add an image from guest ... hungry in the world. Since 2012 HIAB has partnered Canadian Bridge Bazaars are held three times a year and give the (a local organization) to host Bridge Tournaments to HI-LUC team a purpose in helping to eradicate poverty raise awareness and funds for UN WFP to eradicate in the world in furthering the mandate of UN WFP. hunger in the world. 72 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Aggregate Results of 2016 Social Initiatives Source Number Target for support 50,000 The social Initiatives Rooms 8,530 in 2016 have generated funds to feed a total of Ramadan 2,688 64,987 hungry in the world. Bazaar 17,871 Bridge For Cause 11,739 Karoke / DJ Event 24,158 Total Supported 64,987 *Above Figures are number of hungry people fed in the world HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73 Continuous Learning of Sustainability Seminars & Training Conferences /Trainings /workshops Date Attended by 15th Meetup: Social Media Essentials for CSR & April 2016 CEB* Sustainability Professionals DBWCGender Balance & Business Performance, May 2016 HR Team The Role of Women in CSR UNGC Making Global Goal Global Business October 2016 CEB UNGC Business for Peace October 2016 CEB 'Together Limitless' panel discussion launching a new Second Pearl Initiative and United Nations Global program, 'The Compact Regional Forum “Sustainability in Action: October 2016 CEB Careers Network: Business and the Sustainability Development Goal’ Driving Workplace Inclusion'. It is a new program that assists NBD Panel Discussion : Driving Workplace Inclusion – employers to hire November 2016 CEB Together Limitless people with cognitive disabilities through 17th CSR & Sustainability meeting: The transition to multiple methods including job shadowing. ge for HIAB November 2016 CEB to be invited in Nov 2016, to showcase HIAB's story and the GRI Reporting Standards share our knowledge. * CSR Executive Board 74 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Events hosted at HIAB supporting sustainability The Arabia CSR Network Clinic The Arabia CSR Awards are widely known as the Arab Region’s home-grown sustainability benchmark. This annual award is conferred on organisation’s that demonstrate a high level of performance in CSR and corporate sustainability. An elaborate application process ensures that internationally aligned best practices are adhered to, such as the GRI sustainability reporting guidelines, European EFQM Excellence Model and the UN Global Compact Ten Principles. The aim of the clinic was to provide all applicants fair and equal knowledge of the application process in an adequate time frame before the submission deadline to ensure fair competition and a smooth progression. Leading the clinic was Arabia CSR Network President & CEO Habiba Al Marashi, who gave an overview of the awards with particular reference to the previous award cycle who informed that the framework for the award and implementing them in the Arab region, bridges the gap between theory and practice beautifully. The Award guides organisations as it did HIAB, to take a close look at sustainability practices and constantly improve performance in environment, social and governance areas. Sustainability Knowledge Group It was a privilege for HIAB to be official hotel sponsor for SK Group, a leading firms specializing in CSR and Sustainability services, in November 2016. HIAB was proud to showcase its sustainability remit on this occasion, in presence of other leading participants (ABB, DP World, DEWA, EDGESENSE, Emirates NBD and ATKINS) led by SK 's Chief Sustainability Officer, certified by the British Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM). Participants , actively contributed to hands on, interactive training which had successful learning outcomes. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 People’s Responsibility Way of Life @ HIAB Core Values Leading to HIAB Culture Blood Donation Initiative Promoting of the “Way of Life @ HIAB” culture is Through “Way of Life @ HIAB” all a notable approach to workplace responsibility. A Gallant initiative from HIAB team 'The gift of blood is the colleagues follow a remit of upholding Our mandate is to uphold social and human noblest and the most precious of all gifts.' Words put into a moral understanding of ethical rights issues and to ensure HIAB’s value system action at Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha, as one of our team values, tolerance, accepting diversity is understood and adhered to permeate a single member ''Nanette'' needed support with 3 litres of blood. at the workplace, caring for nature, the culture. This is our ongoing mission for our environment and society, championed employees: to embrace and exude a unified Our team came forward and donated blood voluntarily through core ideals. With core values winning culture that goes beyond age, status, at Latifa Hospital. These values aid to articulate the imbedded in how we deal with each origin or beliefs. Under “Way of Life @ HIAB” we understanding of how to showcase morality and to be other so to become drivers of a family prescribe to strict core values. responsible. that advocates for diversity to become a strength rather than a weakness: We strive to • Be Analytical • Work Smart Not Hard • Give Attention to Detail We are NOT • Rule Oriented as a Norm • Believers of Sharing Information Freely “Way of Life” is a set of behaviors that defines • Informal how HIAB interacts with guests, colleagues Thank you HIAB Family! your (Casual and Familiar) and external stakeholders, was developed in lovely gesture is contributing to my • Encouraging Working 2008 and integrated into the business in 2009. wellbeing... I will recover soon... Long Hours HIAB’s team has embraced these behaviors with Nanette enthusiasm and creativity. 76 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Framework Analysis of our workforce Gender Mix Parameters Measurement/Criteria Result Employees Men Women All new staff have to sign this Management 54% 46% IHG Human Rights Policy 100% Compliance document Full time (work min. 30 hours per week) 197% 32% All new staff have to sign this Internships 0 0 Hotel Grievance Policy 100% Compliance document Total number of employees 204 38 Dubai Protection Service Hiring of security Manager 100% Compliance Our management team consisting of 13 employees is represented by 6 Dubai Civil Defence Training of Staff 100% Compliance females which account for 46% of the total. However this trend in gender equality does not follow through in lower rungs as besides the Philippines, Code of Conduct for All Staff have been trained 100% Compliance other countries do not promote the female gender to take employment Employees abroad, as is reflected in female gender representation in HIAB. Ethical Behaviour Policy Sexual Harassment 0 Staff terminated 100% Compliance Nationality Mix Misappropriation of IHG 0 Staff terminated 100% Compliance MEN FEMALE Rewards Points Staff Harassment 0 Terminated 100% Compliance Cash Shortage 0 Staff terminated 100% Compliance 22% 23% 28% Staff drinking on duty 0 Staff terminated 100% Compliance 4% 47% 5% Our belief that a strong moral system should go hand in hand with good business results in 27% the company's mission that we are committed to uphold.. We commit to support protection 44% of our employees respecting their rights, providing a safe and healthy work environment, allowing growth and promoting diversity through our core values and culture 'Way of Life . HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 Training on sustainability Staff Turnover Statistics Hours per No of Employees HIAB is very proud to announce that year on year retention of our talent Topics for sustainability training topic Trained is greater than the national norms, as confirmed by “HR Networking Hotel Group” Turnover Survey Dubai. Disability Training (Front Office 1hr 63 Department & Induction/Orientation) 2016 2015 2014 2013 Disability & Sign Language Training by 4hrs 17 Valpas Functional Turnover 4.9% 4.2% 3.1% 5.4% Waste Management 1hr 79 Basic Food hygiene (Dubai Municipality Dysfunctional 7hrs 80 22.8% 28.7% 33.5% 24.9% Authentication) Turnover Basic Food Hygiene Refresher 2 hours 40 Total Turnover 27.7% 33.0% 36.6% 30.3% HACCP Awareness/Introduction/ 30 minutes 80 Handwashing HIAB Staff Turnover Anti-Corruption policies 1hr 80 Average hours of training per employee Men Women during 2016 Senior management 26.37 26.37 Middle management 76 76 Rank and File 125.05 125.05 78 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Integrating People with special needs The 5th Star Employing Rafay, a mentally challenged child from Al A popular employee recognition program, 5th Star of the month has been in play since inception. Noor Training Centre for Persons with Disabilities School, since 2012, has been the most gratifying experience HIAB proudly believes in the tag line “The 4Star Hotel with a 5Star Look” and professes that the 5th Star is fulfilled at HIAB. Rafay works in the laundry department, by its Human Element. Encouraged by each head of department to motivate every staff member to nominate their and constantly tries to manage duties as well as his colleagues of those who exceed customer expectations and go the extra mile. colleagues. He brings an awareness of how people manage challenges and helps his colleagues to embrace Winners are recognized in a monthly staff get together, where certificates of recognition and a bonus voucher is tolerance and adopt a culture of awareness in diversity. offered to “the employee of the month” recognized with a picture on the wall in the “Heart of the House”. 2016 Rewards HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 79 Annual Hotel Fun Holistic Spiritual, Inspirational Evening… Body Mind Soul Reflection Staff Yoga 80 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A World of Learning and Development Workforce Analysis: Identify vacant critical job In keeping with the above understanding that An Organisation with our people are our most valuable asset, the roles for discussion and planning Human Resources Department, focuses on talent Feelings Review knowledge/skills/attributes needed management by empowering leaders to develop Determine employee population for review the workforce they lead, to assume future roles Gather demographic information It is our management priority to empower team and assignments determined by our company members, giving them space to develop, giving requirements. Talent Review: Identify readiness and potential credit where it is due, rather than leading through for future assignments or positions “one-up-man ship” tactics. Recently implemented All our employees when commencing their job Review possible succession plans in our leadership training is the topic “Emotional go through a mandatory, initial extensive 3 day Determine strengths and development needs of Intelligence” as a must to become good leaders. orientation – followed by periodic refresher sessions employees on an understanding of our Vision, Mission and Review development assignments for on-the-job This lesson teaches that feelings (moods and Core Values which become the guiding principle for learning emotions) play a central role in the leadership becoming part of the Holiday Inn –Dubai family. process. and how emotional intelligence contributes Development Planning: Identify relevant training to effective leadership by focusing on five essential We realise that many colleagues are keen learners and education programs elements of leader effectiveness: development of and grow fast and we always encourage them Explore formal and informal mentoring initiatives collective goals and objectives; instilling in others and give other opportunities for interdepartmental Plan and conduct development discussions an appreciation of the importance of work activities; cross training through dedicated programs. Open Hold follow-up sessions to review outcomes of generating and maintaining enthusiasm, confidence, applications are encouraged, so team members development discussions, assignments, and optimism, cooperation, and trust; encouraging are given a chance to develop their skills and are learning plans flexibility in decision making and change; and motivated to plan personal career growth, within Give cross-training opportunities so upward establishing and maintaining a meaningful identity and placed externally in bigger properties on our growth occurs for an organization. recommendations after following the set process. Accordingly the following steps are followed: Our success relies on a multicultural unique mix of 30 or more nationalities team, professional, wellDepartment Focus to identify opportunities: trained and dedicated colleagues. It is our people, Identify department trends and needs who make the difference and provide genuinely Review strategy, challenges, opportunities caring service to our guests, and why our guests Prioritize goals, work, projects keep returning to HIAB. Determine factors affecting workforce planning HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 81 “The benefits of promoting in responsible positions are monitored, evaluated and English for Hospitality Professionals (Elementary) assessed through several diagnostics that encourage English for Hospitality Professionals (Intermediate) from within”. the individual to strive better. Arabic Classes, Yoga Classes, Swimming Classes Cooking Classes We do not want to lose our prize employees to the Step-Up Program ( a three month opportunity to get competition and our Human Resources department Skills Enhancement trained in the department of their choice) ensures that trainings are not in vain, as we earmark Program (Sep) Treasure Hunt: A 2 km walk through the local park individuals to be promoted, by seeing their passion competing against teams and collecting items to support and help to sharpen their skills in promoting them to Further an in-house program authored by the CEO is Green Environment higher vacant positions. Our statements for leading put to very good use for all our Management and midNon Smoking Campaign: Awareness and counselling effectively is highly empowered by our CEO’s mantra Management level colleagues. It has been specially sessions, in six months 14 smokers converted to non“Your success is my success” as we successfully make designed and implemented so leadership can assess smokers efforts to groom our followers and find avenues for personal shortcomings and through self-realisation of Awareness of different cultures and lessons in tolerance growth, within and even in other hotels. Our success of performance look for development avenues that are are given through special organized trips to Mosques, talent management is through a winning process: advised. This allows individual growth helped on many Churches and Temples instances by the company, so acumen is matched to Special occasion trips to malls, parks and the Global Starts with recruitment of people with passion rather their position. If the individual has not improved in a set Village than skills time, a choice is given to step down from the position. Annual sports day Compensation and benefits Induction / orientation A special committee designated from the Heads of Staff engagement Department called the EXCOM meet on a regular Listening environment basis to ensure that the above mantra on employee Career progression Talent planning development and satisfaction is met. Use of Professional Tools Healthy Body, Healthy Mind Colleagues being our number one focus and indeed a My Learning priority for the hotel and its management team have several activities to support “healthy body, healthy IHG recommends special programs to its franchisees. mind” and are able to take advantage of initiatives in One such tool “My Learning” tool is put to good use place and ongoing since the opening. as it ensure that employees whether under training or 82 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Taking the Stairs vs the Elevator 2016 has been a year of getting our colleagues to be more health self conscious. One such drive was benefits of entailing in exercise and appealing to take the stairs rather than the lift. Information notices at elevators have pre-empted staff to walk up or down. By participating in this initiative we not only minimize our electrical consumption and wear and tear of the elevators, helping staff to remain medically fit but also help to minimize carbon foot print, enhancing our drive for Green Engage an initiative of HIAB to make our planet better place for today and for generations to come. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 83 Training Passport A Journey of Learning and Growth for our Team Message from HIAB’s Training Passport Cover “HIAB Welcomes You to our World of Learning & Development. This passport takes you on the journey of “Learning and Growth” at Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha. You will be given thorough training not only to bring IHG’s core values to your life and in your everyday actions and thoughts but also to embrace the “Way of Life @ Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha”. We are committed to provide you the continuous growth in today’s competitive hospitality industry. We also hope that development of your skills & knowledge will have a positive impact on providing the excellent guests service. This training passport is to track the progress we know you will make in your career with us. It will also be used to showcase your awards and achievements. All the best wishes for a successful and rewarding career with Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha!” 84 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Celebrate Service Welcoming our Colleagues Celebrate Service is a joint effort between IHG and management of each hotel, taking place on the 2nd week of June every year. This event was created as a way of recognizing hard work and dedication of employees who work at IHG’s managed and franchised properties around the world. Celebrate Service” Week, as the name denotes, is essentially to acknowledge and appreciate workers, enhance team morale and help better service being accorded to guests, which makes HIAB the most sought-after name in the hospitality industry. Sports Day It also gives an opportunity for all colleagues to unite as one family and build lasting relationships.This is the industry’s largest recognition program of front line teams that looks to acknowledge that the success of any hotel, brand or Hotel Company is built on the quality of service that front line teams deliver. “Celebrate service” week 2016 started with members of the staff being welcomed by the management team, greeting the first bus arrivals at crack of dawn with cold towels, a welcome drink and a handshake, Recycle Competition Early Breakfast with Night Shift Staff THANKING the colleagues for their service. HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 85 Employee Feedback Dissatisfaction, ideas and suggestions are allowed to be aired anonymously or publicly through advertised channels like drop box at “Rainbow” (our staff canteen), or a dedicated log book where staff are welcome to write their suggestions. All comments are given its fair dues by special grievance committee members and a remedial action plan for immediate action and implementation are prepared. Further designed surveys, are in place and carried out regularly so improvements for staff welfare and job satisfaction are constantly updated. The Human Resources team constantly monitors these tools and ensures feedback is taken. Human Formations: Training in our Core Values Service with a Smile Going Green Unity & Diversity 5th Star 86 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT e rs hip ead a nd L a nce v e rn Go The Way Forward HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87 THE WAY FORWARD Our Goals for 2017 Sustainability forms an integral part of our business and evolves constantly to meet Areas Targets and Objectives the requirements of our guests, employees Business and key stakeholders. We focus in monitoring and analysing our processes so UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) Develop our 2nd COP report according to our UNGC commitments we can improve our systems and upgrade Map our current strategy, programs and goals to the SDGs and the quality of our services. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) implement and practice 12 out of the 17 SDGs In this Sustainability Report 2016 we Guest experience Maintain “Heartbeat” rating above 80% have followed the structure of the Global Improve our visibility as Green hotel ( eg listed as a “Green Hotel”, Reporting Initiative (GRI) and we abided Brand under the Greenemirates portal) to the GRI fundamental principles of report content and quality. In these report Society we have therefore taken into particular Holiday Inn Loves You Campaign To enable sustaining 50,000 hungry children in the world consideration: stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality, Environment completeness, and the principles IHG Green Engage Achieve 3 of 4 levels of Green Engage action items of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. Water Reduce water consumption by 5% Carbon footprint Reduce carbon footprint by 5% People Increase the number of employees that participate and contribute to Employee engagement the initiatives of “Way of Life” Health and safety Zero accidents 100% compliance with company on management approach and Leadership leadership Employee retention Maintain staff turnover below 88 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainable Development Goals Adopting United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (12 out of 17) Poverty Footprint (SDG1) ›› We promote wellness at work through dedicated exercise time ›› IHG Human rights policy Initiated in 2008 and ›› We partner a local body called “Food for Medicine” exercised to date. so staff can take advantage from holistic ›› Further law of the land disallows employing nutritionists, mind-body practitioners for healthier minors living ›› To eradicate poverty, Holiday Inn Dubai has become a patron in an NGO – “An Advent for Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Building human Capital” (abc) which provides free education and promote lifelong learning education – “English for Hospitality Professionals” opportunities for all (SDG4) to the unemployed in Islamabad, Delhi and Dubai and then finding them employment ›› Pursuant to our patronage in the NGO abc (see Goal 1), our employees have been given growth and we End hunger, achieve food security and help them to look for opportunities in bigger and 5 improved nutrition and promote sustainable Star hotels agriculture (SDG2) Achieve gender equality and empower ›› We partner UN WFP in their objective of zero hunger all women and girls (SDG5) in the world, through a consummated partnership in Dec 2012. Till Dec 2015, through staff efforts HIAB ›› Participate in action for gender equality have managed to feed over 396,459 hungry children ›› CEO participates with seminars such as with Becky in the world Anderson at Dubai Business Women Council, part of ›› The registered established body for this goal is Dubai Chamber of Commerce “Holiday Inn Loves You Campaign” ›› Our CEO gives inspirational talks on empowerment of women through leadership talks at external Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being bodies for all at all ages (SDG3) ›› Our hiring has equivocal rights ›› No nepotism is exercised with meritocracy in the ›› We promote sports competitions for employees so drive for hiring regular practices of cricket and football ensue ›› Our salaries and benefits are equal as per grading ›› Our CEO and leaders have participated in marathons of job/designation/positions with equal treatment for and promote others to join both male and female HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 89 Ensure availability and sustainable management of Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable water and sanitation for all (SDG6) economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all (SDG8) ›› To give clean water to staff and guest we have invested in water dispenser that use Reverse osmosis ›› Strict Policies are in place and exercise zero technology for drinking water solution so plastic tolerance for any violation water bottles are replaced causing a health hazard ›› We promote a strict work Culture called “Way of in extreme temperatures, giving a better Fresh water Life” upholding strong values quality ›› Do the right thing, Show we care, Aim high, Work together, Celebrate differences. ›› We strictly adhere to UAE labor law for benefits Caring for climate (SDG7) Reduce inequality within and among ›› Our staff are taught the merits of recycling This year countries (SDG10) alone: ›› 11.05 metric ton of wood was sent to Union Paper ›› Policies given by IHG are enforced. Mill for recycling instead of disposing and which was a labour intensive exercise ›› Other items, metal, glass, cooking oil, etc. sent for recycling to Trashco resulting in ›› 135% increase to our base line year 2012 20,000kg to 45,000kg Make cities and human settlements inclusive, ›› Staff are taught on recycling through seminars and safe, resilient and sustainable making models of Burj Khalifa made from nut glass waste bottles ›› Global Compact Cities Program ›› Regular training on Energy saving measured through ›› From our library an online system “Green Engage” by IHG has helped to make a saving of 7% every year from 2012. ›› Energy conservation efforts are made by changing halogen lights to LED 90 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns ›› Why business should support supply chain sustainability ›› Global Compact Management Model ›› Global Reporting Initiative Sustainable development ›› From our library is the pathway to the future we want for all. It offers a framework to generate Strengthen the means of implementation and economic growth, achieve social revitalize the global partnership for sustainable justice, Exercise environmental development (SDG17) stewardship and strengthen Partnerships: governance. ›› UNGC ›› UNWFP ›› EEG ›› Dubai Chamber of Commerce ›› Business Women Council ›› Dubai Cares H.E.Ban Ki-moon United Nations Secretary General HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 91 Holiday Inn Dubai Al Barsha P. O. Box 115443 Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +97143234333 www.hialbarshadubai.com 92 HIAB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
