COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Issued by: BPI Marketing Date: February 21, 2017 2. edition This COP covers the We strive to exceed the expectations time period: 30.9.2015-31.12.2016 to our general business attitude I. HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 BPI supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and promotes human rights standards internally and throughout all business. Equal opportunities for all employees irrespective of gender or ethnicity continue to be part of our HR-philosophy and humanity attitude. We hire, remunerate and promote employees on the basis of skills, competences and performance – not according to gender, religion nor race. During 2015/16 we have initiated and achieved the following actions a. Complete change of a larger part of one of our factory units. 1100 square meters re-organized and newly installed with dust reducing ventilation systems for cleaner and healthier working areas and heat re-use b. Establishment of dust and noise reducing houses at certain environmentally disturbing or damaging work stations and machines (e.g. CNC milling machine, double tapping line, PU foam splitting machine and block milling machine) c. Purchase of electric floor sweeper for cleaning all factory areas and thereby reducing dust and dirt d. Introduction of a lift helping aggregate to reduce negative impact from handling / lifting heavy parts e. The use of security helmets during operations on cranes has become mandatory in all areas and aspects f. Improvement of shielding at operation of machines g. Improvement of exhaust device to minimize dust from abrasive stones h. Near miss registrations and reporting i. Close on going dialogue with authorities and labor inspectorate with subsequent improvements and recommendations j. Glass UV protection film mounted on all windows to protect from reflections on computers, placement of noise reducing soundwalls between all work stations as well as optimization of air circulation systems in the total area k. Reduction of internal transport and use of forklifters and trucks between warehouses l. Reduction of stock area by 9,000 square meters through optimization of processes and yet an increase of capacity by 20% Factory in Poland m. Change of layout in our metal section with new shelving and larger workspace for the individual employee n. Establishment of form maintenance area with crane and ventilation system Outcome A large part of the above points have caused improved working environment, less environmental impact and CO2 emissions as well as further engaged and healthier employees. II. ENVIRONMENT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 The company engages in targeted and systematic efforts to continuously protecting the environment through energy and material optimization, pollution prevention, waste minimization and environmental management. In 2015/16 we took the following steps: a. In 2016 we have been qualified for the FSC CoC certification which is expected to be concluded early 2017 b. All gas forklifters have been exchanged with electric forklifters c. A special analysis of our company and subsequent COWI-report have been carried out to secure and improve working environment and to determine and control environmental impact Poland d. Optimization of garbage sorting e. CosyPUR-product exchanged with low emission version Outcome Improved working environment, reduced energy consumption and less negative environmental impact. III. ANTICORRUPTION An essential part of BPIs company policy as well as our Code of Coduct define that: • None of the company’s employees give or receive unjustified advantages from local or foreign public officials or employees in private companies • No form of extortion or bribery or favoritism to or from employees or organizations is tolerated Full or partial neglect of the principles in the overall company policy or the Code of Conduct, or serious violation of local laws and regulations may, in its extreme, cause an interruption of the cooperation with BPI or a dismissal of the employee. The company grew up with this cultural mind set and business attitude, and it has never been necessary to set up a closer or more intensive monitoring or control of individuals or departments. The management is handling this subject with an appropriate and reasonable surveillance. To all Polish employment contracts, a specified point to impress upon our attitude and zero tolerance towards corruption has been added, and communication towards subsuppliers has been intensified. Outcome Representing and performing an unambiguous business attitude and track record of being a professional and fair business relation to our customers and cooperation partners. Encl.: CSR overall policy Bramming Plast-Industri A/S Vardevej 9 • DK-6740 Bramming • Denmark • T: (+45) 79 57 10 00 • bpi@bpi.dk • www.bpi.dk • Bank: Danske Bank • VAT no.: DK78709111 Bramming Plast-Industri A/S Vardevej 9 • DK-6740 Bramming • Denmark • T: (+45) 79 57 10 00 • bpi@bpi.dk • www.bpi.dk • Bank: Danske Bank • VAT no.: DK78709111
