F LY I N T O T O M O R R O W JA L R EPORT 2017 Fiscal year ended March 2017 The JAL Group will strive to achieve corporate rationale and follow it as a universal business purpose and fundamental goal by practicing the JAL Philosophy. J A L G R O U P C O R P O R AT E P O L I C Y JAL PHILOSOPHY The JAL Group will: PART 1 In Order to Lead a Wonderful Life PART 2 To Become a Wonderful JAL CHAPTER 1 The Formula for Success CHAPTER 1 Each of Us Makes JAL What It Is (The Formula for Life and Work) Pursue the material and intellectual Each of Us Makes JAL What It Is The Result of Life and Work = Attitude x Discuss Frankly Effort x Ability Lead by Example Be the Center of the Vortex growth of all our employees; CHAPTER 2 Have the Right Attitude Base Criteria for Decision-Making on Valuable Lives Are Entrusted to Us in Our Work Be Thankful “Doing What Is Right as a Human Being” Put Yourself in the Customer’s Position Deliver unparalleled service to our Have a Beautiful Mind Be Humble and Honest CHAPTER 2 Have a Keen Sense of Profitability Always Be Cheerful and Positive Maximize Revenues and Minimize Expenses customers; and A Small Good Is Like a Great Evil, While a Elevate Our Cost-Consciousness Great Good May Appear Merciless Pursue Profit Fairly Wrestle in the Center of the Ring Manage the Company Based on Accurate Figures Increase corporate value and contribute Grasp Matters Simply Possess Opposing Extremes CHAPTER 3 Unite Our Hearts Make the Best Baton Pass CHAPTER 3 Accumulate Tedious Efforts to the betterment of society. Align Mental Vectors with Passion “Workfloor” Management Work Earnestly Follow the Merit System Accumulate Tedious Efforts Work with Voluntary Attention CHAPTER 4 Possess a Fighting Spirit Fire Yourself Up Maintain an Ardent Desire Strive for Perfection Never Give Up Until We Succeed Boast and Make It Come True CHAPTER 4 Ability Will Improve Possess True Courage Ability Will Improve CHAPTER 5 Be Creative in Our Work Today Should Be Better Than Yesterday, Tomorrow Better Than Today Conceive Optimistically, Plan Pessimistically, and Execute Optimistically Think Through to Visualize the Results Decide and Act with Speed Face Challenges with Courage Aim High JAL REPORT 2017 01 CONTENTS The JAL Group’s Growth Story The JAL Group’s Growth Story 03 JAL Group History . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04 Financial and Non-financial Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 08 Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Message from the President . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 13 Message from the CFO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Outline of JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017-2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 JAL Group Value Creation Cycle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Human Resources Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Performance and Strategies by Business 43 At a Glance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 International Passenger Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 Domestic Passenger Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Other Businesses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51 Editorial Policy Group Companies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 This JAL Report 2017 is an integrated report on JAL’s financial performance and CSR activities, 53 based on various guidelines, to provide a deeper A Business Base that Supports Value Creation understanding of such matters as the JAL Group’s corporate value and growth potential. JAL Group CSR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 The JAL Group supports society’s Period covered by the report Compliance / Risk Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 progress and development through Primarily April 2016 to March 2017 (fiscal 2016) Corporate Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 its business activities by increasing Our External Directors Discuss JAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 corporate value through the provision Scope of the report Board of Directors and Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 of the highest level of services to The JAL Group Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 customers. In this section, we look Audit & Supervisory Board of Members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 back at JAL’s history and review Date of publication Executive Officers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 progress under the previous Medium September 2017 Term Management Plan. 81 JAL corporate website Financial / Data Section www.jal.com/en/ Offering a comprehensive insight into JAL’s JAL Group History . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 04 business approach and activities, as well as Financial Data – Six-year Summary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 Financial and Non-financial Highlights. . . 08 investor and CSR information. Evaluation and Analysis of Financial Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Consolidated Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98 Consolidated Subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121 ESG Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122 International Route Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124 Domestic Route Map. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126 Glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127 Data on Incidents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128 Stock Information / Corporate Information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129 02 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 03 Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation JAL GROUP HISTORY Since its establishment, the JAL Group has developed its business to meet the needs of the times. Following its bankruptcy in 2010, when the Group was given the opportunity to restructure, it has been progressing steadily, focused on the goals of delivering unparalleled service to its customers and contributing to the betterment of society. Going forward, the JAL Group is committed to continuing to create new values under the company slogan— FLY INTO TOMORROW—as it seeks to become the world’s most preferred and valued airline group. ●A ● C ●K ●N 1951 1970 2010 2017 Lists on first sections of a ● H Files for reorganization Publishes Medium Term Establishment of Japan Airlines ●G number of stock exchanges 1992 proceedings under the Management Plan 1987 Establishes Service Corporate Reorganization Act Completes privatization Committee ●M ●E 2012 1983 Relists on First Section of Sets world record for ● I Tokyo Stock Exchange Head Office Building at the time of international scheduled air traffic data 2002 establishment Business integration of Japan Airlines and Japan Air System ● January 19, 2010 Press Conference B 1954 ●D Holds full privatization kick-off ceremony ● J Launches first international route, 1970 ●L Tokyo=San Francisco 2007 Introduces jumbo jet Joins oneworld alliance 2011 Concludes corporate ●F reorganization proceedings under the Corporate 1985 Reorganization Act Japan Airlines flight 123 Business integration press conference accident JAL’s second Boeing 747 lands at Haneda March 1, 2007 oneworld Governing Operates first international flight Board meeting (February 2,1954, Haneda to San Francisco) ●A ●C ●E ●G ●H ● J ●K ●M March 31, 1951: Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. February 2, 1970: Japan Airlines stock According to 1983 international November 18, 1987: JAL is launched To mark the United Nations Decade April 1, 2007: With the aim of further January 19, 2010: Japan Airlines files September 19, 2012: Japan Airlines is and four other Japanese companies is listed on the first sections of Tokyo, scheduled air traffic data (total of as a fully fledged private-sector of Disabled Persons (1983–1992), expanding its network, Japan Airlines an application for support from the relisted on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. apply for an airline company license. Osaka, and Nagoya stock exchanges, passengers, cargo and mail) issued by enterprise following the completion of initiatives to make air travel fully becomes an official member of Enterprise Turnaround Initiative After the bankruptcy of January 19, Subsequently, they unite into a single respectively. the International Air Transport the amendments to the Articles of accessible are expanded to the oneworld, one of the three major Corporation of Japan (ETIC), and ETIC 2010, its business was scaled down to company, Japan Airlines, with Aiichiro Association (IATA), Japan Airlines Incorporation and other procedures company level from the previous global airline alliances. This makes it decides to support its restructuring. 60% due to the withdrawal of Fujiyama as the shareholders’ achieves a 5.6% year-on-year increase necessary for complete privatization at departmental level. possible for JAL to offer greater added On the same day, Japan Airlines files unprofitable routes and other representative. Company registration is ●D in air traffic to 4,559 million ton/ an extraordinary general meeting of value in convenience and comfort to petitions for commencement of measures. In addition, the number of completed on August 1 of the same kilometers, making it first of the then shareholders held the previous day. its customers through e-ticket links, reorganization proceedings under the Group companies was halved, staff year, marking the birth of Japan Airlines July 1, 1970: JAL’s first commercial flight operated with the Boeing 126 IATA member airlines. (In the While regulations restricting the issue ●I improved mileage programs, shared Corporate Reorganization Act with the numbers were reduced by 40% Co., Ltd., the first Japanese-owned previous year it came second to Pan of new shares, the appointment of airport lounges, and code-share Tokyo District Court, and the Court resulting in a 20% decline in private-sector airline company of the 747 (jumbo jet) departs from Tokyo American World Airways.) directors, and other matters are lifted, Japan Airlines and Japan Air System flights, among others. enters an order commencing the personnel costs, and company post-war period. International Airport bound for this also means the loss of decide to integrate their businesses. proceedings. pensions were reduced by up to 53%. Honolulu, carrying 320 passengers, government funding and assistance. The decision reflects their ambition to A new Corporate Policy is established, three flight crew members, and 18 ●F Subsequently, all government-held become a world top-class airline the JAL Philosophy is adopted, and the ● B cabin attendants, as well as 6.4 tons of baggage, 1.3 tons of cargo, August 12, 1985: Japan Airlines flight stocks are sold off in December 1987. playing the central role in Japan’s air transport business of the 21st ●L amoeba management system is introduced. As a result, operating February 2, 1954: Japan Airlines and 11 kg of mail. From then on, 123 crashes into the ridges of Mount century. It is also motivated by the March 28, 2011: Fourteen months income for fiscal year 2011 reaches achieves its much awaited Japan Airlines enters the age of Osutaka, causing the loss of 520 belief that it is important to respond after the commencement of corporate 204.9 billion yen, enabling JAL to breakthrough into the international mass transport. precious lives. In the face of the pain to societal needs for the maintenance reorganization proceedings under the repay the financial support from ETIC market with the launch of the and grief of the bereaved families and and expansion of air transport Corporate Reorganization Act, the in full. Tokyo=San Francisco route. At the time, the resulting public mistrust over services by building a strong business Court decides to conclude proceedings the service consists of two flights a airline safety, Japan Airlines pledges foundation and corporate structure and allow Japan Airlines to transform week with First Class service only. Only to ensure that such an accident will that can withstand intense global to a joint stock company from a five of the 21 passengers on the first never recur. competition. company under reorganization. flight are fare-paying passengers. 04 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 05 Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation JAL GROUP HISTORY Overview of Fiscal Years 2012–2016 JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan Achievement of management targets Management Targets (Three Targets) 1. Flight safety Safety awareness education 1. (FY) Maintaining flight safety To maintain flight safety, the foundation of the JAL Group, we Culture Culture of refining manuals We are aware that flight safety is the foundation Culture of reporting Original initiative of and social responsibility of the JAL Group. Indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 strive to build an advanced Safety Management System and the JAL group JAL maintains the highest standards of safety Aircraft accidents 1 case 0 case 2 cases 1 case 1 case ensure that all employees can respond with sufficient knowlEnhancing employee skills and knowledge Human in the transport sector. Safety Leaders 2. Serious incidents 2 cases 1 cases 0 cases 3 cases 0 cases edge and awareness. To support these aims, JAL has accumulated multiple safety layers by pursuing three initiatives: cultivating resources SMS education Irregular operations 69 cases 75 cases 70 cases 73 cases 66 cases (Safety knowledge training) JAL will provide unparalleled service to deliver a a safety culture, nurturing safety professionals, and evolving refreshing and inspiring travel experience to Customer injuries 23 cases 11 cases 12 cases 12 cases 8 cases Initiatives based on customers. Our goal is to become number one in safety systems to maintain safety. Aiming to be the leading Normal Line Operations Monitoring global standards System customer satisfaction by fiscal year 2016. Irregularities due 54 cases 62 cases 65 cases 63 cases 48 cases company for safety in the transport sector, we not only deploy Expansion of risk assessment to human error 3. For further information, please refer to P.128 Data on Incidents. cutting-edge systems that lead the aviation industry, but are also continuously refining JAL Group-specific initiatives. Safety Performance Monitoring JAL aims to establish sufficient levels of profitability and financial stability to absorb the impact of economic fluctuations and risk factors by achieving an operating margin of 10% or above for five consecutive years and an equity ratio of 50% or 2. Becoming number one in customer satisfaction Delivering unparalleled service above by fiscal year 2016. Repeat Intention rate / Recommendation Intention rate (FY) One of the management targets of the JAL Group Medium Term As for domestic flights, JAL ranked third in both indicators. Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2012-2016 was to become However, Group-wide value creation initiatives bore fruit and 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 number one for Repeat Intention and recommendation Intention consequently, we improved our score in not only the two key Key initiatives (five categories) International flights in both international flights and domestic long-distance flights indicators but also all JCSI survey items. Among the measures Safety initiatives Repeat Intention rate 3rd 1st 1st 1st 1st in the Japanese Customer Satisfaction Index (JCSI) survey. contributing to this accomplishment were the expansion of Recommendation JCSI survey results released in November 2016 showed that routes offering JAL SKY NEXT services and an in-flight Internet 2 nd 2 nd 1 st 2 nd 1 st Route network Intention rate JAL had successfully ranked number one in both indicators for service for free campaign, which were part of our initiatives to Domestic flights Products and services international flights. This was attributable to the expansion of offer a refreshing and inspiring travel experience. Repeat Intention rate 6th 6th 3rd 5th 3rd routes operated with JAL SKY SUITE-configured aircraft, in-flight We plan to publish the results of surveys covering the Group management Recommendation 3rd 2nd 3rd 3rd 3rd meals created in collaboration with famous chefs and restauperiod from August 2016 to July 2017 in the fall of 2017. Intention rate Human resources management rants, and other product and service enhancement initiatives. The JAL Group is firmly committed to putting in united efforts to become the world’s most preferred and valued airline group. Surviving future competition 3. Operating margin of 10% or above for five Achievement of financial targets (three areas for differentiation) consecutive years / Equity ratio of 50% or Under the amoeba management system, the JAL Group aims to Drawing on the lessons learned from our bankruptcy, we Enhancement of the JAL Brand above by fiscal year 2016 achieve high profitability through the conscious commitment of established financial targets aimed at maintaining high profitAs a full-service carrier, we will maintain safety and provide customers with unparalleled services to Operating margin Equity ratio each employee to ‘maximize revenues and minimize expenses.’ ability and building a financial foundation resilient to economic enhance the JAL Brand. (%) (%) At the same time, we strive to increase corporate value by fluctuations and event risks. These targets — an operating 25.0 60.0 Route network, Products and services establishing systems to flexibly respond to changes in the margin of 10% or above for five consecutive years and an Rather than simply products expansion of business 56.2 business environment. equity ratio of 50% or above by fiscal year 2016— were 20.0 scale, we will build a network of highly convenient 55.0 53.4 routes and provide products and services that lead 15.8 15.7 52.7 achieved through the united efforts of the JAL Group. 15.0 51.5 the competition in order to become the preferred 12.7 13.4 13.2 50.0 Target airline group of customers worldwide. 10.0 Target At least 50% Cost competitiveness At least 10% 45.0 We will continuously strive to improve cost efficiency, 5.0 46.4 maintain and enhance cost competitiveness to reinforce our resilience to risks, and build a business 0 40.0 foundation for sustainable growth. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 06 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 07 Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Financial Data Operating revenue Profit attributable to owners of parent (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) ¥ 253.1 billion -3.6% Cash flow from operating activities -5.9% 1,288.9 billion vs. fiscal 2015 vs. fiscal 2015 ¥ 174.4 Cash flow from investing activities*1 ¥215.5 billion 164.1 Non-operating profit declined due to a drop in gain on sales of aircraft, 1,336.6 1,288.9 Consolidated operating but the company recorded deferred income tax of Free cash flow*2 ¥ 37.5 billion After adjusting net profit before income tax to revenue declined 3.6% reflect 162.7 billion yen in non-cash items such as year on year to 1,288.9 31.6 billion yen under a depreciation, and to reconcile operating accounts billion yen, reflecting new tax effect accounting receivable and payable, and other items, operating a drop in fuel surcharge policy. As a result, profit FY 2016 activities provided net cash of 253.1 billion yen. revenue and a negative attributable to owners of Investing activities used net cash of 215.5 billion impact from the stronger parent totaled 164.1 yen, mainly for the purchase of fixed assets. yen on international routes billion yen, down 5.9% As a result, free cash flow was 37.5 billion yen. and falling passenger unit 2015 2016 year on year. (FY) revenue on domestic routes amid price competition 2015 2016 with other carriers. (FY) Shareholders’ Equity ratio ROE ROA EBITDA* 3 EBITDA margin* 4 18.1% 10.3% 266.1 20.6% equity Operating income / Operating margin Operating income Operating margin +2.8pt ¥ billion 972.0 56.2% vs. fiscal 2015 -18.6% -2.4% (Billions of yen / %) vs. fiscal 2015 ¥ ¥ 170.3 billion / 13.2% billion As of March 31, 2017, total assets stood at 1,728.7 billion yen, up Air transport revenues per ASK*5*6 Unit cost* 7 Net profit per share Dividend per share 149.8 billion yen year on year, liabilities totaled 725.3 billion yen, 209.1 13.3 9.4 456.56 ¥ 94.00 up 17.0 billion, and net assets totaled 1,003.3 billion yen, up 132.8 billion yen. As a result, shareholders’ equity was 972.0 billion yen ¥ ¥ ¥ 170.3 Operating income fell and equity ratio increased 2.8 percentage points to 56.2%. 18.6% year on year to 170.3 billion yen, reflecting 15.7 increases in maintenance costs and personnel costs 13.2 for strategic workforce Interest-bearing Debt-to-equity investment to strengthen debt ratio 116.0 0.1 times the foundation for the *1 Excludes fixed deposit account deposits and withdrawals *2 Free cash flows= Operating cash flows + Investment cash flows Group’s future growth. *3 EBITDA= Operating income / Depreciation expense 2015 2016 The operating margin was 13.2%, exceeding ¥ *4 EBITDA margin= EBITDA / Operating revenue (FY) *5 ASK (Available Seat Kilometers): A unit of passenger transport capacity: Total number of seats × Distance flown (km). Operating income (Billions of yen) our target of 10%. billion *6 Air transport revenue per ASK: (Air transport revenue – fuel surcharge) / ASK *7 Unit cost: Consolidated air transport costs (excluding fuel costs) / ASK Operating margin (%) Interest-bearing debt totaled 116.0 billion yen at the end of fiscal year 2016, up 23.4 billion yen year on year. 08 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 09 Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Non-financial Data (As of March 31, 2017) Number of group Number of employees Traffic results Number of countries, regions and destinations served by the JAL Group companies 137 11,449 32.57 (including code-share flights) Domestic Europe / passengers U.S.A. / Middle East Canada China 8 5 7 companies people million passengers Southeast Korea Hawaii Asia / India 3 1 8 Australia / Guam / Tahiti 8.39 81 subsidiaries + 2 56 344 (including 52 consolidated Consolidated employees International Countries where we fly to Airports 32,753 people Taiwan subsidiaries) passengers countries and 3 56 affiliated companies (including 13 accounted for regions where (including airports by the equity method) million passengers we fly to in Japan) * Only JAL Group direct flights shown on the map Repeat intention rate / Number/ratio of Aircraft accidents / Recommendation intention rate women in manageSerious incidents International flights ment positions Number of group aircraft Operational rate 1st 1st 846people 1case 0 cases Repeat intention Recommendation Domestic and International routes total rate intention rate Aircraft Serious 40 accidents incidents Large aircraft 777 Domestic flights 3rd 3rd 16.3% aircraft Repeat * For details of aircraft accidents and serious incidents, intention Recommendation 70 99.7 rate intention rate please refer to P.128: Data on Incidents. Medium-sized aircraft 787/767 aircraft % Customer injuries Irregularities due to human error Irregular operations Small aircraft 737 64 aircraft 8 cases 48 cases 66 cases Regional jet 56 aircraft On-time arrival rate CO 2 emissions per revenue ton kilometer Volume of industrial waste 9.5 Domestic and International routes total 84.6% 3,436 tons Average fleet age vs. fiscal 2005 years 230 91.6 TOTAL Electric power Heat consumption (crude oil equivalent) Water consumption % consumption aircraft 113 million kWh 44,936 Kiloliters 426 thousand m3 10 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 11 FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Management Strategies Designed to Create Value Awards and Recognition Best Economy Class Airline Seat JAL Selected as a Company that Helps Cancer Skytrax 2017 World Airline Awards Patients Balance Treatment and Work Commitments JAL was ranked first for Best Economy Class Airline Top Award in the Tokyo Work Circle Project Seat in the Skytrax 2017 World Airline Awards. This The Tokyo Metropolitan Government has recognized our marks the third time JAL has received a World Airline initiatives to support employee health through our health Award, following awards for the Best Business Class promotion program, JAL Wellness 2016, as well as our Airline Seat in 2013 and a previous award for the Best efforts to create more flexible working practices with Economy Class Airline Seat in 2015. various holiday leave schemes. This is the first time JAL has received this award. Best Airline for On-time Performance in the Asia-Pacific Region Basic Achievement Grand Prize for Diversity 2016 8th A nn u al FlightStats 2016 Airline On-time Performance and Inclusion Service Awards 2017 J-Win Diversity Award FlightStats, Inc. ranked JAL first for on-time performance JAL received the Basic Achievement Grand Prize from the in the mainline and network categories for Asia-Pacific Japan Women’s Innovative Network, recognizing JAL as major airlines, based on flights on domestic and internaa leading company in promoting diversity and inclusion. tional routes between January and December 2016. Selected as a Telework Pioneer 100 Company by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Chairman’s Prize in the 17th Telework Promotion Awards JAL Selected as a Leading Company JAL received certification under the Law for Measures to in Employee Health Management Support the Development of the Next Generation in June Health & Productivity Stock 2008 in recognition of our efforts to nurture future JAL was selected as a Health & Productivity Stock in 2017 generations. JAL received the Chairman’s Award in the for the third consecutive year by the Ministry of Economy, 17th Telework Promotion Awards, the first time an airline In fiscal year 2017, the JAL Group Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, which has won this award. initiated the JAL Group Medium Term recognized our management commitment and strategic Management Plan for Fiscal Years initiatives in employee health management. * “Health management” is a registered trademark of NPO Certified as a Gold Company 2017 – 2020, under the key words Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and in the Pride Rating System “Challenge, Leading to Growth.” Employee. Japan’s First Rating System for Corporate LGBT Programs In this section, we outline the plan’s JAL received a Gold ranking in the Pride rating system, initiatives and explain the JAL established by Work with Pride, an LGBT volunteer group. JAL Selected as a Company that Empowers Group’s value creation cycle. Female Employees Nadeshiko Brand Enterprise JAL Granted “Kurumin” Certification JAL was selected for inclusion in the Nadeshiko Brand for Nurturing Future Generations list of enterprises for the third consecutive year by the 4th Action Plan Currently Being Implemented Message from the President. . . . . . . . . . 14 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Since June 2008, JAL has been certified with the “KuruStock Exchange. Companies on the list are recognized min” mark as a company that supports future generations. Message from the CFO . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 for initiatives in diversity management. JAL Secures Top Place in Best Free Attraction Outline of JAL Group Medium Term Ranking 2016 Management Plan for Fiscal Years JAL Factory Tours – SKY MUSEUM 2017-2020. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 JAL Factory Tours – SKY MUSEUM, the flagship compoJAL Selected as a Competitive IT Strategy nent of the JAL SORAIKU educational program, came top JAL Group Value Creation Cycle. . . . . . . 28 Company for the Second Consecutive Year in the Best Free Attractions Ranking 2016 by TripAdvisor, Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection the world’s largest travel website. Human Resources Strategy. . . . . . . . . . . 37 JAL was selected as a Competitive IT Strategy Company in 2017 for the second consecutive year by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange, which recognized our use of advanced IT to increase corporate value and improve profitability. 12 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 13 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT The JAL Vision and our new Medium Term Management Plan were established to realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy. We aspire to be an airline that not only achieves corporate growth but also contributes value to society. 01 The JAL Group embraced the challenge of the last five years by working with a strong team spirit toward its goals. When we formulated our previous medium term management plan— the JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2012-2016— our two goals were to regain the trust of society through sincere responses to the 2010 bankruptcy and to build a solid financial base by establishing a high profitability structure to promote sustainable growth. To reach these goals, we established targets in three areas: safety, customer satisfaction, and finance. Specifically, they were zero aircraft accidents and zero serious incidents; number one in customer satisfaction by fiscal year 2016; and an operating margin of 10% or above for five consecutive years and an equity ratio of 50% or above by fiscal year 2016. In spite of these challenging goals, every JAL Group staff Yoshiharu Ueki member worked determinedly over the five-year period to accomplish and fulfill the plan. Representative Director, The JAL Philosophy and the amoeba management system, both introduced after our bankruptcy, President generated a dramatic change in the awareness and behavior of JAL Group executives and employees. All JAL Group employees now put in joint efforts each day to realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy: deliver unparalleled service to customers, increase corporate value, and contribute to the betterment of society. As a result, we were able to achieve our financial targets, thought to be the most challenging of the three, of an operating margin of 10% or above for five consecutive years and an equity ratio of 50% or above by fiscal year 2016. I believe that this has enabled us to create a firm foundation to enter a new growth phase. Regarding our safety target, one aircraft accident occurred in fiscal year 2016, and consequently we were not able to achieve the targeted zero record for five years. As for customer satisfaction, we reached our target for international flights, but fell short of our target for domestic flights. We take these results seriously and will continue to push forward determinedly to reach our customer satisfaction target. It is regrettable that we did not fully achieve all the targets set out in the previous Medium Term Management Plan. It is significant, however, that all JAL Group employees worked in unison to fulfill our yearly rolling plans, updated by reviewing the progress made each year and the direction of our policy under the five-year plan. I think we can compare finishing the plan to crossing the finish line of a marathon. By implementing the JAL Philosophy and the amoeba management system over the past five years, the JAL Group has laid a solid business foundation, and established a high-profitability structure and a strong financial base. I believe that this strategy has enabled us to regain the trust of all stakeholders and fulfill their expectations for sustainable growth. For an outline of the previous Medium Term Management Plan, please refer to P.06-07: Summary of Overview of Fiscal Years 2012-2016 JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan. For details of aircraft accidents and serious incidents, please refer to P.128: Data on Incidents. 14 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 15 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation 02 The JAL Vision— our first step toward implementing the JAL Group Corporate Policy The JAL Group regards the 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo as a major turning point, when an expansion of flight slots at Tokyo metropolitan airports is expected. Bearing this in mind, we established a new JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017-2020 under the key phrase “Challenge, Leading to Growth.” If I were to compare the JAL Group when we initiated the previous medium term management plan to an aircraft in flight, I would say we were in the phase of having taken off and climbing through thick clouds and poor visibility. Now that we have finished the previous plan, I would say the aircraft has finished climbing and is in the cruising phase of the flight. Having reached this point and begun considering what is most important for the next phase, we have concluded that we should steadfastly implement our Corporate Policy and gain public recognition as a company that makes valuable contributions to society. We therefore established the JAL Vision to indicate what kind of company we aspire to be in ten years’ time through the process of implementing the Corporate Policy. The JAL Vision, which outlines our ideal future profile, expresses our wish to bring happiness to customers worldwide including Japan, and to communities and society as well as individual customers. It also encapsulates our determination to become an airline that meets a broad range 03 of societal needs. To realize these ambitions, we envisage transforming JAL into a true global New Medium Term Management Plan: airline that is one step ahead of its competitors in value creation, and thereby ensuring sustainable growth. The new Medium Term Management Plan translates this vision into concrete measures so To realize the JAL Vision that we may realize it. The new Medium Term Management Plan identifies two growth drivers for the JAL Group to concentrate on, under the key words “JAL Focus.” The first growth driver is to refine our full-service carrier business. We aim to achieve steady growth by positioning it as the core business domain of JAL and by maximizing its strengths. As part of active investments in “hard” services, we will proceed with expanding international routes operated with JAL SKY SUITE-configured aircraft, while on domestic routes, we will deploy the JAL Vision Corporate Policy A350 for the first time in fiscal year 2019. To customers worldwide, As for our route network, we will steadily expand routes, primarily international routes, to JAL Vision From region to society further improve customer convenience. We launched the route between Haneda and New York in Medium Term Management Plan April 2017, and will open routes between Narita and Melbourne and between Narita and Kona in September this year. In addition to these improvements in “hard” services and routes, we will further refine our To realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy and become spirit of hospitality, which is the JAL Group’s greatest strength, to deliver the finest service and a “the world’s most preferred and valued airline,” pleasant travel experience at all customer touch points before, during, and after the flight. everyone at JAL will put in joint efforts to ensure flight safety and to: The second growth driver is the expansion of our business domains. As well as further expanding our airline-related businesses such as providing services relating to airport handling and × ＝ aircraft maintenance, and in the travel agency and credit card sectors, we will devote our energy to Transform JAL Create new values Continue 1 into a true global airline 2 one step ahead of our competitors 3 sustainable growth entering new business domains, and meet the challenge of creating and cultivating new revenue sources. We target a revenue increase of 10% and 30% in our core business domain and new business domains, respectively, in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2016. 16 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 17 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation Environmental initiatives Under the key phrase “Living in Harmony with the Planet,” we are taking steps to reduce CO2 emissions, industrial waste, and electric power consumption. We particularly believe that reducing fuel consumption contributes significantly to reducing impacts on the environment. We therefore enforce various measures, including renewing our fleet with state-of-the art aircraft, which have improved mileage performance, applying optimal flight courses and flying techniques, and reducing aircraft weight through optimal onboard loads. Since 1993, we have been participating in the CONTRAIL Project by conducting atmospheric observations using our aircraft. This project has received an array of awards such as the Environment Excellence Award, the Minister of the Environment Prize, and the Special Global Environment Prize. It is a valuable asset of ours that we have been engaged in these activities since the days when environmental issues did not draw such strong public attention. Going forward, we remain committed to conducting environment-conscious business operations. Social initiatives Our social initiatives focus on nurturing the next generation through JAL SORAIKU and other related projects, and on contributing to communities through support for disaster recovery, regional revitalization, and support to developing countries. Regarding regional revitalization, the JAPAN PROJECT, launched in May 2011, promotes for instance attractive regional tourist destinations and local products through our in-flight magazines, in-flight meals, and other JAL Group media. In As with the previous plan, the new Medium Term Management Plan sets management targets fiscal year 2015, the project further evolved into the JAL NEW-JAPAN PROJECT, in which we in the three areas of safety, customer satisfaction, and finance. To reach our safety target, which collaborate with regional communities to promote revitalization of industries and economies. was not achieved in the previous plan as mentioned above, we will further accumulate safety Through this project, we assist in attracting domestic and inbound demand, and continue supportlayers to achieve zero aircraft accidents and zero serious incidents. Regarding customer satisfaction, ing regions across Japan. we aspire to provide unparalleled service to deliver a refreshing and inspiring travel experience to every customer, and thereby become the preferred airline in each global region. As for finance, Corporate governance initiatives we set a new management target of achieving a 9% or above return on invested capital (ROIC)* With regard to corporate governance, we are working to further improve our corporate governance by fiscal year 2020, in addition to the target of 10% or above operating margin. We will continuously system, compliance, risk management, and related activities, which form the business base of strive to maintain an equity ratio of approximately 60%. corporate activities. As a corporation that supports public infrastructure, we recognize the importance To reach these management targets, the new Medium Term Management Plan sets out of establishing a business continuity plan in the event of a natural disaster, major fire, terrorist concrete initiatives under five headings: Safety; Network & Products; Divisional Profitability Manattack, or other emergency situations, and are reinforcing relevant activities. agement; Human Resources; and Innovation. By tackling these areas, we believe that we will be able to progress steadily step by step to achieve sustainable growth for the JAL Group. 05 * Return on invested capital (ROIC) (%) = Operating profit (excluding tax) / fixed assets (including future rental expenses under operating leases) * For an outline of the new Medium Term Management Plan, please refer to P.24-27: Outline of JAL Group Closing words Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017-2020. The JAL Group was given the opportunity to rebuild the company after the 2010 bankruptcy through the support of all stakeholders. Having pulled through the five-year period up to the 04 end of fiscal year 2016, we are once again ready to take off on a renewed path toward growth. Initiatives Relating to the Environment, Society, To ensure JAL remains one of the world’s most preferred and valued airlines, we will maintain the and Corporate Governance highest standards of flight safety and draw on the strengths of everybody in the JAL Group to meet the high expectations of our stakeholders. I hope we can count on your continued support The JAL Group recognizes that a company that seeks to contribute value to society as well as and understanding as we move into a new phase of growth.” corporate growth and profits will gain trust from society. Therefore, we believe that initiatives relating to the environment, society, and corporate governance are essential. Yoshiharu Ueki Representative Director, President 18 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 19 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation MESSAGE FROM THE CFO Financial strategy under the JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017-2020 Financial Policy The financial policy of the new Medium Term Management Plan is to realize an increase in corporate value in a way that combines profitability with stability by building on the solid financial foundation and business management system which we have established so far and by maintaining the potential for sustainable growth. Our profitability targets are to achieve an operating profit margin of 10% or above each fiscal year and return on invested capital (ROIC)* of 9% or above by fiscal year 2020. Management of Norikazu Saito individual investment projects will continue to be based on net present value (NPV) as we have Director, Senior Managing done up till now. Going forward, the key performance indicator applied to company-wide investExecutive Officer ment will be ROIC, which indicates the efficiency of return on fixed assets (including future rental General Manager of the Finance & Accounting Division expenses under operating leases). Unlike return on equity (ROE), which measures the efficiency of return on shareholders’ equity, this will enable us as the finance department to monitor the effective use of invested capital as a whole. Regarding stability, in view of future risks which need to be considered given the particular nature of the aviation business, we will continue to maintain an equity ratio of approximately 60% and an improvement in our credit rating. As for growth potential, we envisage that increased expenditures in the initial stage of the plan, which are allocated to advance investment for sustainable growth, will be balanced by revenue-increasing measures and cost control measures, leading to higher revenues and profits in the later stages. In fiscal year 2016, the increase in expenses was mainly attributable to a review of Promoting active investments for growth and effective use of business resources the salary system and higher base salaries as key human resource investments in order to solidify while raising business management awareness across the JAL Group our foundation for future growth. In fiscal year 2017, the increase in expenses will mainly be attributable to investments in IT system upgrades and rising aircraft maintenance costs. Regarding IT systems, we are updating our passenger service system for the first time in fifty Review of the JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2012-2016 years. The new system, which will go live in November 2017, is expected to produce enhanced For detailed information on revenue management, please refer to P.127: Glossary Looking back over the JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2012-2016, we can point to success in meeting both of our financial targets: an operating profit margin Steps to growth of 10% or above for five consecutive years and an equity ratio of 50% or above by fiscal year 2016. Major contributing factors were firstly the change in the awareness of all employees 2012 2016 2017 2020 2021～ achieved by sharing the principles set out in the JAL Philosophy, and secondly a profitPrevious Medium Term Management Plan New Medium Term Management Plan conscious approach to business activities through the introduction of the business management Establishing a High Profitability Structure Future techniques of the amoeba management system. In concrete terms, each organization visualizes Theme to Enter a New Growth Phase Challenge, Leading to Growth Concept its profitability status each month for reporting at the Group Earnings Report Session. This measure has resulted in frank discussions, leading to higher profit consciousness. Additionally, Realize steady growth consistent implementation of the PDCA cycle, with feedback from monthly business results, Growth of a certain scale enables timely adjustment of performance targets. In this way, we have established a system Revenues that enables each organization to react flexibly to changes in the business environment. That is Establish capacity to meet market growth Create and develop new revenue sources Profit the reason for our success in realizing a high profitability business structure. Investment for the future (fleet, innovation, etc.) Investment in human resources IT updates and increased maintenance costs Cost Enhance improvement Combining high quality and cost competitiveness 20 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 21 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation MESSAGE FROM THE CFO online functions that will contribute to advanced revenue management and greater customer convenience. It should also generate revenue increases through a more flexible fare system. Additionally, it will help reduce system maintenance and management costs and enable us to switch to variable costs linked to customer demand, which together with other benefits will contribute to greater cost efficiency at the entire company level. As fiscal year 2017 will include the period of transition to the new system, relevant increases in depreciation expenses, training needs for system cutover, and other demands will result in a front-loaded increase in costs in the short term, but I believe the benefit to build an IT platform to serve as the basis for sustainable growth will justify our medium-term investments. As for maintenance costs, we expect an increase in engine maintenance costs, notably for 787 aircraft, with particular increases in fiscal years 2016 and 2017. However, our aim is to reduce overall maintenance costs for fiscal year 2020— three years from now — to fiscal year 2017 levels by increasing maintenance cost efficiency through effective use of information technology among other things. As a consequence of these capital expenditures required for long-term growth, a reduction in profits is forecast for fiscal year 2017. However, from fiscal year 2018, we aim to establish a sustainable trend of higher profits on higher revenues. * Return on invested capital (ROIC) (%) = operating income (excluding tax)/fixed assets (including future rental expenses under Response to Risks operating leases) Among short-term risks are the impact of fluctuations in fuel markets and exchange rates. On international routes, a fuel surcharge is applied and fuel price and foreign exchange rate risk Allocation of Cash Flows are to some extent reduced. On domestic routes, however, there is no fuel surcharge, and measures to reduce fuel cost and exchange rate risk are carried out through derivative transactions. With financial stability required as an absolute precondition and with the aim of achieving sustainThe effectiveness of the fuel surcharge and derivative transactions in limiting risks from market able growth in the medium to long term, allocation of cash flows is carried out focusing on three fluctuation varies when viewed on a year-by-year basis due to time lag effects. Viewed on a areas: investment for growth, shareholder return, and financial soundness. Our investment plan for medium-term basis, however, risks are largely neutralized. the three years from fiscal year 2018 to fiscal year 2020 foresees a yearly average of approximately The implementation and management of derivative transactions is carried out by the relevant 220 billion yen. Going forward, we plan to increase the proportion allocated to investment for department subject to approval by the financial controller in accordance with Corporate Managegrowth so that this growth can drive an increase in operating cash flows. Additionally, we continue ment Risk Regulations, which govern the maximum amount of the transaction, and corporate to view shareholder return as one of our main management priorities. With continuous payment of regulations which specify the authority for transactions. A monthly meeting is held attended by the a stable dividend as the basis of our policy in this area, we decided to raise the dividend payout relevant executive director to report on the performance of derivatives, identify the current scale of ratio to 30% from fiscal year 2017. Additionally, to increase outlets for shareholder return, we risks, decide the hedge method and hedge ratio, and verify the content of transactions. will introduce an interim dividend. It is also our policy to give flexible consideration to share buy backs and additional shareholder return options depending on the economic environment and For detailed information, please refer to P.93: 10. Fuel and Exchange Rate Hedging in Evaluation and Analysis of Financial Conditions financial conditions. Allocation of cash flows Future Capital Investment (image) To our shareholders and investors Regular Investment Growth investment Fleet renewal, Regular investment The JAL Group believes that growth means realizing an appropriate scale of capacity growth under etc. the new Medium Term Management Plan to continuously generate increases in revenues and FY2016 FY2017 FY2018～FY2020 Three-year average profits on the condition of achieving high profitability and financial stability. Going forward, in (Billions of yen) addition to investments in existing businesses, we will embrace the challenge of developing new Operating Growth Total 233.4 221.0 Total approximately Cash Flows Investment Fleet 181.5 174.0 220 billion yen businesses in a spirit of healthy risk-taking. Making optimal use of assets we have invested in and (Group earning Cash flow Other 51.9 47.0 a year monitoring the effectiveness of investments with ROIC, we will promote ‘muscular management.’ capacity) increase In addition to generating growth-based cash flows and maintaining a strong financial foundation, we will actively implement shareholder return. As a result, we will improve capital efficiency, Return to Shareholders monitoring ROE against a target level of 10% or above. To implement these strategies, it is important that all JAL Group employees act with a challenging spirit rooted in profit consciousness. As Maintaining Retained earnings/repayment of borrowings Chief Finance Officer, I will also continue to exercise firm control of our finances. Financial Maintain equity ratio of around 60% Improve credit rating with Soundness to protect against risks target of single A flat 22 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 23 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation OUTLINE OF JAL GROUP MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR FISCAL YEARS 2017-2020 2 KEY DRIVERS FOR GROWTH We regard the year 2020, the year of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo, JAL Focus as a major turning point in realizing the JAL Vision, as capacity expansion of flight slots is expected at Tokyo metropolitan airports. To coincide with this significant year, we established the new JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017-2020 under the key words “Challenge, Leading to Growth.” Top out Refine the full-service carrier business 2 key drivers for growth 5 key initiatives 3 management targets Under the new Medium Term Management Plan, we will continenvironment, while retaining the strengths we have built so far. JAL Focus JAL Action J A L Ta r g e t ue to work on refining our full-service carrier business, which is our core business, and aim for steady growth. To realize this, we Meanwhile, we will adapt to global changes as well as make investments to refine safety and services so that we become the Safety Safety will strive to maximize profit by adapting quickly, in terms of customers’ choice of airline. Top out Safety revenues and expenses, to changes in the market and business Aircraft accidents: zero Refine the full-service Serious incidents: zero carrier business • Increase competitiveness by adapting Networks & Customer Satisfaction Comfort to changes in overseas and domestic Products markets and the business environment Realize the world’s highest level of Stretch • Pursue safety and high-quality services customer satisfaction through advanced technology Widen the range of business domains Innovation After making the necessary preparations, we will expand our agency and credit card business sectors. Furthermore, we will Finance Profitability business domains by creating and developing new revenue strive to create and develop new businesses that optimize JAL’s Stretch Operating margin of 10% or above sources leveraging our strengths. In domains outside the expertise and other advantages, while carefully investigating Return on Invested Capital (ROIC*) Widen the range of Human Resources full-service carrier business, we will work to increase revenues in feasibility and monitoring growth. In this way, we will widen the of 9% or above by fiscal year 2020 business domains our airline-related businesses such as providing services for scope of growth into the future. • Create and develop businesses * An indicator that measures how much profit is generated in relation to the funds invested by airport handling and aircraft maintenance and in the travel outside the full-service carrier Divisional Profitability an enterprise in its business activity business leveraging our strengths Management Return on operating profit • Develop new businesses that (excluding tax) Invested = contribute to increasing inbound Capital fixed assets (ROIC) (%) (including future rental expenses demand and regional revitalization JAL Focus under operating leases) Fiscal year 2016 Fiscal year 2020 revenue revenue Maximize revenues by adapting to ASK* changes in the market and business International environment while continuing to (%) draw on our accumulated strengths Passengers Core Business By fiscal year 2020, we International International plan to increase 123 capacity by 23% on Passengers Top out Domestic international routes and Core Business Passengers Domain Refine the full-service by 5% on domestic Domestic Total carrier business routes compared to Passengers 115 Domain fiscal year 2016, giving a total increase of 15%. Cargo and Mail 10% * ASK: Available SeatCargo and Mail Market increase Kilometers Stretch creation New Business Domestic 103 Widen the range of Airline-related 102 101 105 Airline-related business domains businesses 100 businesses Domain Increase revenues in airline-related businesses while creating and developing new revenue sources that New Field 30% 2016 2017 2020 (FY) leverage our strengths increase 24 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 25 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation OUTLINE OF JAL GROUP MEDIUM TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR FISCAL YEARS 2017-2020 5 KEY INITIATIVES 3 MANAGEMENT TARGETS JAL Action J A L Ta r g e t Safety Safety Customer Satisfaction We will maintain our safety targets of zero aircraft accidents* customers from terrorist threats, and generating a culture that Maintaining awareness that ensuring flight safety is the foundaWe will provide customers with unparalleled service to deliver and zero serious incidents.* Under the new Medium Term gives top priority to safety and ensures that lessons learned tion and social responsibility of the JAL Group, we will accumua refreshing and inspiring travel experience with the aim of Management Plan, we aim to establish a stable record of zero from accidents are passed on. late multiple safety layers as the leading company for safety in realizing the world’s highest level of customer satisfaction by incidents by introducing a new approach, for instance rolling the transport sector. Consequently, we will be able to maintain fiscal year 2020. out a range of initiatives to evolve our safety management For detailed information, please refer to P.30: flight safety and reach our target of zero aircraft accidents and * Using Net Promoter Score (NPS), a numerical indicator of customer loyalty, we will system to proactively prevent accidents through multi-layered Safety Charter. zero serious incidents. work to improve customers’ willingness to recommend JAL to others. defenses, evolving our security management system to protect * For an explanation of terms, please refer to P.110. Network & Products Finance We aim for sustainable growth by undertaking proactive have built so far. To reach these goals, we set the financial On international routes, our growth strategy is to continuously model on main routes and new aircraft such as the Embraer 190 investments for future growth and making effective use of targets of an operating margin of 10% or above and return on offer a network and product lineup to cater to customer needs, and the ATR42-600 on regional routes, expanding routes management resources, and at the same time maintaining both invested capital (ROIC)* of 9% or above by fiscal year 2020. and implement promotional measures for international customoffering in-flight Wi-Fi service, and increasing aircraft fitted with the high profitability and the strong financial stability that we * For an explanation of terms, please refer to P.24. ers. As part of this strategy, we will increase fully flat seats in high-quality seats. We will also take steps to expand our netBusiness Class and increase aircraft fitted with New Spacious work services to outlying islands and Hokkaido. Economy seats that offer more legroom. On domestic routes, we will realize stable growth by For detailed information, please refer to P.46-47: delivering high-value services and stimulating new air travel International Passenger Operations; and P.48-49: Profitability Stability Growth potential demand. Initiatives include introducing the latest A350 aircraft Domestic Passenger Operations. • Continue to pursue profitability • Equity ratio: maintain at an • By controlling cost increases, we will • Strong awareness of return on appropriate level achieve a turnaround to increased resources and assets • Improve credit rating revenues and profits from fiscal year 2018 Divisional Profitability Management We will maximize revenues and minimize expenses through strict tion of the PDCA cycle and harnessing the creative talents of all Operating margin: 10% or above Equity ratio: maintain at Operating revenue cost control, reduction of fixed costs by shifting to variable costs, employees, to consolidate the strengths of each employee, and approximately 60% and other measures. In parallel, we will promote “muscular manthereby increase effectiveness in reaching our targets. (%) (%) (Billions of yen) agement,” which increases the ability to generate cash by making 13.2 60.0 efficient use of management resources. Meanwhile, we will take For detailed information, please refer to P.32: 1,339.0 advantage of “management by all,” involving speedy implementa10.6 57.5 1,288.9 Amoeba Management System. 56.2 Human Resources 2016 2017 2020 （年度） (FY) 2016 2017 2020 （年度） (FY) 2016 2017 2020 (FY) To allow diverse human resources to express themselves individthe JAL Group an entity filled with energy for value creation and ually, we will maintain a work environment that improves human resources who can translate ideas into reality. Return on invested capital (ROIC): Credit rating Operating income productivity, and pursue initiatives to develop global human 9% or above by fiscal year 2020 resources and promote diversity. Additionally, by nurturing (%) (Billions of yen) leaders who accelerate change on their own initiative and For detailed information, please refer to P.38-42: encourage staff to work as a professional team, we aim to make Human Resources Strategy. 10.7 170.3 8.1 Single A flat 142.0 Innovation A minus We will embrace the challenge of innovation by improving and port infrastructure to meet the growth in inbound demand and changing existing businesses through the use of IT and other enforce measures to promote tourism to regional Japan. We will 2016 2017 2020 （年度） (FY) 2016 2017 2020 （年度） (FY) 2016 2017 2020 (FY) tools, contributing to regional communities and society, and also collaborate with regional communities through projects such developing new revenue sources. To address the issues of inbound as the JAL-NEW JAPAN PROJECT and contribute to developing Return on equity (ROE): maintain at demand and regional revitalization, we will strive to improve transregional economies and reversing population decline. 10% or above 26 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 27 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation JAL GROUP VALUE CREATION CYCLE The JAL Group’s initiatives for value creation are guided by the JAL Corporate Policy and the JAL Vision. We maintain an awareness of social issues when using the Group’s assets to develop our business. By enhancing the JAL Brand, we enhance corporate assets and create social value. Corporate Policy JAL VISION INPUT SOURCE OF OUTPUT VALUE VALUE Capital CORPORATE VALUES Value Created Value Delivered Social Value Human capital Human capital ■ Human resources ■ Global human resources ■ Safety Charter ■ Safety Creation of innovative P.30 P.33 human resources Intellectual capital Individual ■ Operational know-how, Intellectual capital brand and fleet management ■ JAL Philosophy fulfillment ■ Productivity and P.31 efficiency improvement ■ On-time performance Social ■ The Amoeba Natural capital P.34 Issues ■ Natural resources Management System Natural capital Community ■ Environmental impact control revitalization P.32 ■ Comfort and protection P.35 Social capital ■ Human resources Social capital ■ Route network ■ Convenience Coexistence ■ Expansion of international and P.37 domestic route network with the global P.36 environment ■ Financial foundation Production capital ■ Aircraft, ground facilities P.81 Production capital ■ New aircraft, improved seats ■ Corporate governance Financial capital P.68 Financial capital ■ Financial foundation ■ High profitability, generation of cash flows 28 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 29 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation SOURCE OF CORPORATE VALUES SAFETY CHARTER JAL PHILOSOPHY SOURCE OF CORPORATE VALUES Flight safety is the foundation and social responsibility and appropriate action is taken to ensure that factors threatenSafety Promotion Center States, Europe, Asia-Oceania, and China are given by local of the JAL Group. To fulfill this responsibility, JAL estabing safety are dealt with before they develop into real dangers. instructors using multilingual materials. lished the Safety Charter. All JAL Group employees carry We will continue to implement and enhance this kind of prevenOn August 12, 1985, JAL flight 123 crashed on the ridges of a safety card imprinted with the Safety Charter, on tive safety management. Mount Osutaka, and 520 precious lives were lost. To reaffirm which they base their conduct at work each day. the importance of flight safety and to instill the lessons learned Practicing the JAL Philosophy More Intensively from this accident in our minds, we established the Safety Safety Charter Safety Advisory Group Promotion Center in April 2006. The annual JAL Philosophy Presentation Meeting marks its Safety in flight operations is the very foundation and social All members of the JAL Group use this facility as the seventh session in 2017. It is greeted enthusiastically each year responsibility of the JAL Group. To carry out our mission of The JAL Group established the Safety Advisory Group in August as employees share their thoughts on the JAL Philosophy and “foundation of safety” and the starting point for providing assuring safety, the management will exert its strong resolve and 2005 to receive advice from an objective perspective following examples of how they have applied it. The presentations by society with safe, reliable operations. Every employee is continuthe employees will bear an awareness of their individual roles an operational improvement order issued by the Ministry of ously reminded that precious lives are entrusted to us in our colleagues performing a wide range of roles are enlightening and responsibilities, and together we will combine our utmost Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. The Safety Advisory work. The Safety Promotion Center is open to anyone interested and instructive, and serve as a good opportunity to reflect on knowledge and capabilities to ensure the safety and reliable operation of each and every flight. Group is a panel of five experts from outside the JAL Group who in aviation safety. how to practice the JAL Philosophy in one’s duty. have extensive knowledge and experience in areas such as In fiscal year 2016, the Center received 17,497 visitors The departments and Group companies have started In order to carry out our mission, we will; human factors, analysis of failures and imperfections, organizafrom inside and outside the Group, bringing the cumulative instituting their own approaches to instilling the JAL Philosophy. • Perform our duties in compliance with regulations, faithfully tional management and culture, and safety. The panel is chaired total since fiscal year 2006 to 196,689. The JAL Group will continue to nurture human resources following the basics. • Be sure to make checks, without relying on assumptions. by Mr. Kunio Yanagida, a non-fiction writer. through diverse activities that promote the wider application of • Relay information thoroughly, promptly and accurately, and the JAL Philosophy. This will enable every JAL Group employee ensure transparency. Follow-up meetings with management The JAL Philosophy was adopted as a statement of the to provide customers with unparalleled service, increase corpo• Respond to problems and issues quickly and precisely. The members of the Safety Advisory Group hold annual follow-up awareness, values, and attitude to be shared by everyrate value, and contribute to the betterment of society. • Maintain a constant awareness of issues, and make necessary meetings with management. The progress of the JAL Group’s one involved in JAL products and services. Making it reforms without hesitation. safety measures is examined, and the members offer advice as the common basis for decision-making in the JAL they consider appropriate. Group helps build a sense of unity, which supports our committed efforts to deliver unparalleled service to Safety Management System Safety Advisory Group members customers, increase corporate value, and contribute to Mr. Kunio Yanagida (Chair) Non-fiction writer, critic the betterment of society. To maintain the highest safety standards and attain further Prof. Yotaro Hatamura Professor, Kogakuin University, Professor Emeritus, University of Tokyo / Areas of expertise: nano-micro improvement, the JAL Group has established a safety managemachining, production processing, medical support engineering, failure science, study of danger, creative About the JAL Philosophy ment system (SMS), which it strives to continuously improve and design theory strengthen. Under the system, JAL employees, who are equipped Prof. Shinichi Kamata Professor Emeritus, National Defense Academy of Japan / Areas of expertise: organizational theory, business We adhere to the JAL Philosophy as the shared mindset, values, with strong safety awareness, are trained for example to make administration At the 6th JAL Philosophy Presentation Meeting and attitude of every person engaged in JAL products and sera detailed report on any event, however trivial it may appear, Prof. Shigeru Haga Professor, Rikkyo University / Areas of expertise: traffic psychology, industrial psychology, human engineering vices. As JAL Group employees deepen their personal understandthat occurs on the frontline of day-to-day flight operations. Prof. Akinori Komatsubara Professor, Waseda University / Area of expertise: human ing of the JAL Philosophy and employ it as a common basis for life engineering Risk factors are then systematically identified and evaluated, Overview of the approach to instilling the JAL Philosophy decision-making in everyday operations, it becomes a uniting force enabling them to advance together toward the ambitious goal of Executives / Safety Management System General Managers Managers General posts “becoming the world’s most preferred and valued airline group.” J-AIR JTA JAC RAC HAC To deepen understanding, we conduct JAL Philosophy JAL Leader Workshops Education seminars for all JAL Group staff and executives in Japan Chairperson Council JAL Philosophy Leader Education Follow-up Workshop President Group Council for Safety Enhancement members President President President President President and overseas regions. The JAL Group spans a wide range of job Education General General General General General categories, but all participants in these seminars sit at the same JAL Philosophy Education General Manager of Safety Manager Manager Manager Manager Manager of Safety of Safety of Safety of Safety of Safety table, regardless of seniority, position, or department, which helps Committee chairperson Group Safety and Group Operational Safety Committee Director Director Director Director Director to generate an atmosphere of mutual understanding. Independent JAL Philosophy penetration activities Security Officer Promotion Committee members responsible for safety responsible for safety responsible for safety responsible for safety responsible for safety JAL Philosophy Education instructors are selected from in departments and Group companies various divisions, from Flight Operations and Cabin Attendants Penetration JAL Philosophy Presentation Meeting / in-house newsletters / Executive Officer of Executive Officer of Engineering & Executive Officer of Executive Officer of Executive Officer of activities Intranet / Employee Awareness Surveys Flight Operations Maintenance Cabin Attendants Airport Operations Cargo & Mail to Engineering & Maintenance, Airports, and Sales. They hold seminars in the Tokyo region and also travel to other Independent voluntary workshops by employees General Management General Manager of General Manager of of Flight Operations Engineering & Cabin Safety General Manager of General Manager of regions of Japan, adapting the teaching materials to the specific Airport Planning Operations Safety Promotion Maintenance Promotion needs of the participants. Education seminars in the United 30 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 31 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation SOURCE OF CORPORATE VALUES VALUE CREATED THE AMOEBA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SAFETY SOURCE OF CORPORATE VALUES OUTPUT Under the amoeba management system, corporate Future Initiatives management is not the responsibility of top manageThe JAL Group Corporate Policy commits us to providing customers with unparalleled ment alone; all employees are involved. Organizations Up till now, we focused on embedding the amoeba manageOUTPUT service. Unparalleled service means delivering the world’s highest levels of safety, on-time are divided into the smallest possible units, and the ment system, but to ensure future growth, we will accelerate performance, comfort, and convenience. Of these, absolute priority must be given to results of activities conducted by each unit are divisional profitability, which is one of the five key initiatives Safety guaranteeing safety, which is the foundation of the JAL Group. Flight safety relies on each presented in an easily understandable manner. The selected for specific action under the JAL Action Plan in the new employee sharing clear values and possessing an awareness of their responsibility as On-time performance members of the JAL Group. By ensuring that all departments cultivate a safety culture, system thus encourages participation in management Medium Term Management Plan. by every employee, that is, “management by all.” and continuously accumulating safety layers, we will maintain flight safety and inspire Comfort customers to put their confidence in the JAL Group. On this foundation, we seek to We aim to achieve sound and flexible corporate Comprehensive profitability management Convenience deliver improved on-time performance, comfort, and convenience, and thus offer custommanagement by consolidating individual strengths We will pursue initiatives to improve hourly profitability and unit ers a safe and comfortable flight. in a style of management that encourages full profitability within each Group department and company. We Unparalleled Service staff participation. will also rigorously enforce cost control in response to changes in the market environment and fluctuations in revenues to optimize the balance sheet and improve risk resilience. Outline of the Amoeba Management System and How the “Management Cycle” Works Participatory management Safety targets To bring together individual strengths and thereby increase With awareness that flight safety is the foundation and social responsibility of the JAL Group, the JAL Group maintains flight The introduction of the amoeba management system has clarified practical effectiveness in reaching our targets, we will visualize safety by accumulating safety layers as the leading company for safety in the transport sector. the roles and responsibilities of each organization and made it management data to make it easier to understand, and encourage possible to identify the revenue and costs of each unit in such a all employees to display creativity and initiative to reach our Maintaining flight safety (numerical targets) Accumulating safety layers (action targets) ■ Aircraft accidents: zero ■ Evolve the safety management system to the world’s highest standard way that staff can see the results of their own efforts. As each targets. We will also devote our energy to nurture leaders with ■ Serious incidents: zero ■ Evolve the security management system to the world’s highest standard department can pinpoint its achievements clearly through revemanagerial competencies to motivate employees. * Target of ‘zero’ each fiscal year. ■ Ensure that the lessons learned from past accidents are passed on nue and costs, staff feel a sense of responsibility for the figures, * Specific measures will be implemented to meet the action targets. and feel more motivated and creative in their work attitude. Effective use of management resources Under the amoeba management system, every unit preWe will work to implement “muscular management” by improving pares an annual plan for revenues and costs (Master Plan) and profitability within each Group department and company, implements a monthly management cycle (PDCA cycle) to undertaking effective investments, improving asset utilization, Maintaining Flight Safety Evolve the security management system to the world’s highest standard accomplish the annual plan. The monthly management cycle optimizing inventories, and implementing other measures to Maintaining flight safety, which is the foundation of the JAL ④ Introduce new security risk management requires each unit to prepare a forecast of its revenues and costs increase return on invested capital (ROIC). Group, we continuously strive to realize zero aircraft accidents We will strengthen coordination with partner institutions, collect at the start of each month based on the current environment and zero serious incidents. In addition to efforts to prevent and evaluate security data, and facilitate rapid response to strengthand to set out an action plan. After business results for the recurrence of similar accidents, we are working to proactively en security systems. We will also establish adequate detection, Before and after introduction of the amoeba management system month are released, the difference between the target and prevent them by detecting precursors to aircraft accidents and monitoring, and preventive systems to deal with the increasingly result is calculated and reasons for the difference are clarified. Before Today serious incidents. sophisticated and complex external threats to data security. The findings are utilized to prepare targets for the following Preparation of a Master ⑤ Cultivate security awareness among all staff Fiscal year budget prepared month. Thus, in addition to the annual plan prepared at the Plan at start of fiscal year, We will improve awareness and knowledge of security among all at start of fiscal year start of each fiscal year, monthly targets are also set, which followed by monthly targets Accumulating Safety Layers staff so that even the smallest signs are not overlooked but responded to appropriately. facilitates prompt response to changes in the environment. Evolve the safety management system to the world’s highest Operating a stage-by-stage monthly management cycle of this Comparison of fiscal year A target, or monthly budget adopted at start of achievement target, is standard Ensure that the lessons learned from past accidents are passed on kind enables all employees to participate in management. fiscal year with results prepared each month and ① Introduce an integrated safety database ⑥ Implement safety awareness education based on the PIP principle After passing through a checking stage by relevant depart→ Since comparison is made compared with the results. Integrating and analyzing safety data will make it possible to detect We will ensure that lessons learned from past accidents are passed while changes occur in the → Results analysis based on ments, the results and numerical forecasts of each department economic and business anticipated environmental precursors to serious malfunctions and take preventive action. on and will provide education on safety awareness based on “the are presented to senior management by the relevant divisional environments, budget changes is applied in ② Introduce human factor analysis PIP Principle”* (derived from “place, item and people”) that analysis cannot be applied. preparation of targets This analysis method takes into account organizational, cultural, captures the essence of the issues. managers and affiliated company presidents at the Group for the following month. and other indirect factors to prevent human error. ⑦ Conduct emergency evacuation training Earnings Announcement Session. The session is attended by ③ Conduct risk management of flight crew fatigue We will provide training in how to respond to an emergency around 120 participants, including the President, all directors, Because the budget is an The Master Plan is prepared allocation, it is generally independently with the aim We will undertake scientific and statistical management of the situation so that all Group employees know how to assist cabin presidents of major affiliated companies, and observers, who degree of fatigue among flight crews. attendants and customers in the event of an emergency. believed it should be used of maximizing revenues and join in earnest discussions on JAL Group management with the in full. minimizing expenses. * Advocated by Prot. Yotaro Hatamura of the Safety Advisory Group as vital for common aim of realizing the Corporate Policy. understanding the true nature of safety issues. 32 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 33 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation VALUE CREATED ON-TIME PERFORMANCE COMFORT OUTPUT On-Time Performance – An Important Factor of Specific initiatives A Refreshing and Inspiring Travel Experience Delivering comfort that exceeds the customers’ expectaJAL Service To further improve on-time performance, the JAL Group aims tions means not only comfort in “hard” and “soft” services, but for improvement on a daily basis by giving serious consideration To deliver not only safety and on-time performance, but also also the personal touch of JAL Group employees, who are The JAL Group has declared delivering unparalleled service to to not only relevant measures within each department, but also high levels of convenience and comfort, the JAL Group believes dedicated to customer care. customers as part of its Corporate Policy. Maintaining on-time proposed measures and revisions that cross departmental that adopting the customer perspective is extremely important. Underpinning the JAL Group’s human services is the JAL performance, which means valuing the customers’ precious time boundaries. As a result, the US-based FlightStats, Inc. which We ensure the ability to deliver unparalleled service by combinPhilosophy, which outlines the awareness, values, and mindset with top priority on safety, is an essential factor in the basic analyzes the on-time arrival rates and other data of airlines, ing advanced “hard” and “soft” systems with staff dedication to be shared by all employees. Not only staff in departments service quality of a public transport operator, and forms a proud named JAL the most punctual major Asia-Pacific airline in the to customer care. that have direct contact with customers, such as Reservations, part of our mission. period from January to December 2016. The award applies to Airports, Cabin Attendants, and Flight Operations, but all The times presented in our flight schedule are product both the mainline category and network category, and is based Specific initiatives employees, including Maintenance, Cargo, Ground Handling, descriptions and represent a promise to customers and society. on combined figures for domestic and international flights. We have launched various services in response to the customers’ and back office departments, receive JAL Philosophy Education To transport customers to their destination within the scheduled wish to use time at the airport effectively and reduce waiting to develop the right attitude. It is on that basis that staff acquire timeframe and without endangering safety—a basic value for time. Among these are a smartphone app that informs customthe required knowledge and skills to ensure that customers have any airline—requires smooth communication and coordination ers of waiting times at security checkpoints at Haneda Airport, a safe and pleasant journey. among numerous departments such as Reservations, Airports, and the JAL Express Tag Service, which speeds up the baggage Providing JAL Philosophy Education to all staff regardless of In-Flight, Ground Handling, Cargo, Maintenance, Flight Operacheck-in procedure and reduces waiting time. We are also job category also promotes active cooperation between staff in tions, Cabin Attendants, and Sales, as well as other support renovating lounges at airports in Japan and overseas so that different work areas. To give an example from the airport departments and head office planning divisions. By proceeding waiting time can be spent more comfortably. department, when special care is needed by a customer using a 2016 surely and steadily with each flight, we strive to achieve on-time Meanwhile, JAL SKY SUITE-configured aircraft, which offer wheelchair or baby stroller, a ‘baton pass’ takes place from 8th A nn u al performance in air transport as a competitive product advantage. spaciousness and high quality, have been introduced on an Reservations and Ticketing or Sales, and the information is also increased number of international routes. On domestic routes, passed on to flight crew, cabin attendants, and ground handling JAL SKY NEXT seating, which features genuine leather-covered staff. This kind of cooperation between departments in making seats, has been introduced on all domestic aircraft and in-flight preparations ensures a smooth journey for the customer. Wi-Fi service is now available free of charge. As for in-flight We would like not only departments who serve customers one meals, we are now delivering top-quality cuisine on Europe, on one but also all employees to be able to respond to individual North America, Australia, and Southeast Asia routes in collaborequests. The roughly 33,000 members of the JAL Group, each ration with professional chefs based on the concept of ‘your responsible for different work areas, develop fine sensitivity and exclusive restaurant in the sky.’ On all international routes from the ability to cater to customer needs and pass them on to the Japan, we have a brand-new in-flight menu for children called next department. In this way, we deliver a travel experience that BEDD for Kids, and serve halal-certified meals for Muslim stays in the memory and the heart of each customer. customers as part of efforts to meet diverse dietary needs. 34 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 35 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation VALUE CREATED HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY CONVENIENCE OUR POLICY OUTPUT VA LU E U P For Greater Convenience From October 30, 2016, flights which had been operated by Hokkaido Air System Co., Ltd. (HAC) switched flight code We believe that the JAL Group route network is one of its from the HC flight code to the JL flight code. Meanwhile, the strengths and an important factor when customers choose the Haneda = Yamagata route, using the Haneda Airport Policy JAL Group. As well as offering a route network and timetable Contest Slot awarded in fiscal year 2014, will continue to that meets the needs of customers and society, we also deliver operate two flights a day through the cooperation of regional highly convenient products and services that accurately meet governments and other parties. To improve customer comfort, customer needs at every touch point up to arrival at the destinathe new Embraer 190 aircraft model with Class J seating was tion. Additionally, as well as enhancing the ‘time value’ of introduced successively on regional routes to and from Osaka, customers through high-speed transportation, one of the great starting with the Itami = Kagoshima route. We further upgraded advantages of air transport, we believe that delivering quality products and services on domestic routes with JAL SKY NEXT Takuya Oda service for an appropriate fare is also an important factor in seats offering a pioneering standard of seat specs to all routes Executive Officer, Human improving customer convenience. operated with the 777-300, 777-200, 767-300, and 737-800 Resources Management (excluding aircraft owned by Japan Transocean Air Co., Ltd.). By Specific initiatives offering free in-flight Wi-Fi service, we delivered new value and On international routes, we increased seasonal flight frequency greater convenience so that passengers can connect with family to meet robust demand on the Narita = Honolulu and Narita and friends from the skies just as they would on the ground. = Bangkok routes. On the Haneda = Honolulu route, a new First Going forward, we will continue to respect the customer Class service was introduced during the year-end holidays in perspective as we work to improve customer convenience and response to customer demand, with promotional measures comfort by embracing the challenge of further expanding our stepped up to deliver a higher-quality travel experience for route network and improving products and services. In this Under the new Medium Term Management Plan, we aim to further enhance customers flying to Hawaii. To meet high demand during the way, we remain firmly committed to delivering unparalleled human resources opportunities guided by the key phrase ‘Linking the contribution summer period, the Narita = Moscow route was increased to service so that all customers may enjoy a refreshing and of individual strengths to value creation.’ five flights a week. inspiring travel experience. Linking the contribution of individual strengths to value creation To deliver high-quality service to customers and make contributions to society, it is essential to TOPICS encourage the personal growth of individual employees. To do that, we have established a variety JAL ranks number one in two indicators of the International Airlines category of systems and structures for recruitment, education, personnel management, and other areas to in the JCSI survey enable employees to develop their potential to the maximum. Under the new Medium Term Management Plan, Human Resources Management has adopted In the 4th Japan Customer Satisfaction Index survey conducted Recent improvements to our international routes have seen the slogan ‘Linking the contribution of individual strengths to value creation’ and is working to in 2016 by Service Productivity and Innovation for Growth* an expansion in routes operated with JAL SKY SUITE-configured further enhance human resources opportunities through the following four measures: (Head Office: Shibuya-ku, Tokyo), JAL placed first in the Internaaircraft and improved in-flight meals based on collaborative tional Airlines category in the indicators Repeat Intention and agreements. On domestic routes, a promotional campaign to ■ Build mentally and physically healthy, highly motivating and productive work environments Recommendation Intention. offer free in-flight Wi-Fi service has been one of the benefits for Through workstyle innovation, wellness promotion, and measures to develop highly productive One of JAL’s management targets was to rank first in customers. In this way, the JAL Group has united to embrace the work environments, we aim to create professional opportunities for diverse human resources, these two indicators of the International Airlines category and challenge of creating new value in order to deliver a refreshing and thus develop conditions for consistent personal growth. the Domestic Routes category of this survey by fiscal year 2016. and inspiring travel experience to every customer. This result means the target has been achieved in the first of ■ Encourage expression of individuality in an atmosphere of mutual respect * Website of Service Productivity and Innovation for Growth: the two categories. We will continue efforts to cultivate global human resources and promote diversity to make JAL W EB www.service-js.jp/ a truly global airline where diverse human resources can express their individuality. 36 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 37 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY OUR POLICY ACTIVITIES VA LU E U P Diversity and Inclusion In fiscal year 2016, we introduced group mentoring as a means of instilling awareness of women’s career development. In 2014, JAL Group top management declared their commitWe also introduced a career continuity support system offering ment to diversity. Since then, we have aspired to be a company employment opportunities within the JAL Group to employees where everyone can work in a positive atmosphere regardless of who relocate due to marriage, a partner’s work transfer, or to gender, career, nationality, age, sexual orientation, gender care for a family member. Meanwhile, we held seminars in identity, disability, or other personal attributes. We will continue Shanghai and Beijing, where female employees— who form the to promote diversity and inclusion, developing the abilities of mainstay of our operations in mainland China— assembled to each employee in an atmosphere of mutual respect for individuthink about what was needed to achieve further career adality, and thereby grow as a team that creates unprecedented vancement including workstyles for women. new value. Cultivating global human resources As part of our aspiration to become a truly global airline, we are strengthening human resources cultivation measures in both domestic and overseas regions. In Japan, from fiscal year 2016 we enhanced training for staff who are transferred overseas by adding a lecture on diverse cultures to the program, among other things. We also introduced a system of intern training at overseas companies for young mid-level employees, with little experience of working overseas. For staff in overseas regions, we implemented such measures as global training to help nurture human resources to ■ Build value-creating organizations that possess an ambitious spirit of challenge To respond to diverse customer needs, we give opportunities to lead the JAL Group in the future. The number of employees sent To realize our aim of staying one step ahead in value creation, we are working to create employees from a wide range of backgrounds on long-term assignments to Japan was 26, an increase of five organizations possessing a spirit of challenge. In response to dramatic changes in the business over fiscal year 2015, some of whom were assigned to organienvironment, JAL will nurture leaders who consistently embrace the challenge of accelerating zational manager posts in Japan. innovation on their own initiative and encourage each employee to act as a member of a Examples of Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives professional team. In this way, we aim to transform the JAL Group into a company full of LGBT* initiatives value-creating energy, richly endowed with human resources who strive to put ideas into reality. Career opportunities for female employees The JAL Group also strives to promote understanding of LGBT We announced numerical targets of a 20% ratio of female and participates in discussions with LGBT students, LGBT Ally ■ Practice the JAL Philosophy more intensively to achieve targets managers within the JAL Group, and a 15% or higher ratio of events, and other activities. We have also made LGBT Ally The basis for these measures is the JAL Philosophy. Deepening efforts to ensure its full permefemale managers at section head level or higher in JAL by fiscal stickers to distribute to employees who participate in LGBT-related ation by moving from “understanding” to “practice” will help each individual and organization year 2023. We are continuing with related initiatives centered training in order to raise employee awareness. We will continue achieve their targets. on improving work environments, strengthening human resourcto promote various forms of training and activities that es cultivation, and developing the corporate culture. contribute to a more accurate awareness and understanding of Goals and slogans of human resources strategy LGBT issues. Link individual input to value creation Action through seven initiatives * LGBT is a general term for the sexual minority groups Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, (1) Nurture leaders who accelerate innovation and Transgender. Commitment 1. Organizations with a spirit of challenge through four Build value-creating organizations that (2) Build value-creating teams of professionals declarations possess an ambitious spirit of challenge (3) Nurture global human resources 2. Diverse human resources Encourage expression of individuality in an (4) Promote diversity atmosphere of mutual respect 3. Highly productive work environments (5) Accomplish workstyle innovation leading Build mentally and physically healthy, highly motivating to growth and productive work environments (6) Promote health management 4. Foundation Practice the JAL Philosophy more intensively to help individuals (7) Practice the JAL Philosophy and organizations achieve their targets Researchers from Nadeshiko Lab present the results of their activities 38 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 39 Ⅰ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY ACTIVITIES VA LU E U P Opportunities for the elderly employees with low-level intellectual disabilities, opened a branch and other services common to all departments. Going forward, continue working while dealing with other personal demands such The JAL Group has established systems to support diverse life at Narita in addition to the one at Haneda. Through these initiawe will support the review of work processes in other departas illness, childrearing, and nursing care of family members, plans after retirement. Employees who wish to continue worktives, the employment rate of people with disabilities in fiscal year ments to boost work efficiency and improve the productivity of integrating this activity with diversity promotion, including woming are given active opportunities to suit their abilities and 2016 reached 2.56%. We have expanded these activities into the the entire JAL Group. en’s career advancement and workstyle innovation. experience in an environment that allows them to work over the agricultural field, and now use agricultural produce grown by the long term with a sense of security. Making use of their accumudisabled as ingredients for in-flight meals. By creating an environlated rich experience and knowledge, they contribute to mainment in which everyone, regardless of disability status, can work taining and improving the quality of customer service and together in an atmosphere of mutual respect, we are expanding nurturing aviation professionals. the scope of activities into a wide range of fields. Workstyle Innovation The Workstyle Innovation Promotion Office, established in fiscal year 2014, plays the central role in offering opportunities for At the fully renovated Fukuoka Airport office, frontline and Cabin attendants perform stretch exercises before flight duty back-office departments have merged, significantly improving workstyle reform. These include use of IT tools that allow more communication and information sharing freedom in the way of working, improvement of the office environment, and introduction of telework. To improve work efficiency by streamlining the work process, we will implement This senior specialist works on the frontline of aircraft initiatives in fiscal year 2017 to visualize total work hours, Practicing the JAL Philosophy maintenance to support safety in the skies review work processes, and integrate common tasks. In this TOPICS way, we hope to set up a cycle of accelerated personal growth The awards are open to all JAL Group employees and all Come see Mom and Dad at work! Employment of people with disabilities for speedier decision-making and value creation, leading to employees who handle JAL services and products, including Office tours The JAL Group actively promotes the employment of people with corporate growth. employees of entrusted companies, subcontractors, companies As an initiative to promote Premium Friday, we organized office disabilities, ensuring that individual employees grow day by day in In fiscal year 2016, we set up the IT Service Desk, which we invest in, and other partner companies. tours for family members of an environment that does not see disabilities as barriers to emoffers on-the-spot troubleshooting of problems with IT equipIn fiscal year 2016, a new award was introduced in the Effort employees to visit the office. ployment. In fiscal year 2016, the coffee shop ‘Kilatto,’ run by ment, and a Business Support Center, which provides translation and Ambition category for efforts that contribute significantly to The children enjoyed invigorating the workplace through unwavering efforts and wide-ranging hands-on experiambitious setting of challenging new initiatives and higher goals. ences, from exchanging business cards with the compaCASE STUDY ny president to taking a guided Building a Professional Team with an Ambitious Spirit of Challenge tour, where they saw a differThe JAL Nadeshiko Lab is a cross-departmental project engaged in investigating what is Supporting Employees’ Development Through Come see Mom and Dad at work! ent side of Mom and Dad up needed to ensure that JAL is a company that offers opportunity to all employees. Having Promotion of Health Management Exchanging business cards with an close at work. executive was a valuable experience entered its second year in October 2016, it has further expanded the scope of its activities. In addition to the existing research team, a new team has been formed to carry out The mental and physical health of employees is an essential projects proposed by the researchers in the first year. For example, the new team gave precondition in pursuing the material and intellectual growth of all 2017 Global Summit of Women (GSW) in Tokyo in-house nursing care seminars and distributed nursing care badges. It also regularly employees, as advocated in the JAL Group Corporate Policy. Based The Global Summit of Women for female leaders in business organizes events such as panel discussions with ‘ikubosu’—a term for managers who on this principle, we worked from fiscal year 2012 to enhance and government circles was held in Tokyo and attracted more understand the needs of working parents—and lunchtime networking clubs to promote health in cooperation with employees, society, and health insurthan 1,300 participants from 62 countries. JAL, which has interactions among employees, all of which contribute to women’s career advancement. ance associations through health promotion measures called JAL signed the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs), served as Among other initiatives in fiscal year 2016 was the startup of a new Innovation Lab, A trial of robot-assisted baggage transport at Wellness 2016 in the previous Medium Term Management Plan. the official airline for the Summit, and has supported worldin which 31 enthusiasts from different departments and job categories got together to Fukuoka Airport In fiscal year 2017, JAL’s Executive Vice President was apwide activities for women’s career advancement since 1990. innovate with robots, virtual reality, and other advanced technologies. The Lab has carried pointed Health Management Officer, and under his strong leaderout experimentation and testing with these technologies to explore new business models in collaboration with various companies. ship, enhanced health promotion measures will be implemented Into the future, JAL will continue advancing in a spirit of challenge to deliver fresh under JAL Wellness 2020. We will also support employees who value to customers and realize innovative products and services. 40 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 41 HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY ACHIEVEMENTS VA LU E U P Performance and JAL Group Ratio of Female Managers Strategies by Business (Number of employees) ■ No. of female managers in the JAL Group Ratio of female managers (%) 1,000 25.0 We have been working to 846 promote diversity since fiscal 800 799 20.0 756 year 2014, aiming to become 691 600 15.0 a company where diverse 15.6 16.3 15.1 human resources including 14.1 400 10.0 women can participate. The current number of female 200 5.0 executives is nine. 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 （年度） (FY) Workstyle Innovation Number of telework cases Total work hours (paid vacation/average overtime hours) Ratio of paid holiday taken Monthly average overtime hours (Total number of employees) (%) (Hours) 4,000 100.0 20 84 84 85.5 80.0 3,000 2,922 15 81 60.0 12 11.4 2,000 10 1,729 40.0 1,000 5 The JAL Group has three businesses: 20.0 263 international passenger operations, 0 0 0 domestic passenger operations and 2013 2014 2015 2016 （年度） (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 （年度） (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 （年度） (FY) other businesses. In this section, we review operating performance and outline our strategies for each busiTelework has become accepted as a By encouraging varied workstyles and creating a corporate ethos that is fair to ness in the new Medium Term Manworkstyle that enables employees to employees whose time is limited by duties such as childcare or nursing care, JAL agement Plan. work from anywhere, at any time. It seeks to become a company where all can participate. also allows logging of work time in We advocate a healthy work-life balance that allows all employees to units of hours and working even from perform their duties efficiently in order to improve productivity and use the time outside the home. left over for physical and mental recreation and self-development. We believe At a Glance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 that when these personal and learning experiences are fed back into the workInternational Passenger Operations . . . . 46 place, new value will be created, which will in turn lead to corporate growth. Consequently, we are taking measures to encourage planned taking of paid Domestic Passenger Operations . . . . . . . 48 holiday and to limit work hours to an appropriate level. Other Businesses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51 In fiscal year 2016, the average paid holiday taken was 17 days, or 85.5% of the total entitlement, while in back-office departments the monthly average of Group Companies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 overtime work was 12 hours. In fiscal year 2017, we will strive to achieve our declared targets of 20 days of paid holiday taken (100%), and 1,850 hours of total work time. 42 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 43 I Ⅱ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation AT A GLANCE International Passenger Operations Domestic Passenger Operations Other (JALPAK Co., Ltd., Other (JALPAK Co., Ltd., JAL CARD, Inc., etc.) JAL CARD, Inc., etc.) 14.3 % International routes 14.3 % International routes Fiscal 2016 revenue 40.4 % Fiscal 2016 revenue 40.4 % Domestic routes by category Domestic routes by category 45.3 % 45.3 % Passenger revenues Revenue passengers carried* -0.8% Passenger revenues Revenue passengers carried +1.4% (Billions of yen) (Thousand passengers) vs. fiscal 2015 (Billions of yen) -0.5% (Thousand passengers) vs. fiscal 2015 -7.5% 600.0 9,000 600.0 vs. fiscal 2015 35,000 8,460 8,394 32,114 32,570 31,218 31,644 7,723 7,793 30,020 vs. fiscal 2015 7,525 485.2 487.4 487.5 501.2 498.6 454.8 448.7 437.5 25,000 406.6 415.2 400.0 6,000 400.0 15,000 200.0 3,000 200.0 5,000 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Revenue passenger load factor* Revenue Passenger Kilometers* / Available Seat Kilometers* Revenue passenger load factor* Revenue Passenger Kilometers* / Available Seat Kilometers* +0.8% +0.1% (%) (Million passenger km / Million seat km) (%) (Million passenger km / Million seat km) 90.0 60,000 80.0 60,000 vs. fiscal 2015 vs. fiscal 2015 -1.2% 50,563 50,621 +0.9% +0.6pt vs. fiscal 2015 47,696 85.0 vs. fiscal 2015 40,000 44,745 46,235 40,305 40,633 75.0 +1.4% 40,000 vs. fiscal 2015 35,390 36,109 vs. fiscal 2015 36,443 37,084 36,306 35,869 35,423 34,036 80.3 80.0 79.7 70.0 69.3 67.9 23,012 23,745 23,993 24,341 24,550 76.1 76.5 20,000 66.1 20,000 75.7 75.0 65.0 64.0 63.1 70.0 0 60.0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) ■Revenue Passenger Kilometers ■Available Seat Kilometers ■Revenue Passenger Kilometers ■Available Seat Kilometers * From fiscal year 2015, revenue passengers carried, revenue passenger kilometers, available seat kilometers, and revenue passenger load factor include code-share tickets sold by other companies for JAL-operated flights. 44 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 45 I Ⅱ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation INTERNATIONAL PASSENGER OPERATIONS We are strengthening cooperation with oneworld alliance members and other International Cargo We will also expand the number of routes with JAL SKY Import and export cargo SUITE-configured aircraft and increase market share, mainly by airline partners to create an even more convenient route network connecting volume handled by JAL cargo focusing on expected stable demand from business passengers, Japan and the world. We are also rolling out high-quality, full-service JAL SKY operations increased from the and maintain high load factors to support passenger unit revenue. SUITE-configured aircraft to lift the levels of inflight convenience and comfort. second quarter of fiscal year In fiscal year 2017, the first year of the new Medium Term 2016, reflecting rising global Management Plan, we forecast continued strong demand on demand for semiconductors outbound and inbound routes. Against this backdrop, we aim to amid advances in IoT and further increase yields using our revenue management system Medium Term Management Plan – Growth Strategy Fiscal 2016 Results self-driving technologies. As a Special thermal storage and vacuum while maintaining high load factors. insulation materials keep the result, revenue cargo ton We are continuing to expand our route network. In April temperature inside containers steady Expanding our routes and network to improve customer In fiscal year 2016, we actively worked to tap buoyant inbound kilometers rose 9.5% from the at around 5˚C 2017 we launched a new route between Haneda and New York, convenience demand for international flights. Outbound demand from Japan previous fiscal year. which improved connections to North America from domestic We aim to increase customer convenience by improving our was also strong. We also added new products to our lineup, including the JAL airports. We will also add a new Narita = Melbourne route on route network, including addressing an expected increase in To address rising demand, we added more flights on CARGO Charter Service, which provides transport services using September 1, 2017 and a Narita = Kona route on September 15. demand for connections for flights originating in North America Hawaii routes (Narita = Honolulu, Kansai = Honolulu) and on freighters chartered from and operated by our partner carriers, and The Japan–Australia Economic Partnership Agreement (Japanand Southeast Asia. We will also work more closely with our the Narita = Bangkok route. In partnerships with other carriers, a new version of our fixed-temperature airfreight container. Australia EPA) came into effect from 2015. Our new route to joint business partners and other companies to create useful China Airlines expanded its code-share arrangement to all Melbourne, Australia’s second biggest city in terms of populanetwork services. Taking advantage of the expected increase in flights between Japan and Taiwan, while Russian airline S7, a tion, will seek to capitalize on closer ties between the two flight slots at Tokyo metropolitan airports in 2020, we will member of the oneworld alliance, increased its code-share Medium Term Management Plan and Outlook countries. The new route to Kona, the gateway to the Island of optimize this business opportunity by building a highly conveflights to a total of 19, extending the reach of our global route for Fiscal Year 2017 Hawaii famed for its natural beauty, will be our second direct nient route network. network. destination in Hawaii. In marketing and services, we upgraded the Sakura Lounge Under the new Medium Term Management Plan, we plan to In marketing and services, we renewed our online JAL Welcoming Customers into Comfortable Cabins at Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi International Airport to improve increase capacity on international routes at an average annual Guide to Japan, providing information about Japan through We are introducing aircraft with our new JAL SKY SUITE configcomfort for passengers. We also set up the “On Trip JAL” rate of 5%, in line with market growth. By 2020, we plan to JAL’s worldwide websites, in March 2017. We also added uration, which offers fully-flat Business Class seats and “New website to offer travel tips and seasonal travel information. increase available seat kilometers (ASK) by 23% compared with Korean and Thai language support to the guide’s smartphone Spacious Economy” seats, on Europe, North America, and We aim to spur demand for travel by showcasing the attracthe fiscal year 2016 level. Demand for flights originating in site, bringing the total number of languages to nine (English, Honolulu routes. The new configuration will also be introduced tiveness of each region with interesting and detailed content overseas markets is projected to grow at a rapid pace. We will Simplified Chinese, Hong Kong Traditional Chinese, Taiwan onto medium-haul routes. about possible destinations. actively target that demand, aiming to lift the ratio of inbound Traditional Chinese, French, German, Russian, Korean, Thai) In products, we are gradually introducing aircraft fitted passenger demand to around 50% of total demand in internaaiming to showcase Japan in overseas markets and stimulate Leveraging JAL’s Strengths to Attract More Overseas with the JAL SKY SUITE configuration onto more routes. tional passenger operations by fiscal year 2020. inbound demand. Customers The new configuration has fully-flat seats when reclined with We aim to attract more overseas customers to the JAL Brand by unobstructed aisle access in Business Class and “New Spacious actively conducting sales promotions to raise brand visibility and Economy” seats with more room than the industry norm in TOPICS by building a stronger business base, including reinforcing and Economy Class. Aircraft with this configuration have recently New Narita = Melbourne, Narita = Kona Routes Added expanding our online services. been added to routes between Kansai and Honolulu and between Chubu and Honolulu. JAL will launch flights between Narita and Melbourne on SeptemThe route to Kona on the Island of Hawaii, a popular destinaber 1, 2017 and between Narita and Kona on September 15. tion in the Hawaii archipelago, will mark the start of JAL flights to Melbourne is Australia’s second most populous city and is Kona Airport for the first time in nearly seven years since October growing rapidly. Many Japanese companies are already based in 2010. The Island of Hawaii, also known as the Big Island, is a highly Melbourne, but with the start of the Japan-Australia EPA in appealing destination with a stunning natural environment. The January 2015, ties between the two countries are set to become new route will give first-time visitors to Hawaii the urge to return even closer. Our new route to Melbourne, along with our existing again, while customers who have only experienced Honolulu will route to Sydney, will strengthen the JAL network in Oceania. have the opportunity to see a different side of Hawaii. First Class / JAL SUITE Business Class / JAL SKY SUITE III Upgraded Sakura Lounge at Suvarnabhumi International Airport Premium Economy Class / Economy Class / JAL SKY WIDER JAL customers can now fly to Melbourne and Kona from Narita JAL SKY PREMIUM 46 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 47 I Ⅱ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation DOMESTIC PASSENGER OPERATIONS We are increasing convenience and simplicity with JAL SKY NEXT configured airroutes. On routes to outlying islands in Kagoshima Prefecture operated by Japan Air Commuter Co., Ltd. we will introduce the craft. Our focus is on improving convenience for passengers by adding more seradvanced ATR42-600 turboprop. vices such as in-flight Wi-Fi. We are also playing our part in revitalizing regional In product initiatives, we started providing Japan’s only free economies as a regional partner and by providing vital links for residents in outlyin-flight Wi-Fi service on flights operated with JAL SKY NEXTconfigured aircraft. We also plan to progressively introduce JAL ing islands and regional cities through our extensive domestic network. SKY NEXT configuration on the 737-800 fleet operated by Japan Transocean Air Co., Ltd. In marketing, we introduced an innovative new mileage Diamond Premier Lounge at New Chitose Airport Medium Term Management Plan – Growth Strategy calendar effects of the Silver Week holidays in September. As a award service called Go Somewhere with Miles. The service, result, revenue passengers carried increased from the previous which has been very popular with customers since its launch in * 777-300, 777-200, 767-300 and 737-800 (excluding aircraft operated by Japan Our domestic passenger operations face a major risk from Japan’s year. However, passenger unit revenue declined amid the chalTransocean Air Co., Ltd.) December 2016, is designed to stimulate the domestic travel shrinking working age population. However, we see new lenging market climate, leading to a drop in passenger revenue. market by encouraging growth opportunities ahead, such as rising inbound demand in To help the Kumamoto region recover from the earthcustomers to discover new 6 , 0 0 0 マ イ ル で羽 the lead-up to the 2020 Olympics and Paralympics in Tokyo. To quakes, we provided full support for recovery efforts. We Outlook for Fiscal 2017 destinations in Japan on 田・伊 丹 発 国 内 線特典航空券( 往復)に交換 adequately address major changes in the operating environment offered specially reduced fares on flights to and from Kyushu in routes from Haneda Airand generate steady growth, we will focus on two key strategies response to increased demand for flights to Kyushu in order to In fiscal year 2017, the first year of our new Medium Term port. The final destination in the new Medium Term Management Plan. return home, help as volunteers, or such, and provided free Management Plan, we expect the market climate to be more is selected by JAL, but First, we will maintain and enhance our high-value-added transport of relief supplies and volunteer groups heading to challenging due to new routes launched by other carriers and customers need less than services. During the previous Medium Term Management Plan affected regions. We also launched a marketing campaign to increased price competition. In response, we will assign aircraft half the normal number of (fiscal 2012 – 2016), we worked to refine our full-service carrier stimulate recovery in tourism demand in the Hokkaido region, to meet demand and strive to boost profitability. We will also required miles to qualify for business. We implemented a variety of initiatives to achieve that which was hit by successive typhoons. The campaign included extend initiatives implemented through to fiscal year 2016 to domestic reward tickets. goal, such as introducing JAL SKY NEXT-configured aircraft tie-ups with travel companies to provide special products during realize high-value-added services that support our position as a The new service was featuring genuine leather seats and LED cabin lighting, and the the campaign period, as well as other initiatives to encourage full-service carrier. expanded to Itami Airport first in-flight Wi-Fi service on domestic routes. These initiatives travel throughout Hokkaido. In route operations, we aim to increase convenience and routes from April 2017 as 詳細は どこか に マ イル 検索 were welcomed by customers. We will continue to extend these In product initiatives, we completed the revamp of all comfort on our regional network. We plan to further increase part of efforts to offer new Go Somewhere with Miles is an initiatives under the new plan in conjunction with stepped up applicable JAL SKY NEXT aircraft* which were launched in May routes operated with the Embraer 190, centered on Itami value to JAL customers. innovative new mileage award service efforts to create new value, such as the introduction of the new 2014. We began to offer in-flight Wi-Fi services for free aboard A350 and upgraded in-flight Wi-Fi services. Our goal is to set JAL SKY NEXT-operated flights, helping to create a more enjoyable our services apart from those of our competitors to ensure and comfortable in-flight experience for domestic passengers. customers continue to choose JAL. On Itami routes, we improved product competitiveness TOPICS Second, we will work to generate new demand. We face with the introduction of the Embraer 190, which is the first Overseas Marketing Campaigns to Generate New Demand the real risk of contraction in the domestic travel market. To regional jet in our fleet to be equipped with a Class J cabin. The number of international visitors to Japan continues to grow In fiscal year 2017, we will create even more opportunities achieve stable growth in these conditions, we need to create In airport services, we raised the quality of services at strongly. In 2016, 24.03 million people visited Japan, exceeding for overseas customers to experience regional Japan. We will new sources of growth to compensate for falling demand. domestic airport lounges. We fully renovated Sakura Lounges at the record set in 2015. To attract more overseas visitors to continue to use the Japan Explorer Pass to stimulate demand, Specifically, we will implement initiatives to attract more interNew Chitose, Naha, Fukuoka and Hiroshima airports, added regional Japan, we began offering Japan Explorer Pass airfares create highly convenient systems to encourage wider use of national visitors to Japan and extend our reach from the domesnew Diamond Premier Lounges, the top-class lounge for domestic online from fiscal year 2015. Customers can now buy these domestic routes, and upgrade content and services on our new tic market into overseas markets. We plan to set airfares and passengers, at New Chitose, Itami and Fukuoka airports, and tickets on overseas JAL websites in 22 countries and regions Explore Japan website. launch marketing campaigns that encourage more people to improved the food and beverage menu and service hours. worldwide with multiple language support. We also set up the enjoy the charms of all Japan’s regions, not just its major cities “Explore Japan” promotional website, which provides tourist information about regional Japan and a range of other useful and famous tourist spots, which will lead to growth in the content such as booking services for hotels, traditional Japanese number of visitors and revitalize regional economies. inns, tours, activities and transport through one convenient By implementing those two key strategies, we aim to overcome website. In addition to showcasing the charms of regional tough competition in the market and generate stable growth. Japan, the site is a one-stop portal for travel services, allowing visitors to seamlessly organize accommodation and travel experiences in Japan. Fiscal 2016 Results Promotional website Explore Japan In fiscal year 2016, we took steps to stimulate demand to W EB jal.japantravel.com/ counter the impact of the Kumamoto earthquakes and negative Embraer 190 equipped with a Class J cabin 48 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 49 I Ⅱ Ⅳ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation OTHER BUSINESSES JAL GROUP AIRLINES Businesses in this segment are working to increase the JAL Group’s corporate value by improving convenience for customers. Financial results for the two main companies in this segment were as follows: Maintaining Vital Air Links to Revitalize J-AIR Co., Ltd. (J-AIR) JALPAK Co., Ltd. JAL CARD, Inc. Regional Economies The JAL Group’s principal member airline covering regional routes, JALPAK Co., Ltd. worked to increase sales by rapidly launching new JAL CARD, Inc. stepped up efforts to sign up new members, running Our regional network provides vital transport links to residents in J-AIR is based at Osaka International Airport (Itami) and operates products, offering more high-value-added products and conducting effective marketing campaigns using online advertising and direct mail, regional cities and outlying islands. JAL Group airlines are progres198* daily flights on 31 routes in a network connecting various well-timed marketing campaigns to match changing demand. Also, to and accepting credit card applications at airports and other locations sively switching from propeller aircraft to regional jets on regional regions to meet customer needs. The company is introducing the capture growing inbound demand, the company began sales of the using tablet devices. As a result of these efforts, the number of routes to improve comfort and convenience for customers using our new Embraer 190 with a Class J cabin and expanding its regional JAL Visit Japan Dynamic Package for overseas visitors to Japan. members as of March 31, 2017 totaled 3,272,000, an increase of regional network. We are committed to contributing to regional network to remain competitive and continue expanding as a regional In fiscal year 2016, JALPAK handled 241,000 customers traveling 143,000 from the end of the previous fiscal year. To improve communicommunities and revitalization projects through our highly conveairline. J-AIR is also actively supporting regional communities, such as to overseas destinations, down 0.6% from the previous fiscal year. cation with customers, we upgraded “MyJALCARD,” a dedicated nient network and high-quality services. running flight experience Despite upgrades to the smartphone online booking system to improve online service that customers can access after enrollment, and enevents and airline classes usability and active promotion of Business Class and Premium Econohanced the service menu for members. The number of transactions for children from areas my Class tickets, passenger numbers declined year on year amid weak was firm, supported by an increase in retail partners offering double Japan Transocean Air Co., Ltd. (JTA) affected by earthquakes. demand for trips to Europe and a drop in available seats on flights to miles on purchases and initiatives to enroll or encourage members to * As of June 2017 Honolulu due to the introduction of new aircraft. The number of switch to more prestigious cards. As a result, operating revenue Established as Southwest Air Lines in 1967 before the return of domestic customers handled was 2,510,000, up 3.3% from the (before elimination of intercompany transactions) was steady at 20.4 Okinawa to Japan, JTA has been providing vital air links to Okinawa previous fiscal year. Growth was supported by a campaign promoting billion yen. Also, for the second consecutive year, JAL CARD was residents for 50 years. In addition to connecting Okinawa’s main cheaper JAL airfares to Kyushu, stepped up sales and procurement ranked top for Recommendation Intention and Meeting Customer island and outlying islands, JTA operates 70 scheduled flights each Hokkaido Air System Co., Ltd. (HAC) activities, and effective online marketing. As a result, operating Expectations in the credit card category of the 2016 Japanese Customday on 13 routes between Okinawa and Haneda, Chubu, Kansai, revenue (before elimination of intercompany transactions) increased er Satisfaction Index (JCSI) survey. We also received the highest ranking Komatsu, Okayama, and Fukuoka airports with a fleet of 12 737 HAC was established in September 1997 to provide convenient air 0.2% year on year to 172.5 billion yen. for “Awareness of Quality,” highlighting JAL CARD’s good reputation aircraft. Targeting inbound demand, JTA offers the highest level of links to destinations across Hokkaido Prefecture. The airline is In fiscal year 2017, we will continue to listen to customer with customers. service in the JAL Group combined with a hint of Okinawa culture. marking its 20th anniversary in 2017. HAC currently has a fleet of feedback and make booking systems more user-friendly to respond We will continue to work on improving customer satisfaction in The airline is also doing its three SAAB 340B aircraft, which operate 26 daily flights linking accurately to diversifying customer needs, aiming to provide a pleasant fiscal year 2017 by actively offering new services and enhancing the part to support the regional Hakodate, Kushiro, Rishiri Island, and Misawa with Okadama Airport travel experience that customers can only enjoy with JALPAK. We will appeal of our mileage award program. economy by widely promotin Sapporo, and Okushiri with Hakodate Airport. The airline will also continue to implement new initiatives to attract as many overseas ing Okinawa as an appealcontinue to focus on flight safety to maintain support from Hokkaido visitors to Japan as possible. ing destination for tourists. residents while working to attract more private and small group customers, in addition to business travelers. HAC will also do its part to support Japan Air Commuter Co., Ltd. (JAC) the development of the regional economy and JAC was established to initially operate flights on four routes linking communities in Hokkaido. the Amami Islands. The airline, which marks its 34th anniversary in 2017, is committed to its mission of maintaining and enhancing the regional network centered on Kagoshima and vital air links with Ryukyu Air Commuter Co., Ltd. (RAC) isolated islands. Today, JAC operates flights on 22 routes, mainly serving outlying islands in Western Japan, such as Tanegashima, A regional airline celebrating its 32nd anniversary in 2017, RAC provides Yakushima, and the Amami Islands, as well as destinations such convenient connections to outlying islands in the Okinawa region. Based as Oki and Tajima. The airline is working to improve customer at Naha Airport on the main island of Okinawa, the airline operates convenience by introducing the advanced ATR42-600 turboprop onto between 41 and 43 daily flights on 12 routes, with connections to the routes from 2017 and islands of Amami Oshima and Yoronjima to the north, Minamidaitojima adding a new service and Kitadaitojima to the east, Kumejima to the west, and Miyakojima, linking Tokunoshima, Taramajima, Ishigakijima, and Yonagunijima in the Sakishima chain to Okinoerabu (stopover) and the southwest. The airline is working to improve convenience for Naha on Okinawa from customers and businesses fiscal year 2018. in outlying islands, encouraging more tourists to visit the islands and focusing on contributing to local industries. 50 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 51 GROUP COMPANIES A Business Base that Supports Value Creation The JAL Group comprises Japan Airlines Co., Ltd., 81 subsidiaries (52 consolidated subsidiaries) and 56 affiliated companies (13 equity-method affiliates) supplying a range of air transport products and services to customers and business partners. Air Transport Business Segment Other Segments JAL, 27 consolidated subsidiaries, three non-consoli25 consolidated subsidiaries, 26 non-consolidated dated subsidiaries and three equity-method affiliates subsidiaries, 10 equity-method affiliates and 43 non-equity method affiliates Main Companies Main Companies Air Transport Business Maintenance JAPAN TRANSOCEAN AIR CO., LTD. JAL AIRTECH CO., LTD. JAPAN AIR COMMUTER CO., LTD. J-AIR CO., LTD. HOKKAIDO AIR SYSTEM CO., LTD. Passenger Sales RYUKYU AIR COMMUTER CO., LTD. JALPAK CO., LTD. JAL SALES CO., LTD. Airport Passenger Handling JAL SKY CO., LTD. Cargo JALSKY SAPPORO CO., LTD. JUPITER GLOBAL, LTD. JALSKY OSAKA CO., LTD. JALSKY KYUSHU CO., LTD. JAL SKY AIRPORT OKINAWA COMPANY, LTD. Airport-Related Business JAL ABC, INC. The JAL Group strives to create OKINAWA FUELING FACILITIES CO., LTD. sustainable value in order to realize Ground Handling its Corporate Policy. In this section, JAL GROUND SERVICE CO., LTD. we look at the steps JAL is taking to Others achieve that goal and explain the JAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. Group’s business base. Maintenance AXESS INTERNATIONAL NETWORK, INC. JAL ENGINEERING CO., LTD. JAL CARD, INC. JAL MAINTENANCE SERVICE CO., LTD. JAL Group CSR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 Compliance / Risk Management. . . . . . . 66 Cargo JAL CARGO SERVICE CO., LTD. Corporate Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 JAL KANSAI AIRCARGO SYSTEM CO., LTD. JAL CARGO SERVICE KYUSHU CO., LTD. Our External Directors Discuss JAL . . . . . 72 Board of Directors and Officers . . . . . . . 76 Passenger Sales Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 JAL NAVIA CO., LTD. JAL MILEAGE BANK CO., LTD. Audit & Supervisory Board Members. . . 79 Executive Officers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 Airport-Related Business JAL ROYAL CATERING CO., LTD. 52 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 53 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation JAL GROUP CSR Flight safety is the foundation and social responsibility of the JAL Group. The JAL Group’s Key CSR Issues (Materiality) highest priority in our CSR activities is to ensure the safe operation of every flight. Ensuring flight safety is the Group’s universal priority issue. therefore used ISO 26000 and SDGs to identify the Group’s This is also the basis of our corporate value. In addition to ensuring flight safety, Issues facing society are always changing due to developthree key issues (materiality) – Coexist with the Earth, Contribour mission is to communicate the JAL Group’s firm commitment to safety and our ments in society and the environment. The JAL Group has ute to Communities, and Nurture Future Generations. safety initiatives to the society, while striving to realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy by resolving various issues facing society. JAL Group Basic CSR Policy Coexist with the Earth Contribute to Communities Nurture Future Generations The JAL Group will engage in corporate social responsibility of Japan” to meet society’s expectations and solve social issues activities through its core air transport business as the “Wings to create a better society for the next generation. JAL Group Corporate Policy The JAL Group will: Pursue the material and intellectual growth of all our employees; Deliver unparalleled service to customers; and Increase corporate value and contribute to the betterment of society. Promote initiatives across P.56 P.60 P.62 the JAL Group Leverage the advantages of Coexist with Implement Group-wide initiatives targeting our core air transport business the Earth three CSR issues, cooperating with Group businesses as necessary. Work to solve social issues through the air Solve transport business, with top priority on social Material CSR Issue Selection Process ensuring flight safety. issues Contribute to Communities STEP 1 Identify social issues Use ISO 260000, SDGs, and other international guidelines to identify social issues Business CSR Non-business Make a broad contribution to CSR society as a member of society STEP 2 Prioritize issues Nurture Future As a member of society, we will communicate Pinpoint material issues for stakeholders and the JAL Group, and select those that should be tackled first. Generations the JAL Group’s firm commitment to safety and its safety initiatives, while working to resolve a broad range of issues facing society. JAL Philosophy Set KPIs and implement initiatives STEP 3 Set key performance indicators (KPIs) for the selected issues and implement concrete initiatives under the JAL Group Focus on JAL’s unique strengths Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2017 – 2020. Develop initiatives and create value that only JAL can deliver through efforts that embody the JAL Philosophy, the basis of shared awareness, values, and thinking of all Group employees. ■ Basis for Selection of Material Issues CSR Management [ Stakeholder perspective ] [ JAL Group perspective ] CSR Promotion Framework The JAL Group CSR Committee meets every six months, leading ● Requirements in international guidelines ● JAL Philosophy Group efforts to build a better society and create a sustainable ● Dialog with internal and external stakeholders ● JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years Board of Directors future. The committee is tasked with understanding current 2017 – 2020 (JAL Vision) social expectations of the JAL Group, identifying issues, and President developing appropriate responses, while referring to ISO 26000 and the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Corporate Brand Promotion Council The effective implementation of this PDCA cycle is used to improve and promote our CSR activities. CSR Committee 54 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 55 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation JAL GROUP CSR Coexist with the Earth JAL Group Stance on Coexist with the Earth CONTRAIL Project – using passenger aircraft in atmospheric Atmospheric observation project with Tohoku University Aviation Biofuel observations The JAL Group supports Tohoku University’s greenhouse gas The JAL Group views environmental protection as an important The JAL Group is part of the CONTRAIL Project, run jointly by research project, which uses JAL aircraft to make atmospheric Many countries are developing aviation biofuel as a highly issue. We have developed guidelines highlighting areas that the the National Institute for Environmental Studies, the Meteoroobservations. Since 1979, the Center for Atmospheric and effective way of achieving large reductions in CO2 emissions. Group needs to tackle and created related action plans. The JAL logical Research Institute, JAMCO CORPORATION, and the JAL Oceanic Studies at Tohoku University’s Graduate School of Aviation biofuel is projected to be widely used worldwide from Group’s approach to environmental issues is summed up in our Foundation. The project, which aims to improve our understandScience has been conducting research into global changes in 2030, but commercial aviation biofuel is already being produced Environmental Guidelines and concrete initiatives are translated ing of the mechanisms of global warming, uses JAL’s scheduled greenhouse gases, using monthly scheduled domestic flights in the US. Unlike the US, Japan does not have sufficient land to into Action Plans. international flights. Automated observation equipment and operated by the JAL Group* to measure CO2 concentrations in grow plants to make aviation biofuel. However, using municipal manual pumps operated by researchers on board the aircraft are the atmosphere. The program, which has been running for more waste and other waste materials has significant cost advantages Environmental Guidelines and concrete initiatives used to take air samples. By observing conditions in the upper than 30 years, has been gradually expanded to include other in Japan in terms of raw material procurement and transportaW EB www.jal.com/en/csr/environment/vision/ atmosphere, researchers can understand the distribution, gases such as methane and nitrous oxide. This project is now the tion. We view waste materials as the most promising option for movement, and seasonal changes of greenhouse gases. Superworld’s longest study of greenhouse gas using aircraft. Flights manufacturing low-cost aviation biofuel in Japan and believe computers have been used to conduct advanced analysis of are currently operated by JAL Group subsidiary J-AIR Co., Ltd. JAL has a vital role to play in actively driving development by Low-Carbon Initiatives gathered data since 1993, leading to a better understanding of * Flights initially operated by Toa Domestic Airlines, then Japan Air System (JAS) prior to bringing related companies together. the world’s carbon cycle and enabling researchers to make its merger with Japan Airlines. Our roadmap envisages commercial flights powered by The vast majority of JAL’s CO2 emissions are generated from fuel highly accurate long-term forecasts of climate change on a domestic aviation biofuel by 2020 and full-scale commercial used by our aircraft. We are implementing a range of initiatives global scale. The CONTRAIL Project also provides information Monitoring forest fires production from 2030. To achieve this timeline, we will particito reduce CO2 emissions. that will be useful for our planet in the future, such as the The JAL Group is cooperating with a project run by the Japan pate in Japanese industry-government-academia teams and development of measures to reduce global warming and adAerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) to monitor large-scale actively drive development, aiming to significantly reduce CO2 Tackling climate change dress climate change. Moreover, there are hopes that the project forest fires using satellites, as part of efforts to protect the emissions from aircraft and contribute to global efforts to create As part of our response to climate change, we are working to will provide a scientific basis for developing national strategies global environment and prevent disasters caused by fire. The a recycling-based society. reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in our air transport on emissions trading schemes by providing accurate data on the project was launched in 2003 by researchers at Hokkaido business, such as actively introducing fuel-efficient aircraft into volume and distribution of greenhouse gas emissions. University. JAL Group flight crew report any fires seen from the Process of converting waste to aviation biofuel our fleet in line with business plans. In daily flight operations, cockpit to the research team, which uses the information to our flight crews execute Eco Flight operations through intelliAircraft with a project logo improve the accuracy of forest fire detection satellites. Chemical Gasification synthesis Fuel conversion Pure gent operational choices and timing while ensuring flight safety. (gasification Hybrid gas (Fischerprocess aviation furnace) Tropsch (upgrading) biofuel We also optimize aircraft loads such as fuel and onboard con+ conditioning reaction) sumables to reduce aircraft weight. We actively reduce the Raw material Conversion to (waste material) Production of ethanol environmental impact of ground support equipment (power, air using fungus aviation fuel (alcohol-to-jet fuel) conditioning equipment) for aircraft at airports and the Engineering & Maintenance Division regularly cleans aircraft engines Production of ethanol Cellulose (paper) to restore fuel efficiency. These are just some of the many CONTRAIL Project logo separation using saccharification and fermentation Distillation initiatives deployed across our business, from flight operations to maintenance, to reduce CO2 emissions. Raw material Conversion to Production of ethanol The JAL Group also uses its unique position as an airline to (waste material) using fungus aviation fuel (alcohol-to-jet fuel) help realize a low-carbon society and meet public expectations A Siberian forest fire seen from the cockpit on a JAL flight about the environment. We have been a committed long-term participant in the CONTRAIL Project, a joint research project involving various public research groups that takes advantage of the broad reach and high frequency of flights by commercial Automatic air Sampling aircraft to conduct atmospheric observations. We also support Equipment (ASE) research aimed at improving the accuracy of satellite systems used to monitor large-scale forest fires. JAL is also part of a joint industry-government-academia project working to develop and introduce domestic aviation biofuel. The project team, which is made up entirely of Japanese organizations, is working to use biofuel on commercial flights in time for the 2020 Olympics and Paralympics in Tokyo, aiming to help create a low-carbon, sustainable society. CONTRAIL Project W EB www.jal.com/ja/contrail/ 56 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 57 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation JAL GROUP CSR Eco-First Commitment priority issues. We will continue to implement our Sky Eco Reducing Waste Saving Water Resources program, which aims to ensure the Earth and its abundant As an airline responsible for a vital part of public infrastructure, resources are passed on to future generations so that they can The JAL Group is working to realize a recycling-based society and The JAL Group is working to reduce its use of water amid rising protect the environment by ensuring the effective use of the Earth’s concern about water resources worldwide. In fiscal year 2016, we the JAL Group is fully aware of its responsibility to the global continue to view and enjoy our beautiful planet from the skies. limited natural resources. By promoting the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) reduced water usage by 0.9% year on year by reusing waste water environment. We are therefore working to step up our environand reducing waste, we are targeting a final disposal rate of less than and implementing water-saving measures. mental initiatives. In 2010, we fulfilled our Eco-First Commit2% for industrial waste generated by our domestic business sites. In In particular, we are focusing on efficient use of water at our ment, leading to official certification as an Eco-First Company. fiscal year 2016, the total volume of waste declined 1.1% year on year aircraft maintenance facilities, which use large volumes of water. By We also joined the Eco-First Promotion Council in fiscal year and the final disposal rate improved 0.1 percentage points. As a result, washing more aircraft by hand, we have reduced water usage by 40% 2016. Controlling the environmental impact of our operations we achieved our final disposal rate target of less than 2%. compared with automated aircraft cleaning equipment used previously. and protecting the environment remains one of the JAL Group’s To reduce waste from our operations while also improving In maintenance procedures and parts cleaning processes, our maintebusiness efficiency, we have ended the use of paper manuals for flight nance teams use large amounts of pure water. Approximately 240m3 of crews and cabin crews and replaced them with digital manuals in pure water is recycled and recirculated daily by our reprocessing facilities. iPads. We are also promoting paperless meetings as part of workstyle Engine water washing innovation. New workstyles such as hot-desking have resulted in Water use (Japan) Minute atmospheric dust particles accumulate in aircraft engines during flight. Engines take in and surplus office equipment, which is reused and recycled, to help reduce (Thousands of m3) 500 compress air in the combustion process, causing accumulated dust to reduce fuel efficiency, which the Group’s environmental impact (around 56 tons of equipment was 454 452 445 Maintenance reused or recycled in fiscal year 2016). 430 426 leads to higher CO2 emissions. We regularly wash the interior of engines with water, removing any 400 We are also recycling cabin waste based on standardized procedust and dirt and restoring engine performance, which improves fuel efficiency by around 1%. dures for beverage cans, newspapers, in-flight magazines and plastic 300 This process is conducted at intervals of 200 to 300 days for the Boeing 777 (PW4000 engine), bottles. The JAL Group also continues to work with the International 767 (CF6 engine) and 737-800 (CFM56 engine). Air Transport Association (IATA) and airport operators on comprehen200 sive initiatives to dispose in-flight waste. Reduced use of auxiliary power unit (APU) and closure of window shades Every year, we recover around 800 tons of cargo packing materials 100 Closing window shades blocks out sunlight, lowers cabin temperatures, and reduces use of (polyethylene sheets), which are recycled to make plastic products such While parked 0 air-conditioning. This shortens the operating time of the APU at the rear of the aircraft, reducing as fencing stakes and gardening supplies. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016（年度） (FY) CO2 emissions. Also, when the JAL Group switched to new uniforms in 2013, we recovered around 180 tons of old uniforms and supplied them to recycling facilities for materials recycling. The uniforms were ultimately CONTRAIL Project using passenger aircraft for atmospheric observations / reporting Reducing Electricity Use used to make thermal and noise insulation materials for vehicle interiors. forest fires, and helping Tohoku University with atmospheric observations In flight We participate in several projects run by external research bodies, contributing to society by using The JAL Group is working to reduce energy consumption at its ground facilities (offices, workshops, etc.) We have been introducing LED lights the unique characteristics of our aircraft while ensuring flight safety. and other types of energy-saving lighting at our maintenance facilities (hangars, docks), helping to reduce the Group’s domestic electricity Use of continuous descent operations (CDO) use by 5.8% year on year to 113 million kWh in fiscal year 2016. During descent Our flight crews actively use a sloped descent approach called CDO to reduce CO2 emissions, only Also, in fiscal year 2016, we were awarded certification as an when safety criteria and other specified conditions are met. Excellent Operator for Energy Conservation (S-Class) by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for the second consecutive year. Going Reduced flap, delayed flap & delayed landing gear and idle reverse initiatives forward, we will continue to implement initiatives that reduce the To prevent an unnecessary increase in air resistance, our flight crews reduce the use of flaps Group’s impact on the environment as part of our efforts to create a Polyethylene sheets used as cargo packing materials sustainable society. (devices at the back of the main wings designed to increase lift) and delay deployment of At landing landing gear and flaps, while ensuring safety at all times. Reverse thrust is employed when Total waste volume and final disposal rate (Japan) Electricity use (Japan) engines are idling, only when specified runway conditions are met. These approaches help to (Tons) (Millions of kWh) lower CO 2 emissions. 5,000 2.5 200 4,327 Engine out taxi – use of only one engine on the ground 4,000 2.0 3,720 150 3,415 3,475 3,436 134 While taxiing When taxiing to parking spots, our flight crews shut down one of the aircraft’s two engines to 129 125 3,000 1.5 120 113 reduce CO2 emissions, only when specified conditions are met. 1.2 1.2 1.2 100 2,000 0.9 1.1 1.0 50 1,000 0.5 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016（年度） (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016（年度） (FY) ■ Total waste volume Final disposal rate 58 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 59 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation JAL GROUP CSR Contribute to Communities Our Stance on Supporting Communities part in volunteer activities, such as harvesting rice cultivated In initiatives to support innovation in agricultural and with spring water that emerged after the earthquake near Ubu marine products, we ran promotional campaigns for rice and Our aviation business connects people and helps to spread Shrine in Aso City. JAL will continue to run programs that products made with Japanese indigo (ai) from Aomori Prefecture Japanese culture around the world. provide support to the region. in conjunction with the start of the JAL NEW-JAPAN PROJECT. Through the JAL Group’s core air transport business, we In April 2017, one year after the earthquakes, we invited We also promoted Seiten no Hekireki – Aomori Prefecture’s first are harnessing our unique position and strengths as an airline to elementary school children from Kumamoto Prefecture to take A-grade rice brand – in JAL’s international lounges at Haneda implement activities that contribute to society. Guided by the part in airline classes and flight experiences called Ashita no and Narita airports, explaining the story behind the brand’s JAL Group Basic CSR Policy, our initiatives are designed to bring Tsubasa (Wings of Tomorrow) at Aso Kumamoto Airport. The development and offering samples for tasting, which proved people together, revitalize regional economies, and support classes are designed to give children – society’s future leaders popular with passengers. Sending relief supplies to the area affected by the Kumamoto earthquakes industry, as well as support communities worldwide. – an opportunity to think about future career prospects by A PR team was also set up in Aomori Prefecture to progiving them deeper insight into work in the field of aviation and mote Seiten no Hekireki. These efforts led to a three-fold their hometowns, and by motivating them to set and strive to increase in rice fields and rice harvested over the previous fiscal Helping Communities Recover from Disasters reach their goals. The classes are run by JAL Group volunteers. year. Targeting the health food properties of Japanese indigo, a species of flowering plant that is also used as dye, we teamed The JAL Group helps regions and communities recover from major up with a company called Aomori Ai, which is developing disasters. One initiative is JAL’s VISIT TOHOKU! Campaign, a regionrelated products, to create a type of cake called financier al support project. The project is a way of expressing the JAL containing Japanese indigo. JAL serves these cakes to passenGroup’s gratitude to society by supporting the Tohoku region from gers during flights and they are also available for purchase on a broad perspective, such as promoting regional industries and tourthe JAL Group website. Passengers on JAL’s international flights ism and helping communities recover from the earthquake. can buy a deodorant spray that makes use of the antibacterial Water donated to the drought-affected Republic of Palau JAL is also a partner in the Tohoku Cotton Project, properties of Japanese indigo. The spray is exclusive to JAL and an earthquake disaster recovery projected launched in 2011 by the packaging is designed by JAL and Aomori Ai. These products agricultural corporations, apparel firms and other companies in illustrate the steady progress we are making in supporting Families enjoy trips to Okinawa through the JAL Gifts of Smiles Project the affected region. JAL Group volunteers actively support JAL NEW-JAPAN PROJECT innovation in agricultural and marine products. regional agricultural corporations by helping sow cotton seeds Going forward, the JAL Group plans to work more closely and by weeding and harvesting the cotton fields. Cotton We launched the JAL NEW-JAPAN PROJECT nearly two years ago with regional businesses and groups to develop regional econoharvested by farmers with the support of JAL Group employees Providing Disaster Relief to enhance the appeal of Japan’s regions, under the slogan mies and boost the number of permanent residents through is used to design and make original products, which are provid“Revitalizing Communities Together.” Focusing on themes such activities aimed at “Revitalizing Communities Together.” ed to passengers on flights and can be bought using JAL miles. The JAL Group has been a member of the Joint Committee for as promoting regional tourism and supporting innovation in In fiscal year 2016, we made roughly 20,000 handkerchiefs Coordinating and Supporting Voluntary Disaster Relief since agricultural and marine products, we are working with residents using the Tohoku cotton. fiscal year 2008. We make recommendations from a business and regional groups to raise awareness of hidden tourist spots Cultural Exchanges We also continue to run the JAL Gifts of Smiles Project, standpoint about volunteer activities during major disasters. and identify, commercialize, and sell local specialties as part of where we take elementary school children affected by the Great Through the committee, companies, social welfare councils, a broad package of support for the sustainable development of The JAL Group has supported art exhibitions for roughly 40 East Japan Earthquake on family trips to Okinawa. NPOs, and the Central Community Chest of Japan work Japan’s regions. years, using its expansive international and domestic route Another JAL initiative is the Kyushu Support Project, together to create a framework to support volunteer activities In tourism promotion initiatives, we teamed up with network to transport paintings and other artworks for display launched to help the Kyushu region recover from major damage after disasters. JAL also helps to transport relief supplies and regional businesses and groups to develop new travel products at exhibitions. Using the expertise gained from transporting caused by the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquakes. Also, through our volunteers to affected areas. in Mie Prefecture aimed at attracting visitors after the G7 artworks, we provide customized transport services to museums JAL NEW-JAPAN PROJECT, we are working with regional partOn April 17, 2016, the day after the Kumamoto earthIse-Shima Summit in May 2016. The Ise Shrine in Mie Prefecture for around 30 events each year. Through the JAL Group’s core ners to develop and promote products that highlight the Kyushu quakes, we transported 3,000 blankets on an emergency flight is rebuilt every 20 years in a ceremony called shikinen sengu air transport business, we aim to help connect future generaregion. We have selected a wide range of food items, which are from Itami Airport to Aso Kumamoto Airport at the request of that goes back more than 1,300 years, ensuring the shrine is tions to high culture and society by continuing to bridge Japan included in in-flight meals and served in airport lounges. Kumamoto City. The blankets were provided by AEON Co., Ltd., always new and beautiful through a process of perpetual and the world as the “Wings of Japan.” We also run a Recovery Support Training Program, which with which we have an emergency relief supply transport renewal called tokowaka. Inspired by the spirit of this gives employees the opportunity to visit areas affected by agreement. We also used a total of 49 scheduled flights to long-standing Ise tradition, JAL, Ise City and Mie Prefecture disasters to see, experience and learn from recovery efforts on transport roughly 50 tons of emergency evacuation tents, co-created and sell Tokowaka Wedding Tours. Wedding couples the ground. Participants visited Kumamoto Castle and Aso medicine, food, and other items to the affected area. who take part in the tours mark the important milestone in Shrine, which were both heavily damaged by the Kumamoto Overseas, the JAL Group donated 10 tons of water to the their lives by visiting Ise Shrine as an expression of gratitude to earthquakes. During the visit, JAL employees heard firsthand Republic of Palau, which was affected by drought. The water their partner. from residents about the earthquakes and the situation after was transported to Palau on May 7, 2016 in the cargo hold of the disaster. Participants were also given the opportunity to take a chartered aircraft. 60 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 61 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation JAL GROUP CSR Nurture Future Generations JAL Group Stance on Nurture Future Generations JAL SORAIKU SKY BATON: Passing the Baton to Younger GenerWorld Children’s Haiku ations to Create the Future of the Tohoku Region As part of its CSR activities, the JAL Group is working to The JAL Group runs a wide range of programs aimed at nurturThis poetry project is designed to spread the joy of haiku, the world’s nurture future generations based on the theme of “bright ing future generations. The JAL Group works with its customers to support the development shortest form of poetry, and develop artistic sensitivity through the of areas affected by disasters. SKY BATON was launched by the JAL writing of poetry. Another goal is to foster deeper interest in and futures.” To support those efforts, we launched JAL SORAIKU W EB www.jal.com/ja/csr/soraiku/ Group to support the Tohoku recovery effort by helping the younger understanding of Japanese culture and Japan. in November 2016 as a new educational program to give generation who will be entrusted with Tohoku’s future. Through the The project dates back to a haiku contest hosted by JAL on children a deeper connection with Japan and the world and ● JAL Factory Tours – SKY MUSEUM program, children who live in disaster-stricken areas receive support for an American radio program in 1964. Since the creation of the JAL the global environment. ● JAL Paper Plane Classes their studies. JAL’s support involves matching miles contributed by Foundation in 1990, we have hosted the biennial World Children’s Targeting a total of one million participants by the end ● JAL Sky Eco Classes customers to the program through JAL Charity Miles. JAL also cooperHaiku Contest. Children aged 15 and younger from around the world, of fiscal year 2020, the program will feature various activities ● JAL Career Talk for Students ates with Chance for Children (CFC), a public interest incorporated including Japan, submit haiku with an attached drawing. More than centered on hands-on experiences that JAL can provide as an ● JAL Safety Demonstrations by Cabin Attendants association, by donating JAL/CFC education vouchers to many children 680,000 works from 52 countries and regions have been submitted to airline. By giving children an insight into the wonders of the ● JAL Job Interview Simulation for Students in the program. date. Grand prize-winning haiku from each country are collected and published the following year in an anthology called “Haiku by World sky, we hope to lead them on a new journey of discovery Children,” which is donated to educational institutions and libraries and learning that encourages them to think about their JAL Factory Tours – SKY MUSEUM in Japan and overseas. In fiscal year 2016, the 14th anthology was future prospects. JAL Factory Tours are run at the JAL Maintenance Center adjapublished under the theme “Morning.” cent to Haneda Airport. The tours are free and give visitors the Encouraging interest in airline industry careers opportunity to learn about how airlines operate and get a close JAL runs a range of programs designed to make its business view of aircraft maintenance. We started these tours in the more accessible, boost interest in study, and encourage people mid-1950s, soon after the Company was founded. The tours to think about their careers. Examples include the recently were significantly expanded in 2013 and renamed JAL Factory JAL/CFC education voucher presentation ceremony renewed JAL Factory Tours – SKY MUSEUM and JAL Career Talk Tours – SKY MUSEUM. Admission to the fun hands-on museum for Students, which features talks by flight crew, cabin crew, is free and is geared for all ages from elementary school students and other JAL employees about their jobs and motivation. upwards. One of the main goals of the museum is to use our JAL Scholarship Program Award ceremony for the World Children’s The 14th Haiku by World special position as an airline to explain to children – society’s Haiku Contest Children – “Morning” Encouraging interest in Japan and the world Through the JAL Scholarship Program, college students from across future leaders – how aircraft and airports work and inspire them JAL also runs a number of programs to cultivate interest in new Asia and Oceania are invited to Japan to promote mutual understandto have ambitious goals and envision a prosperous future. ing and prepare young men and women for leadership roles in shaping experiences and encourage people to think about Japan and the The museum welcomed over 120,000 visitors in fiscal year 2016. the region’s future. It offers opportunities to experience Japanese Support for UNICEF world. Examples include workshops to discuss how to address culture, such as the tea ceremony and Zen meditation, and workshops social issues facing developing countries, opportunities to W EB www.jal.co.jp/kengaku/ with Japanese students. Established in 1975, the program is currently In 1991, JAL launched the Change for Good fundraising campaign for interact with the people and culture of Japan’s regional commuoperated by JAL and the JAL Foundation. To date, a total of 1,564 UNICEF on flights between Tokyo (Narita) and New York to collect nities in the primary sector by staying at private lodgings and overseas students have taken part in the program. foreign coin donations from passengers. farmhouses, and the JAL Origami Plane National Competition, JAL Paper Plane Classes In 2016, the program was conducted in the Tokyo area and in The campaign was expanded in 2006 to include all international a new addition to our program lineup. JAL Paper Plane Classes are run by around 720 JAL Group Ishikawa Prefecture for about three weeks starting on June 27, with flights operated by JAL. Donation boxes were also installed in customs employee volunteers who have been certified as instructors by 26 students from 15 countries and regions taking part. areas and lounges at airports in Japan. We also continue to support the Origami Airplane Association. The JAL Group started training We have recently set up alumni organizations overseas to create a fundraising efforts by transporting donated coins to different countries Encouraging interest in the Earth network of previous participants who are playing active roles around the free of charge. Foreign coins collected during the campaign are We are expanding our JAL Sky Eco Classes, which explain in a instructors 10 years ago in 2007. JAL holds Paper Plane Classes world. We also launched a new exchange program in 2015 for Japanese donated to UNICEF, which uses the funds to protect the lives, health straightforward way the Group’s efforts to reduce CO2 emissions in Japan and overseas and also runs a national competition. and Korean junior high school students. In the program’s second year, and rights of children. from aircraft and other environmental initiatives. We have also In fiscal year 2016, we held 204 classes attended by a total of Korean junior high school students visited Wakayama Prefecture. At the end of each year, JAL cabin crew and other employees launched a new program with HAKUTO – a private team aiming 25,063 people, as part of learning programs to encourage people volunteer to collect donations for UNICEF through street fundraisto send a robotic rover to the moon – to spur interest in space. to think about their own future from the perspective of aircraft and ing activities. These are just some of the programs aimed at stimulating the future of Japan and the world through human interaction. We curiosity in our planet and space. We want these activities to plan to hold paper plane competitions across Japan for contestants encourage people to think about our planet, fostering an who progress through qualifying rounds. The finalists will be invited interest in protecting the global environment that is passed on to the JAL Origami Plane National Competition in November 2017. to future generations. We are also planning to hold a JAL Origami Plane World Competition in 2020. Going forward, the JAL Group will continue to use its Paper Plane Classes to nurture future generations and promote JAL Scholarship – Japanese and Korean Exchange Program (2016) international exchange between Japan and the world. Recovered UNICEF donation boxes W EB www.jal.com/ja/csr/soraiku/origami 62 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 63 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation JAL GROUP CSR Other Initiatives Protecting Human Rights Supply Chain Initiatives Sedex is a London-based NPO focusing on global supply Communication meetings* with suppliers chains. The NPO works to increase ethical business practices in The JAL Group holds annual communication meetings with The JAL Group has been a signatory to the United Nations Building strong partnerships with suppliers supply chains through its online platform, which allows member suppliers, primarily companies that indirectly provide materials Global Compact since December 2004. As part of our support The JAL Group needs the cooperation and support of many companies to share information with customers and suppliers to the Group. The meetings are used as a forum to ensure for its principles, we have made a public commitment to prosuppliers to operate its flights and provide products and services worldwide. Sedex also monitors efforts by suppliers to improve suppliers understand the Group’s basic stance on procurement tecting human rights in all our business activities. to customers on a daily basis. As explained below, we are responsible practices. and to share information and ideas. In fiscal year 2016, a total To realize the JAL Group Corporate Policy, we are working working to build strong partnerships with suppliers based on The JAL Group primarily uses Sedex’s CSR information of 46 companies participated in these meetings. to reinforce respect for human rights across the Group by mutual trust by ensuring fair and transparent procurement platform for suppliers that provide products used directly by our During these communication meetings, we explain the JAL putting our action policy – the JAL Philosophy – into practice. activities. Showing our appreciation for the work carried out by customers, such as inflight meals and merchandise, but we are Group’s basic approach to procurement, the JAL Group Supplier Educating our workforce about human rights is a vital step in suppliers is also a key part of our business relationships. encouraging more of the Group’s suppliers to become Sedex Code of Conduct, and criteria that have to be met to secure orders. eliminating discrimination based on gender, age, nationality, members to increase mutual understanding and trust. We also encourage suppliers to become members of Sedex and talk race, ethnicity, religion, social status, disability, sexual orienta1. Fair and transparent procurement about ways of working with them to optimize the management tion, gender identity, and other attributes. To address this issue, When selecting suppliers, we assess a broad range of factors, and increase the competitiveness of the entire supply chain. Suppliwe are working to raise employee awareness of human rights such as the company’s reputation and its corporate social View supplier data ers are also invited to join JAL Factory Tours-SKY MUSEUM to give through various internal educational programs, such as training responsibility (CSR) initiatives, in addition to the quality and cost and monitor them a deeper understanding of the JAL Group. of its products and services and delivery performance. We also Build mutual improvements courses for new hires and managers. understanding * Communication meetings with suppliers are held every year and are organized by the work to ensure fair and transparent procurement activities by and trust Provide CSR We have also established a number of hotlines that emdata based on Procurement Division. Similar meetings are also run by the Airport Operations Division offering numerous opportunities for many suppliers in Japan and the IT Planning Division. ployees can use to report harassment that infringes human international and overseas to do business with the JAL Group. standards* rights. To support our work in this area, we run e-learning 2. To ensure our customers access safe and reliable services in the courses for all JAL Group employees to give them a better lead-up to the 2020 Olympics and Paralympics in Tokyo, we will understanding of actions that constitute sexual harassment and implement a range of environmental initiatives to support the Suppliers Provide CSR data, power harassment, aiming to ensure our personnel are never creation of a sustainable society, such as sharply reducing CO2 submit reports on emissions from our aircraft and taking steps to reduce the improvements victims or perpetrators of harassment of any kind. We have also effects of heat on our customers during the event. established clear rules and run internal training courses to 3. Promoting procurement based on CSR Evaluate CSR activities, prevent discrimination of employees who take maternity leave, We are working with suppliers to promote procurement activities advise improvements, childcare leave, family-care leave and other necessary breaks in line with the JAL Group CSR Policy. Specific initiatives are monitor progress from work. aimed at legal compliance, protecting the global environment, * International standards: ISO 14001, SA 8000, OHSAS 18001, Ethical Trading Initiative A communication meeting for suppliers On March 25, 2016, the President released a message for respecting human rights, appropriate labor practices, fair busi(ETI) Base Code, etc. all employees, calling for the Group to improve its understandness practices, and responding to consumer issues. ing about the LGBT community (sexual minorities). We are taking a number of concrete steps in this area, including Tokyo 2020 Olympics and Paralympics – JAL Group Action Plan JAL Group Supplier Code of Conduct providing e-learning modules for all JAL Group employees, We established the JAL Group Supplier Code of Conduct in April JAL has developed an action plan for the upcoming Tokyo 2020 Olympics and Paralympics in its role establishing a counseling hotline, and distributing “LGBT Ally” 2016. The code, which is available in Japanese, English, and as an official partner in the passenger air transport services category. In addition to providing safe stickers for staff undergoing training to show their support for and reliable transport services to all competitors and parties involved in the Olympics and ParalymChinese, is based on the principles of the United Nations Global the LGBT community. pics, we aim to help make the event a success by implementing activities in the following six areas. Compact and covers four key areas: (1) human rights, (2) health We will also actively work to create a legacy for the public after the games have finished. and safety, (3) business management, and (4) the environment. We ask all our suppliers to understand and comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct. (1) Nurture future generations through support for sports (4) Create an eco-friendly society Help deepen understanding of issues facing the disabled and Implement a range of environmental initiatives to support the JAL Group Supplier Code of Conduct create a more caring society by using the Tokyo 2020 Paralympics creation of a sustainable society, such as sharply reducing CO2 www.jal.com/en/csr/iso/fair_operating/pdf/ as an opportunity to promote disabled sports in Japan. emissions from our aircraft and taking steps to reduce the effects W EB (2) Improve accessibility to generate demand of heat on our customers during the event. code_conduct_ja.pdf Make travel more accessible for the disabled, the aged and other (5) Grow inbound demand and revitalize regional economies groups that face limitations in air travel. Help revitalize regional economies by exploring and implementing Building a sustainable supply chain (3) Improve and promote the basic quality of our services (safety, ways of encouraging more of Japan’s growing number of overseas In 2015, the JAL Group became a global member of the Sedex on-time operations) visitors to see regional areas, not just the main venues in Tokyo. Promote Japan’s reputation for service quality in areas such as (6) Deliver a sophisticated customer experience platform, operated by Sedex Information Exchange Limited, as safety and on-time operations, particularly to overseas customers, In the lead-up to 2020, when the world’s eyes will be on Japan, part of our efforts to build a sustainable supply chain by to increase the number of visitors to Japan. use advanced services and cutting-edge technologies to create an promoting ethical and responsible supply chain business airline experience that inspires renewed excitement in air travel. activities and strengthening risk management. 64 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 65 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation COMPLIANCE / RISK MANAGEMENT Promoting Compliance Risk Management 5. Financial Risk Committee Business Continuity Plan (BCP) The Financial Risk Committee is chaired by the Executive Officer of When responding to specific risks that threaten our ability to fulfill our To promote compliance with all laws, regulations and rules governing The JAL Group manages risks by dividing them into three categories: Finance and Accounting, and includes the President, Executive Vice responsibilities as a provider of transport services to the public, such as our corporate activities, we have designated the General Affairs (1) corporate risks associated with management in general, excluding President and leaders of relevant departments and divisions. The pandemic influenza, unidentified infectious diseases, or earthquakes, Department of Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. to oversee all compliance risks related to air transportation; (2) operational risks associated Committee identifies financial risks as appropriate and strives to we have established a business continuity plan (BCP) that enables us to matters, and are implementing various measures in a focused effort to with aviation safety, aviation security and other issues related to air facilitate improvements in corporate management. More specifically, continue business effectively in emergency situations based on guideelevate employee awareness. transportation; and (3) strategic risks associated with business it conducts regular simulations of financial conditions and reviews lines established in collaboration with regulatory bodies and other Every employee in the JAL Group reinforces compliance by management that may have a material impact on corporate revenues the results. In the event of a major financial crisis, large-scale relevant institutions. The BCP covers the basic points of policies and putting the JAL Philosophy into practice in their work each day. and expenditures. disaster or other major risk-generating event that the Committee procedures necessary to ensure the safety of our employees and their Employees also use the Group’s Intranet to view a range of regulations We have established the following five committees in order to expects to exert a large, quantifiable impact on the Group, families and to maintain air transport operations essential to the JAL and handbooks related to compliance, such as JAL Group Regulations identify, analyze and assess existing risks and implement appropriate it calculates the estimated financial impact and, if necessary, pursues Group, including reservations, information provision, payments, and on Preventing Insider Trading, the JAL Group Handbook on Protecting measures to mitigate those risks. collaborative responses with the Risk Management Committee. settlements. We conduct regular reviews and revisions as required to Personal Information, Information Security Action Handbook, Guide to enhance practical application of the BCP. the Antimonopoly Act, and Group Hotline Regulations. 1. Risk Management Committee Information Security Measures During the outbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic fever in West Africa We have also set up a Group Hotline with contact points in the The Risk Management Committee is headed by the Executive Office An incident involving the unauthorized disclosure of personal in 2014, we activated our BCP, which includes measures to respond to Company and a law firm, which can be used by any person working in of General Affairs, and primarily comprises general managers information from the JAL Group occurred in September 2014. pandemic influenza or unidentified infectious diseases. We coordinated the JAL Group. This enables us to promptly identify and remedy cases responsible for supervising operations departments. The Committee Hackers attacked the JAL Mileage Bank’s systems and gained illegal our response with relevant government bodies, developed the of misconduct, power harassment and other issues, and reinforce takes responsibility for overall risk management—encompassing access to the customer information management system. We deeply necessary systems and added the Policy for Handling the Ebola Virus compliance management. corporate risks, operational risks, and strategic risks— to stabilize regret the inconvenience and concern caused to customers and other Disease (International Flights) to our BCP. We are implementing a wide range of initiatives to support this Group-wide management activities. It has also established the JAL people affected by the breach. We responded by strengthening We introduced a safety confirmation system in 2007 to facilitate framework. We run classroom compliance training courses for all Group Basic Policies on Risk Management. When existing risks are information security as a top priority and by taking steps to prevent speedy confirmation of the safety of all JAL Group employees and their Group employees at our business sites, publish compliance newsletters identified, it reports on the progress of responses and shares any recurrence. families in the event of a large-scale disaster. The Group-wide system four times each year, hold seminars about laws and regulations information with Group management via the Management Liaison Specifically, we implemented previously planned information was upgraded in 2014 to make safety-related information available organized by the Legal Affairs Department, run practical exercises on Committee. security measures ahead of schedule to establish a robust system to more quickly. Communication and other exercises are conducted how to deal with targeted email attacks and other threats, and provide 2. Information Security Committee detect and monitor increasingly advanced and complex cyber-attacks, regularly throughout the JAL Group to foster staff awareness of risk e-learning on information security twice a year. Through these initiaThe Information Security Committee is headed by the Executive Officer while continuing to upgrade preventive measures to the highest level. management and reinforce preparedness for unexpected situations. tives, we are working to foster a culture of compliance across the of General Affairs and the Executive Officer of IT Planning, and entire JAL Group, ensure business activities are in tune with accepted comprises the leaders of relevant departments. The Committee social standards and reduce legal risk. carries out activities specific to information management, upgrades Risk Management System In addition, an executive from each JAL Group company is given information security measures, and strives to reduce corporate risk. overall responsibility for compliance at their companies. They comprise 3. Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting the JAL Group Compliance Network, which is responsible for swiftly The Corporate Safety and Security Department promotes safety Board of Directors sharing relevant information and strengthening the compliance rigorously under the direct control of the President. The Group framework at each Group company. This includes sending email Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting, with the President newsletters four times each year containing useful information, such Corporate Safety and Security Department serving as Secretariat, Promotion of Safety and Security as news about compliance developments inside and outside the Group shares information on safety in daily operations, determines Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting Management Liaison Committee and compliance case studies. countermeasures, considers important measures related to safety, and checks policies. Risk Management Committee Financial Risk 4. Group Operational Safety Promotion Committee Promotion of Aviation Safety Administration: General Affairs Department (Overall Supervision of Risk management) Committee Organized as a committee under the Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting, the Group Operational Safety Safety Management Information Security Committee Promotion Committee maintains and strengthens collaborative, Security Management Corporate Risk, Operational Risk, Strategic Risk safety-related measures among departments, divisions and Group airlines with the aim of enhancing the safety of Group air transport operations as a whole. The Committee comprises the Executive Officer (who serves as Chairperson) of the JAL Operational Safety Promotion Committee, leaders of departments responsible for JAL safety management appointed by the Chairperson, and Executive Officers responsible for safety at Group airlines. 66 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 67 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Basic Stance on Corporate Governance In order to separate the management oversight functions and Independent External Director to improve coordination with the Audit & evaluations to verify whether they contribute to sustainable growth business executive functions, the board appoints a Director who is not a Supervisory Board Members and internal divisions. and enhancement of corporate value in the medium to long term, The JAL Group aims to contribute to society through its business business executive director as Chairperson, and an appropriate number and provides necessary recommendations and reports to the Board of operations. As the leading company for safety in Japan’s transport of three or more External Directors who qualify as highly independent to Board of Audit & Supervisory Board Members Directors. The committee comprises three External Directors (Kimie sector, we work to ensure safe operations – the cornerstone of our provide appropriate advice. The Board of Audit & Supervisory Board Members makes appropriate Iwata, Eizo Kobayashi and Masatoshi Ito) in addition to Director and business – while offering the highest level of service to customers. We In order to carry out efficient decision-making, the board may judgments from an independent, objective perspective, based on their Chairperson Masaru Onishi. also endeavor to fulfill our economic responsibility to all stakeholders by delegate decision-making concerning matters set forth in the Administrafiduciary responsibilities to the shareholders, when fulfilling their roles generating an adequate level of profits through the provision of tive Authority Criteria Table to the President pursuant to Regulations for and responsibilities, such as auditing the execution of Directors’ duties, Nominating Committee high-quality products and services based on fair competition, while also Kessai (written approval) and Administrative Authority approved by the appointing or dismissing accounting auditors and executing rights (Chairperson: Masatoshi Ito, Director, External, Independent) meeting our wider responsibilities to society. board. The Management Committee has been established for the purpose concerning auditors’ remuneration. When submitting a proposal to the General Meeting of Shareholders In line with this thinking, we have established the JAL Philosophy of contributing to appropriate and flexible decision-making concerning concerning the appointment of candidates to the positions of Director in accordance with the JAL Group Corporate Policy, “The JAL Group will management issues by the Board of Directors and the President. Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the Nominating Committee pursue the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, deliver The Board of Directors has established the Corporate Governance The Audit & Supervisory Board Members monitor important matters makes a comprehensive judgment of the personality, knowledge, ability, unparalleled service to our customers, and increase corporate value and Committee, which comprises the Chairperson of the Board and External concerning corporate management, business operations and the experience and performance of the candidate in response to inquiries contribute to the betterment of society.” We will strive to enhance Directors, to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors with execution of duties by reviewing important Kessai (written approval) from the Board of Directors and reports back to the board. The Nomicorporate value and achieve accountability by establishing a corporate reference to self-evaluations by each Director once a year, review the documents, as well as participating in board meetings and other nating Committee considers a succession plan for top management governance system that results in a high level of management transparoperation, etc., of the board appropriately, and disclose a summary of important meetings. Furthermore, the Audit & Supervisory Board members such as the President, moreover, in order to realize our ency and strong management oversight, while at the same time engagits findings. Members, together with staff members of the Audit & Supervisory Corporate Policy, mediumto long-term management strategies and ing in rapid and appropriate management decision-making. Board Members Office, conduct an annual audit of each business site, management plan. The committee comprises three External Directors The Board of Directors has established corporate governance that Directors subsidiary and affiliated company and report the results to the (Kimie Iwata, Eizo Kobayashi and Masatoshi Ito), President Yoshiharu adheres to the Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance as a key set Legal considerations are explained to the Directors to ensure that they Representative Directors. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members also Ueki and Executive Vice President Tadashi Fujita. of rules pursuant to the Companies Act, relevant laws and regulations, are aware of their responsibilities, including the “fiduciary duty of share information with the internal audit departments and accounting and the Articles of Incorporation, and reviews it at least once a year. loyalty” and the “duty of ensuring prudent management.” The term of auditors and hold regular meetings with Audit & Supervisory Board Compensation Committee office is set at one year in order to confirm their accountability each Members of subsidiaries to improve and strengthen auditing of the (Chairperson: Eizo Kobayashi, Director, External, Independent) fiscal year. The Company has also introduced a remuneration system for JAL Group. The Compensation Committee discusses matters concerning the Corporate Governance System Directors (excluding External Directors) based on sound financial The Audit & Supervisory Board Members are provided with the amounts of compensation paid to Directors, Executive Officers and incentives designed to promote sustained growth. means to acquire a sufficient understanding of their required roles and Audit & Supervisory Board Members based on requests from the Board Board of Directors External Directors are appointed from among persons with vast responsibilities through the provision of corporate information and of Directors and reports back to the board. The Compensation CommitThe Board of Directors ensures a high level of management transparknowledge and experience in various fields in order to ensure diversity. opportunities for regular participation in external training and external tee members are the same as the Nominating Committee members. ency and strong management oversight through the election of Those who do not qualify as highly independent as defined by the associations, etc., for which the Company bears the necessary expenses. candidates for the positions of Director, Audit & Supervisory Board “Standards for Independence of External Directors” (described below) Eternal Audit & Supervisory Board Members are appointed from Personnel Committee Member, and Executive Officer, decides their remuneration, and makes established by the Company are not appointed. Furthermore, one among persons with vast knowledge and experience in various fields, (Chairperson: Yoshiharu Ueki, President) important decisions. External Director among the External Directors is appointed Lead and those who do not qualify as highly independent as defined by the When appointing or dismissing an Executive Officer, the Board of “Standards for Independence of External Directors” (described below) Directors consults the Personnel Committee and takes the Personnel established by the Company are not appointed. Eternal Audit & SuperviCommittee’s response into account before making a decision. The Corporate Governance System sory Board Members ensure sound management by conducting audits Personnel Committee members are the same as the Nominating from a neutral and objective standpoint, with the cooperation of Committee members. internal audit departments and accounting auditors. General Meeting of Shareholders Officers Disciplinary Committee Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/ Dismissal Appointment/ Dismissal Establishment of Various Committees (Chairperson: Kimie Iwata, Director, External, Independent) Corporate Governance Committee Any disciplinary action imposed on Directors or Executive Officers is Auditing Board of Audit & Board of Directors Supervisory Board (Chairperson: Kimie Iwata, Lead Independent External Director) determined by the Officers Disciplinary Committee. The Officers DisciMembers Appointment/Dismissal Instruction/ Report Corporate Governance Committee The Corporate Governance Committee inspects initiatives under the JAL plinary Committee members are the same as the Nominating CommitInstruction/Command Delegation of Authority Advisory Recommendation Nominating Committee Group Fundamental Policies at least once a year, conducts analyses and tee members. Management Collaboration Report President Committee Compensation Committee Recommendation Personnel Committee Officers Disciplinary Committee Accounting Financial Audit Auditor Composition of Voluntary Committees Group Earnings JAL Group Council for Management Collaboration Corporate Brand Announcement Philosophy Safety Enhancement Promotion Council Liaison Audit Collaboration Director, Representative Session Council General Meeting Committee The Chairperson ◎ Chairperson Director, President Director External Director External Director External Director Board Member ○ Report Group Operational Tokyo 2020 Risk Management Committee Masaru Onishi Yoshiharu Ueki Tadashi Fujita Kimie Iwata Eizo Kobayashi Masatoshi Ito Instruction/ CSR ○ ◎ ○ ○ Significant Safety Promotion Olympic and Financial Risk Committee Issues Delegation of Authority Committee Paralympic Committee Guidance/Advice Legal Advisors Corporate Governance Committee Promotion JAL Wellness Promotion Committee Committee Nominating Committee ○ ○ ○ ○ ◎ Executive Officers Board Compensation Committee ○ ○ ○ ◎ ○ Departments and Subsidiaries Personnel Committee ◎ ○ ○ ○ ○ Officers Disciplinary Committee ○ ○ ◎ ○ ○ 68 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 69 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Evaluating the Effectiveness of Standards for Independence of External Directors Training Policy for Directors and Framework for Incentive Remuneration the Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members 1. Annual incentives (performance-linked bonuses) We have set out the following standards to determine whether The amount to be paid every fiscal year as an annual incentive will vary In accordance with the Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance, External Directors and Eternal Audit & Supervisory Board Members Legal considerations are explained to the Directors to ensure that from approximately 0 to 200 depending on the degree of achievethe Company is working to improve the effectiveness of the Board of qualify as independent (in principle, a person to whom none of the they are aware of their responsibilities, including the “fiduciary duty ment, with 100 representing the amount to be paid when achieveDirectors in order to increase corporate value. In January 2017, as part following apply shall be judged to be independent). of loyalty” and the “duty of ensuring prudent management.” ment is in line with performance targets. The indices for evaluating of these efforts, the Company conducted its second survey of execuThe Company provides opportunities for Audit & Supervisory Board performance will include profit attributable to owners of parent, tives who participate in Board of Directors meetings to evaluate the 1. A person who executes or has executed business in the Company or Members to sufficiently understand their roles and responsibilities by indicators related to safe flight operations and individual evaluation effectiveness of the board. The results of the survey are discussed by a consolidated subsidiary during the past 10 years. providing corporate information and opportunities for participation indices for each officer. These indicators will be reviewed as necessary the Board of Directors, which evaluates recommendations from the 2. A person who could be described by any of items a~f during the in external training programs and associations, the cost of which is in accordance with changes in business conditions, the roles of officers Corporate Governance Committee, passes resolutions on measures to past three years. covered by the Company. and other factors. resolve any anticipated issues and implements those measures. a. A business counterpart or a person executing business for a To give External Directors and Eternal Audit & Supervisory Board business counterpart whose transactions with the Company for Members a deeper understanding of the JAL Group, we arrange 2. Long-term incentives (performance-linked share-based 1. Measures to Address Issues Highlighted by the Previous Survey one business year exceeded 1% of the consolidated revenue of tours of airports, sales offices, maintenance facilities, flight operation remuneration) The previous survey on the effectiveness of the Board of Directors the Company or the business counterpart. offices, aircraft cabins, freight facilities and other sites and provide The number of shares to be granted every fiscal year as a long-term raised key issues related to discussions about mediumand longb. A major shareholder of the Company or a person executing training on safety. incentive will vary from approximately 0 to 220 depending on the term management strategy. In response, the Board of Directors business for a shareholder holding an equity ratio of 5% or more degree of achievement, with 100 representing the number to be continued to discuss and develop the new medium term management in the Company. Remuneration Policy for Directors (excluding granted when achievement is in line with performance targets. The plan, which is due to start in fiscal year 2017. Steady progress was c. A major lender to the Company or a person executing business External Directors) and Executive Officers performance evaluation period will be three years, with performance also made in several other areas, including enhanced reporting to for such a lender. for three consecutive fiscal years evaluated every year. The indices for the Board of Directors through regular reporting and timely and d. A person who receives over 10 million yen in donations annually Basic Policy evaluating performance will be items prioritized in the medium term responsive reports on developments such as responses to the from the Company, or a person belonging to an entity receiving 1. To support the sustained and steady growth of the Company and management plan, including consolidated operating margin, consoliKumamoto earthquakes. Information provided to External Directors such donations. the JAL Group and to improve corporate value over the medium and dated ROIC, and customer satisfaction. These items will be considered was also improved through briefings and more opportunities for e. A person receiving remuneration of over 10 million yen, excluding long term, the Company will encourage the performance of duties for review in every medium term management plan period. business site inspections. Director’s remuneration, from the Company or a person belongconsistent with its Corporate Policy and management strategies and With respect to common stock granted to eligible Directors and ing to an organization receiving remuneration exceeding 1% of provide strong incentives for the achievement of specific manageExecutive Officers through the share-based remuneration plan, the 2. Results of Second Survey the consolidated revenue of the Company. ment targets. Company will establish a target number of held shares for each The survey confirmed that the Board of Directors needs to further f. A person executing business for the Company who also executes 2. To encourage a healthy entrepreneurial spirit, the Company will position and impose limits on share sales in order to further promote expand the scope of discussion to improve the quality of discussion business for another company as External Director. establish appropriate proportions for annual incentives (perforthe aligning of interests with shareholders. about mediumand long-term management strategy. The Board of 3. The spouse or a relative within the second degree of kinship of an mance-linked bonuses) linked to fiscal year performance and for Directors was praised for the dynamic nature of debate during individual described in 1 or 2. long-term incentives (performance-linked share-based remuneraProcedures for Determining Remuneration meetings, but the results of the survey highlighted the need for tion) linked to corporate value in accordance with mediumto Matters related to remuneration for Directors and Executive Officers (Note) “A person executing business” refers to an executive director or executive officer. broader and more active input from External Directors, and for long-term performance, designed to promote alignment of interests will be decided by the Board of Directors following a deliberation and greater information sharing with them about the airline industry with its shareholders. recommendation process by the Company’s voluntarily established and the operating environment. Another issue was procedures for 3. The Company will reward the management team appropriately Compensation Committee. A majority of the members of the ComSelection of External Directors holding meetings, notably the need to make resolution discussion based on the Company’s business performance. pensation Committee will be External Directors and the Chairperson points clearer to enhance the effectiveness of discussion by the will be appointed from among the External Directors. During the selection process for External Directors, the Company Board of Directors. Remuneration Levels and Composition consistently strives to ensure comprehensive diversity while nominating 1. The Company will set appropriate remuneration levels based on the candidates with a wealth of experience in various fields who are also 3. Responses Company’s operating environment and with reference to objective Succession Planning for equipped with insight, specialized knowledge and other strengths. The Board of Directors will clearly set out the broad strategic data on remuneration in the marketplace. Senior Management Positions Selection of nominees is also based on the Standards for Independence direction of the Group’s management strategy and actively discuss 2. Taking into account factors including the position of the Company’s of External Directors presented above. topics such as business strategy, human resources development and business and the effectiveness of incentive remuneration, the The Nominating Committee is responsible for examining succession Group-wide risk management as part of more active debate at Company sets proportions for (1) the amount of fixed basic remuplans for President and other senior management positions to ensure For the reasons for selection of External Directors, meetings. It will also confirm whether the results of its discussions neration*, (2) the amount of annual incentives (performance-linked the Company realizes its Corporate Policy, mediumand long-term please refer to P.78-79: Board of Directors and Officers. are reflected in strategy implementation. bonuses) to be paid according to the degree of achievement against management strategies and management plan. targets, and (3) the amount of long-term incentives (perforWe will continue to strengthen support systems for meeting-related mance-linked share-based remuneration) to be issued according to For key corporate governance data, procedures, such as ensuring the Board of Directors has access to the degree of achievement against targets, as follows: please refer to P.122-123: ESG Data. appropriate materials for discussing resolutions and is adequately Guideline in the case of 100% achievement against targets: briefed. We will also work to enhance the quality of discussion by the (1) : (2) : (3) = 50% : 30 % : 20% Board of Directors by drawing on the expertise of External Directors The above ratio is for guidance only and adjustments can be made to and encouraging active contribution from company executives. reflect changes in the price of the Company’s shares or other factors. * This amount excludes allowances in cases where an Executive Officer serves concurrently as a Director or where an Executive Officer has representative authority. 70 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 71 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation OUR EXTERNAL DIRECTORS DISCUSS JAL JAL’s Corporate Governance Continues to Evolve Kobayashi: The company went through an extremely difficult experience of a bankruptcy, but I am impressed by how it used the event as an opportunity to earnestly improve governance. I think there is no doubt that JAL is today one of Japan’s leading companies in this area and can easily bear comparison with other corporations. Ito: I also feel that the governance of the JAL Group has advanced considerably. To give a concrete example, while discussing the formulation of the New Medium Term Management Plan, which was launched in April 2017, and while working on the compensation system for Executive Officers, the External Directors benefited from effective information provision in advance. Also, our opinions are evaluated adequately by the Board of Directors. There is an approach of actively accepting a wide range of opinions, so that a free and frank exchange of views takes place at Board meetings. Eizo Kobayashi External Director And what is your assessment of the current state of corporate governance? Iwata: The standard of governance has risen greatly in the past five years. There has also been an evident change in the operation of the Board of Directors. When I first took office as an External Director, matters of essential importance were decided by the Management Committee. Discussions at Board meetings simply followed the same line, and the time spent on these meetings was very short. Nowadays, practical matters can be left to the Management Committee or other executive councils so that more important discussions can take place at Board meetings. Among the outcomes of this improvement are the New Medium Term Management Plan and the new compensation system for Corporate Officers. The JAL Group Board of Directors includes three External Directors who monitor Group management and provide appropriate advice. Here, Kimie Iwata, our Lead Independent Kobayashi: In terms of information disclosure, as Mr. Ito said, External Directors receive ample External Director who has observed the long rebuilding process of the JAL Group, takes briefing in advance so we can attend Board meetings equipped with a good understanding of the the lead role in a discussion among our External Directors. They speak frankly as they topics for discussion. In 2016, when the New Medium Term Management Plan was being drafted, Masatoshi Ito we were involved in discussions from the brainstorming stage, and joined company directors in give their opinions and suggestions, evaluating the current state of corporate goverExternal Director presenting our opinions on the plan. Through these discussions, we were able to further deepen nance, identifying relevant issues, and indicating their expectations of the JAL Group. our understanding of the JAL Group. It also gave us the opportunity to exchange opinions with executive officers who are not members of the Board of Directors. That was a very valuable experience for External Directors. My impression is that the JAL management team has a strong commitment to sharing information with External Directors and that their contact with us is based on an From the time of our bankruptcy up to now, what is your attitude of openness. assessment of JAL’s efforts in the area of corporate governance? Iwata: Yes, I agree. Of the companies whose management I have been involved in, JAL has the Iwata: I think JAL’s governance has reached a good standard through two key drivers. Firstly, most advanced attitude when it comes to information disclosure to External Directors. There is an right after the bankruptcy in 2010, JAL adopted the approach set out in the new Corporate Policy open atmosphere in which External Directors can access information at any time. The fact that and the JAL Philosophy under the guidance of the then Chairman Dr. Kazuo Inamori. They providcompany directors and External Directors work alongside each other in the same open office is, ed a psychological reference point around which employees have been able to unite in their work. I think, a good indication of this attitude. It allows us to exchange views at close quarters in an I believe this was very significant. Another important factor was the adoption of the business open atmosphere. We are also free to take part in meetings of all the executive councils, including management techniques of the amoeba management system. One more major impetus was that the Management Committee, the once monthly Group Earnings Announcement Session, leader the Corporate Governance Code, which was applied to Japanese corporations from June 2015, workshops, the Corporate Brand Promotion Council, and the Group Council for Safety Enhancewas discussed repeatedly by the Board of Directors in terms of how it should be applied to benefit ment General Meeting. Moreover, if there are any unclear points in the materials we receive in Kimie Iwata management operations. As a result, the JAL Group took the approach of strengthening governance advance or any other issue, we are given the opportunity to have it explained, which means that External Director by complying fully with each principle of the Corporate Governance Code. Today, JAL has achieved we can go to the meetings thoroughly prepared. compliance not just on paper but in practice. I believe these initiatives have made possible the stable standard of governance that JAL has reached. Ito: I agree. Having an advance briefing is a very efficient system and is very beneficial. If I were to ask for an improvement, it would be for the process leading to the adoption of items for discussion to be set out a bit more clearly. 72 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 73 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation OUR EXTERNAL DIRECTORS DISCUSS JAL Iwata: It’s important that External Directors act as effective advisors to the president, and at the same time, that we bring to our roles individual strengths that we can make use of. I have previCan you tell us about important tasks and responses for the future ously been engaged in operations to promote corporate social responsibility and career advanceand your expectations of the JAL Group? ment for women. I have drawn on this experience to give a considerable number of talks to JAL staff. The period before the bankruptcy must have been difficult in many ways. It would also have Kobayashi: JAL is one of Japan’s leading companies in the area of corporate governance, but further been inaccurate to say that JAL’s corporate social responsibility initiatives were adequate. Today strengthening and improvement of governance is always possible. To avoid being bound by convenhowever, JAL is one of Japan’s most progressive companies, having for instance been selected as tional thinking and to think outside the box, one important point is to constantly apply the PDCA a Nadeshiko Brand for three consecutive years. JAL is also tackling workstyle innovation, which is cycle so that corporate governance is addressed through the comprehensive abilities of the entire JAL closely relevant to women’s career advancement, by introducing telework and free-address offices Group. The introduction of a new compensation system for executive officers is one example of how among other things. For instance, the target of reducing overtime by half in two years has already things are taking shape, and I hope that we can continue implementing initiatives of this kind. been achieved across around 30% of all organizations, and the number of holidays increased by two days from the previous fiscal year. These are among the clear results of JAL’s activities in the Iwata: The implementation of succession planning leaves room for improvement. In addition to field of corporate social responsibility. When I see these improvements, I feel that I have fulfilled serving as advisors to the president, I think that External Directors also need to work on revitalizing at least part of my duty as an External Director. the Nominating Committee. Kobayashi: My experience at a general trading company cannot be applied without modification Ito: Recently, there has been a focus on how to integrate environmental, social, and corporate to JAL, which is in a different industry, but I think there are definitely areas where I can make a governance issues into management operations. I think that studying and responding to these contribution. For instance, general trading companies place emphasis on areas such as risk issues is a self-evident duty of a corporate citizen. This is because JAL is able to continuously management and the allocation of management resources. Therefore, I think I can present opinions generate profits by operating a business that serves society. As the use of aircraft increases customer from the viewpoint of a general trading company in areas such as effecting major business convenience, it can also generate interaction between people and produce other huge benefits. transformation in a difficult market environment and carrying out risk management from a global I would like to see each employee reflect more deeply than before on what constitutes JAL’s business perspective. I believe that I can also make increasing contributions in the strategy for new business activities and what value it can bring to customers and society. In this way, JAL can proceed even domains that was presented under the heading JAL Focus in the new Medium Term Management more effectively with business activities that serve society across the whole of its value chain. Plan. I hope my suggestions will be incorporated effectively in management operations. Iwata: I think that JAL’s activities relating to the environment, society, and corporate governance are Ito: As mentioned in the JAL Group Corporate Policy, JAL is committed to providing unparalleled of a good standard, including when compared to those of other companies. But operating aircraft service, which clearly identifies JAL’s work as being part of the service industry. Recognizing that itself uses large amounts of resources and generates CO2 emissions. Therefore, I look forward to corporate value arises from social value, JAL founds its basic value on safety, on-time operations, seeing further improvement on the environmental front. Across all of its business activities, I think comfort, and convenience for the customer. But it would be difficult to stand out among the that JAL is a very honest company. On the other hand, it can be quite conservative in some aspects. world’s airline companies on the strength of basic values alone. So it’s important to see how much It is important to conduct business activities honestly and reliably, of course, but personally I would added value JAL can deliver on the “soft” side. This means that it needs to refine the added value like to see the company become a little more adventurous. The company succeeded in achieving which is uniquely JAL and which goes beyond the basic values of safety, on-time operations, good results from the previous medium term management plan, but merely carrying on the same comfort, and convenience. For that reason, JAL needs to place the customer even more at the things in the new Medium Term Management Plan will not lead to sustainable growth. As the center of its operations and consistently deliver unparalleled service. I believe that thinking about keyword of the new Medium Term Management Plan is ‘challenge,’ I am excited about the future. what the customer wants from a long-term perspective will help to distil a uniquely JAL quality and I hope to see JAL become a company with a stronger spirit of challenge than ever before. enhance the JAL Group brand. In my work with a food manufacturer, I gave top priority to thinking about what the customer wanted and was always thinking about how we could deliver greater Profiles of External Directors value. I think I can draw on this experience in the pursuit of quality that is uniquely JAL. Kimie Iwata Eizo Kobayashi Masatoshi Ito April 1971 Joined the Ministry of Labor April 1972 Joined ITOCHU Corporation April 1971 Joined Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Iwata: To create value, and protect value from impairment, JAL has decided to center its business August 2003 Retired from Ministry of Health, June 2004 President and Chief Executive April 2003 Representative Director, President of Labour and Welfare Officer of ITOCHU Corporation Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. activity around the two pillars of safety and brand strategy. This approach is reflected in the December Full-time Advisor of Shiseido Company, April 2010 Representative Director Chairman June 2009 Representative Director, President & Chief councils and committees it operates. In addition to Board meetings and CSR Committee meetings, Limited of ITOCHU Corporation Executive Officer of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. June 2008 Representative Director, Executive Vice July External Audit & Supervisory Board June 2015 Representative Director & Chairman of the I attend meetings of the Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting and the CorpoPresident, of Shiseido Company, Limited Member of Asahi Mutual Life Board of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (to present) March 2012 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (External), Insurance Company (to present) February 2016 Chairman of the JAA Council, Japan rate Brand Promotion Council to present my opinions. Kirin Holdings Company, Limited June 2011 Director Chairman of ITOCHU Advertisers Association Inc. (to present) June Advisor of Shiseido Company, Limited Corporation June External Director of the Company July External Director of the Company (to present) June 2013 Director (External), OMRON (to present) July President of Japan Institute for Women’s Corporation (to present) June External Director of Yamaha Corporation Empowerment & Diversity Management June 2015 External Director of the Company (to present) (to present) (to present) October 2015 Audit and Inspection Commissioner of the June 2016 Chairman of ITOCHU Corporation Tokyo Metropolitan Government (to present) (to present) March 2016 Director of the Board (External), Kirin Holdings External Director of Japan Exchange Company, Limited (to present) Group, Inc. (to present) April External Director of STRIPE INTERNATIONAL INC. (to present) 74 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 75 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Directors ●J ●I ●H ● A ●B ●C ●D ● E ●F ●G ●A ●B ● C ●D Masaru Onishi Yoshiharu Ueki Tadashi Fujita Junko Okawa Director, Chairman Representative Director, President Representative Director, Representative Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Chairman of the Management Committees, Executive Vice President General Manager of the Communication Division, Chairman of the Council for Group Safety Enhancement, Aide to the President, Chairman of the Committee for Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Promotion, Chairman of the Corporate Brand Promotion Council, Chief Wellness Officer, Chairman of the CSR Committee Chairman of the JAL Philosophy Committee Chairman of the JAL Wellness Promotion Committee ●J ●I ●H ●E ● F ●G Masatoshi Ito Eizo Kobayashi Kimie Iwata Norikazu Saito Hideki Kikuyama Toshinori Shin External Director External Director External Director Director, Senior Managing Director, Senior Managing Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer General Manager of the General Manager of the Managing General Manager of the Flight Operations Division, Finance & Accounting Division Division Route Marketing Safety General Manager 76 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 77 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅴ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Audit & Supervisory Board Members (As of July 1, 2017) (As of July 1, 2017) Masaru Onishi Beginning his career in engineering and maintenance, Chairman Onishi acquired extensive knowledge and a Hisao Taguchi Mr. Taguchi has served in various departments, including Sales, Personnel Affairs and Director, Chairman network of contacts in the airline industry. Appointed President in 2010, he was involved from an early Audit & Supervisory Board Flight Operations. He was appointed Executive Officer and CEO for the Americas Office stage in the process of corporate reorganization following the bankruptcy. Today, as Director, Chairman of Member in April 2007 and Executive Vice President in February 2010. He has been a member of the Board and a member of the Corporate Governance Committee, he continues to contribute significantly the Audit & Supervisory Board since February 2012. to strengthening the supervisory functions of the Board of Directors. He also serves as an External Director for the Japan Airport Terminal Co., Ltd., Chairman of the JAL Foundation and Representative Director of the Air Traffic Service Research Institute (ATSRI). Yoshiharu Ueki From his start as a flight crew member, President Ueki has accumulated an extremely high level of frontline Representative Director, President experience and insight into flight safety. As Representative Director and President since 2012, he oversaw Chairman of the Management Board preparation of the Medium Term Management Plan. His strong leadership and decision-making capabilities Meeting, Chairperson of the Council for have been driving the sure accomplishment of the Plan. He is also making a significant contribution to Group Safety Enhancement, Chairman of strengthening of the Board of Directors supervisory functions as a member of the Nominating Committee, the Corporate Brand Promotion Council, Compensation Committee and other bodies. Chairman of the JAL Philosophy Committee Yasushi Suzuka During his career at JAL, Mr. Suzuka has engaged primarily in maintenance operations Audit & Supervisory Board such as maintenance projects and engineering. He has, moreover, made a substantial Member contribution to JAL Group management. A member of JAL’s Audit and Supervisory Tadashi Fujita Executive Vice President Fujita worked in sales departments at Headquarters and at regional offices in Board since July 2012, he is also chairperson of the Japan SAP Users’ Group. Representative Director, Executive Vice Osaka, Okinawa, Paris and other regions. As General Manager of the Managing Division Passenger Sales, he President, Executive Officer had overall responsibility for all the Profit Centers and achieved strong results in that area. Today, while Aide to the President, Chief Wellness Officer, performing the duties of Representative Director and Executive Vice President, he also serves as Aide to the Chairman of the JAL Wellness Promotion President, making a significant contribution in all these roles to the further reinforcement and enhancement Committee of JAL’s management systems. Junko Okawa Director Okawa accumulated a wealth of workplace experience and expertise as a cabin crew member. As Representative Director, Senior Managing Cabin Attendant General Manager from 2010, she applied high level management perspectives and proven Executive Officer capabilities to assuring the division’s success in meeting a diverse range of challenges and targets. Now as General Manager of the Communication Senior Managing Executive Officer and General Manager of the Communication Division, she is contributing Division, Chairman of the Committee for substantially to implementing promotional measures designed to raise the JAL Brand values ahead of the Hiroyuki Kumasaka Mr. Kumasaka has acquired a wealth of experience and advanced knowledge in Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Audit & Supervisory Board accounting in the course of a career as a certified public accountant. He became a JAL Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games. External Auditor in March 2011. Promotion, Chairman of the CSR Committee Member (Independent External Auditor) Norikazu Saito Director Saito has specialized for many years primarily in finance and accounting, constantly deepening his Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer knowledge of finance, accounting, IR, and other fields. Today, as Director, Senior Managing Executive General Manager of the Finance and Officer and General Manager of the Finance and Accounting Division, he is providing guidance in JAL’s Accounting Division development of systems for highly transparent information disclosure that is comprehensible to shareholders and investors, while also promoting management decision-making appropriate to raising shareholders’ profit. Hideki Kikuyama Director Kikuyama engaged in work ranging from IT systems, passenger reservations, and human resources Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer management and labor to corporate planning at Headquarters as well as at branch offices in Osaka, the General Manager of the Managing Division United States and elsewhere. In his current position as Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer and Route Marketing General Manager of the Managing Division Route Marketing, he is using his expertise to assess and Shinji Hatta Professor Hatta is an authority on financial auditing and corporate internal control Audit & Supervisory Board and has served as an External Auditor for JAL since July 2012. A professor of Aoyama implement improvement and stabilization of reliable route revenues and expenditures. Gakuin University, he also serves as an outside auditor for the Development Bank of Member (Independent External Auditor) Japan Inc. and as a council member on the Japanese government’s Financial Services Toshinori Shin While employed as a flight crew member, Director Shin acquired considerable workplace experience and Agency Business Accounting Council, among other positions. Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer insight into flight safety. Today, as Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, General Manager of the General Manager of the Flight Operations Flight Operations Division and Safety General Manager, he is applying his highly developed management Division, Safety General Manager perspectives and capabilities to overcoming challenges and achieving a wide range of targets at Headquarters. Kimie Iwata External Director Iwata’s rich fund of experience and results in various fields, including support for women’s Independent External Director activities, diversity, CSR and workstyle reformation, has equipped her to bring strong direction and solid advice from an objective perspective to the Company. She also serves as President of the Japan Institute for Women’s Empowerment & Diversity Management, an audit and inspection commissioner for the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and Director of the board (External) of Kirin Holdings Company, Limited, among Osamu Kamo Since his certification as an attorney in April 1973, Mr. Kamo has accumulated extensive Audit & Supervisory Board experience and expertise in the fields of compliance and corporate governance. An other capacities. Member attorney for the Ginza Sogo Law Firm, he also serves as a committee member for (Independent External Auditor) CHANS (Office for Government Procurement Challenge System, under the jurisdiction Eizo Kobayashi External Director Kobayashi provides the Company with sound direction and advice based on his of the Japanese Cabinet Office), among other capacities. Independent External Director accumulated experience and expertise as top management of a general trading company. He also serves as Chairman of ITOCHU Corporation, External Director of OMRON Corporation and External Auditor of Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Co., among other capacities. Masatoshi Ito External Director Ito has rich experience and deep insight acquired as top management of global enterprises Independent External Director engaged in marketing from the customers’ perspectives. He also serves as Representative Director and Chairman of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., President of the Japan Advertisers Association Inc. and External Director of Yamaha Corporation, among other capacities. 78 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 79 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Executive Officers Financial / Data Section (As of July 1, 2017) MANAGING EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Nobuyoshi Gondo Yuji Akasaka General Manager, Corporate Safety & Security, General Manager, Engineering & Maintenance, President, Family Assistance & Support JAL Engineering Co., Ltd. Ryuzo Toyoshima Hideo Ninomiya General Manager, Corporate Control General Manager, Managing Division Passenger Sales, General Manager, Domestic Passenger Sales, President, JAL Sales Co., Ltd. Shinichiro Shimizu General Manager, Secretary’s Office Tadao Nishio General Manager, Corporate Planning EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Tetsuya Onuki Hideki Oshima President, J-AIR Co., Ltd. Managing Division Route Marketing (International Relations and Alliances) Munemitsu Erikawa Eri Abe Senior Vice President, China, Vice President and Regional Manager, Beijing General Manager, Cabin Attendants Kiyoshi Marukawa Kazuko Yashiki President, Japan Transocean Air Co., Ltd. Vice President, Haneda Airport, President, JAL Sky Co., Ltd. Financial information, ESG data, and Akira Yonezawa Takuya Oda other details about the JAL Group General Manager, Managing Division Route Marketing General Manager, Human Resources (International Route Marketing) Yoriyuki Kashiwagi Toshiki Oka Deputy General Manager, Managing Division Passenger Sales General Manager, IT Planning General Manager, International Passenger Sales, Financial Data – Six-year Summary. . . . 82 General Manager, Web Sales Senior Vice President for Eastern Japan Area Hiroyuki Hioka Evaluation and Analysis of General Manager, General Affairs Financial Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Hiroo Iwakoshi General Manager, Cargo & Mail Hidetsugu Ueda Consolidated Financial Statements. . . . 98 Human Resources, in charge of Education, Vice President, Human Resources Management Atsushi Maeda Consolidated Subsidiaries . . . . . . . . . . 121 General Manager, Procurement Hoshiko Nakano ESG Data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122 Senior Vice President for Western Japan Area Yasuyuki Sato Managing Division Route Marketing (Products and Services Planning) International Route Map . . . . . . . . . . . 124 Hiroki Kato President, Japan Air Commuter Co., Ltd. Shunsuke Honda Domestic Route Map. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126 Managing Division Route Marketing (Domestic Route Marketing) Tomohiro Nishihata Glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127 Managing Division Route Marketing (Passenger System Planning) William Hiroyuki Saito Deputy General Manager of Digital Innovation Promotion Digital Innovation Promotion Data on Incidents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128 Takahiro Abe Stock Information / General Manager, Airport Operations Corporate Information . . . . . . . . . . . 129 80 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 77 81 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation FINANCIAL DATA — SIX-YEAR SUMMARY Thousands of Billions of yen U.S. dollars*1 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2016 Years ended March 31 Operating revenue 1,204.8 1,238.8 1,309.3 1,344.7 1,336.6 1,288.9 11,489,143 Operating expenses 999.8 1,043.5 1,142.5 1,165.0 1,127.4 1,118.6 9,970,888 Operating income 204.9 195.2 166.7 179.6 209.1 170.3 1,518,245 Ordinary income 197.6 185.8 157.6 175.2 209.2 165.0 1,470,835 Profit attributable to owners of parent 186.6 171.6 166.2 149.0 174.4 164.1 1,463,356 Cash flow from operating activities 256.6 264.8 247.9 261.1 312.3 253.1 2,256,466 Cash flow from investing activities* 2 –62.4 –129.0 –166.7 –199.2 –207.2 –215.5 –1,921,436 Cash flow from financing activities –274.4 –60.6 –61.9 –67.3 –49.6 –53.5 –477,145 Free cash flow*3 194.1 135.8 81.2 61.8 105.1 37.5 335,020 Depreciation and amortization 81.2 81.0 82.7 85.8 88.5 95.7 853,703 EBITDA*4 286.1 276.2 249.5 265.5 297.7 266.1 2,371,949 EBITDAR 318.4 307.1 281.0 292.7 321.1 286.2 2,551,804 Capital investment (Purchase of non-current assets) 98.6 121.8 164.5 198.6 210.6 233.1 2,077,948 As of fiscal year-end Total assets 1,087.6 1,216.6 1,340.1 1,473.3 1,578.9 1,728.7 15,409,368 Net assets 413.8 583.1 711.0 800.7 870.5 1,003.3 8,943,693 Interest-bearing debt 208.4 160.1 134.2 100.5 92.6 116.0 1,034,602 Shareholders’ equity 388.5 565.0 690.2 776.4 843.0 972.0 8,664,444 Per share data (yen, U.S. dollars)* 5 Profit attributable to owners of parent 514.52 473.36 458.45 411.06 481.29 456.56 4.06 Net assets 1,071.19 1,558.15 1,903.53 2,142.00 2,325.79 2,749.71 24.5 Dividends — 95.00 80.00 104.00 120.00 94.00 0.8 Average number of shares during the fiscal year (thousands of shares) 362,704 362,671 362,639 362,584 362,500 359,594 — *1 US dollar amounts are provided for convenience only, based on the Key Performance Indices exchange rate of ¥112.19/USD on Operating margin (%) 17.0 15.8 12.7 13.4 15.7 13.2 — March 31, 2017. ROE (%) 63.6 36.0 26.5 20.3 21.5 18.1 — *2 Excluding deposits and withdrawals from deposit accounts ROA (%) 17.9 16.9 13.0 12.8 13.7 10.3 — *3 Free cash flow = Cash flow from Equity ratio (%) 35.7 46.4 51.5 52.7 53.4 56.2 — operating activities + Cash flow D/E ratio (Times) 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 — from investing activities EBITDA margin (%)* 6 23.8 22.3 19.1 19.8 22.3 20.6 — *4 EBITDA = Operating income + EBITDAR margin (%)*7 26.4 24.8 21.5 21.8 24.0 22.2 — Depreciation expense Unit cost (yen)*8 8.3 8.4 8.6 8.7 9.1 9.4 — *5 Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. conducted a Unit cost (yen) (Including fuel cost) 11.3 11.5 12.2 12.3 11.7 11.7 — 2-for-1 stock split on October 1, 2014. Figures for profit per share, Dividend payout ratio (%) — 20.1 17.5 25.3 24.9 20.2 — net assets per share and dividend per Number of employees 30,875 30,882 31,472 31,534 31,986 32,753 — share have been calculated assuming the stock split was conducted at the Business data start of fiscal 2011. International passenger operations *6 EBITDA margin = EBITDA / Passenger revenues 385.2 406.6 437.5 454.8 448.7 415.2 3,701,025 Operating revenue Available seat kms (million seat kms)* 9, 11 43,036 44,745 46,235 47,696 50,563 50,621 — *7 EBITDAR margin = EBITDAR / Revenue passenger kms (million passenger kms)*10, 11 30,313 34,036 35,390 36,109 40,305 40,633 — Operating revenue 6,844 7,525 7,723 7,793 8,460 8,394 — EBITDAR = Operating income + Revenue passengers carried (1,000)*11 Depreciation expense + Aircraft lease Revenue passenger load factor (%)*11 70.4 76.1 76.5 75.7 79.7 80.3 — *8 Unit cost = Consolidated air Yield (yen)*10,11 12.7 11.9 12.4 12.6 11.1 10.2 — transport cost (excluding fuel costs Unit revenue (yen)*11 9.0 9.1 9.5 9.5 8.9 8.2 — and fuel costs for resale to a related Domestic passenger operations company) / ASK Passenger revenues 481.1 485.2 487.4 487.5 501.2 498.6 4,444,495 *9 ASK (available seat kilometers). A Available seat kms (million seat kms)*9 35,523 36,443 37,084 36,306 35,869 35,423 — unit of passenger transport capacity: Revenue passenger kms (million passenger kms)*10 22,264 23,012 23,745 23,993 24,341 24,550 — Total number of seats x Distance flown (kms) Revenue passengers carried (1,000) 28,965 30,020 31,218 31,644 32,114 32,570 — *10 RPK (revenue passenger kilometers). Revenue passenger load factor (%) 62.7 63.1 64.0 66.1 67.9 69.3 — Total flight distance covered by Yield (yen) 21.6 21.1 20.5 20.3 20.6 20.3 — revenue passengers: Number of Unit revenue (yen) 13.5 13.3 13.1 13.4 14.0 14.1 — revenue passengers x Distance International cargo operations flown (kms). Cargo revenue 53.7 50.4 54.2 60.3 54.2 43.3 386,225 *11 From fiscal 2015, revenue passengers Revenue cargo ton-km (million ton kms) 1,314 1,378 1,512 1,754 1,724 1,887 — carried, revenue passenger kilometers, available seat kilometers and load Domestic cargo operations factor include codeshare tickets Cargo revenue 25.0 25.0 25.4 24.2 23.3 22.2 198,413 sold by other companies for Revenue cargo ton-km (million ton kms) 355 360 366 356 363 357 — JAL-operated flights. 82 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 83 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation EVALUATION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS Economic Conditions an operating margin of more than 10% for five consecutive fiscal to 1,118.6 billion yen, operating income declined 18.6% to Economic trends in Japan and overseas affect demand for the JAL Japanese yen strengthened against the US dollar, but weakened years and an equity ratio of 50% or higher at the end of fiscal 2016. 170.3 billion, ordinary income decreased 21.1% to 165.0 billion Group’s passenger and cargo services. In the fiscal year ended from December 2016 amid growing expectations that the Federal As a result, consolidated operating revenue declined 3.6% yen, and profit attributable to owners of parent fell 5.9% to March 31, 2017 (fiscal 2016), the Japanese economy continued to Open Market Committee (FOMC) would raise interest rates. year on year to 1,288.9 billion yen, operating expenses fell 0.8% 164.1 billion yen. recover at a moderate pace, supported by an improving employIn 2016, global passenger traffic (scheduled flights) continued ment and income environment. However, growth in consumer to grow overall, reaching 3.79 billion passengers, partly due to the Operating revenue Operating income Profit attributable to owners of parent spending and capital investment lacked momentum. Overseas, entry of more low-cost carriers (LCC) into the air travel market (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) there were signs of weakness in resource-producing countries and (source: ICAO). 1,500.0 250.0 25.0 200.0 Operating margin in emerging economies in Asia, including slower growth in China. According to the Japan National Tourism Organization (JNTO), 1,309.3 1,344.7 1,336.6 1,288.9 171.6 174.4 1,238.8 209.1 166.2 164.1 Crude oil prices, which impact our fuel procurement costs, the roughly 24 million people visited Japan in 2016. The Japanese 1,200.0 200.0 195.2 20.0 150.0 149.0 Group’s international passenger revenues and international cargo government is aiming to increase the number of visitors to 40 179.6 166.7 170.3 revenues, were lower than the level in the previous fiscal year, but million in 2020. In addition to providing overseas travel services to 900.0 150.0 15.0 15.8% 15.7% fuel prices started to rise from December 2016 after the OrganizaJapanese customers, the JAL Group will step up efforts to tap into 13.2% 100.0 13.4% tion of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) agreed to cut this projected growth in inbound demand. 600.0 100.0 12.7% 10.0 back production. In the first three quarters of the fiscal year, the 50.0 300.0 50.0 5.0 Inbound demand (number of visitors to Japan) Government’s Global passenger traffic 0 0 0 0 (Million people) target for 2020 (Billions of passengers) 40 40 million visitors 4.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 3.7 Global Financial Crisis Analysis of Consolidated Operating Results 30 3.0 Iraq War / SARS outbreak 9/11 Terrorist 20 2.0 Attacks Gulf War 10 1.0 1.0 1. Earnings Summary Operating revenue ¥ 1,288.9 billion Operating income 170.3 ¥ billion Profit attributable to owners of parent 164.1 ¥ billion 0 0 (Year) (Year) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 In fiscal 2016, consolidated operating revenues declined 3.6% year 2008 Fiscal 2016 Consolidated Operating Results 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Billions of yen) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: Japan National Tourism Organization Source: International Civil Aviation Organization (scheduled flights) on year to 1,288.9 billion yen, reflecting a drop in fuel surcharge Fiscal Fiscal YoY change YoY change 2015 2016 (billions of yen) (%) revenues and a negative impact from the stronger yen on internaOperating revenue 1,336.6 1,288.9 – 47.6 – 3.6 tional routes and falling prices on domestic routes amid competition Air transportation segment 1,205.2 1,159.3 – 45.8 – 3.8 from other carriers. JAL Group Operating expenses decreased 0.8% year on year to 1,118.6 Operating expenses 1,127.4 1,118.6 – 8.8 – 0.8 Air transportation segment 1,014.3 1,006.2 – 8.1 – 0.8 billion yen. Maintenance costs and personnel costs increased, but Operating income 209.1 170.3 – 38.8 – 18.6 fuel costs declined due to the stronger yen and lower fuel prices. Air transportation The Group also continued cost reduction efforts from the previous segment 190.8 153.1 – 37.6 – 19.7 The JAL Group comprises Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. (JAL), 81 subsidAmoeba Management System fiscal year using its amoeba management system and other Operating margin (%) 15.7 13.2 – 2.4pt — iaries and 56 affiliated companies. Ordinary income 209.2 165.0 – 44.2 – 21.1 approaches. Operating in the economic climate described above, the JAL Maximize revenues, minimize costs and promote lean management Profit attributable to owners 174.4 164.1 – 10.2 – 5.9 Consolidated operating income fell 18.6% year on year to of parent*1 Group worked towards its Rolling Plan 2016 in the JAL Group 170.3 billion yen and profit attributable to owners of parent ASK (million seat kilometers)*2 86,432 86,045 – 387 – 0.4 Medium Term Management Plan for Fiscal Years 2012 – 2016. Management by all declined 5.9% to 164.1 billion yen. RPK (million passenger 64,647 65,183 +535 +0.8 kilometers)*3 Specifically, the Group focused on instilling greater focus on profits EBITDA margin (%)*4 22.3 20.6 – 1.6pt — among its staff through the JAL Philosophy and amoeba manageEBITDAR margin (%)*5 24.0 22.2 – 1.8pt — ment system and worked to improve management efficiency to Rigorous profit Efficient use of Unit cost (yen)*6 9.1 9.4 +0.3 +3.2 management management resources Including fuel 11.7 11.7 – 0.0 – 0.4 provide the highest level of service to customers, backed up by a firm commitment to operational safety. *1 Profit attributable to owners of parent *2 ASK (available seat kilometers). A unit of passenger transport capacity: Total To achieve the targets in the Medium Term Management Plan, number of seats x Distance flown (kms) the Group focused on three key areas – safety, customer satisfac*3 RPK (revenue passenger kilometers). Total flight distance covered by revenue passengers: Number of revenue passengers x Distance flown (kms). tion and finance. While some safety and customer satisfaction *4 EBITDA margin = EBITDA/Operating revenue EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation expense targets were missed, the Group achieved two key financial goals: *5 EBITDAR margin = EBITDAR/Operating revenue EBITDAR = Operating income + Depreciation expense + Aircraft lease *6 Unit cost = Consolidated air transport cost (excluding fuel costs) / ASK 84 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 85 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation Fiscal 2016 Changes in operating income International passenger revenues Revenues from international routes by geographic segment (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) –¥38.8 billion · Passenger revenues (%) –¥33.5 billion (–18.6%) Plus symbol = positive for profits Fiscal 2016 Share of total (higher revenues, lower costs, etc.) (–7.5%) Fuel Minus symbol = negative for profits 448.7 –30.4 YoY change Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (excluding hedging) FSC* (lower revenues, higher costs, etc.) America – 4.3 25 26 Forex –3.1 Europe – 6.6 15 15 excluding fuel Revenue growth Higher costs 415.2 Hedge gains Asia / Oceania – 10.6 35 34 – 2.9 +23.4 +11.8 China – 15.5 11 10 – 39.6 +9.0 · Fuel surcharge (–) · Forex (–) Hawaii / Guam + 0.3 14 15 · Decline in seat – 40.5 · Net unit price (+) etc. capacity due to All routes / total – 7.5 100 100 Revenues –19.8 International passenger –34.7 deployment of Excluding fuel +16.9 operations JAL SKY SUITE Total –2.9 International +15.1 International cargo – 4.9 passenger operations operations · ASK (Million seat kilometers) Domestic passenger –2.6 209.1 Total –39.6 operations YoY change 199.0 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (%) Other – 0.7 Total +11.8 170.3 America 13,282 14,322 +7.8 Fiscal 2015 Revenue per Number of Fiscal 2016 Forex +17.4 passenger passengers Europe 7,660 7,490 – 2.2 Fuel prices +6.0 Total +23.4 Labor costs –25.3 Asia / Oceania 18,102 17,836 – 1.5 Maintenance – 6.9 China 3,454 3,506 +1.5 Fuel volume – 3.1 Other – 5.2 Factors affecting unit prices (estimate) Hawaii / Guam 8,064 7,465 – 7.4 Total – 40.5 All routes 50,563 50,621 +0.1 Fiscal 2015 Other negative impact: Fiscal 2016 Fuel surcharge Forex etc. Net unit price Total Market impact: –10.1 billion yen –28.7 billion yen · RPK (Million passenger kilometers) *FSC = fuel surcharge YoY change Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (%) – 8% –7% America 10,497 11,335 +8.0 Europe 5,801 5,976 +3.0 1,159.3 153.1 Asia / Oceania 14,639 14,371 – 1.8 2. Segment Earnings Operating Operating China 2,453 2,577 +5.1 (1) Air transportation segment revenue ¥ billion income ¥ billion –5% +6% Hawaii / Guam 6,913 6,372 – 7.8 All routes 40,305 40,633 +0.8 In the air transportation segment, operating revenue declined 3.8% ① International passenger operations · Revenue passengers carried (1,000) year on year to 1,159.3 billion yen and operating income fell 19.7% YoY change Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (%) YoY change to 153.1 billion yen. In route operations, the Group increased the number of flights on Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (%) Passenger revenues (billion yen) 448.7 415.2 – 7.5 * Figures for operating revenue and operating income are before elimination of some routes in response to strong demand, such as Narita = America 1,112 1,194 +7.4 intra-segment transactions. ASK (million seat kilometers) 50,563 50,621 +0.1 Honolulu, Kansai = Honolulu and Narita = Bangkok. In alliances Europe 641 660 +3.0 RPK (million passenger kilometers) 40,305 40,633 +0.8 with other carriers, Iberia joined the Group’s joint business on Asia / Oceania 4,208 4,047 – 3.8 Air transportation segment sales by business (Millions of yen) Revenue passengers carried (1,000) 8,460 8,394 – 0.8 flights between Japan and Europe and Iberia began offering JAL China 1,307 1,381 +5.7 YoY change Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (%) Load factor (%) 79.7% 80.3% +0.6pt codeshare flights on its Narita = Madrid route. China Airlines also Hawaii / Guam 1,190 1,109 – 6.8 International passenger Yield*1 (yen) 11.1 10.2 – 8.2 expanded its codeshare agreement with JAL to all flights between All routes 8,460 8,394 – 0.8 operations 514,237 468,017 91.0 Unit revenue*2 (yen) 8.9 8.2 – 7.6 Japan and Taiwan, while Russian airline S7 started codeshare Passenger revenues 448,780 415,218 92.5 Revenue per passenger*3 (yen) 53,047 49,461 – 6.8 flights on routes between Moscow and Novosibirsk, Tyumen, · Load factor (%) Cargo revenues 54,273 43,334 79.8 Kaliningrad, and Omsk, helping to extend the reach of the JAL *1 Yield = Passenger revenues / RPK YoY change Mail service revenues 10,337 8,699 84.2 *2 Unit revenue = Passenger revenues / ASK route network. Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (pt) *3 Revenue per passenger = Passenger revenues / Passengers Luggage revenues 845 764 90.4 In products, we steadily introduced aircraft with the JAL SKY America 79.0 79.1 +0.1 Domestic passenger SUITE configuration onto more routes. The new configuration has a Europe 75.7 79.8 +4.1 operations 528,511 525,150 99.4 full-flat seat in business class and “New Spacious Economy” seats in Asia / Oceania 80.9 80.6 – 0.3 Passenger revenues 501,274 498,628 99.5 economy class. China 71.0 73.5 +2.5 Cargo revenues 23,363 22,260 95.3 In marketing and services, FlightStats, Inc. named JAL the most Hawaii / Guam 85.7 85.4 – 0.4 Mail service revenues 3,575 3,959 110.7 punctual major airline in the Asia-Pacific region in 2016 on both All routes 79.7 80.3 +0.6 Luggage revenues 297 301 101.2 Other revenues 162,453 166,224 102.3 domestic and international routes. JAL also received FlightStats’ top Total 1,205,202 1,159,392 96.2 award for network performance. 86 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 87 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation ② Domestic passenger operations In route operations, the Group introduced the Embraer 190 on MyJALCARD, a dedicated online service that customers can access YoY change Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (%) YoY change domestic routes, the first regional jet with JAL’s Class J configuraafter signup. The number of transactions was firm, supported by Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (%) Number of Cardholders (1,000) 3,129 3,272 104.5 tion. The aircraft was initially introduced onto the Itami = an increase in the number of retail partners offering double miles Passenger revenues (billion yen) 501.2 498.6 –0.5 Operating revenue (billions of yen)* 20.4 20.4 100.1 Kagoshima route, followed by Itami = Sendai, Itami = Fukuoka on purchases and initiatives to sign up or encourage members to ASK (million seat kilometers) 35,869 35,423 –1.2 * Before elimination of consolidated transactions and Itami = Nagasaki in an effort to improve passenger comfort switch to more prestigious cards. RPK (million passenger kilometers) 24,341 24,550 +0.9 on Itami routes. Revenue passengers carried (1,000) 32,114 32,570 +1.4 In products, we completed the roll out of the JAL SKY NEXT Load factor (%) 67.9% 69.3% +1.4pt configuration on all 77 aircraft that were earmarked for the 1,118.6 Yield*1 (yen) 20.6 20.3 –1.4 upgrade. We also ran a Stay Connected for Free Campaign on all Operating Unit revenue*2 (yen) 14.0 14.1 +0.7 flights equipped with in-flight Wi-Fi services, delivering greater 3. Analysis of Factors Affecting Operating Expenses expenses ¥ billion Revenue per passenger (yen)*3 15,609 15,309 –1.9 comfort for passengers. *1 Yield = Passenger revenues / RPK In marketing and services, we introduced a new service called *2 Unit revenue = Passenger revenues / ASK Go Somewhere with Miles, aiming to generate new demand for Breakdown of main operating expenses (Billions of yen) (1) Fuel costs *3 Revenue per passenger = Passenger revenues / Passengers travel to regional Japan and further stimulate domestic air travel. Fiscal Fiscal YoY change YoY change As shown in the table below, fuel costs declined 29.3 billion We also fully refurbished Sakura Lounges at New Chitose, Naha, 2015 2016 (Billions of yen) (%) yen year on year due to a drop in fuel prices and favorable Domestic passenger revenues Fukuoka and Hiroshima airports, and added new Diamond Premier Fuel costs 228.1 198.7 – 29.3 –12.9 (Billions of yen) exchange rates. Lounges – the highest grade of passenger lounge on our domestic Landing and navigation fees 82.2 81.1 –1.1 –1.4 – ¥2.6 billion network – at New Chitose, Itami and Fukuoka airports. Maintenance costs 47.9 48.9 +1.0 +2.2 (–0.5%) Fuel and foreign exchange markets Air transport sales YoY change commissions*1 24.4 15.9 – 8.4 –34.7 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (%) 501.2 ‒ 9.6 +7.0 498.6 Aircraft costs*2 98.4 100.4 +1.9 +2.0 Singapore Kerosene (USD/bbl) 60.0 57.2 – 4.6 Service costs*3 36.3 37.9 +1.6 +4.6 Dubai Crude (USD/bbl) 47.2 45.6 – 3.3 Personnel costs 249.9 273.3 +23.3 +9.3 Forex rate (JPY/USD) 120.5 108.6 – 9.9 · Competition with · Growth in individual other airlines (–) passenger demand Travel agency costs 82.3 81.5 – 0.8 –1.0 · Calendar effects in (+) Other 277.5 280.4 +2.8 +1.0 (2) Personnel costs Silver Week (–) · Decline in tourism Total operating expenses 1,127.4 1,118.6 – 8.8 –0.8 Personnel costs increased 23.3 billion yen year on year, reflecting demand due to Kumamoto *1 From fiscal 2016, international cargo operation sales commissions are offset by strategic investment in personnel to strengthen foundations for the earthquakes (–) cargo revenues. Group’s future growth. Specific steps included overhauling pay *2 Aircraft costs = Depreciation + Leasing fees + Insurance premiums and Other costs related to aircraft. structures and raising base wages. *3 Service costs = Costs related to in-flight services, Airport lounges, Cargo and other Fiscal 2015 Revenue per Number of Fiscal 2016 items. passenger passengers (3) Profit management and cost control The Group’s unit costs have been rising since fiscal 2012 due to Operating expenses decreased 0.8% year on year to 1,118.6 improvements in service provision. However, air transportation 172.5 20.4 billion yen. Maintenance costs and personnel costs increased, but JALPAK Co., Ltd. JAL CARD, Inc. revenue per ASK is also increasing. The Group will continue to focus (2) Other Businesses Operating revenue ¥ billion Operating revenue ¥ billion fuel costs declined due to the stronger yen and lower fuel prices. on maximizing profits per ASK. The Group also continued to implement cost reduction efforts from the previous fiscal year using its amoeba management (Yen) system and other approaches. 20 120 In other businesses, we worked to maximize the corporate value of promoting cheaper JAL airfares to Kyushu, stepped up sales and 110 the JAL Group by improving convenience for customers. Financial procurement activities and effective online marketing that led to 100 99 100 results for the two main companies in this segment were as follows. strong demand for the JAL Dynamic Package. Factors affecting changes in fuel costs 15 90 (Billions of yen) JALPAK Co., Ltd. worked to increase sales by rapidly launching 13.3 13.3 80 –¥29.3 billion 12.3 12.5 12.6 new products, offering more high-value-added products and rolling YoY change 70 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 (%) (–12.9%) out well-timed marketing campaigns in line with changing demand. 10 60 9.1 9.4 Overseas travelers handled (1,000) 243 241 99.4 8.4 8.6 8.7 50 Also, to capture growing inbound demand, the company began 228.1 –6.0 Domestic travelers handled (1,000) 2,429 2,510 103.3 –17.4 40 sales of the JAL Visit Japan Dynamic Package for overseas visitors to Operating revenue (billions of yen)* 172.2 172.5 100.2 –5.9 5 30 Japan. Despite upgrades to the smartphone online booking system 198.7 20 * Before elimination of consolidated transactions to improve usability and active promotion of business class and 10 premium economy class tickets, the number of passengers handled JAL CARD, Inc. stepped up efforts to sign up new members, 0 0 by JALPAK for travel to overseas destinations declined year on year running effective marketing campaigns using online advertising 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) amid weak demand for trips to Europe and a drop in available seats and direct mail and accepting credit card applications at airports Air transport revenue per ASK*1 Unit cost*2 (left hand scale) on flights to Honolulu due to the introduction of new aircraft. The and bank branches using tablet PCs. As a result of those efforts, Profit per ASK*3 (right hand scale) (Fiscal 2012 = 100) number of passengers handled by JALPAK for domestic destinations the number of cardholders increased year on year. Also, the *1 Air transport revenue per ASK: (Air transport revenue – fuel surcharge – revenue increased year on year. Growth was supported by a campaign company enhanced services for cardholders with the launch of from resale of fuel to related companies) / ASK Fiscal 2015 Fuel prices Forex Fuel volume / Fiscal 2016 *2 Unit cost = Consolidated air transport cost (excluding fuel costs and fuel costs for hedging gains resale to a related company) / ASK (losses) etc. *3 Profit per ASK = Air transport revenue per ASK – Unit cost 88 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 89 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation 4. Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent Profit attributable to owners of parent ¥164.1 billion 6. Capital Investment and Aircraft Procurement Capital investment ¥ 233.1 billion Ordinary income declined 21.1% year on year to 165.0 billion yen, year to 164.1 billion yen, which included the booking of income Capital investment during fiscal 2016 totaled 233.1 billion yen enhance passenger convenience. reflecting a decline in non-operating income, due mainly to a drop taxes – deferred of 31.6 billion yen due to the application of new (including expenditure for intangible fixed assets). Capital investIn fiscal 2016, capital investment in the air transportation in gain on sales of flight equipment. tax effect accounting policies. ment by segment is as follows: segment totaled 231.5 billion yen. Capital investment was mainly Profit attributable to owners of parent declined 5.9% year on The air transportation segment invests in new aircraft to used to purchase 17 new aircraft (two Boeing 787-8, five Boeing improve operating efficiency. It also invests in intangible fixed assets 787-9, two Boeing 737-800, five Embraer 190, two Bombardier such as measures to improve the Group’s ability to respond to DHC-8-400CC and one ATR42-600), purchase leased aircraft and 253.1 diversifying customer needs and systems to increase efficiency and make advance payments for aircraft. 5. Cash Flows Cash provided by operating activities ¥ billion Cash used in investing activities*2 – ¥215.5 billion – ¥ 53.5 Fiscal 2016 Fleet Fiscal 2017 Fleet Plan As of end-fiscal 2015 As of end-fiscal 2016 Cash used in financing activities billion (March 31, 2016) (March 31, 2017) Change End-fiscal 2016 End-fiscal 2017 Owned Leased Total Owned Leased Total 230 aircraft 226 aircraft Large Boeing 777-200 12 0 12 12 0 12 — 84 international 85 international Total The JAL Group primarily uses cash for investments that increase Cash flows (Billions of yen) Boeing 777-200ER 11 0 11 11 0 11 — 146 domestic 141domestic aircraft Boeing 777-300 4 0 4 4 0 4 — (Excluding regional aircraft, (Excluding regional aircraft, corporate value and to return profits to shareholders and maintain Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 YoY change total is 174) total is 174) Income before income taxes 207.3 162.7 – 44.6 Boeing 777-300ER 13 0 13 13 0 13 — a solid financial position. The Group conducts capital investment Depreciation and Large subtotal 40 0 40 40 0 40 — based on strict investment criteria, aiming to secure an appropriate 88.5 95.7 +7.2 24 large 24 large amortization Medium Boeing 787-8 23 0 23 25 0 25 +2 level of return and maximize free cash flow. Other 16.4 –5.4 –21.8 Boeing 787-9 3 0 3 8 0 8 +5 Cash flow from operating Interna312.3 253.1 –59.2 Boeing 767-300 9 0 9 6 0 6 –3 (1) Cash flow from operating activities activities tional Boeing 767-300ER 28 4 32 29 2 31 –1 routes 50 medium 51 medium After adjusting profit before income taxes and non-controlling Capital investments*1 –210.6 –233.1 –22.4 Medium subtotal 63 4 67 68 2 70 +3 interests of 162.7 billion yen for non-cash items such as depreciaOther 3.4 17.5 +14.1 Small Boeing 737-400 12 0 12 11 0 11 –1 tion and amortization, and reconciling operating accounts receivCash flow from investing –207.2 –215.5 –8.3 Boeing 737-800 22 29 51 26 27 53 +2 10 small 10 small activities*2 able and payable and other items, operating activities provided net Free cash flow* 3 105.1 37.5 – 67.5 Small subtotal 34 29 63 37 27 64 +1 16 large 16 large cash (inflow) of 253.1 billion yen, a decline of 59.2 billion yen Repayment of interestRegional EMBRAER 170 17 0 17 17 0 17 — compared with the previous fiscal year. bearing debt*4 –27.6 –25.0 +2.6 jet EMBRAER 190 0 0 0 5 0 5 +5 20 medium 20 medium Cash dividends, other –21.9 –28.5 – 6.5 Bombardier CRJ-200 9 0 9 5 0 5 –4 (2) Cash flow from investing activities Cash flow from financing Bombardier –49.6 –53.5 –3.8 8 2 10 7 2 9 –1 Investing activities used net cash (outflow) of 215.5 billion yen, activities DHC8-Q400 a decline of 8.3 billion yen compared with the previous fiscal year, Total cash flow* 5 55.5 –15.9 –71.4 Bombardier 54 small 53 small 2 0 2 4 0 4 +2 Domestic EBITDA 297.7 266.1 –31.6 DHC8-Q400CC mainly due to cash used for the purchase of non-current assets. routes EBITDAR 321.1 286.2 –34.9 SAAB 340B 13 0 13 12 0 12 –1 Bombardier (3) Cash flow from financing activities *1 Purchase of non-current assets DHC8-Q300 1 0 1 1 0 1 — *2 Excluding deposits and withdrawals from time deposits Financing activities used net cash (outflow) of 53.5 billion yen, Bombardier *3 Cash flow from operating activities + Cash flow from investing activities 4 0 4 2 0 2 –2 an increase of 3.8 billion yen compared with the previous fiscal *4 Repayment of loans + Repayment of lease obligations DHC8-Q100 56 regional 52 regional year, mainly reflecting cash used for cash dividends paid and for *5 Cash flow from operating activities + Cash flow from investing activities + ATR42-600 0 0 0 1 0 1 +1 Cash flow from financing activities Regional subtotal 54 2 56 54 2 56 — the purchase of treasury shares. Total 191 35 226 199 31 230 +4 90 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 91 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation 7. Financial Position Shareholders’ equity ¥ 972.0 billion Equity ratio 56.2 % 10. Fuel and Exchange Rate Hedging (1) Assets March 31, 2017 and the shareholders’ equity ratio increased 2.8 (1) Policy Fuel cost hedging by fiscal year (as of end-fiscal 2016) (%) As of March 31, 2017, total assets stood at 1,728.7 billion yen, an percentage points to 56.2%. On international routes, fuel surcharges allow the Company to 100 increase of 149.8 billion yen compared with the end of the previous hedge some of its fuel costs. As a result, the Company uses fuel Fuel fiscal year, primarily due to aircraft purchases and advance Consolidated financial position (Billions of yen) hedging for fuel used on domestic routes, which equates to approxForex 80 payments for aircraft. End-fiscal 2015 End-fiscal 2016 YoY change imately 40% of all fuel consumed by the Group’s air transport Total assets 1,578.9 1,728.7 +149.8 operations. In addition, the Company’s foreign currency revenues 60 (2) Liabilities Cash and deposits*1 420.3 404.0 –16.2 are roughly the same as its foreign currency expenses, excluding Liabilities totaled 725.3 billion yen, an increase of 17.0 billion yen Interest-bearing debt*2 92.6 116.0 +23.4 fuel costs. Consequently, the Company uses fuel and exchange rate Roughly Roughly Future rental expenses under 40 40% 40% from the end of the previous fiscal year, mainly due to the issue of 96.9 76.4 –20.4 hedging to mitigate fuel cost risks. operating leases corporate bonds and an increase in borrowings. Shareholders’ equity 843.0 972.0 +128.9 20 Roughly Roughly Equity ratio (%) 53.4 56.2 +2.8pt (3) Net assets Hedging policy 10% 10% Roughly Roughly D/E ratio (Times)* 3 0.1x 0.1x +0.0x 5% 5% Net assets totaled 1,003.3 billion yen, an increase of 132.8 · Fuel surcharge 0 ROE (%)*4 21.5 18.1 –3.5pt 2017 2018 2019 (FY) billion yen from the end of the previous fiscal year, primarily due ROA (%)*5 13.7 10.3 –3.4pt Fuel use to the booking of profit attributable to owners of parent and an *1 Including negotiable certificates of deposit increase in accumulated other comprehensive income, against *2 Including account payable installment purchase International Sensitivity to fuel costs (without hedging) FSC* revenue cash dividends paid and the purchase of treasury shares. *3 D/E ratio = Balance sheet interest-bearing debt / Shareholders’ equity routes Impact on fuel costs (fiscal 2017) received As a result, shareholders’ equity totaled 972.0 billion yen as of *4 ROE = Profit attributable to owners of parent / Average of start-of-year and 60% year-end shareholders’ equity Crude oil (change in 1 US$/bbl) 2.6 billion yen/ year *5 ROA = Operating income / Average of start-of-year and year-end total assets Forex (change in 1 yen/US$) 1.5 billion yen/ year The Company is exposed to fuel Domestic cost risks on domestic routes, routes Hedged which do not have the FSC* 40% (2) Controlling the risk of price fluctuations The impact of fluctuations in fuel prices is mitigated by hedging *FSC = fuel surcharge and fuel surcharges, but the benefits of those actions take time 8. Credit Ratings to feed through to earnings in each fiscal year. However, over a · Forex hedging medium-term timeframe, the Company has been largely Foreign currency Foreign currency successful in mitigating the risk of fluctuations in fuel prices. JAL’s current credit ratings are shown in the table on the right. Rating & Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) Issuer rating A– (stable) revenues expenses Based on cumulative changes in prices for the last three fiscal Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) Long-term A (stable)* Non-fuel issuer rating years, the Company has offset the impact of those changes costs The Company is exposed to through hedging and fuel surcharges. * Rating changed in July 2017 forex risks related to fuel costs, <International as foreign currency expenses routes> excluding fuel costs are largely Fuel costs FSC revenues offset by foreign currency Cumulative impact of price fluctuations in fiscal 2014 – 2016 477.5 revenues <Domestic 9. Retirement Benefit Obligations Retirement benefit obligations ¥ billion routes> Fuel prices / hedging forex The Company and its major consolidated subsidiaries have Pension Fund. Certain overseas subsidiaries have defined-benefit FSC / hedging established defined-benefit retirement plans such as corporate retirement plans. pension plans and lump-sum retirement plans, as well as The Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund also introduces an Impact defined-contribution pension plans. When employees retire, and option similar to a cash-balance plan as well as other alternatives. on other occasions, the Company and its consolidated subsidThe JAL Group Pension Fund, which is used by some domestic iaries may also provide premium severance packages, which are consolidated subsidiaries, uses a cash balance pension plan. –10 100 (Billions of yen) not included in calculations of the actuarial difference for Simplified accounting methods are used to calculate retireretirement benefit obligations in retirement benefit accounting. ment benefit liabilities, assets and expenses for defined-benefit As of March 31, 2017, the Company and 39 consolidated corporate pension plans and lump-sum retirement plans at some subsidiaries had lump-sum retirement plans. The Group also had consolidated subsidiaries. three corporate pension funds, including the Japan Airlines Welfare 92 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 93 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation Principal Business Risks The JAL Group has identified a number of risks that could have a (2) Aircraft risk 11. Distribution of Profits to Shareholders material impact on investment decisions. The list is not exhaustive In the air transportation business, the JAL Group places orders for and the JAL Group may be affected by unforeseen risks not aircraft with the Boeing Company, Airbus SAS, Embraer SA, described below. This report also contains forward-looking Bombardier Inc., ATR, and Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation to The Company regards shareholder return as one of its most For fiscal 2016, the Company will pay a year-end dividend of statements based on information available to the Company as increase efficiency by switching to more fuel-efficient aircraft and important management issues. The Company’s fundamental policy 94 yen per share, in line with its dividend policy of allocating of March 31, 2017. The JAL Group is exposed to the following reducing aircraft types in the fleet. However, the delivery of new is to actively return profits to shareholders through continuous and roughly 25% of profit attributable to owners of parent after principal risks due to the nature of its business activities, centered aircraft may be delayed due to technical, financial, and other stable dividends, while ensuring sufficient internal reserves to invest deducting deferred income taxes. From fiscal 2017, the Company on the scheduled air transportation business and unscheduled air reasons at aircraft manufacturers, which could force adjustments to in corporate growth, adapt to changes in the operating environwill lift the ratio to roughly 30% to increase shareholder returns. transportation business. fleet plans that affect the Group’s operations over the medium and ment and build a strong financial structure. Also, taking into account conditions in the operating environlong term. In addition, following approval from shareholders at the ment and the Group’s financial position, the Company will return (1) Risks related to the operating environment, Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on June 22, 2017, additional profits to shareholders as necessary through share including the international climate and (3) Market risk the Articles of Incorporation were revised to enable the Board of buybacks and other means, review its future financial targets and economic trends ① Fuel price volatility risk Directors to approve resolutions allowing the payment of interim flexibly consider further increases in shareholder returns. ① Operating environment Fluctuations in fuel prices have a significant impact on the JAL dividends, based on a record date of September 30 each year. The JAL Group’s air transportation business operates in Japan and Group’s operating performance. The Company charges a fuel markets worldwide. Demand for air travel may be affected by surcharge to partly cover the impact of higher fuel prices. However, trends in the global economy, natural disasters and adverse weather changes in fuel prices are not immediately reflected in the fuel conditions, terrorist attacks, regional conflicts, war, the outbreak surcharge and it is inappropriate to ask customers to cover the and spread of infectious diseases, and other events. entire increase in fuel prices. The Group also uses crude oil hedging In addition, the JAL Group’s services are partly dependent on transactions to mitigate the risk of fuel price volatility. However, maintenance companies, airport personnel, sky marshals, fuel a sudden and steep drop in oil prices may not contribute to an 12. Business Outlook and Issues to Be Addressed suppliers, luggage handling companies, security companies, improvement in the Group’s operating performance, as the benefits and other third parties, which could affect the Group’s of the decline would not be reflected in business results immedibusiness operations. ately due to hedge contract positions and other factors. The Company expects the airline market – the Group’s main In domestic passenger operations, the competitive environment business field – to expand over the medium to long term, supported is likely to become tougher, including increased competition with ② Competitive environment ② Exchange rate volatility risk by economic globalization. Asia is a particularly promising growth railway companies, amid sluggish growth in total transport demand The Group faces severe competition in Japan and overseas in areas The JAL Group operates in countries other than Japan. As a result, market for the airline sector. The pace of change in the Group’s due to Japan’s falling population and aging society. Against that such as routes, services, and pricing. On domestic routes, the Group some of its revenues and expenses are denominated in foreign market and business climate and advances in technology are likely backdrop, the Company will introduce new aircraft such as the competes with other major Japanese airlines, new low-cost airlines, currencies. In particular, the price of aviation fuel, one of the to accelerate. To generate sustained and stable growth in that Airbus 350, expand the number of routes with in-flight Wi-Fi and bullet train services. On international routes, the Group Group’s main costs, is largely linked to the US dollar. Fluctuations in environment, the Company will implement initiatives during the services, upgrade airport lounges and take other steps to boost competes with major domestic and international airlines, and US dollar exchange rates therefore have a greater impact on the four years of the JAL Group Medium Term Management Plan competitiveness by making its services more convenient and competition is intensifying on both domestic and international Group’s expenses than on its revenues. To mitigate the impact of (fiscal 2017 – 2020). Based on the theme, “Challenge, Leading to comfortable. The Company will also work to increase the number routes. Alliances, codeshare agreements, and reciprocal air frequent exchange rate volatility on profits, the JAL Group uses foreign Growth,” the Company will continue to refine its full-service carrier of travelers by encouraging more people, including overseas visitors, flyer programs between overseas and Japanese airlines are contribcurrency revenues to offset foreign currency expenses and foreign business and steadily expand its business domains by creating and to experience Japan’s regions, helping to revitalize local economies. uting to the challenging environment on international routes. currency hedging transactions. The price of new aircraft is also developing new sources of earnings. The Group faces the risk of significant short-term fluctuations in Significant deterioration in this competitive climate and operating closely linked to the US dollar, which means the Group is also In international passenger operations, the Company anticipates demand in the airline market due to various factors, including environment could affect the Group’s operations. exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations when recording further growth in demand from overseas customers due to the natural disasters, wars, terrorist incidents and outbreaks of disease. The JAL Group is a member of the oneworld alliance, which the value of assets and depreciation costs related to aircraft. upcoming 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics in Tokyo and To mitigate the impact of those risks, the Company will leverage its includes a number of other airlines. The Group has also formed To mitigate this risk, the Group uses hedging transactions to an expected increase in the number of take-off and landing slots at strengths in areas outside its full-service carrier business to create joint businesses with airline partners. The joint businesses extend diversify opportunities for foreign currency exchange. Tokyo metropolitan airports. However, the competitive environment and develop new sources of earnings that can support stable across international borders and have received antitrust immunity is likely to become more challenging as domestic and international growth in the future. (ATI) approval. However, the JAL Group’s alliance strategy may be airlines, including low-cost carriers (LCC), increase the supply of Under the JAL Group Corporate Policy, “the JAL Group aims to affected by changes in operating conditions at other oneworld available seats. Against that backdrop, the Company will reinforce pursue the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, member airlines or joint business partners, and by changes in the its network, including through joint businesses on Pacific and deliver unparalleled service to our customers and increase corporate oneworld alliance membership or major developments in the European routes and alliances with other airlines, and introduce value and contribute to the betterment of society.” To achieve those Group’s alliance relationships. new aircraft with highly competitive cabin configurations, aiming to goals, all Group employees will work as one to increase corporate raise the Group’s presence in overseas markets, as well as in Japan, value by reinforcing the Group’s businesses and financial position to become a highly regarded global airline. and addressing society’s needs and issues. 94 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 95 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation ③ Capital and financial market risk (6) Regulatory and litigation risk (7) IT system and customer data handling risk The JAL Group needs to make significant capital investments, such The Group’s operations are subject to various international legal The JAL Group’s operations are dependent on a large number of IT as procuring new aircraft. To meet funding needs for these investrestrictions and national and local government laws and regulasystems. Failures in these IT systems caused by flaws in computer ments, the Group may procure funds from financial institutions or tions. Revisions to these laws and regulations may result in even programs, computer viruses, and other cyber-attacks may lead to capital markets. The Group’s ability to secure funds and its funding tighter restrictions on the Group’s operations, which could lead to the loss of critical data, as well as issues in flight operations, which costs are affected by trends in capital and financial markets, and by a significant increase in costs. could affect the Group’s operations. Large-scale failures in power changes in its credit rating, which may limit the Group’s access to systems, communication networks, and other infrastructure that funds and lead to higher funding costs. ① Regulatory risk support IT systems could also result in significant disruption to the The JAL Group conducts its operations in accordance with various Group’s operations. (4) Disaster risk rules and regulations, such as Japan’s Civil Aeronautics Act and In addition, inadequate handling of customers’ personal inforThe majority of the JAL Group’s passengers use aircraft departing other regulations governing airline businesses, bilateral aviation mation by the Group or unauthorized access that results in the from or arriving at Haneda and Narita airports. Consequently, these agreements and other international arrangements, Japan’s Antimodisclosure of such information could damage public trust in the airports play a vital role in the JAL Group’s air transportation nopoly Act and other similar antitrust laws overseas, and rules on Group’s business, systems and corporate brand and undermine business. In addition, the Group’s Information System Center, which taxes and public dues such as landing fees. Revisions to these rules customer and market trust in the JAL Group, which could affect plays an important role in managing the Group’s flights, reservaand regulations or notifications of legally enforceable airworthiness the Group’s financial position and operating performance. tions and other services, and the Operation Control Center, which is directives could have an impact on the Group’s operating perfortasked with controlling the operation and scheduling of the Group’s mance. Moreover, the allocation of flight slots at Haneda and Narita (8) Personnel and labor relations risk fleet worldwide, are both located in the Tokyo area. Consequently, airports and the timing of the launch of new routes could also The JAL Group’s business is dependent on securing personnel who a major earthquake or volcanic eruption in the Tokyo area could affect the Group’s operating performance. have national certificates and other legally required qualifications lead to the protracted closure of Haneda or Narita airports, while a In addition, amid growing pressure on companies in recent years related to the operation of aircraft. However, due to the considerfire, terrorist attack or other incident at these key facilities could to fulfill their corporate social responsibility to the environment, able amount of time required by employees to acquire these lead to a prolonged outage of the Group’s information systems and such as preventing global warming, the JAL Group is facing tighter qualifications and skills during the course of their duties, the JAL operational capabilities, which would have a severe impact on the restrictions on CO2 emissions, noise pollution, harmful substances, Group may not be able to secure sufficient personnel when Group’s operations. and other environment issues. A further tightening of environmental required, which could affect the Group’s business operations. regulations that leads to a higher cost burden through emission In addition, many of the Group’s employees are members of (5) Flight safety risk charging mechanisms or other schemes could have an impact on labor unions. A collective strike by Group employees or other labor The JAL Group implements a wide range of measures on a daily the Group’s operating performance. disputes could affect the Group’s aircraft operations. basis to ensure the safe operation of its flights. However, a single fatal accident has the potential to undermine customer trust in the ② Litigation risk Group’s flight safety and lead to a loss of public support. The Group The JAL Group’s business activities are exposed to the risk of various must also provide compensation for any passenger fatalities or types of litigation, which could affect the Group’s operations and injuries in the event of an accident, which could have a severe operating performance. In the event that litigation is filed against impact on the Group’s operating performance. In addition, safety the Group, developments in the subsequent legal case may require issues related to the same aircraft type operated by the Group or additional costs and the booking of provisions, which could also safety issues on codeshare flights could undermine customer trust affect the Group’s operating performance. in the Group’s flight safety and lead to a loss of public support, which could affect the Group’s operating performance. To limit the impact of legal damages related to air accidents and to ensure those affected by any accident receive sufficient compensation, the Group has purchased liability insurance that provides an internationally recognized level of compensation and coverage. 96 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 97 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Balance Sheets Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 4) Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 4) As of March 31 2017 2016 2017 As of March 31 2017 2016 2017 ASSETS LIABILITIES Current liabilities: Current assets: Operating accounts payable (Note 7) ¥ 159,218 ¥ 145,413 $ 1,419,181 Cash and deposits (Notes 5, 7 and 10) ¥ 392,075 ¥ 420,333 $ 3,494,741 Short-term loans payable (Notes 7 and 10) 5,372 5,792 47,883 Notes and operating accounts receivable (Note 7) 142,745 128,148 1,272,350 Current portion of long-term loans payable (Notes 7 and 10) 13,037 10,851 116,204 Securities (Notes 5, 7 and 8) 12,000 — 106,961 Lease obligations (Notes 7 and 10) 5,712 13,254 50,913 Accounts payable—installment purchase (Notes 7 and 10) 181 178 1,613 Flight equipment spare parts and supplies 21,118 20,314 188,234 Income taxes payable 10,829 19,333 96,523 Deferred tax assets (Note 12) 7,436 16,725 66,280 Advances received 96,453 83,365 859,729 Other 51,450 44,429 458,597 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 12) 173 0 1,542 Asset retirement obligations (Note 19) 249 234 2,219 Allowance for doubtful accounts (493) (709) (4,394) Other 73,372 90,128 653,997 Total current assets 626,332 629,242 5,582,779 Total current liabilities 364,601 368,552 3,249,852 Non-current liabilities: Bonds payable (Notes 7 and 10) 20,000 — 178,269 Long-term loans payable (Notes 7 and 10) 65,802 51,331 586,522 Lease obligations (Notes 7 and 10) 5,300 10,373 47,241 Long-term accounts payable—installment purchase Non-current assets: (Notes 7 and 10) 666 847 5,936 Investment securities (Notes 6, 7, 8 and 10) 82,680 84,931 736,964 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 12) 353 358 3,146 Reserve for loss on antitrust litigation 5,965 6,294 53,168 Net defined benefit liability (Note 11) 238,481 236,310 2,125,688 Asset retirement obligations (Note 19) 3,538 3,723 31,535 Other 20,676 30,578 184,294 Total non-current liabilities 360,783 339,818 3,215,821 Total liabilities 725,384 708,371 6,465,674 Tangible fixed assets, net: Contingent liabilities (Note 17) Flight equipment (Note 10) 671,387 560,601 5,984,374 Ground property and equipment (Notes 10 and 16) 51,708 51,142 460,896 NET ASSETS (Note 13) Advances on flight equipment and other purchases 101,832 116,929 907,674 Shareholders’ equity: Common stock: Total tangible fixed assets 824,928 728,673 7,352,954 Authorized: 700,000,000 shares in 2017 and 2016 Issued: 353,715,800 shares in 2017 and 362,704,000 shares in 2016 181,352 181,352 1,616,472 Capital surplus 183,047 183,042 1,631,580 Retained earnings 647,701 557,905 5,773,250 Treasury shares, at cost: 199,873 shares in 2017 and 203,395 shares in 2016 (531) (538) (4,733) Software 95,738 79,866 853,355 Total shareholders’ equity 1,011,569 921,761 9,016,570 Long-term loans receivable (Note 10) 7,303 8,169 65,094 Accumulated other comprehensive income Deferred tax assets (Note 12) 61,457 6,172 547,793 Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (Note 8) 13,828 14,767 123,255 Deferred losses on hedges (Note 9) (667) (24,777) (5,945) Net defined benefit asset (Note 11) 1,240 1,090 11,052 Foreign currency translation adjustment 232 427 2,067 Other (Note 10) 29,359 41,027 261,689 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (Note 11) (52,898) (69,079) (471,503) Allowance for doubtful accounts (264) (245) (2,353) Total accumulated other comprehensive income (39,504) (78,662) (352,116) Non-controlling interests 31,328 27,457 279,240 Total non-current assets 1,102,444 949,686 9,826,579 Total net assets 1,003,393 870,557 8,943,693 Total assets ¥1,728,777 ¥1,578,928 $15,409,368 Total liabilities and net assets ¥1,728,777 ¥1,578,928 $15,409,368 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 98 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 99 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Thousands of Millions of yen Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 4) Shareholders’ equity Total Years ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares shareholders’ equity Operating revenue: Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥181,352 ¥183,042 ¥421,137 ¥(538) ¥784,992 Passenger: Changes of items during period Domestic ¥ 498,628 ¥ 501,274 $ 4,444,495 Dividends of surplus (37,700) (37,700) International 415,218 448,780 3,701,025 Profit attributable to owners of parent 174,468 174,468 Incidental and other revenue 375,120 386,606 3,343,613 Net changes of items other than Total operating revenue 1,288,967 1,336,661 11,489,143 shareholders’ equity Total changes of items during period — — 136,768 — 136,768 Operating expenses: Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥181,352 ¥183,042 ¥557,905 ¥(538) ¥921,761 Wages, salaries and benefits 273,316 249,999 2,436,188 Aircraft fuel 198,794 228,162 1,771,940 Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Landing fees and other rent 81,140 82,250 723,237 Valuation Foreign Remeasureaccumulated Aircraft maintenance 48,967 47,906 436,464 difference on Deferred currency ments of other Nonavailable-for-sale losses translation defined comprehensive controlling Total Aircraft rent 20,177 23,471 179,846 securities on hedges adjustment benefit plans income interests net assets Depreciation and amortization 95,777 88,528 853,703 Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥24,334 ¥(15,612) ¥(4,101) ¥(13,136) ¥ (8,516) ¥24,275 ¥800,751 Other 400,461 407,151 3,569,489 Changes of items during period Total operating expenses 1,118,634 1,127,469 9,970,888 Dividends of surplus (37,700) Operating income 170,332 209,192 1,518,245 Profit attributable to owners of parent 174,468 Net changes of items other than Non-operating income (expenses): shareholders’ equity (9,566) (9,165) 4,529 (55,942) (70,145) 3,182 (66,962) Interest income 874 887 7,790 Total changes of items during period (9,566) (9,165) 4,529 (55,942) (70,145) 3,182 69,805 Dividend income 979 1,556 8,726 Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥14,767 ¥(24,777) ¥ 427 ¥(69,079) ¥(78,662) ¥27,457 ¥870,557 Interest expenses (843) (1,172) (7,514) Gain on sales of flight equipment 1,875 5,798 16,712 Loss on sales and disposal of flight equipment (8,458) (3,978) (75,389) Loss on sales and disposal of supplies (1,837) (1,121) (16,374) Share of profit of entities accounted for using equity method 2,180 651 19,431 Foreign exchange gains (losses) 203 (3,837) 1,809 Compensation income 1,381 2,193 12,309 Compensation expenses (1,285) — (11,453) Subsidy income for aircraft purchase 6,692 7,063 59,648 Settlement of facility restitution — 2,201 — Loss on reduction of aircraft (6,959) (6,972) (62,028) Impairment loss (Note 15) (505) (2,714) (4,501) Other (1,853) (2,366) (16,516) Total non-operating income (expenses) (7,553) (1,810) (67,323) Profit before income taxes 162,778 207,381 1,450,913 Income taxes—current (Note 12) 23,570 26,834 210,090 Income taxes—deferred (Note 12) (31,657) (436) (282,173) Total income taxes (8,087) 26,398 (72,083) Profit 170,865 180,983 1,522,996 Profit attributable to Owners of parent 164,174 174,468 1,463,356 Non-controlling interests 6,690 6,514 59,630 Other comprehensive income (Note 14) Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (971) (9,461) (8,654) Deferred gains (losses) on hedges 23,923 (9,005) 213,236 Foreign currency translation adjustment (257) 4,588 (2,290) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans, net of tax 16,152 (55,877) 143,970 Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for using equity method 308 (453) 2,745 Total other comprehensive income 39,155 (70,209) 349,006 Comprehensive income 210,021 110,773 1,872,011 Comprehensive income attributable to Owners of parent 203,331 104,323 1,812,380 Non-controlling interests ¥ 6,689 ¥ 6,449 $ 59,622 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 100 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 101 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Millions of yen Thousands of Shareholders’ equity Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 4) Total shareholders’ Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares equity Years ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥181,352 ¥183,042 ¥557,905 ¥ (538) ¥ 921,761 Cash flows from operating activities Changes of items during period Profit before income taxes ¥ 162,778 ¥ 207,381 $ 1,450,913 Dividends of surplus (43,500) (43,500) Adjustments to reconcile profit before income taxes to Profit attributable to owners of parent 164,174 164,174 net cash provided by operating activities: Purchase of treasury shares (29,944) (29,944) Retirement of treasury shares (29,944) 29,944 — Depreciation and amortization 95,777 88,528 853,703 Changes of scope of equity method, etc. 4 (934) 7 (922) Loss on sales and disposal of non-current assets and Net changes of items other than impairment loss 6,459 3,526 57,571 shareholders’ equity Decrease in net defined benefit liability (3,589) (10,741) (31,990) Total changes of items during period — 4 89,795 7 89,808 Interest and dividend income (1,854) (2,444) (16,525) Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥181,352 ¥183,047 ¥647,701 ¥ (531) ¥1,011,569 Interest expenses 843 1,172 7,514 Accumulated other comprehensive income Foreign exchange gains (8) (421) (71) Total Share of profit of entities accounted for using equity method (2,180) (651) (19,431) Valuation Foreign Remeasureaccumulated difference on Deferred currency ments of other NonDecrease (increase) in notes and operating accounts receivable (14,609) 14,193 (130,216) available-for-sale losses translation defined comprehensive controlling Total securities on hedges adjustment benefit plans income interests net assets Increase in flight equipment spare parts and supplies (801) (449) (7,139) Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥14,767 ¥(24,777) ¥ 427 ¥(69,079) ¥(78,662) ¥27,457 ¥ 870,557 Increase in operating accounts payable 13,952 731 124,360 Changes of items during period Other, net 27,974 21,152 249,344 Dividends of surplus (43,500) Subtotal 284,742 321,977 2,538,033 Profit attributable to owners of parent 164,174 Interest and dividend income received 2,312 2,975 20,607 Purchase of treasury shares (29,944) Interest expenses paid (862) (1,259) (7,683) Retirement of treasury shares — Proceeds from settlement of facility reconstitution — 2,190 — Changes of scope of equity method, etc. (922) Income taxes paid (33,039) (13,489) (294,491) Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity (938) 24,110 (195) 16,181 39,157 3,870 43,027 Net cash provided by operating activities 253,153 312,394 2,256,466 Total changes of items during period (938) 24,110 (195) 16,181 39,157 3,870 132,835 Cash flows from investing activities Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥13,828 ¥ (667) ¥ 232 ¥(52,898) ¥(39,504) ¥31,328 ¥1,003,393 Payments into time deposits (363,892) (400,309) (3,243,533) Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 411,381 318,607 3,666,824 Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 4) Purchase of non-current assets (233,125) (210,660) (2,077,948) Shareholders’ equity Proceeds from sales of non-current assets 8,427 7,642 75,113 Total Common stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury shares shareholders’ equity Purchase of investment securities (342) (6,345) (3,048) Balance at April 1, 2016 $1,616,472 $1,631,535 $4,972,858 $ (4,795) $8,216,070 Proceeds from sales and redemption of investment securities 1,134 273 10,107 Changes of items during period Proceeds from purchase of shares of subsidiaries resulting Dividends of surplus (387,735) (387,735) in change in scope of consolidation — 39 — Profit attributable to owners of parent 1,463,356 1,463,356 Payments of loans receivable (386) (319) (3,440) Purchase of treasury shares (266,904) (266,904) Collection of loans receivable 1,485 1,669 13,236 Retirement of treasury shares (266,904) 266,904 — Other, net 7,239 486 64,524 Changes of scope of equity method, etc. 35 (8,325) 62 (8,218) Net cash used in investing activities (168,077) (288,915) (1,498,146) Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity Cash flows from financing activities Total changes of items during period — 35 800,383 62 800,499 Net increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable (360) 5,686 (3,208) Balance at March 31, 2017 $1,616,472 $1,631,580 $5,773,250 $ (4,733) $9,016,570 Proceeds from long-term loans payable 27,895 19,002 248,640 Repayments of long-term loans payable (11,169) (7,952) (99,554) Accumulated other comprehensive income Total Proceeds from issuance of bonds 19,875 — 177,154 Valuation Foreign Remeasureaccumulated Purchase of treasury shares (29,992) — (267,332) difference on Deferred currency ments of other Nonavailable-for-sale losses translation defined comprehensive controlling Total Cash dividends paid (43,481) (37,695) (387,565) securities on hedges adjustment benefit plans income interests net assets Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (2,807) (3,264) (25,020) Balance at April 1, 2016 $131,624 $(220,848) $ 3,806 $(615,732) $(701,149) $244,736 $7,759,666 Repayments for lease obligations (13,491) (25,411) (120,251) Changes of items during period Dividends of surplus (387,735) Net cash used in financing activities (53,531) (49,636) (477,145) Profit attributable to owners of parent 1,463,356 Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (292) (141) (2,602) Purchase of treasury shares (266,904) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 31,251 (26,299) 278,554 Retirement of treasury shares — Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 92,951 119,287 828,514 Changes of scope of equity method, etc. (8,218) Increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from merger 58 — 516 Net changes of items other than Decrease in cash and cash equivalents resulting from exclusion shareholders’ equity (8,360) 214,903 (1,738) 144,228 349,023 34,495 383,519 of subsidiaries from consolidation — (36) — Total changes of items during period (8,360) 214,903 (1,738) 144,228 349,023 34,495 1,184,018 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Note 5) ¥ 124,261 ¥ 92,951 $ 1,107,594 Balance at March 31, 2017 $123,255 $ (5,945) $ 2,067 $(471,503) $(352,116) $279,240 $8,943,693 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 102 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 103 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries 1. BASIS OF PRESENTING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS method are recorded as goodwill amortized by the straight-line f. Leased Assets Differences arising from the translation of assets, liabilities, Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) and its domestic method over a period of 3 to 5 years. Depreciation of leased assets is computed as follows: revenues, and expenses of foreign consolidated subsidiaries consolidated subsidiaries maintain their accounting records All significant intercompany accounts and transactions Leased assets arising from finance lease transactions that and entities accounted for using the equity method into and prepare their financial statements in accordance with and unrealized gain or loss on intercompany accounts and transfer the ownership of leased assets to the lessee are yen at the applicable exchange rates at the year-end are accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, which transactions are eliminated in consolidation. depreciated by the same method applied to assets arising presented as foreign currency translation adjustments and are different in certain respects as to the application and from purchase transactions. non-controlling interests in a component of net assets. disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting b. Securities Leased assets under finance lease transactions that do Standards. The accompanying consolidated financial stateSecurities, except for investment securities of non-consolidated not transfer the ownership to the lessee are depreciated to a k. Derivatives and Hedge Accounting ments have been compiled from the consolidated financial subsidiaries and affiliates, are classified as trading securities, residual value of zero by the straight-line method using the Derivatives positions are stated at fair value. statements filed with the appropriate Local Finance Bureau held-to-maturity securities, or other securities. Trading seculease term as the useful life. Gains or losses on derivatives designated as hedging of the Ministry of Finance as required by the Financial rities are carried at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are instruments are deferred until the gains or losses on the Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan and include certain carried at amortized cost. Marketable securities classified as g. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts underlying hedged items are recognized with any unrealized additional financial information for the convenience of other securities are carried at fair value with any unrealized General provision for doubtful accounts is provided by gains or losses reported as a separate component of net readers outside Japan. Some supplementary information gain or loss reported as a separate component of net assets, applying a reserve percentage to receivables based on assets, net of taxes. Foreign currency receivables and payables included in the statutory Japanese language consolidated net of taxes. Non-marketable securities classified as other experience from past transactions. When considered necesare translated at the applicable forward foreign exchange financial statements, but not required for fair presentation, securities are carried at cost. Cost of securities sold is sary, specific reserves are made based on the assessment of rates if certain conditions are met. is not presented in the accompanying consolidated determined principally by the moving-average method. individual accounts. financial statements. l. Revenue Recognition As permitted by the Financial Instruments and Exchange c. Inventories h. Accounting Method for Retirement Benefits Passenger and cargo revenues are recognized when the Act of Japan, amounts of less than one million yen have Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net In calculating the retirement benefit obligation, the method transportation services are rendered. been omitted. As a result, the totals shown in the accomparealizable value with cost determined principally by the of attributing expected benefits to the accounting period nying consolidated financial statements (both in yen and moving-average method. is principally based on the benefit formula. m. Income Taxes U.S. dollars) do not necessarily agree with the sum of the Actuarial gain and loss are amortized by the straight-line Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for individual amounts. d. Tangible Fixed Assets (excluding leased assets) method over a period ranging from 5 to 17 years, which is expected future tax consequences attributable to temporary Certain amounts previously reported have been reclassified Tangible fixed assets, excluding leased assets, are stated at less than the average remaining years of service of the active differences between the financial statement carrying to conform to the current year’s classification. cost, net of accumulated depreciation, and accumulated participants in the plans. Amortization is computed from the amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective impairment losses, if any, except as indicated in the fiscal year subsequent to the year in which the difference tax basis, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES following paragraph. was recorded. Valuation allowance is recorded to reduce deferred tax a. Principles of Consolidation and Accounting Accumulated depreciation of tangible fixed assets on Past service cost is principally charged to income as assets to their net realizable value if it is more likely than not for Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries March 31, 2017 and 2016 amounted to ¥395,080 million incurred. However, at certain subsidiaries, past service cost is that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not and Affiliates ($3,521,525 thousand) and ¥364,355 million, respectively. amortized by the straight-line method over a period which be realized. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is computed is less than the average remaining years of service of the The Company and certain domestic consolidated subthe accounts of the Company and all significant subsidiaries as follows: active participants in the plans. sidiaries file tax returns under the Japanese consolidated controlled directly or indirectly by the Company. Companies Flight equipment: the straight-line method based on corporate tax system. over which the Company exercises significant influence in its estimated useful life i. Reserve for Loss on Antitrust Litigation terms of their operating and financial policies have been Other: principally the straight-line method based on Estimated future loss is accrued in order to provide for n. Cash Equivalents included in the accompanying consolidated financial the estimated useful lives of the respective assets penalties and compensation potentially arising from Cash equivalents are defined as highly liquid, short-term statements on the equity basis. The estimated useful lives are principally as follows: price cartels.. investments with an original maturity of 3 months or less. The balance sheet date of 6 of the consolidated subsidiaries Flight equipment: from 12 to 20 years is December 31. Any significant differences in intercompany Other: from 2 to 65 years j. Foreign Currency Translation 3. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY/CHANGES accounts and transactions arising from intervening interRevenues and expenses in foreign currencies are translated IN PRESENTATION company transactions during the period between the balance e. Software (excluding leased assets) at the rates prevailing at the time of the transaction. Except For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 sheet date of each subsidiary and the consolidated balance Computer software intended for internal use is amortized as noted in k. Derivatives and Hedge Accounting, foreign (Changes in accordance with the application of “Revised sheet date have been adjusted, if necessary. The differences by the straight-line method based on its estimated useful life currency receivables and payables are translated into yen at Accounting Standard for Business Combinations” and between the acquisition and the fair value of the net assets which is principally 5 years. the applicable year-end foreign exchange rates and any gain other standards) at the respective dates of acquisition of the consolidated or loss on translation is included in current earnings. The presentation of profit was amended and the reference subsidiaries and companies accounted for by the equity to “minority interests” was changed to “non-controlling 104 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 105 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS interests” in accordance with Article 39 of “Revised 6. INVESTMENT SECURITIES OF NON-CONSOLIDATED The JAL Group also utilizes commodity derivatives in Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2017 Book value Fair value Difference Accounting Standard for Consolidated Financial Statements” SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES order to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in commodity Assets (ABSJ Statement No. 22, September 13, 2013) and others. To Investment securities of non-consolidated subsidiaries and prices of fuel and stabilize such fuel costs. (1) Cash and deposits $3,494,741 $3,494,741 $— reflect these changes in presentation, consolidated statements affiliates which were included in “Investment securities” in the There are internal policies for derivative transactions (2) Notes and operating of the prior year presented herein were reclassified. consolidated balance sheets on March 31, 2017 and 2016 which set forth authorization levels and upper limits on accounts receivable 1,272,350 1,272,350 — amounted to ¥35,244 million ($314,145 thousand) and transaction volumes and the JAL Group enters into deriva(3) Securities and investment For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 ¥39,431 million, respectively. Bonds of affiliates which were tive transactions in accordance with such policies. Moreover, securities (i) Investment securities (Changes in depreciation method) included in “Investment securities” in the consolidated balance monthly meetings are held with the attendance of board of non-consolidated Due to amendments to the Japanese Corporation Tax Act, sheets on March 31, 2017 and 2016 amounted to ¥3,330 members responsible for derivatives to determine methods subsidiaries and affiliates 140,253 151,608 11,346 the Company and its consolidated domestic subsidiaries million ($29,681 thousand) and ¥3,330 million, respectively. and ratios for minimizing risks as well as to report and (ii) Other investment securities 416,463 416,463 — adopted “Practical Solution on a change in depreciation confirm results of derivative transactions. Total 5,323,825 5,335,181 11,346 method due to Tax Reform 2016” (Practical Issue Task Force 7. FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair value of financial instruments is based on the Liabilities No. 32, June 17, 2016) from the current fiscal year. According The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “JAL quoted market price, when it is available. When there is no (1) Operating accounts payable 1,419,181 1,419,181 — to this adoption, some consolidated domestic subsidiaries of Group”) manage its financial instruments to raise funds, market price available, fair value is reasonably estimated. (2) Short-term loans payable 47,883 47,883 — (3) Bonds payable 178,269 178,384 115 the Company changed the depreciation method of facilities principally for the purpose of flight equipment and facilities Since various assumptions and factors are reflected in esti(4) Long-term loans payable 702,727 702,727 — attached to buildings and structures acquired since April 1, in accordance with management plans for air transportation, mating the fair value, different assumptions and factors (5) Lease obligations 98,154 98,154 — 2016 from the declining-balance method to the straight-line utilizing loans from financial institutions, issuance of bonds, could result in a different fair value. (6) Long-term accounts payable— method. The impact on the consolidated statements finance lease transactions, and derivatives. Funds from The book value of financial instruments in the consoliinstallment purchase 7,549 7,549 — is immaterial. short-term loans payable are utilized for ordinary operations. dated balance sheets, their fair value and the differences as Total 2,453,783 2,453,899 115 Funds from long-term loans payable and finance lease transof March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Derivatives* $(5,241) $(4,902) $329 4. U.S. DOLLAR AMOUNTS actions are utilized for flight equipment and facilities. * Derivatives assets and liabilities are stated on a net basis, and net liabilities are Millions of yen enclosed in parentheses. Amounts in U.S. dollars are included solely for the conveDerivatives are utilized for the purpose of reducing the risk As of March 31, 2017 Book value Fair value Difference nience of the reader. A rate of JPY 112.19 = USD 1.00, the of fluctuations of interest rates and foreign currency Assets Millions of yen approximate exchange rate prevailing on March 31, 2017, exchange rates, not for the purpose of speculation. (1) Cash and deposits ¥392,075 ¥392,075 ¥— As of March 31, 2016 Book value Fair value Difference (2) Notes and operating Assets has been used in translation. The convenience translations With respect to operating accounts receivable, the JAL accounts receivable 142,745 142,745 — (1) Cash and deposits ¥420,333 ¥420,333 ¥— should not be construed as representations that the Japanese Group exercises due date management and outstanding (3) Securities and investment (2) Notes and operating yen amounts have been, could have been, or could in the balance management in accordance with internal policies. securities accounts receivable 128,148 128,148 — future be, converted into U.S. dollars at this or any other The JAL Group makes its best efforts to identify and mitigate (i) Investment securities (3) Securities and investment rate of exchange. risks of bad debt from major customers with financial diffiof non-consolidated securities culties by periodically monitoring their creditworthiness. subsidiaries and affiliates 15,735 17,009 1,273 (i) Investment securities (ii) Other investment securities 46,723 46,723 — of non-consolidated 5. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Securities and investment securities are composed mainly of Total 597,280 598,554 1,273 subsidiaries and affiliates 14,878 13,090 (1,787) The components of cash and cash equivalents in the accomshares of companies with which the JAL Group has business (ii) Other investment securities 36,129 36,129 — Liabilities panying consolidated statements of cash flows at March 31, relationships. The JAL Group reviews the fair values of such Total 599,490 597,702 (1,787) (1) Operating accounts payable 159,218 159,218 — 2017 and 2016 were as follows: financial instruments and the financial position of the issuers (2) Short-term loans payable 5,372 5,372 — Liabilities periodically in order to identify and mitigate risks of impair(3) Bonds payable 20,000 20,013 13 (1) Operating accounts payable 145,413 145,413 — Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars ment. Most operating accounts payable are due within one (4) Long-term loans payable 78,839 78,839 — (2) Short-term loans payable 5,792 5,792 — As of March 31 2017 2016 2017 year. As for derivatives, the JAL Group believes that the (5) Lease obligations 11,012 11,012 — (3) Bonds payable — — — Cash and deposits ¥392,075 ¥420,333 $3,494,741 (4) Long-term loans payable 62,183 62,183 — credit risks are extremely low, as it enters into derivative (6) Long-term accounts payable— Securities 12,000 — 106,961 installment purchase 847 847 — (5) Lease obligations 23,627 23,627 — transactions only with reputable financial institutions with Time deposits with a maturity Total 275,290 275,303 13 (6) Long-term accounts payable— of more than three months (279,813) (327,382) (2,494,099) a sound credit profile. Derivatives* ¥(588) ¥(550) ¥37 installment purchase 1,025 1,025 — Cash and cash equivalents ¥124,261 ¥92,951 $1,107,594 The Company utilizes derivatives in order to mitigate Total 238,043 238,043 — * Derivatives assets and liabilities are stated on a net basis, and net liabilities are the risks of fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency enclosed in parentheses. Derivatives* ¥(29,571) ¥(29,672) ¥ (100) exchange rates on receivables and payables. The JAL Group * Derivatives assets and liabilities are stated on a net basis, and net liabilities are utilizes currency options to reduce the risk of foreign enclosed in parentheses. currency exchange rate fluctuations for specific foreigncurrency-denominated receivables and payables, mainly for fuel purchase payables. 106 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 107 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (i) Methods of calculating the fair value of financial (iii) Redemption schedule for monetary claims and 8. INVESTMENT SECURITIES 9. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES instruments, including securities and derivatives securities with maturity date subsequent to the No trading securities were held on March 31, 2017 and Certain consolidated subsidiaries utilize forward foreign transactions consolidated balance sheet date 2016. Securities classified as other securities are included in exchange contracts and currency options on a consistent Assets “Investment securities” in the accompanying consolidated basis to hedge certain foreign currency transactions related Millions of yen (1) C ash and deposits and (2) Notes and operating accounts More than More than balance sheets. to foreign purchase commitments, principally for flight receivable one year, five years, The components of unrealized gain or loss on marketequipment and foreign accounts payable, and other items. Within within within More than The fair value equates to the book value due to the As of March 31, 2017 one year five years ten years ten years able securities classified as other securities on March 31, The Company also enters into a variety of options in its short-term nature of these instruments. Cash and deposits ¥392,075 ¥— ¥— ¥— 2017 and 2016 were summarized as follows: management of risk exposure related to the commodity (3) S ecurities and investment securities Notes and operating prices of fuel. accounts receivable 142,745 — — — Millions of yen The fair value of securities is determined mainly based on Acquisition Carrying Unrealized The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries enter Investment securities the market price. These investment securities are As of March 31, 2017 cost value gain (loss) into these hedging transactions in accordance with the Negotiable certificates Unrealized gain: described further in “Note 8. INVESTMENT SECURITIES.” of deposit 12,000 — — — internal guidelines and strategies established by manageStocks ¥15,410 ¥34,229 ¥18,819 Held-to-maturity ment. The routine operations of the department which is securities — — — 3,330 15,410 34,229 18,819 Liabilities responsible for hedging transactions are examined by other Unrealized loss: (1) O perating accounts payable and (2) Short-term loans departments. Gains and losses on hedging instruments and Thousands of U.S. dollars Stocks 499 493 (6) payable More than More than Negotiable certificates of deposit 12,000 12,000 — the assessment of hedge effectiveness, which are performed The fair value equates to the book value due to the one year, five years, 12,499 12,493 (6) both at inception and on an ongoing basis, are reported at Within within within More than short-term nature of these instruments. As of March 31, 2017 one year five years ten years ten years Total ¥27,910 ¥46,723 ¥18,813 meetings of the related department managers on a timely (3) B onds payable Cash and deposits $3,494,741 $— $— $— basis. Other consolidated subsidiaries have adopted proceThe fair value of bonds payable is determined based on Notes and operating Thousands of U.S. dollars dures for hedging transactions which are more simplified accounts receivable 1,272,350 — — — Acquisition Carrying Unrealized the market price. As of March 31, 2017 cost value gain (loss) than those adopted by the Company. Investment securities (4) L ong-term loans payable, (5) Lease obligations, and (6) Unrealized gain: The contract amount and the estimated fair value of the Negotiable certificates Long-term accounts payable—installment purchase of deposit 106,961 — — — Stocks $137,356 $305,098 $167,742 open derivatives positions on March 31, 2017 and 2016, The fair value of long-term loans payable, lease obligaHeld-to-maturity 137,356 305,098 167,742 which met the criteria required for the application of hedge tions, and long-term accounts payable—installment securities — — — 29,681 Unrealized loss: accounting, are summarized as follows: purchase with fixed interest rates is based on the present Stocks 4,447 4,394 (53) Millions of yen Negotiable certificates of deposit 106,961 106,961 — value of future cash flows discounted using the current More than More than 111,409 111,355 (53) borrowing rate for similar debt of a comparable maturity. one year, five years, Within within within More than Total $248,774 $416,463 $167,688 As of March 31, 2016 one year five years ten years ten years Derivatives Cash and deposits ¥420,333 ¥— ¥— ¥— Millions of yen Derivatives are described further in “Note 9. DERIVATIVES Notes and operating Acquisition Carrying Unrealized accounts receivable 128,148 — — — As of March 31, 2016 cost value gain (loss) AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES.” Investment securities Unrealized gain: Held-to-maturity Stocks ¥15,870 ¥36,095 ¥20,225 (ii) Financial instruments for which the fair value is securities — — — 3,330 15,870 36,095 20,225 extremely difficult to measure Unrealized loss: The redemption schedule for short-term and long-term debt Stocks 40 33 (6) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 40 33 (6) subsequent to the consolidated balance sheet date is As of March 31 2017 2016 2017 Total ¥15,910 ¥36,129 ¥20,218 Investment securities of described in “Note 10. SHORT-TERM LOANS PAYABLE AND non-consolidated subsidiaries LONG-TERM DEBT.” and affiliates ¥19,509 ¥24,552 $173,892 Proceeds from sales of securities classified as other securities Held-to-maturity securities 3,330 3,330 29,681 for the year ended March 31, 2016 amounted to ¥273 Other securities 9,381 6,040 83,617 million. For the year ended March 31, 2016, the aggregate gain realized on those sales totaled ¥265 million. Neither of The above are not included in “(3) (ii) Other investment them was applicable for the year ended March 31, 2017. securities” in the fair value of financial instruments because there is no market value and it is difficult to measure the fair value. 108 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 109 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As of March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 10. SHORT-TERM LOANS PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT Assets pledged as collateral as of March 31, 2017 for longContract amount Contract amount The weighted-average interest rate for short-term loans term and short-term debt of ¥76,012 million ($677,529 Maturing Estimated Maturing Estimated Type of derivative Major hedged items Total after 1 year fair value Total after 1 year fair value payable outstanding on March 31, 2017 was 1.0%. Long-term thousand) are flight equipment and others totaling Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: debt on March 31, 2017 and 2016 consisted of the following: ¥155,401 million ($1,385,159 thousand). Assets pledged as Buy: USD Operating accounts payable ¥36,805 ¥ 4,548 ¥1,197 $328,059 $ 40,538 $10,669 collateral as of March 31, 2016 for long-term and short-term WeightedEUR Operating accounts payable 2,020 — 44 18,005 — 392 Thousands of average debt of ¥58,333 million are flight equipment and others Others Operating accounts payable 1,330 — 84 11,854 — 748 Millions of yen U.S. dollars interest rate totaling ¥145,192 million. As of March 31 2017 2016 2017 2017 Currencies options: Also included as part of pledged assets are certain assets Buy: Long-term loans: Call option Operating accounts payable 67,232 17,318 1,918 599,269 154,363 17,095 Current portion of set aside for revolving pledges on obligations accompanying Sell: long-term loans syndicated loans taken out by an affiliate, Tokyo International Put option Operating accounts payable 60,885 15,129 (1,268) 542,695 134,851 (11,302) payable ¥ 13,037 ¥10,851 $116,204 0.8% Airport Terminal Corporation, for core business purposes. Commodity swap: Long-term loans payable (excluding The amounts include security deposits paid to the banks Received variable/pay fixed Aircraft fuel 68,359 18,550 (2,565) 609,314 165,344 (22,863) current portion) due regarding derivative transactions. 2018 to 2030 65,802 51,331 586,522 0.5% The Company entered into loan commitment agreements Method of hedge accounting: Special treatment (Note 2. k) Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: Lease obligations: amounting to ¥50,000 million ($445,672 thousand) with Buy: Current portion of three banks. There were no loan payables outstanding on USD Operating accounts payable 593 — 40 5,285 — 356 lease obligations 5,712 13,254 50,913 0.8% EUR Operating accounts payable 305 — (7) 2,718 — (62) Lease obligations March 31, 2017 under these loan commitment agreements. Others Operating accounts payable 80 — 4 713 — 35 (excluding current Total ¥ (550) $ (4,902) portion) due 2018 11. RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS to 2026 5,300 10,373 47,241 2.0% Outline of Current Retirement Benefit System Long-term accounts All derivative transactions were conducted as over-the-counter transactions. Fair value is estimated based on prices quoted by payable—installment An employee whose employment is terminated is entitled, in financial institutions and others. purchase: most cases, to pension annuity payments or to a lump-sum Current portion of severance payment determined by reference to the employee’s As of March 31, 2016 Millions of yen long-term accounts Contract amount payable—installment basic rate of pay, length of service, and the conditions under Maturing Estimated purchase 181 178 1,613 2.0% which the termination occurs. Type of derivative Major hedged items Total after 1 year fair value Long-term accounts The Company and certain significant domestic consoliForward foreign currency exchange contracts: payable—installment dated subsidiaries have established contributory defined Buy: purchase (excluding USD Operating accounts payable ¥53,335 ¥ 1,801 ¥ (3,146) current portion) benefit pension plans such as corporate pension funds and EUR Operating accounts payable 3,176 — (149) due 2021 666 847 5,936 2.0% lump-sum severance indemnity plans. In certain cases, Others Operating accounts payable 1,182 — (62) Bonds payable additional severance payments may be provided. Currencies options: Bonds payable due As of March 31, 2017, the Company and 39 consoliBuy: 2021 to 2026 20,000 — 178,269 0.3% Call option Operating accounts payable 85,238 23,650 1,890 dated subsidiaries had adopted a lump-sum severance Sell: Total ¥110,699 ¥86,837 $986,710 indemnity plan. Additionally, there were 3 corporate pension Put option Operating accounts payable 78,875 21,322 (3,089) funds, including the Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund. Commodity swap: The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt within Certain foreign subsidiaries have also established contributory Received variable/pay fixed Aircraft fuel 77,531 21,620 (25,013) 5 years subsequent to March 31, 2017 are summarized defined benefit pension plans. Method of hedge accounting: Special treatment (Note 2. k) as follows: The Japan Airlines Welfare Pension Fund also introduced Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: Buy: Millions of Thousands of an option similar to a cash-balance plan as well as other USD Operating accounts payable 1,166 — (75) Year ending March 31 yen U.S. dollars alternatives. The JAL Group Pension Fund, which was estabEUR Operating accounts payable 217 — (11) 2018 ¥ 18,931 $168,740 lished by certain consolidated subsidiaries, introduced a Others Operating accounts payable 157 — (13) 2019 11,888 105,963 cash-balance plan option. Total ¥(29,672) 2020 10,874 96,924 Some of the consolidated subsidiaries adopt the simplified 2021 8,870 79,062 method for the calculation of retirement benefit obligations. 2022 17,835 158,971 All derivative transactions were conducted as over-the-counter transactions. Fair value is estimated based on prices quoted by 2023 and thereafter 42,298 377,021 financial institutions and others. Total ¥110,699 $986,710 110 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 111 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (4) Reconciliation from retirement benefit obligations and (7) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans in accumulated 12. INCOME TAX a. Defined benefit plans plan assets to net defined benefit liability (asset) other comprehensive income The significant components of deferred tax assets and (1) B alances of retirement benefit obligations, excluding plans liabilities and the related valuation allowances on March 31, Thousands of Thousands of adopting the simplified method Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 As of March 31 2017 2016 2017 Thousands of Funded retirement benefit Past service costs that are yet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars obligations ¥389,708 ¥390,109 $3,473,642 to be recognized ¥(370) ¥(399) $(3,297) Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 As of March 31 2017 2016 2017 Plan assets (245,737) (244,800) (2,190,364) Actuarial losses that are yet Balance at beginning of period ¥473,346 ¥424,673 $4,219,146 Deferred tax assets: 143,971 145,308 1,283,278 to be recognized 75,656 70,385 674,356 Service cost 12,736 12,851 113,521 Net defined benefit liability ¥69,467 ¥71,370 $619,190 Unfunded retirement benefit Total ¥75,286 ¥69,986 $671,058 Interest cost 3,497 3,200 31,170 Operating accounts payable 10,535 10,442 93,903 obligations 93,269 89,911 831,348 Actuarial loss 12,840 58,524 114,448 Non-recurring depreciation 3,918 3,148 34,922 Total net defined benefit Benefit paid (26,125) (25,858) (232,863) liability (asset) 237,240 235,220 2,114,626 (8) Plan assets Deferred liability on flight Reclassification of retirement equipment 2,080 3,347 18,539 Net defined benefit liability 238,481 236,310 2,125,688 Year ended March 31 2017 2016 benefit obligations due to the Deferred losses on hedges 1,919 10,170 17,104 Net defined benefit asset (1,240) (1,090) (11,052) % % change from simplified method 1,512 — 13,477 Reserve for loss on antitrust Total net defined benefit General insurance fund 90 91 Other (223) (45) (1,987) litigation 1,788 1,885 15,937 liability (asset) ¥237,240 ¥235,220 $2,114,626 Balance at end of period ¥477,584 ¥473,346 $4,256,921 Bond 4 3 Lease obligations 1,343 4,323 11,970 Other 6 6 Asset retirement obligations 1,133 1,188 10,098 (5) Retirement benefit costs Total 100 100 Tax loss carryforwards 176,161 197,977 1,570,202 (2) Balances of plan assets, excluding plans adopting Other 8,786 8,660 78,313 the simplified method Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Current and target asset allocations, historical and expected 277,134 312,513 2,470,220 Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 Valuation allowance (197,685) (276,975) (1,762,055) Thousands of returns on various categories of plan assets have been conMillions of yen U.S. dollars Service cost ¥12,736 ¥12,851 $113,521 79,449 35,538 708,164 Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 sidered in determining the long-term expected rate of return. Interest cost 3,497 3,200 31,170 Deferred tax liabilities: Balance at beginning of period ¥240,874 ¥238,110 $2,147,018 Expected return on plan assets (3,669) (3,646) (32,703) Valuation difference on Expected return on plan assets 3,669 3,646 32,703 (9) Actuarial assumptions available-for-sale securities 5,722 6,167 51,002 Past service costs amortization (28) (18) (249) Actuarial gain 1,126 653 10,036 Deferred gains on hedges 1,719 658 15,322 Net actuarial loss amortization 6,442 1,366 57,420 Contributions paid by the employer 16,338 18,012 145,627 Year ended March 31 2017 2016 Retirement benefit cost based Leased assets 1,000 3,022 8,913 Benefit paid (19,666) (19,547) (175,291) % % on the simplified method 781 183 6,961 Other 2,638 3,150 23,513 Reclassification of retirement Discount rate 0.4–1.2 0.6–1.2 Other (676) (692) (6,025) 11,081 12,998 98,769 benefit obligations due to the Long-term expected rate of return 1.0–2.5 1.0–2.5 Subtotal 19,083 13,244 170,095 Net deferred tax assets ¥68,367 ¥22,539 $609,385 change from simplified method 280 — 2,495 Reclassification of retirement benefit Other (221) — (1,969) obligations due to the change from b. Defined contribution plans Balance at end of period ¥242,402 ¥240,874 $2,160,638 simplified method 70 — 623 A reconciliation between the Japanese statutory income tax The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries contributed Total ¥19,153 ¥13,244 $170,719 rate and the Company’s and the consolidated subsidiaries’ a total of ¥1,581 million ($14,092 thousand) and ¥1,564 (3) Reconciliation from retirement benefit obligations and effective tax rates for the years ended March 31, 2017 and million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and plan assets to net defined benefit liability (asset), applying (6) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans in other 2016 were as follows: 2016, respectively. the simplified method comprehensive income Year ended March 31 2017 2016 % % Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars Statutory rate 30.2 32.0 Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 Share of loss of entities accounted for using Balance at beginning of period ¥2,748 ¥3,098 $24,494 Past service costs ¥ (28) ¥ (18) $ (249) equity method (0.4) (0.1) Retirement benefit cost 781 183 6,961 Actuarial gains (5,271) (56,504) (46,982) Changes in valuation allowance (36.6) (20.8) Contributions paid by the employer (148) (163) (1,319) Total ¥(5,300) ¥(56,522) $(47,241) Decrease in deferred tax assets due to a change Benefit paid (172) (235) (1,533) in the tax rate — 0.4 Reclassification of retirement benefit Other 1.8 1.2 obligations due to the change from Effective tax rate (5.0) 12.7 simplified method (1,161) — (10,348) Other 11 (132) 98 Balance at end of period ¥2,059 ¥2,748 $18,352 Income taxes in Japan applicable to the Company and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries consist of corporation 112 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 113 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS tax, inhabitants’ taxes, and enterprise tax. Income taxes of The total number and changes in the total number of 14. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 15. IMPAIRMENT LOSS ON NON-CURRENT ASSETS foreign consolidated subsidiaries are based generally on the shares of stock authorized and in issue and common stock in Reclassification adjustments for each component of other Assets are attributed or allocated to cash-generating units tax rates applicable in their countries of incorporation. treasury for the year ended March 31, 2017 were as follows: comprehensive income including tax effect for the years which generated largely independent cash flows for calcuOn March 29, 2016, amendments to the Japanese tax ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: lating impairment loss. Assets to be sold and idle assets are Thousands of shares regulations were promulgated. Based on the amendments, On April On March written down to their respective recoverable amounts. Thousands of the statutory income tax rates utilized for the measurement Year ended March 31, 2017 1, 2016 Increase Decrease 31, 2017 Millions of yen U.S. dollars The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries estimated Number of shares of of deferred tax assets and liabilities expected to be settled or Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 recoverable amounts at the higher of fair value less costs to stock authorized: Valuation difference on availablerealized from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2018 and on or Common stock 700,000 — — 700,000 sell and value in use. Fair value is based on reasonable estifor-sale securities, net of taxes: after April 1, 2018 have changed from 31.5% to 30.2% Preferred stock 50,000 — — 50,000 Unrealized holding gains arising mates made by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and 30.0%, respectively, as of March 31, 2016. Total 750,000 — — 750,000 during the period ¥ (1,414) ¥(14,159) $ (12,603) in accordance with the contract amounts of sales for the Due to these changes in statutory income tax rates, net Number of shares of stock Less: Reclassification adjustment periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. deferred tax assets (after deducting the deferred tax liabilities) in issue: included in profit — — — The Company has recognized impairment loss on the Common stock 362,704 — 8,988 353,715 Pre-tax amount (1,414) (14,159) (12,603) decreased by ¥963 million as of March 31, 2016, income following groups of assets in the accompanying consolidated Total 362,704 — 8,988 353,715 Tax expense 443 4,697 3,948 taxes—deferred expense recognized for the fiscal year statements of income and comprehensive income for the Number of shares of common Valuation difference on availableended March 31, 2016 increased by ¥925 million, valuation stock in treasury: for-sale securities, net (971) (9,461) (8,654) year ended March 31, 2017: difference on available-for-sale securities increased by ¥308 Common stock 203 8,988 8,991 199 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges, Assets utilized in the Company’s and million, deferred gains (losses) on hedges decreased by ¥327 Total 203 8,988 8,911 199 net of taxes: consolidated subsidiaries’ operations Groups of assets Locations million, and remeasurements of defined benefit plans Deferred gains (losses) arising Assets to be sold Flight equipment — during the period 18,053 (34,237) 160,914 decreased by ¥20 million. The decrease in common stock of 8,988 thousand shares is Less: Reclassification adjustment due to the retirement of treasury shares. included in profit 13,596 22,219 121,187 An impairment loss of ¥505 million ($4,501 thousand) was 13. NET ASSETS Pre-tax amount 31,650 (12,017) 282,110 recognized as non-operating expenses in the accompanying The increase in common stock in treasury of 8,988 thousand The Companies Act of Japan (the “Act”) provides that an Tax expense (benefit) (7,726) 3,012 (68,865) consolidated statements of income and comprehensive shares is due to the purchase. amount equal to at least 10% of the amount to be disbursed Deferred gains (losses) on income for the year ended March 31, 2017. The decrease in common stock in treasury of 8,991 thouhedges, net of taxes 23,923 (9,005) 213,236 as distributions of capital surplus (except for distributions The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have sand shares consists of 8,988 thousand shares resulting Foreign currency translation from additional paid-in capital) and retained earnings (except recognized impairment loss on the following groups of from the retirement of treasury shares and 3 thousand adjustment: for distributions from the legal reserve) be appropriated to Translation adjustment arising assets in the accompanying consolidated statements of shares due to the changes of scope of equity method, etc. additional paid-in capital and the legal reserve, respectively, during the period (257) (247) (2,290) income and comprehensive income for the year ended The total number and changes in the total number of until the sum of additional paid-in capital and the legal Less: Reclassification adjustment March 31, 2016: shares of stock authorized and in issue and common stock in included in profit — 4,836 — reserve equals 25% of the capital stock account. Such distritreasury for the year ended March 31, 2016 were as follows: Foreign currency translation Assets utilized in the Company’s and butions can be made at any time by a resolution of the adjustment (257) 4,588 (2,290) consolidated subsidiaries’ operations Groups of assets Locations shareholders, or by the Board of Directors if certain condiThousands of shares Remeasurements of defined Assets to be sold Flight equipment — On April On March tions are met, but neither additional paid-in capital nor the Year ended March 31, 2016 1, 2015 Increase Decrease 31, 2016 benefit plans: legal reserve is available for distribution by resolution of the Number of shares of Remeasurements of defined benefit plans arising during the period (11,713) (57,871) (104,403) An impairment loss of ¥2,714 million on flight equipment Board of Directors. stock authorized: Common stock 700,000 — — 700,000 Less: Reclassification adjustment was recognized mainly on flight equipment as non-operating A company may, by a resolution of its board of directors, Preferred stock 50,000 — — 50,000 included in profit 6,413 1,348 57,161 expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of designate an amount not exceeding half of the price of new Pre-tax amount (5,300) (56,522) (47,241) Total 750,000 — — 750,000 income and comprehensive income for the year ended shares as additional paid-in capital, which is included in capital Tax expense 21,453 645 191,220 Number of shares of stock March 31, 2016. surplus. The maximum amount that a company can distribute in issue: Remeasurements of defined as dividends is calculated based on its unconsolidated financial Common stock 362,704 — — 362,704 benefit plans 16,152 (55,877) 143,970 16. LEASES statements in accordance with the Act. Total 362,704 — — 362,704 Share of other comprehensive income of entities accounted for As Lessee At the annual shareholders’ meeting held on June 22, Number of shares of common by the equity method: stock in treasury: The following amounts represent the related lease expenses, 2017, the shareholders approved dividends of surplus Share of other comprehensive Common stock 203 — — 203 depreciation and interest expenses for the periods ended amounting to ¥33,236 million ($296,247 thousand). Such income of entities accounted Total 203 — — 203 for by the equity method March 31, 2016, which would have been reflected in the appropriations have not been accrued in the Consolidated arising during the period 308 (453) 2,745 accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related Financial Statement as of March 31, 2017. Total other comprehensive income ¥39,155 ¥(70,209) $349,006 consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income if finance lease accounting had been applied to the 114 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 115 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS finance leases currently accounted for as operating leases 18. AMOUNTS PER SHARE 19. ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS 20. SEGMENT INFORMATION whose contracts were entered into prior to April 1, 2008: Basic earnings per share is computed based on the earnings a. Asset retirement obligations recognized in the conThe reportable segments of the Company and its consolidated available for distribution to or allocable to the shareholders solidated balance sheets on March 31, 2017 and 2016 subsidiaries are components for which discrete financial Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars of common stock and the weighted-average number of The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, in connecinformation is available and whose operating results are Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 shares of common stock outstanding during each year. tion with some buildings and land, have entered into real regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors to make decisions Lease expenses ¥— ¥2 $— Diluted earnings per share are computed based on earnings estate lease contracts with terms ranging from 1 to 46 years about resource allocation and to assess performance. Air Depreciation equivalent — 2 — available for distribution to the shareholders and the for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. Asset retiretransportation includes international and domestic passenger Interest expenses equivalents — 0 — weighted-average number of shares of common stock outment obligations have been recognized in light of the oblioperations, cargo operations and other transportation services. standing during each year after giving effect to the potengation of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries to The accounting policies of the segments are substantially Depreciation equivalent is calculated by the straight-line tially dilutive securities to be issued upon the conversion of the owners of the buildings and land to remove the facilities the same as those described in the significant accounting method on the assumption that the useful lives of the convertible bonds. However, diluted earnings per share have from leased real estate at the end of those contracts. The policies in Note 2. Inter-group sales are recorded under the related assets are the same as the lease term and the residual not been presented for the years ended March 31, 2017 liabilities on March 31, 2017 and 2016 have been calculated same conditions used in transactions with third parties. value is zero. and 2016 since the Company had no equity instruments with expected useful lives ranging from 1 to 46 years and Interest expenses equivalent is calculated on the assumpissued that had a dilutive effect on earnings per share. discount rates ranging from 0.1% to 2.5%. tion that the difference between aggregate lease rentals and The following table summarizes the changes in the the acquisition cost of leased assets is deemed to be the Yen U.S. dollars aggregate carrying amount of asset retirement obligations Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 interest portion and is apportioned over the term of the Earnings per share of common stock: for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016: lease by the interest method. Basic ¥456.56 ¥481.29 $4.06 No impairment loss has been recognized on leased Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars property under finance leases accounted as operating leases Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 The following table sets forth the computation of basic for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. Balance at beginning of period ¥ 3,957 ¥ 3,419 $ 35,270 earnings per share of common stock for the years ended Increase due to purchases of tangible Future rental expenses under noncancelable operating March 31, 2017 and 2016: fixed assets 10 484 89 leases outstanding on March 31, 2017 and 2016 were Accretion due to the passage of time 55 54 490 as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Decrease due to settlement (235) (0) (2,094) Thousands of Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 Balance at end of period ¥3,788 ¥3,957 $33,764 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Earnings (allocable to) available for As of March 31 2017 2016 2017 shareholders of common stock: Within 1 year ¥15,468 ¥19,015 $137,873 Profit attributable to owners b. Asset retirement obligations not recognized in the Over 1 year 60,983 77,900 543,568 of parent ¥164,174 ¥174,468 $1,463,356 consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2017 Total ¥76,451 ¥96,915 $681,442 Appropriations for payment of and 2016 preferred dividend — — — The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries have rented ¥164,174 ¥174,468 $1,463,356 17. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES lots and buildings from domestic service airports based on On March 31, 2017 and 2016, contingent liabilities for permission for national property use and a real estate rental Thousands of shares guarantees for bank loans of employees amounted to ¥150 Year ended March 31 2017 2016 contract for national property, and have an obligation to Weighted-average number of shares of remove the facilities from leased real estate. The Company million ($1,337 thousand) and ¥186 million, respectively. common stock outstanding 359,594 362,500 On March 31, 2017, contingent liabilities for guarantees, and its consolidated subsidiaries have an important role in for lease obligations of Jetstar Japan Co., Ltd. amounted to public traffic, and depend on the trends of the aviation ¥4,400 million ($39,219 thousand). Net assets per share are computed based on the net assets administration of each country. For this reason, the time of The Company guarantees for damage resulting from a available for distribution to the shareholders of common building removal and withdrawal cannot be determined at breach of the obligation, assertion or guarantee on the stock and the number of shares of common stock outstanding the discretion of the Company and its consolidated subsidcontract regarding stock transfer reservation concluded on each balance sheet date. iaries alone in regard to rented airport-related facilities. between Fukuoka Airport Holdings Co., Ltd. (transferor) in Moreover, since there is also no schedule for building Yen U.S. dollars which the Company holds an investment and the Ministry of As of March 31 2017 2016 2017 removal and withdrawal at present, asset retirement obligaLand, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Civil Aviation Net assets per share of common stock ¥2,749.71 ¥2,325.79 $24.50 tions cannot be reasonably estimated. Therefore, the asset Bureau (transferee), capped at ¥7,867 million ($70,122 retirement obligations corresponding to the debt concerned thousand) on March 31, 2017. have not been calculated. 116 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 117 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Millions of yen Information by Geographical Area 21. RELATED PARTY INFORMATION Year ended March 31, 2017 Air transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated Operating revenue from overseas operations, which include There are no material transactions that need to be presented Net sales international passenger and cargo services of domestic for the years ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. External ¥1,044,915 ¥244,051 ¥1,288,967 ¥— ¥1,288,967 Intersegment 114,476 29,440 143,917 (143,917) — consolidated airline subsidiaries rendered during the years Total 1,159,392 273,491 1,432,884 (143,917) 1,288,967 ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, export sales of domestic Operating income 153,191 17,400 170,591 (259) 170,332 consolidated subsidiaries, and sales of consolidated subsidAssets 1,673,011 167,188 1,840,199 (111,422) 1,728,777 iaries outside Japan, for the years ended March 31, 2017 Depreciation and amortization 93,397 2,386 95,784 (7) 95,777 and 2016 were as follows: Impairment loss 505 — 505 — 505 Thousands of Investments in entities accounted for using equity method 7,820 20,510 28,331 — 28,331 Millions of yen U.S. dollars Capital expenditure ¥ 231,562 ¥ 1,633 ¥ 233,196 ¥— ¥ 233,196 Year ended March 31 2017 2016 2017 Asia and Oceania ¥214,298 ¥243,785 $1,910,134 Thousands of U.S. dollars North America 186,398 197,552 1,661,449 Year ended March 31, 2017 Air transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated Europe 72,586 79,997 646,991 Net sales Total ¥473,283 ¥521,334 $4,218,584 External $ 9,313,798 $2,175,336 $11,489,143 $— $11,489,143 Intersegment 1,020,376 262,411 1,282,797 (1,282,797) — Total 10,334,183 2,437,748 12,771,940 (1,282,797) 11,489,143 Information about amortization and unamortized balances Operating income 1,365,460 155,094 1,520,554 (2,308) 1,518,245 of goodwill by segment for the years ended March 31, 2017 Assets 14,912,300 1,490,221 16,402,522 (993,154) 15,409,368 and 2016 were as follows: Depreciation and amortization 832,489 21,267 853,765 (62) 853,703 Millions of yen Impairment loss 4,501 — 4,501 — 4,501 Air Investments in entities accounted for using equity method 69,703 182,814 252,526 — 252,526 Year ended March 31, 2017 transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated Capital expenditure $ 2,064,016 $ 14,555 $ 2,078,580 $— $ 2,078,580 Amortization during the year ¥— ¥455 ¥455 ¥— ¥455 Millions of yen Unamortized Year ended March 31, 2016 Air transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated balance — — — — — Net sales External ¥1,090,787 ¥245,874 ¥1,336,661 ¥— ¥1,336,661 Thousands of U.S. dollars Air Intersegment 114,415 28,734 143,149 (143,149) — Year ended March 31, 2017 transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated Total 1,205,202 274,609 1,479,811 (143,149) 1,336,661 Amortization Operating income 190,811 18,466 209,277 (84) 209,192 during the year $— $4,055 $4,055 $— $4,055 Assets 1,517,665 167,193 1,684,858 (105,929) 1,578,928 Unamortized Depreciation and amortization 86,416 2,112 88,528 (0) 88,528 balance — — — — — Impairment loss 2,504 209 2,714 — 2,714 Millions of yen Investments in entities accounted for using equity method 7,229 24,871 32,100 — 32,100 Air Capital expenditure ¥ 208,925 ¥ 3,510 ¥ 212,435 ¥— ¥ 212,435 Year ended March 31, 2016 transportation Other Total Eliminations Consolidated Amortization during the year ¥— ¥849 ¥849 ¥— ¥849 Unamortized balance — 455 455 — 455 118 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 119 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES (As of March 31, 2017) Independent Auditor’s Report Ratio of Voting Rights Ratio of Voting Rights Paid-in Capital Paid-in Capital Corporate Name Direct Indirect Total Corporate Name Direct Indirect Total (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) Air Transport Business Other Segments Segment Maintenance Air Transport Business JAL AIRTECH CO., LTD. 315 66.6 3.4 70.0 JAPAN TRANSOCEAN AIR CO., LTD. 4,537 72.8 — 72.8 Cargo JAPAN AIR COMMUTER CO., LTD. 300 60.0 — 60.0 HKD 1,000 JUPITER GLOBAL, LTD. 46.4 4.6 51.0 J-AIR CO., LTD. 200 100.0 — 100.0 1,960 HOKKAIDO AIR SYSTEM CO., LTD. 490 57.3 — 57.3 Passenger Sales RYUKYU AIR COMMUTER CO., LTD. 396 — 74.5 74.5 JALPAK CO., LTD.*1 80 96.4 1.2 97.7 Airport Passenger Handling JAL SALES CO., LTD. 460 100.0 — 100.0 JAL SKY CO., LTD. 100 100.0 — 100.0 JAL JTA SALES CO., LTD. 30 16.7 83.3 100.0 OKINAWA AIRPORT SERVICE CO., LTD. 33 66.7 33.3 100.0 USD 1,000 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL HAWAII, INC. — 100.0 100.0 1,000 JALSKY OSAKA CO., LTD. 30 100.0 — 100.0 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL (CHINA) CO., LTD. USD 1,000 600 — 100.0 100.0 JALSKY KYUSHU CO., LTD. 30 100.0 — 100.0 EUR 1,000 JALSKY SAPPORO CO., LTD. 30 100.0 — 100.0 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL (EUROPE) B.V. — 100.0 100.0 1,600 JALSKY KANAZAWA CO., LTD. 10 100.0 — 100.0 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL (FRANCE) S.A.S. EUR 1,000 160 — 100.0 100.0 JALSKY SENDAI CO., LTD. 10 100.0 — 100.0 EURO-CREATIVE TOURS (U.K.) LTD. GBP 1,000 100 — 100.0 100.0 JAL HAWAII, INCORPORATED USD 1,000 100 100.0 — 100.0 JALPAK INTERNATIONAL ASIA PTE. LTD. SGD 1,000 146 — 100.0 100.0 Ground Handling HKD 1,000 JAL SATELLITE TRAVEL CO., LTD. — 100.0 100.0 750 JAL GROUND SERVICE CO., LTD. 100 99.8 0.2 100.0 IDR 1,000 JAL GROUND SERVICE OSAKA CO., LTD. 10 — 100.0 100.0 PT. TAURINA TRAVEL DJAYA*2 — 49.0 49.0 500,000 JAL GROUND SERVICE KYUSHU CO., LTD. 10 — 100.0 100.0 Airport-Related Business JAL GROUND SERVICE SAPPORO OKINAWA FUELING FACILITIES CO., LTD.*3 100 40.0 20.0 60.0 10 — 97.7 97.7 CO., LTD. JAL ABC, INC. 100 51.0 — 51.0 Maintenance Others JAL ENGINEERING CO., LTD. 80 100.0 — 100.0 JAL INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY JAL MAINTENANCE SERVICE CO., LTD. 10 100.0 — 100.0 702 100.0 — 100.0 CO., LTD. Cargo AXESS INTERNATIONAL NETWORK, INC. 700 100.0 — 100.0 JAL KANSAI AIRCARGO SYSTEM JAL CARD, INC. 360 50.6 — 50.6 100 69.2 — 69.2 CO., LTD. JAL FACILITIES CO., LTD. 180 85.0 — 85.0 JAL CARGO SERVICE CO., LTD. 50 100.0 — 100.0 JAL BRAND COMMUNICATIONS CO., LTD. 100 100.0 — 100.0 JAL CARGO HANDLING CO., LTD. 50 — 100.0 100.0 JTA INFORMATION & COMMUNICATION JAL CARGO SERVICE KYUSHU CO., LTD. 20 40.0 40.0 80.0 50 — 100.0 100.0 CO., LTD. Passenger Sales JAL SUNLIGHT CO., LTD. 20 100.0 — 100.0 JAL NAVIA CO., LTD. 50 100.0 — 100.0 OFFICIAL FILING CO., LTD. 10 50.0 4.0 54.0 JAL MILEAGE BANK CO., LTD. 40 100.0 — 100.0 JPRO CO., LTD 10 — 100.0 100.0 JAL PASSENGER SERVICES AMERICA USD 1,000 USD 1,000 205 100.0 — 100.0 JLC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED 100.0 — 100.0 INCORPORATED 2,000 Airport-Related Business *1 Operating revenue (excluding operating revenue between consolidated subsidiaries) JAL ROYAL CATERING CO., LTD. 2,700 51.0 — 51.0 of JALPAK CO., LTD accounts for over 10% of consolidated operating revenue. *2 Although JAL’s ownership is 50% or less, the company is considered a subsidiary because JAL has substantial control. *3 Effective June 2, 2017, OKINAWA FUELING FACILITIES CO., LTD. became an equity-method affiliate due to a decline in the Company’s equity stake following the sale of shares. 120 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 121 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation ESG DATA Environmental Data (E) Governance Date (Japan Airlines Co., Ltd.) (G) (As of July 1, 2017) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Unit Corporate governance-related items Topics discussed Environment Formulation of Fundamental Policies of Corporate Governance Yes CO2 Emissions Organization Form Company with companies with Audit & Supervisory Board Scope 1 820 840 854 875 10,000 tons Directors Scope 2 8.07 7.88 7.60 7.15 10,000 tons Term of Office Stipulated 1 year CO2 Emissions/RTK Chairperson of the Board Chairman 89.6 86.6 85.1 84.6 % (Comparison with FY 2005) Number of Directors (of which, External Directors) 10 (of which, three External Directors) NOx (LTO cycle) 6.26 6.12 5.78 5.30 1,000 tons Number of Board of Directors meetings 18 (Fiscal year 2016) CO (LTO cycle) 4.39 4.38 4.43 4.24 1,000 tons External Director attendance at Board of Directors meetings 94% (Fiscal year 2016) HC (LTO cycle) 0.72 0.7 0.72 0.71 1,000 tons Audit & Supervisory Board Members Number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members (of which, External Members) Five (of which, three External Members) Electricity Use*1 129 125 120 113 Million kWh External Audit & Supervisory Board Member attendance at Board of Directors meetings 92%(Fiscal year 2016) Heat Use (crude oil equivalent)*1 49,633 48,494 46,770 44,936 1,000 liters Key meetings attended by Audit & Supervisory Board Members Management Committee, Group Earnings Announcement Session, Water Use 452 445 430 426 1,000 m3 Group Council for Safety Enhancement General Meeting, Management Liaison Committee, Risk Management Committee Industrial Waste 3,720 3,415 3,475 3,436 Tons Number of Audit & Supervisory Board meetings 13 (Fiscal year 2016) Ratio of Final Disposal 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.1 % External Audit & Supervisory Board Member attendance 100% (Fiscal year 2016) *1 Airports, Offices, Maintenance Centers (Japan) at Audit & Supervisory Board meetings Appointment of independent External Directors and Six (three External Directors, three External Audit & Supervisory External Audit & Supervisory Board Members Board Members) Social Data (S) FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Unit Accounting Auditor KPMG AZSA LLC Human Resources Internal Auditing Audit Consolidated Staff Headcount*2 31,472 31,534 31,986 32,753 Persons Ground Staff 23,084 23,093 23,367 24,055 Persons (FY 2016) Flight Crew 2,405 2,446 2,519 2,570 Persons Composition Number Establishment of Committee The Chairperson Cabin Attendants 5,983 5,995 6,100 6,128 Persons (number of members) of meetings Corporate Governance Committee Kimie Iwata (Lead Independent External Director) 4 1 Average age*2 37.4 38.3 37.4 38.2 Years Nominating Committee Masatoshi Ito (External Director) 5 3 Ground Staff 37.5 38.7 37.7 38.6 Years Compensation Committee Eizo Kobayashi (External Director) 5 10 Flight Crew 42.1 42.7 41.1 43.8 Years Personnel Committee Yoshiharu Ueki (Representative Director, President) 5 4 Cabin Attendants 35 35.1 35 34.9 Years Officers Disciplinary Committee Kimie Iwata (External Director) 5 2 Ratio of Men*2 53.3 53.2 52.3 52.5 % (FY 2016) Ratio of Women*2 46.7 46.8 47.7 47.5 % Bodies directly controlled Number Topics discussed Composition by the President of meetings Managerial Staff*2 15.6 15.9 16.0 15.9 % Management The Management Committee is a body established by the Company A forum for discussion attended by the President, Vice President, 35 Committee for the purpose of contributing to appropriate and flexible decisionSenior Managing Executive Officers, Managing Executive Officers, General Staff*2 84.4 84.1 84.0 84.1 % making by the Board of Directors and the President. The Committee Full-time Directors, other Directors, and Audit & Supervisory Ratio of Disabled Staff*3 2.00 2.04 2.28 2.56 % deliberates important issues requiring a resolution of the Board of Board Members. Ratio of Female Managers*2 14.1 15.1 15.6 16.3 % Directors and matters requiring approval by the President that must be confirmed by the Management Committee before they are presented to the Board or to the President. Training Period per Person*4 62.5 60.2 62.8 66.4 Hours/Person Group Earnings The Group Earnings Announcement Session is attended by the Chairman, President, Directors, Executive Officers, Area Managers, 12 Training Cost per Person*4 311,704 318,249 380,997 403,519 Yen/Person Announcement Session management teams of Japan Airlines and all its major subsidiaries to Presidents of major subsidiaries, Audit & Supervisory Board Members share the status of the JAL Group earnings and consider ways to improve business performance. Childcare Leave Applicants 702 779 782 781 Persons JAL Philosophy Council This body is tasked with promoting the JAL Philosophy. It is responsible Chairman, President, Vice President, General Manager of Managing 4 Nursing Care Leave Applicants 62 51 42 65 Persons for developing basic policies for initiatives, planning and implementing Division Route Marketing, General Manager of Managing Division related measures and evaluating the impact of those measures. Passenger Sales, General Manager of Cargo & Mail, General Manager of Flight Operations, General Manager of Engineering & Maintenance, Ratio of Local Hires at Overseas Offices*2 92.0 90.8 90.4 89.9 % General Manager of Cabin Attendants, General Manager of Airport Operations, General Manager of General Affairs, General Manager of Ratio of Locally Hired Managerial Staff at 62.1 62.8 60.8 61.9 % Human Resources, General Manager of Corporate Control, General Overseas Offices*2 Manager of Communication Division Group Council for This body is tasked with ensuring safe flight operations across the President of Japan Airlines, Safety General Manager for Japan 12 Safety Enhancement Group and promoting safety management, in line with the Group’s Airlines, Executives nominated by the chairperson, Presidents of Average Years of Continuous Service 13.5 14.4 13.9 14.2 Years General Meeting principles and policies. Group airlines • Determines key policies related to safety management Community Contribution • Clarifies the status of management systems and regularly overhauls those systems Participation in Voluntary Activities 915 1,044 909 1,506 Persons • Addresses day-to-day flight safety issues, etc. Total Hours of Voluntary Activities 3,144 4,436 3,182 5,271 Hours Corporate Brand The Corporate Brand Promotion Council establishes important policies President, Vice President, Senior Managing Executive Officers, 12 Promotion Council on the corporate brand (corporate value) based on the JAL Group Managing Executive Officers, Executive Officers nominated by the *2 As of the fiscal year-end Corporate Policy and strategies, clarifies the status of corporate chairperson, Presidents of Group airlines *3 As of June 1 of the year following each fiscal year. Combined data for Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and its special subsidiary JAL Sunlight Co., Ltd. activities, and where necessary, overhauls related organizations, *4 Past data have been revised in accordance with improvements made in the accuracy of data collection. systems and policies to strengthen the corporate brand. Management Liaison The Management Liaison Committee monitors the progress of President, Vice President, Senior Managing Executive Officers, 24 Committee management projects and shares information. The Management Managing Executive Officers, Directors, Executive Officers, Liaison Committee checks the progress of matters related to Audit & Supervisory Board Members management and shares information. 122 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 123 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation INTERNATIONAL ROUTE MAP (As of June 28, 2017) Newcastle Stockholm Hamburg Copenhagen Kaliningrad Kittila Dublin Billund Manchester Gothenburg Dusseldorf Ivalo Belfast Amsterdam Oslo Rovaniemi Glasgow Brussels Oulu Edinburgh Tallinn Yellowknife Moscow Aberdeen St. Petersburg Helsinki Toledo Riga Cleveland Anchorage Whitehorse Vilnius Detroit Buffalo Khabarovsk Toronto Ottawa Nizhny Novgorod Rochester Minneapolis Montreal Tyumen Grand Rapids Warsaw Burlington Yekaterinburg Prince Edmonton Milwaukee Kalamazoo Berlin George Hannover Ufa Chelyabinsk Novosibirsk Terrace Samara Madison London Prague Omsk Perm Shenyang Victoria Syracuse Paris Budapest Volgograd Calgary Winnipeg Columbus Basel Nizhnekamsk Vladivostok Kelowna Portland Vienna Rostov Vancouver Lyon Kazan Seoul Portland Pittsburgh Frankfurt Dalian Seattle Boston Newark A Coruna Krasnodar Munich Sochi Hartford Santiago de Yantai Jackson Hole New York Compostela Beijing Chicago Philadelphia Vigo Bucharest Japan Boise Harrisburg Istanbul Xi'an Tianjin Omaha Oviedo Chongqing Baltimore Qingdao Salt Lake City Peoria Dayton Lisbon Stuttgart Busan Eugene Des Moines Chiang Rai Washington Dubrovnik Jeju Bloomington Lexington Madrid Malta Reno Kansas City Louisville Richmond Athens Mandalay Kunming Nanjing St. Louis Norfolk Venice Shanghai Sacramento Knoxville Chiang Mai Oklahoma City Nashville Milan Chengdu Wuhan Denver Indianapolis Tenerife Rome Dhaka Santa Rosa Memphis Nice Wichita Gran Canaria Nay Pyi Taw San Francisco Cincinnati Geneva Zurich Guangzhou Tulsa Evansville Huntsville Dubai Delhi San Jose Raleigh Durham Taipei Las Vegas Jacksonville Sevilla Marseille Doha Shenzhen Fresno Yangon Monterey Albuquerque Greensboro Barcelona Hanoi Tainan Dallas Sao Paulo Toulouse Mumbai Charlotte Kaohsiung Los Angeles El Paso Houston Orlando Greenville Malaga Tampa Hyderabad Austin Columbia Bilbao Hong Kong Long Beach West Palm Beach San Antonio Atlanta Bangalore Chennai Guam Fort Lauderdale Manila Monterrey Koh Samui Bangkok San Diego Miami Phuket Luang Prabang North West Colombo Phoenix Paris Siem Reap Vientiane Honolulu Arkansas Cancun Male Tucson Phnom Penh Langkawi Ho Chi Minh City Fort Myers Frankfurt Penang Little Rock Kona Kuantan Kota Kinabalu San Juan Kuala Lumpur London Aguascalientes Fortaleza Singapore Jakarta Guadalajara New Orleans Leon Surabaya San Luis Potosi Pensacola Denpasar Birmingham Salvador Queretaro Kuching Recife Johannesburg Darwin Mexico City Brasilia Cairns Manaus Brisbane Papeete Belo Horizonte Gold Coast Lima Campo Grande Perth Auckland Iguazu Sydney Santiago Melbourne Port Alegre Curitiba Sao Paulo Rio De Janeiro ● The routes above include code-share flights. ● The map has been altered to highlight the cities on JAL’s route network. 124 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 125 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation DOMESTIC ROUTE MAP GLOSSARY (As of June 28, 2017) ● The routes below are operated as code-share flights Rishiri ASK Abbreviation for Available Seat Kilometer. A unit Serious incident An occurrence which did not result in an aircraft with Fuji Dream Airlines Co., Ltd. (FDA) using FDA for passenger transport capacity. Total number of accident, but had the risk of causing an accident, aircraft and crew: Shizuoka–Sapporo (New Chitose), seats × distance travelled (in kilometers) as rated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Shizuoka–Fukuoka, MatsumotoSapporo (New Transport and Tourism, such as deviation from a Asahikawa Chitose), Matsumoto–Fukuoka, Nagoya (Komaki)Memanbetsu LCC Abbreviation for Low Cost Carrier. An airline runway, emergency evacuation, fire, smoke and Fukuoka, Nagoya (Komaki)-Yamagata, Nagoya Sapporo (Okadama) Obihiro Kushiro (Tancho Kushiro) operating at reduced fares by cutting costs abnormal cabin decompression, and (Komaki)-Niigata, Nagoya (Komaki)-Izumo, Nagoya Sapporo (New Chitose) (Tokachi Obihiro) through simplified services and limited baggage encountering abnormal weather conditions. allowance. LCCs have emerged in many (Komaki)-Kochi, Nagoya (Komaki)-Kitakyushu, Nagoya countries since airline deregulation. Diversity A management approach which provides equal (Komaki)-Kumamoto, and Niigata-Fukuoka. Okushiri Hakodate opportunity in employment regardless of gender, ● The routes below are operated as code-share flights ROA Abbreviation for Return on Assets. Calculated by age, race, nationality, belief, values or disability with Hokkaido Air System Co., Ltd. (HAC) using HAC dividing operating income by total assets (net to enable everyone to reach his or her potential. Aomori assets + liabilities). Indicates how much profit is aircraft and crew: Sapporo (Okadama)-Rishiri, Sapporo Misawa earned from assets invested in the business. Normal line A proactive preventive program to identify latent (Okadama)-Kushiro, Sapporo (Okadama)-Hakodate, operation risks in daily operations and normal operations, Sapporo (Okadama)-Misawa, Hakodate-Okushiri, and ROE Abbreviation for Return on Equity. Calculated by monitoring and implement preventive measures. Akita Hakodate-Misawa. Hanamaki (Iwate Hanamaki) dividing current net income by shareholders’ equity. Indicates the rate of return on Fleet A management approach to manage aircraft ● The routes below are operated as code-share flights Yamagata shareholders’ investment. management flexibly according to demand trends in order to with Amakusa Airlines Co., Ltd. (AMX) using AMX (Oishii Yamagata) maximize revenues and minimize expenses. aircraft and crew: Fukuoka-Amakusa and Sendai RPK Abbreviation for Revenue Passenger Kilometers. Niigata Kumamoto-Amakusa: The total distance flown by each revenue Full-service carrier An airline which has an extensive route network passenger. Number of revenue passengers × and provides conventional services. It offers * Some flights on the Osaka (Itami)-Kumamoto distance flown (in kilometers). several classes of seats (First, Business, Economy, route are also code-share flights with AMX. etc.), and includes services such as meals, drinks, * Some routes are not operated in certain seasons. Oki (Oki Island Global Geopark) Komatsu Matsumoto SMS (Safety A system to proactively prevent accidents by and entertainment in the fare. It is also called a Tokyo (Shinshu Matsumoto) Tokyo (Narita) Management identifying and managing accident risk factors in network carrier or legacy carrier. Izumo (Haneda) (IzumoEnmusubi) Tajima System) every sector of the airline. Activities should be Nagoya (Komaki) Shizuoka conducted organizationally based on mutual Marshaller A specialist who uses hand signals to guide (Mt. Fuji Shizuoka) Osaka (Itami) Nagoya trust, in which safety policies and safety aircraft on the ground to a specified position. (Chubu) Okayama Hiroshima Osaka (Kansai) information are shared by everyone from top management to frontline staff. Unit cost Consolidated air transport costs (excluding fuel Yamaguchi Ube Takamatsu Tokushima Kitakyushu Matsuyama (Tokushima Awaodori) costs and transactions with affiliated companies Fukuoka Kochi Oita (Kochi Ryoma) Nanki Shirahama Alliance Member airlines of an alliance promote business in which revenues and expenses are settled Nagasaki partnership by such means as operating codeinternally) / ASK. Kumamoto (Aso Kumamoto) share flights to their respective airports, Amakusa simplifying procedures at connecting airports, Unit revenue Revenue from passenger flights / ASK. Kagoshima Miyazaki participating in frequent-flyer programs of all (Miyazaki Bougainvillea) Revenue A method of forecasting changes in demand and members, and sharing airport lounge services for management controlling inventory to maximize revenues, for top-tier members. The three major airline system example, setting advance discount fares in alliances are the oneworld alliance, Star Alliance, Tanegashima phases to secure the optimum number of and Sky Team. Yakushima revenue passengers. Irregular An occurrence in which the aircraft diverts due Load control To control aircraft weight. Cargo and passengers operation to aircraft system malfunction, etc., but with no are loaded taking into account the center of immediate effect on flight safety. Amami-Oshima gravity, loading weight limitations, and loading/ Kikaijima Incident An occurrence with risks of an aircraft accident unloading sequences. Tokunoshima (Tokunoshima Kodakara) according to the Civil Aeronautics Act, Article Load factor The usage rate of revenue passenger seats. 76-2. Sixteen items and equivalent situations It represents how many revenue passengers Okinoerabu (Erabuyurinoshima) such as engine damage and fire inside an aircraft Yoron boarded against the total number of seats are defined in the Ordinance for Enforcement of available. An indicator for measuring sales of the Civil Aeronautics Act. Kumejima Kita-Daito seats. Calculated by RPK (Revenue Passenger Okinawa (Naha) Minami-Daito Open Skies An agreement signed by countries or regions Kilometers) / ASK (Available Seat Kilometers). Agreement allowing the free movement of people and Different from seat occupancy rate, because Tarama goods. Airlines are given more freedom in nonrevenue passengers are excluded. Miyako selecting the number of flights, destinations and Yonaguni Ishigaki (Painushima Ishigaki) other conditions. Code-share To place the flight number of an airline on a flight operated by another airline, indicating that the flight number on reservations systems and timetables, and operating the flight as if it were its own flight. A flight undertaken jointly. 126 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 127 I Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ The JAL Group’s Growth Story Management Strategies Performance and Strategies A Business Base that Supports Financial / Data Section Designed to Create Value by Business Value Creation DATA ON INCIDENTS STOCK INFORMATION / CORPORATE INFORMATION (As of March 31, 2017) Stock Information Safety issues occurring in fiscal year 2016 *1 Serious incident: An incident not amounting to an aircraft accident, but where a ● Stock Exchange The First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange ● Total number of shares to be issued 750 million recognized danger of an accident occurring was present, such as runway and countermeasures excursion, an emergency evacuation, fire or smoke on board, abnormal depressur● Stock Code 9201 (Common stock) (700 million) (Class 1 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) The JAL Group undertakes active disclosure of safety data so ization, encounter with abnormal weather conditions, or other situation classified ● Number of Shares Per Unit 100 shares as a serious incident by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. (Class 2 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) that customers can put their confidence in our services. ● Account closing date March 31 (Class 3 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) *2 Aircraft accident: A situation arising from the operation of an aircraft and resulting In fiscal year 2016, there were no serious incidents,*1 but in fatal or serious injury, an aircraft crash, collision, or fire, damage to the aircraft (Class 4 Preferred stock) (12.5 million) ● Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders June each year one aircraft accident*2 occurred. In other safety indicators, during flight requiring major repair, or other situation classified as an aircraft ● Outstanding Issued Shares accident by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. ● Date of Finalizing Shareholders Eligible to there were eight cases of customer injury on board or at the Common stock 353,715,800 (Number of shares per unit: 100) *3 Customer injury: A case where a customer sustains an injury on board or at the Exercise Voting Rights at the Ordinary March 31 airport,*3 66 irregular operations due to aircraft system Number of Shareholders 127,583 airport and is examined at a medical institution (in-house statistics). General Meeting of Shareholders malfunctions or other causes,*4 and 48 irregularities*5 due *4 Irregular operation: A situation where an aircraft diverts from its destination due ● Major Shareholders ● Date of Finalizing Shareholders to Receive March 31 to an aircraft system malfunction or other cause, but with no immediate impact to human error. These figures showed little change from the * We do not apply the interim Percentage of on flight safety. Year-end Dividends dividends system. previous year. We apologize once again for the inconvenience *5 Irregularity due to human error: An irregularity caused by human error of a kind Number of Shares Against Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Shareholders Name Total Number and concern caused. which needs to be eliminated by the relevant department (Flight Operations, ● Shareholder Registry Administrator shares of Issued Maintenance, etc.) in view of its impact on overall flight safety (in-house statistics). Banking Corporation In response to the aircraft accident reported below, the JAL Shares (%) Group is committed to cooperating fully with the investigative ● Contact Fiscal year 2016 management indicators and results Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Stock Transfer Agency Department 17,606,000 4.97 body and implementing the necessary countermeasures. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (Trust account) Indicator Result Summary 10-11, Higashisuna 7-Chome, Koto-ku, Tokyo 137-8081, Japan The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 15,938,000 4.50 Aircraft accidents Aircraft 1 November 10, 2016 Phone: 0120-232-711(toll free (Only within Japan)) (Trust account) accidents JAL flight 646 Open: 9:00 am to 5:00 pm (Japan time) Cabin attendant injury due to turbulence on JAL flight Kyocera Corporation 7,638,400 2.15 Website: www.tr.mufg.jp/daikou/ 646 (November 10, 2016) Injury to cabin attendant due to turbulence Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. ● Method of official announcement 6,619,600 1.87 On November 10, 2016, while JAL flight 646 (KagoshimaSerious incidents 0 — (Trust account 5) Electronic public notice at: Haneda) was on its ascent from Kagoshima Airport and the URL www.jal.com/ja/corporate/publicnotices/ Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 6,568,000 1.85 seatbelt sign was illuminated, a cabin attendant who left her In fiscal year 2017, we will be working to Provided, however, that if the electronic notice cannot be made due to (Trust account 9) an accident or any unavoidable reason, the public notice shall be seat in order to ensure the safety of a child moving around in its achieve the following goals: published in the Nihon Keizai Shimbun. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. 5,000,000 1.41 seat was affected by sudden turbulence and sustained an injury. 1. Realize zero aircraft accidents and zero serious incidents Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. ● Limitation on listing or recording of Citizens of Foreign Countries and 4,907,800 1.38 Medical examination resulted in the diagnosis of a sacral bone We will take preventive action by detecting precursors to (Trust account 1) Other Persons in Register of Shareholders and Register of Beneficial fracture and the incident was therefore recognized as an aircraft aircraft accidents and serious incidents. Shareholders Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 4,852,900 1.37 accident on November 11, 2016 by the Civil Aviation Bureau of 2. Evolve the safety management system to the world’s highest The Articles of Incorporation lay down the following provision concerning (Trust account 2) the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. standard the Civil Aeronautics Act, Article 120-2. STATE STREET BANK AND Article 12. Limitation on listing or recording of Citizens of Foreign Countries and Other Persons in 4,425,900 1.25 Investigation of the case was referred to the Japan TransTRUST COMPANY In addition to preventing recurrences of aircraft accidents and Register of Shareholders and Register of Beneficial Shareholders 12.1 If the Company receives from a person, who falls into one of the categories listed in the items below, Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. port Safety Board of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, serious incidents, we will integrate and analyze safety data to a request for listing or recording his or her name and address in the register of 4,179,100 1.18 (Trust account 7) Transport and Tourism. JAL is cooperating fully with the activifacilitate preventive action by detecting precursors to serious shareholders (including the register of beneficial shareholders; hereinafter the same), and if the acceptance of such request causes the total voting rights owned by persons, who ties of the investigative body and will implement the necessary irregularities, thus intercepting accidents before they happen. fall into one of the categories listed in the items below, to represent one-third or more of the Company’s total voting rights, the Company shall refuse such listing or recording. countermeasures. 3. Evolve the security management system to the world’s (1) A person who does not have Japanese citizenship As interim measures, all organizations have been informed highest standard (2) A foreign country, foreign public body or similar entity Company Profile (3) A corporation or other organization established under foreign laws and regulations in writing of the circumstances of the accident, and cabin attenIn response to the increasing terrorism threat worldwide, 2. When the Company intends to list or record all shares held by any of the shareholders Corporate Name Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. dants have been reissued with a document listing precautions we will strengthen security systems and develop staff listed in the items of the following paragraph, upon notification from a book-entry institution in accordance with Article 151. Paragraph (1) or (8) of the Act on Book-Entry Headquarters Nomura Real Estate Bldg., 2-4-11 to follow when leaving a seat as an extraordinary measure to awareness of security protection to protect customers from Transfer of Company Bonds, Shares, etc., and thereby the total number of voting rights held by such persons listed in the items of the preceding paragraph will account for Higashi-Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo respond to an urgent situation. As a further measure, customers the threat of terrorism. more than a third of the Company’s voting rights, the Company shall list or record such 140-8637, Japan accompanied by children are being assisted with a stepped-up 4. Ensure that lessons learned from past accidents are passed on shareholders in the register of shareholders in accordance with measures provided for Phone: +81 (0)3-5460-3121 in the Ordinance of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism to list or level of announcements and direct staff contacts at the airport More than 30 years have passed since the JAL flight 123 record only a part of the shares so that the total number of voting rights held by such Website: www.jal.com/jp shareholders in the items of the preceding paragraph accounts for less than a third of and on board. Going forward, we will continue to take accident and staff with direct experience of the accident are the Company’s voting rights. Established August 1, 1951 cross-departmental preventive action through hardware and now reaching retirement. We will ensure that lessons learnt Representative Yoshiharu Ueki ● Transition of share price and trading volume software measures. from past accidents are passed on securely so that we conDirector, President (Yen) (Million shares) tinue to give absolute priority to safety. 5,000 Share price (Left axis) Trading volume (Right axis) 100 Capital 181,352 million yen Employees Consolidated Employees 32,753 people Employees 11,449 people 4,000 80 JAL Group Safety Report Capital and 355,845 million yen Paid-in Capital (Amount is rounded down to the nearest million yen) The JAL Group Safety Report is published yearly in accordance with the Civil Aeronautics Act (Article 111-6: 3,000 60 Publication of Safety Reports by Domestic Air Carriers). The report presents safety initiatives and other relevant data Businesses 1. Scheduled and non-scheduled air transport services 2. Aerial work services from the six companies of the JAL Group in a readily accessible form. 2,000 40 3. Other related business 1,000 20 0 0 September April April April April April 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 128 JAL REPORT 2017 JAL REPORT 2017 129 Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. Finance Department, Corporate Brand Promotion Department Nomura Real Estate Building, 2-4-11 Higashi-Shinagawa, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 140-8637, Japan Tel.: +81 (0)3-5460-3068 (Finance) +81 (0)3-5460-6837 (Corporate Brand Promotion Division) Corporate website www.jal.com/en/ Corporate information www.jal.com/en/outline/corporate/ CSR information www.jal.com/en/csr/ Investor Relations www.jal.com/en/investor/
