PETROCHINA COMPANY LIMITED 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Address: 9 Dongzhimen North Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing, P.R.China Post Code: 100007 E-mail: csr@petrochina.com.cn Website: www.petrochina.com.cn PetroChina Company Limited CONTENTS INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE-BASED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATERIAL 09 SUSTAINING STEADY DEVELOPMENT 10 SOLIDIFYING GOVERNANCE 13 UPHOLDING BUSINESS ETHICS 13 COMMUNICATING WITH STAKEHOLDERS TOPICS Business Ethics P13 FRAMEWORK Governace Framework and Methanisms P10-12, 62-65 CORPORATE 11 OPTIMIZING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM GOVERNANCE Compliance Management P12 Low Oil Prices P4, 6, 61 Technological Innovation to Enhance Quality and Efficiency P17-18 SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY Natural Gas P18-22 17 CONSOLIDATING OUR RESOURCE BASE 22 ENHANCINGNING INTERNATIONAL New Energy P6-7, 17-18, 20, 67 SUSTAINED 18 DEVELOPING CLEAN ENERGY COOPERATION ENERGY SUPPLY International Cooperation P7, 22-23, 48-49, 57-61 20 PUSHING FORWARD PIPELINE NETWORK 23 ENSURING STABLE SUPPLY CONSTRUCTION One Belt and One Road Initiative P7, 22, 70 Carbon Capture and Storage P33, 35, 67 Energy Conservation P32 SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION Carbon Management P7, 33-34, 63, 66-68 CLIMATE CHANGE Low-carbon Technology P33-34 25 IMPROVING HSE MANAGEMENT 32 PROMOTING ENERGY CONSERVATION 26 ENHANCING OPERATIONAL SAFETY 33 RESPONSE TO CLIMATE CHANGE Pipeline Hazard Control P26 28 ECOLOGICAL PROTECTION Hazardous Chemicals Management P26 SAFETY Oil Spill Management P26 Atmospheric Environment P4, 7, 20, 28, 31-32 CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE Water Management P29-30 37 ENHANCING QUALITY MANAGEMENT 40 DELIVERING CONSIDERATE SERVICES Rehabilitation and Land Restoration P30-31 SYSTEM 41 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT Biodiversity and Environmentally Sensitive areas P28, 31-32, 33 38 PROVIDING HIGH-QUALITY PRODUCTS Business Ethics P13, 41 Supply Chain Management P41 01 MATERIAL TOPICS SUPPLY CHAIN Supply Chain Safety P27 MANAGEMENT 02 ABOUT PETROCHINA PEOPLE-ORIENTED EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Democratic Rights and Interests of Employees P43-49, 62-68 04 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 43 PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS 48 LOCAL STAFF DEVELOPMENT 06 INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT Occupational Health P44-45 44 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 49 STRENGTHENING OF SECURITY IN 62 INVESTOR FAQS 46 ESTABLISHING A PLATFORM FOR OVERSEAS OPERATIONS EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Localization and Diversification P48-49 69 PERFORMANCE STATISTICS EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND INTERESTS Employee Development P46-48 70 OBJECTIVES AND PLANS 71 GLOSSARY Oil Product Quality Upgrading P39, 63 73 GRI, IPIECA/API AND HKEX INDEX Product Safety P37 GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY PRODUCT 74 APPENDIX 51 PROMOTING LOCAL DEVELOPMENT 56 VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES 75 GLOBAL COMPACT AND US 51 POVERTY ALLEVIATION 57 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE DEVELOPMENT Poverty Alleviation P51-54 75 APPROACH TO REPORTING OF OVERSEAS COMMUNITIES 54 SUPPORTING EDUCATION Tax Payment According to Law P60 76 ABOUT THIS REPORT Community Development P57-61 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Inclusive Economy P51-54 2016 Sustainability Report ABOUT PETROCHINA 02 03 ABOUT PETROCHINA CORE BUSINESS PetroChina Company Limited (PetroChina, hereinafter also referred to as “the Company”, “we” or “us”) was established on 5 November, 1999, upon the restructuring of China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). PetroChina was listed on the NYSE (ADS code: PTR) and Upstream Oil and Gas Exploration, Development and Production PetroChina takes a leading position in domestic oil and gas exploration and the HKEx (stock code: 857) in April 2000 and on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (stock code: Our upstream business includes the development business. We operate in a number of major oil and gas producing 601857) in November 2007, respectively. exploration, development and production regions such as Daqing, Changqing, Xinjiang, Liaohe, Tarim and Sichuan. In 2016, we PetroChina is one of the major oil and gas producers and distributors in China, ranking among of crude oil and natural gas. produced 763.8 million barrels of crude oil, 3,008.3 billion cubic feet of marketable the leading international oil companies. It engages in a wide range of activities related to oil natural gas, and 1,265.3 million barrels of oil and gas equivalent domestically. and natural gas and provides sustainable energy for economic and social development. We pursue harmonious relationships between energy, the environment and the society. Our Mission Energize, Harmonize, Realize OIL GAS Mid-Downstream Refining and Marketing of Crude Oil and Oil Products Our Vision To be a world first-class international energy company We owned 8 ten-million-ton-level refining bases. In 2016 we processed 953.3 million Our midstream and downstream Business Strategy Resources, Markets, Internationalization, Innovation barrels of crude oil, produced 86.022 million tons of oil products. We are operating business includes refining, transportation, more than 20,000 service (gas) stations, covering 31 provinces (municipalities and Guidelines of Development Steady Development storage and marketing of crude oil and autonomous regions) and the Hong Kong SAR of China, and undertook the supply of oil products, as well as production and about 40% of China’s oil products. Our Values Honesty, Innovation, Safety and Distinction marketing of basic, derivative and other chemical products; and transportation Production, Transportation and Marketing of Petrochemical Products and marketing of natural gas. The Company is engaged in producing six categories of chemical productssynthetic resin, synthetic fiber and raw materials of synthetic fiber, synthetic rubber, urea, organic and inorganic compounds with thousands of trademarked products. Our Shanghai Stock Exchange “Top 20 Board of Supervisors Platts Top 250: FORBES Global 2000: of Listed Companies for Best production capabilities of products such as ethylene, synthetic resin and synthetic “The Information Disclosure Ranked 16th in the “2016 Ranked 17th in “2016 FORBES Practices”: rubber ranked among the best in China. In 2016, we sold 23.15 million tons of Appraisal for Listed Platts Top 250 Global Energy Global 2000 (World’s Biggest Companies 2016”: PetroChina was the only Company Rankings” Public Companies)” chemical products, and produced 5.589 million tons of ethylene. energy company listed in the PetroChina received “A” Rating “Top 20 Board of Supervisors Ranked 5th in the “2016 of Listed Companies for Best Platts Top 250 Global Energy Transportation of Natural Gas, Crude Oil and Oil Products, and Distribution Practices”, selected through Companies (Asia)” of Natural Gas the “Appraisal of Best Practices of Board of Supervisors” jointly PetroChina is mainly responsible for transportation and marketing of natural gas, by China Association for Public and storage and transportation of crude oil and oil products. The Company operated Companies, Shanghai Stock Exchange, and Shenzhen nearly 80,000 km of pipelines in China, covering 30 provinces (municipalities and Stock Exchange in 2016 autonomous regions) and the HongKong SAR in China. A 20 16 / 5 17 FORTUNE China Top 500: BrandZ TOP 100: Institutional Investor: IR Magazine: International International Business Ranked 2nd in “FORTUNE China Ranked 14th in “BrandZ TOP Voted 3rd Place in “Best A winner of Best IR 2016 Business Currently, we have established five international oil and gas cooperation zones in Top 500” in 2016 100 Most Valuable Chinese Investor Relations for Energy the Middle East, the Central Asia, the Asia-Pacific, the Americas and Africa, and three Brands” Companies in Asia“ by buyside investors in 2016 We are engaged in oil and gas exploration oil and gas operation centers in Asia, Europe and the Americas. The expansion and Ranked 83rd in the “Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands” and production in more than 20 countries growth of our international oil and gas cooperation has been substantial in terms of and have trade relations with more than size and scope, with operational quality improving greatly. In 2016, overseas oil and 2 14 / 83 3 Winner 80 countries. gas equivalent production reached 201.3 million barrels. 2016 Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 04 05 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN operations complied with the industry best practices. Extensive efforts were made to provide compliance training to all staff, further advanced the system building and management system integration, and strengthened legal compliance for major projects. We reinforced and improved economic accountability auditing, established the overseas audit center, and expanded our audit coverage. We treat all business partners with Aspiring to play an important role in the integrity, respect and responsibility, fully respect our customers, suppliers, contractors and industry partners. process of energy transition, PetroChina We are committed and supportive of public welfare undertakings and work hard to be an excellent corporate citizen. We pursued participates in the R&D and use of sustainable development between business and society and shared our developmental achievements with society. We built a targeted low-carbon technologies, engages support system customized to local needs, and continued aid programs for the poor in underdeveloped regions, in order to improve local in discussions on climate and energy sustainability and contribute to global efforts in poverty alleviation. Our efforts in the implementation of initiative public welfare programs policies, advocates higher standards for such as “Xuhang Educational Program” and “Hand in Hand with PetroChina for Public Welfare”, and the funding of livelihood infrastructure safety and environmental management, projects to support communities, received full recognition in the local communities and society at large. and helps to build a more sustainable energy future. For the moment and foreseeable future, PetroChina is facing both opportunities and challenges in its development. On the one hand, its environment for development will increase in complexity as the global economy is experiencing twists and turns in its recovery fraught with more instability and uncertainties. Moreover, the changing policies in some host countries will pose more risks to our overseas operations. Although China’s economy is developing steadily, there is some cause for concern. With profound changes in the landscape of the domestic Thank you for reading this report and for your continued support of and concern for PetroChina. oil and gas market, competition will be intensifying, while industry regulations and certain fiscal policies will become tighter. The fundamentals As the global economy struggled with a recovery in 2016, the oil and gas market’s way to rebalance amids considerable volatilities and of international oil price rises remain relatively fragile, resulting in volatility in the price trend. On the other hand, we are blessed with changes. Energy transition and new global energy strategies have become the focus of the global oil and gas industry. At the 35th IHS Energy opportunities and favorable conditions for development. The global energy industry is accelerating its transition to low-carbon and clean CERA Week, I delivered a keynote speech on the transition and development of energy enterprises under the “new normal” of China’s economy, energy, the oil and gas dominated energy consumption mix is consolidating further, and the oil and gas market is striking a new balance and discussed with our cooperation partners how to meet the challenges brought by low oil prices and the future direction of the market, between supply and demand, which will leave room for the international oil price to rise in the medium and long term. China’s economy will investment, costs and technologies. I also described the actions PetroChina had taken in response to the environmental agenda of the 2015 UN maintain a medium to high rate of growth, resulting in a continuing solid growth in demand for total oil and gas. As natural gas is gradually Climate Change Conference held in Paris, and we worked with friends from the global oil industry to jointly promote low-carbon development. becoming a main source of energy, the Company still enjoys enormous space for development. Over the years, we have developed our At the same time, we remain committed to the sustainable development of the company and society, proactively dealing with any kind of scale strengths and risk resistance capacities. PetroChina now ranks among the top industry counterparts in scale and strength, and takes risks and challenges so as to keep improving our business performance. a dominant position in local oil and gas production and supply, and thus still enjoys a prominent and advantageous foundation for further development. We actively responded to low oil prices and achieved steady development. To tide us over the difficult period as international oil price dropped below USD 30 a barrel, we promoted the steady and systematic development of core businesses by consistently adhering to our Despite the difficult conditions and intensifying pressures, our opportunities outweigh our challenges and hope outweighs adversity. In 2017, strategy for resources, markets, internationalization and innovation. We deepened reform in key areas and crucial links, focused on innovation we will establish and implement new development concepts, make targeted measures to carry out internal reform and adjust our structure, and benefits through science and technologies. We developed and implemented 36 measures in 12 categories to broaden our sources of work hard to strengthen innovation-driven development and enhance quality and efficiency, keep optimizing our business chain and value income, reduce expenditure, control costs and enhance profitability. In 2016, our operating results were ahead of expectations. While the chain, and continuously make our development more balanced, coordinated and sustainable. We will make every effort to maintain steady crude oil settlement price dropped by 21.4% and the natural gas realized price dropped by 25% year-on-year, the Company recorded RMB growth, optimize structure, strengthen weak areas, enhance efficiency, and guard against risks. We will earnestly enhance value-creation in our 1,616.9 billion in turnover, RMB 45.19 billion in total profit, and RMB 317.1 billion in taxes, and RMB 84.13 billion in free cash flow. crude oil business chain, and work hard to implement projects of strategic value throughout the natural gas business chain, in order to achieve sustainable development. We focused on safety and environmental protection, and promoted green development. We worked hard to ensure safety, environmental protection and stability, strictly implemented the safety responsibility system, and spared no efforts to control major hazards with a focus on preventing and controlling risks at their sources. As a result, we avoided major and worse safety and environmental accidents. Committed to green development, we enhanced the development of clean technologies and promoted the clean use of fossil energy. We optimized our business structure, increased production of green and low-carbon energy, accelerated the cost-effective development of unconventional resources, and advanced natural gas development, resulting in the rapid growth of our natural gas business. In 2016, the contribution of domestic natural gas production to the Company’s total oil equivalent output reached 39.6%, while our natural gas supply accounted for about 70% of the national total. Amid concerted global efforts to address climate change, we participated in the specific actions of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI). We strengthened legal compliance to build an enterprise firmly based on integrity. We comprehensively promoting corporate governance, Wang Yilin underlining the concept of legal compliance, continuously improving the corporate governance system, and ensuring that the integrity of our Chairman of the Board 2016 Sustainability Report INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT 06 07 INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT As the international political and economic situation becomes increasingly complex, how does PetroChina view international cooperation? How will the Company build energy cooperation communities? Against a backdrop of rising complexity in international political and economic situation, traditional energy enterprises, especially oil and gas companies, face a series of challenges to their development, including loss of development space to non-fossil fuels, and greater requirements for clean and low-carbon development in response to global climate change. Meanwhile, it faces a major opportunity for the rapid development of the natural gas industry. Enhanced international cooperation is required to overcome the multiple challenges and promote To resolve observable conflicts and issues transition and development. in our development and promote steady growth, we must consistently deepen As a major player in international energy cooperation, we will build energy cooperation communities to align ourselves with the market trend. reform and promote innovation with First, we will broaden the fields of cooperation. Taking the opportunity of the global energy industrial restructuring and guided by government initiatives such as the “One Belt and One Road Initiative”, we will establish new partnerships and expand all-round cooperation along the entire fortitude and a spirit of selftransformation. value chain. Second, we will strengthen the sharing and exchanges of technologies and expertise, by fostering open multilateral technical and skills exchanges, enhance joint development and the promotion and application of new technologies, and strengthen exchanges and joint training of our talents. Third, we will actively promote and participate in energy management, encourage governments to provide open resources and markets, participate actively in the construction of regional and global energy trading markets, support the democratization and What plans do you have to respond to the current slowdown in global economic growth, depressed international oil and gas prices, institutionalization of global energy governance rules, and create more favorable investment environments. Fourth, we will take part in actions and sluggish demand for oil products in China? dealing with major risks, and establish platforms for information sharing and coordination mechanisms for risk prevention and control. As a result of the global political-economic situation and the market supply-demand of oil and gas, the international crude oil prices still PetroChina will adhere to the spirit of openness and the concept of mutual benefits and win-win results, enhance cooperation with businesses fluctuated at a medium and low level, structural and seasonal contradictions are still outstanding in our domestic market, and uncertainties in various countries, and play a constructive role in a responsible manner to become a preferred partner for its counterparts all over the world. in safety and the environmental protection increase internationally. All these factors result in enormous pressure to the stable growth of PetroChina’s business performance. In 2017, we will steadfastly continue to promote market-oriented and efficiency-centered development, The implementation of the Paris Agreement will exert a significant impact on the global energy consumption mix. As a fossil fuel company, focus on enhancing quality and efficiency, and strive to realize more coordinated and sustainable development. First, we will increase our how does PetroChina view the risks and opportunities presented by it? What efforts did PetroChina make to address climate change? resources and expand our market. We will intensify our efforts in resources and markets at home and abroad, obtain cost-effective, green and Officially entering into force in 2016, the Paris Agreement marks a new starting point in the global response to climate change. It helps all low-carbon energy resources, vigorously expand high-end and high-efficiency markets, make domestic and overseas resources and markets participants, governments, industrial sectors and individuals to jointly invest in a future with lower emissions. Moreover, it has accelerated the more complementary and coordinated, and enhance the competitive advantages of the entire industry chain. Second, we will carry out development of sustainable industries and increased the choices of low-carbon consumption. This presents both risks and opportunities to structural adjustment and optimization. We will make consistent efforts in structural adjustment and optimization, to further rationalize business the development of traditional fossil energy. In the future, the rapid development of clean technology will promote the clean use of fossil fuels, structure and ensure a more coordinated and streamlined production and operation. Third, we will strengthen management and guard against and advance the transition and upgrading of the oil and gas industry. As a clean fossil fuel, the importance of natural gas will become more risks. We will improve the risk prevention and control system, and promote the identification, assessment, early warning and response to pronounced in particular. significant risks. We will strengthen business operations in compliance with all legal requirements, keep our production and operation stable PetroChina is committed to low-carbon development, and actively promotes greenhouse gas control together with its peers and all sectors of and under control, guard against major safety and environmental incidents and high-risk events, and strive for steady development. society. As an energy company, we focus on promoting advances in energy production and consumption and improving the energy supply structure, in order to provide energy solutions to address climate change. We make consistent efforts to optimize our asset portfolio and products The Chinese government has issued documents concerning the reform of state-owned enterprises and the reform of the oil and supply structure, and increase the proportion of natural gas and other clean fuels in our energy supply. Over the past five years, the proportion of gas industry. What are your key areas of focus in your efforts to extend the reform? natural gas in our domestic oil and gas production equivalent has increased by 6.9%, representing an increase in production of 31.7%. In addition, In order to improve the modern enterprise system and promote a corporate governance structure and capacity-control of modern, our domestic natural gas supply accounts for about 70% of the national total, making a positive contribution to the optimization of China’s energy consumption mix. Also, we strengthen low-carbon production and carbon emissions management, promote the R&D and utilization of international standards, we will advance reform by focusing on six areas: first, optimization of the corporate governance structure and control low-carbon technologies, and commit ourselves to exchanges and cooperation with our counterparts at home and abroad. mode; second, adjustment and continuous restructuring of business structure; third, improvement of the operation mechanism; fourth, development of the mixed ownership economy; fifth, innovation in scientific and technological systems and mechanisms; and sixth, reform of our personnel, labor and income distribution system. In 2016, we formulated our opinions on the comprehensive implementation of reform and the special plan for the “13th Five-Year Plan” reform. New breakthroughs were made in key reforms of management systems, and business restructure and integration in an effort to enhance business autonomy. New progress was also achieved in the reform of labor, personnel, and income distribution systems and other significant Wang Dongjin areas. Vice Chairman of the Board and President 2016 Sustainability Report INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE-BASED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 08 09 INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE-BASED Integrity and compliance are the foundation of an enterprise’s sustainable development. At PetroChina, we always advocate rules of the laws, which call for the supremacy of the laws, responsibility commensurate with authority, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE procedural compliance, honesty and trustworthiness, and justice and impartiality. We regularize our corporate and employee behavior through compliance management. We are guided by rules of the laws and improve our capability of corporate management by the laws. We strive to achieve, mainly through institutional constraints, the modernization and internationalization of the corporate governance system and control system. We will make unremitting efforts to explore strengthening the scientific nature and operability of our corporate governance and will optimize the long-term mechanism for operating the company in compliance with all legal requirements. SUSTAINING STEADY DEVELOPMENT We develop and implement an innovative, harmonized, green, open and mutual development Promoting modern management concept, adhering to the policy of steady and sound development, and give top priority through corporate governance to capacity building in core businesses, reform and innovation, safety and environmental according to the laws. protection, and image reshaping. We make unremitting efforts to adjust our structure, strengthen weak areas, increase efficiency, and take integrated measures to guard against ● Improving the corporate governance system risks. Thanks to all these efforts, the Company has maintained promising stable operating and management systems and mechanisms results, kept all kinds of risks under control, reinforced a stable and harmonious environment through system building, in order to put in for development, and steadily improved its corporate image. Its steadier, healthier and more place a systematic, scientific and effective sustainable development has made PetroChina into a globally respected company. organisation. The top management pays attention to major issues in the Company’s development through ● Promoting scientific and standardized careful planning. It vigorously develops information channels. Through face-to-face meetings, corporate management through standardized site visits, special reports, etc, it engages in in-depth investigations and research, and widely quality and metering measurement, and fully absorbs suggestions from all related parties. In doing so, it establishes the strategic goal of improving the quality of products, projects and services. building a world-class international energy company, and sets out the growth strategy of resources, market, internationalization and innovation. In addition, the Company has set up a ● Giving full play to the role of applying committee tasked with compiling the sustainable growth report. This committee is made up information technology in management of the main persons in charge of relevant departments, and matters concerning sustainable innovation and business model innovation, development are verified and externally disclosed by it. enhancing operational efficiency, and thereby promoting modern management. Focusing on growth quality and efficiency, the Company links the compensation of persons-in-charge and employees to their environmental and safety performance, and exercises its veto right against persons-in-charge who have violated safety or environmental regulations. An assessment of enterprises that are advanced in terms of production safety and a comparative appraisal of advanced entities and Reform and Core businesses innovation development individuals are carried out annually. The advanced enterprises and individuals are commended and receive an award. In 2016, we rigorously conducted performance assessments followed by reward and punishment, and set clear assessment indicators. We rewarded subsidiaries that achieved technological Sustainable progress and published standards, and punished those with performance issues in safety, environmental Development protection, and investment control. Capacity We issued regulations on the remuneration and business expenditure of leading management personnel. The remuneration of our senior executives is composed of the basic salary and performance-based annual salary. The annual remuneration is linked to performance and adjusted according to variables, such as the Image and brand Safe and green development operating performance of the Company, the average wage level of the staff and the market labor price. 2016 Sustainability Report INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE-BASED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10 11 SOLIDIFYING GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Ever since its establishment, PetroChina set up a corporate governance framework in compliance with regulatory requirements and international rules, clearly outlining the authority and responsibilities of the annual general meetings of shareholders, of the board of directors and its expert committees, of the supervisory committee, and of management answerable to the president. Such management structures provide checks and balances to one another, cooperate closely and are highly effective. The Company’s internal management and operations are further standardized and the management level keeps improving. PetroChina keeps on optimizing the legal final decision-making mechanism, strengthening the evaluation for decision making, and maintaining a system that tracks the responsibility for decisions made and holds decision-makers lifelong accountable. The Company keeps improving the supervision and restriction mechanism for the exercising of power, and following the principle that responsibility is commensurate with authority, it clearly delineates the limits of each authority at different managerial levels with detailed requirements on their authority and responsibility. Moreover, by planning as a whole all resources for internal supervision such as legal affairs, internal control, auditing and supervision and inspection, PetroChina reinforces self-supervision, supervision by dedicated departments, and supervision between superior and subordinate departments, and accepts public supervision, in order to achieve well-grounded decision making, grassroots units and overseas oil and gas cooperation projects conducted by independent directors. In 2016, the Company organized on-site appropriate authorization, controlled exercise of power, and accountability for abuses of power. investigations and research by independent directors. We informed independent directors of important production and operational decisions Shareholders and Annual General Meeting (AGM) in a timely and regular manner, and put their recommendations into practice, achieving a positive result for the Company. The general meeting of shareholders is the top authority in the Company and it exercises its functions and powers in accordance with the Supervisors and Supervisory Committee law. PetroChina’s general shareholders meetings are held annually and the Company ensures that all shareholders enjoy equal privileges to The Supervisory Committee is accountable to the Shareholders Meeting. In accordance with the Company Law of the PRC and the Articles exercise their rights. In order to ensure fairness, as the controlling shareholder of PetroChina, CNPC will abstain from voting when a connected of Association, the Supervisors present at the Supervisory Committee meetings, attend Board Meetings as observers, report back to the transaction is presented to the general meeting for consideration. Shareholders Meeting and submit the Supervisory Committee reports and related matters. The Supervisory Committee formulated the Directors, Board of Directors and Affiliated Board Committees Organization and Rules of Procedures for the Supervisory Committee and the Regulations on Supervisors’ Performance of Duties, laying down the methods and contents of performing the duties of the The directors are elected by the general meeting of shareholders, and they are accountable to the general meeting. Under the board are several Company’s Supervisors, and the requirements and evaluation criteria for performing such duties. All committees: the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee, Evaluation & Remuneration Committee, Investment & Development Committee, Supervisors are urged to supervise the Company’s finances and monitor the legality and compliance the Health, Safety and Environmental Protection (HSE) Committee, all of which advise the board on its decisions. We never cease formulating, of the manner in which directors and senior management of the Company perform their duties, in line improving and effectively implementing the work systems and work procedures of the Board of Directors and affiliated board committees. We with their responsibility to all shareholders. By the end of 2016, the Company’s Supervisory Committee have formulated the Board Diversity Policy, so that members of the board are considered based on the actual situation of the Company, its own had nine members, four of which were employees of the Company. operational model and the specific work requirements, while taking into account the Corporate Governance Structure Executive Body candidate’s age, educational background and General Meeting of Nomination Committee Shareholders The Company’s executive management body consists of a Vice President and a CFO presided over by the President. They are appointed professional experience. There are four nonAudit Committee by and accountable to the Board of Directors. They carry out the Boards resolutions and organize the day-to-day production and business executive independent directors in the board operations of the Company in accordance with the Company Law of the PRC and the Articles of Association and as authorized by the Board of of directors. These independent directors are Evaluation & Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Directors. The Company has a two-tier executive governance organization for the headquarters and regional offices, and a three-tier business experts and talents from different countries Investment & Development Supervisory Committee structure consisting of the headquarters, subsidiaries and regional operations. The Company has four core business segments that are run by and technical backgrounds, including Committee four dedicated subsidiaries, namely: PetroChina Exploration & Production Company, PetroChina Refining & Chemicals Company, PetroChina petroleum and petrochemicals, accounting, Health, Safety and Environmental Marketing Company and PetroChina Natrual Gas & Pipeline Company. finance, international investment and Protection Committee Executives & Managements financing management. In 2016, we set out specifications for the operation of the Board OPTIMIZING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM of Directors, and followed the procedure for “decisions on major issues, appointment We constantly supplemented and perfected our basic system of corporate governance. In accordance The Company stresses intensification, specialization and integration and has established a management system where responsibility is and dismissal of leading officials, decisions with capital market regulations, we set up the Nomination Committee of the Board of Directors, commensurate with authority, and that is scientifically sound, lean, efficient, and vibrant, so as to strengthen the restrictions on and the on major project investment, and use and developed rules of procedure for the committee. In 2016, in strict accordance with the rules of supervision of the exercise of power. The Company aims to have clear control objectives, effective integration of resources and optimal of large sums of mone y ”. The B oard procedure for the Nomination Committee of the Board of Directors, we deliberated on the candidates efficiency and effectiveness, in order to improve corporate social responsibility performance and achieve sustainable growth. We actively strengthened investment decision-making for director, top management changes and adjustments to the board committees, giving full play to the boosted the integration and innovation of the management system, and promoted pilot programs for system construction and integration. management and increased the number role of the Nomination Committee. We consolidated management systems on quality, HSE, measurement, energy, internal control, legal risk prevention and control with other of site investigations and research at management documents, in order to promote management system reform and optimize resource configuration. 2016 Sustainability Report INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE-BASED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 12 13 Compliance Management System UPHOLDING BUSINESS ETHICS Integrity and compliance are the bottom line of our business operation and the cornerstone of the Company’s development, and take precedence to business systems and economic interests. We integrate compliance We have set up a telephone hotline We abide by business ethics and adhere to the principle of honesty and credibility, in order Anti-Commercial Bribery management into our strategy, and have a zero tolerance attitude to rule violations and strictly comply with to promote transparent trading and maintain fair and impartial competition. We strictly and an email address to receive applicable laws, regulations and procedures in operational activities. The growth of the Company hinges on Commercial bribery is an act of using devious complied with applicable laws and regulations on commercial bribery, extortion and fraud. reports of irregularities. Employees compliance management, which is incorporated into the whole process of our production, construction and means to obtain business opportunities or For this, we established specific management regulations and implementation rules covering can report cases by using their real operations management assessment. We enhance process control while focusing on prevention, and have other economic benefits. Commercial bribery all production units, staff and processes relevant to the Company. We oppose monopolies names or anonymously. We will designated persons-in-charge of the headquarters and affiliates as the first persons responsible for compliance and do not abuse our dominant market position. We fight against unfair competition in any seriously investigate and give feed seriously disrupts the market order of fair management. We endeavor to build a compliance management system with complete regulations, scientific form and comply with trade restrictions. We never conduct, participate in or support any back to the one who reports, and competition and is prohibited by law in each procedures and proper execution to cover all staff, the entire process and all positions. forms of money laundering. We conduct faithful, honest and legal external transactions. keep their identities confidential. jurisdiction. The Company firmly opposes We adhere to the value of honesty and integrity, implementing the same compliance policy and commercial bribery, and strictly prohibits guidelines as CNPC. The Integrity and Compliance Guidelines issued by CNPC clearly regulating the basic requirements, codes of conduct and prohibited matters in external relations, professional ethics, handling Hotline: 86-10-62094741 the giving of benefits to others to obtain COMMUNICATING WITH STAKEHOLDERS Email: jcbjb@petrochina.com.cn business opportunities or other advantages. internal relations, safeguarding the interests of the Company, taking social responsibility, etc. In 2016, our employees signed a written commitment pledging to abide by the manual. We also prohibit employees from receiving Gaining our stakeholders’ trust and support is fundamental to the building of a sustainable or soliciting benefits from others in our business. We worked hard to enhance quality and efficiency of our development to maximize In 2016, we promote the application of the Compliance Management Information Platform, organized staff business activities. The prohibited behaviors returns to our shareholders and value for our stakeholders, and to achieve our common goal to attend compliance training and testing through the platform. We strengthened the management and of harmonious development and mutually beneficial maximization. mentioned above not only refer to the direct maintenance of staff compliance archives, further defined the scope of personnel subject to compliance giving and receiving of benefits, but also to the We actively performed our obligation to disclose information. In accordance with the laws, registration and reporting, strengthened the supervision of trading process and registered and reported issues involving conflicts of interest. For suppliers and contractors, we carried out compliance review and sort of behaviors via a third party. The benefits regulations and regulatory requirements of the place where the Company is listed and in evaluation, and removed those who breached relevant laws and regulations from the qualification list. We hereby include, but are not limited to: cash, accordance with the Articles of Association, we built a multi-level and multi-form mechanism strictly carried out due diligence to check the compliance of our trading partners in major joint ventures gifts, marketable securities, physical assets, to communicate with stakeholders, through periodic reports, interim reports, media and cooperation, mergers and acquisitions, and other major transactions, and specified compliance kickbacks, free traveling and entertainment, communications, interviews and visits, and interactive communication. We amplified and requirements in contract terms and conditions. and also non-property benefits such as perfected the management and related systems for the disclosure of major events so as to employment opportunities. report the Company’s situation in full and on time to the public. We also organized non-deal Internal Control and Risk Management System roadshows, reverse roadshows, and site inspections for investors, met visiting investors, and We continued to improve our internal control system and ensured its continual effectiveness. To ensure invited individual shareholders to attend the AGM, etc. The top managerial personnel of the effective risk control, we strengthened the evaluation, reporting and control of major risks, improved risk Company frequently attended high-level conferences and forums and delivered speeches, event management, and intensified special risk control. We kept optimizing and simplifying our business in order to improve mutual trust between stakeholders and the Company. The Company processes, and developed scientific standards for process management. We focused on the testing of kept improving its website and developing new media communication channels such managerial personnel with an increase in depth of the test to identify management weaknesses, and systemic as teleconferences, Emails and fax to provide more information, understand and respond and institutional problems. We endeavored to identify and prevent major risks, in order to further enhance to investors’ questions in a timely fashion. It collected and organized every opinion and the overall quality and effectiveness of the management testing, and ensure the effective operation of our suggestion, and channeled them to relevant departments, so that the Company was aware systems. We intensified internal control and rectification, improved the coordination mechanism between the of the needs of the stakeholders. lower and higher levels, announced within the Company recurring events and exceptions which were not rectified within the prescribed period, reinforced warnings and assessment efforts, supervised implementation To address investors concerns, we deeply communicated with investors and listen to their and rectification activities, and improved the management and control skills. In 2016, the Company’s internal views on the development of the Company. Through the Open to Public Day, Gas Station control and risk management system successfully passed an external audit for the 11th consecutive year. In 2016, 12 anti-corruption Open Day, news conferences, customer meetings, customer visits, questionnaires, advice lawsuits of the Company boxes and other means, we solicited criticism and opinions from all walks of life, followed the Corruption Punishment and Prevention System were closed. The Supreme implementation of the opinions, and took the initiative to accept supervision from all parties. We treat our business partners, customers, suppliers, contractors and counterparts with integrity, respect Court of the United States As to the dividend distribution based on By doing so, we further enhanced the understanding by the media and public of the Company. and equality. We require our employees not to abuse one’s position in signing business contracts for one’s fully overruled the lawsuit the net profit in the second half of 2016, the own personal gain, or for the benefit of friends or family or to obtain personal benefits. We abide by the For the refinery project in Yunnan, PetroChina instituted by the US investors Company will, as usual, define the ratio of relevant national laws and regulations, developed the Punishment Regulations for Managements Violations invited the public to participate in the project against some former senior dividend distribution at the end of 2016 as and Non-compliance, Compliance Management Measures, Material Supplier Management Measures, etc, to environmental impact assessment, and set up the executives of PetroChina, 45%. With consideration to the Company’s regulate behaviors of employees and the Company. “Yunnan Petrochemical Green Construction Advisory ordering the termination of satisfactory fundamentals, financial status and We verified all complaint letters and punished all corrupt officials, and always make unremitting efforts Committee” composed of representatives from local the motion and the closure cash flow, the Company intends to distribute to combat corruption. The Company identified hazards and strengthened the building of the anticommunities, enterprises, social organizations and the of the lawsuit. The normal a special dividend. The Company’s stable local government, and organized dialogues. Through corruption system, and gradually improved its corruption risk prevention mechanism. We sought to operation and reputation of and active dividend policy is welcomed these dialogues, Yunnan Petrochemical responded to prevent corruption from small matters forming at the early stage through measures targeted at different levels, and conducted early warnings, monitoring and inspection on a regular basis. We promoted special the Company have not been by shareholders for fully safeguarding the issues including residents’ relocation and resettlement, audits and supervision of major investment projects and online real-time supervision of major business materially affected. interests of minority shareholders. local employment, the impact on surrounding safety and the environment, project information disclosure, areas, and urged the departments to fulfill their regulatory responsibilities. communication with the general public, promotion of refinery knowledge and government supervision. 2016 Sustainability Report INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE-BASED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 14 15 Stakeholder Expectations Communication Approach Key Actions ● Stable energy supply ● Behave legally and ethically, and abide by the applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate ● Offer company expertise ● Harmonious economic and social ● Stabilize oil and gas supplies ● Attend to public concerns and improve corporate behavior Governments development ● Participate in discussions organized by the government on climate change, energy conservation and emission reduction ● Launch strategic cooperation with relevant departments ● Leading role of brand and technology ● Promote local employment and cultivate local talents ● Attend seminars and forums ● Tax payment according to law ● Pay taxes according to law ● Fulfill requirements on statutory information disclosure ● Operate in a responsible manner to maintain a good reputation ● Standardized corporate governance ● Organize roadshow and reverse roadshow activities, such as field visits ● Convene annual general meetings Shareholders ● Stable business growth ● Issue reports and announce results performance on a regular basis ● Equal treatment of shareholders, and value opinions of both small and medium-sized shareholders ● Sustainable development ● Launched an Investor FAQs mailbox to receive public opinions ● Hold dialogues with investors and shareholders in various ways ● Reverse roadshows and site inspections ● Enhance employee training and skills development ● Elect employee representatives to join the Supervisory Committee ● Organize vocational skill competitions ● Basic rights guaranteed ● Establishment of trade unions at all levels ● Conduct occupational health checks Employees ● Professional development ● Convene employee representatives meetings and make reports ● Promote local employment in overseas operations ● Growth in wages and benefits ● Organize employee training programs ● Provide a career development platform for employees ● Set up a complaints and feedback system ● Protect employee safety in overseas operations ● Provide safe, environmentally friendly, ● Enhance quality management ● Carry out activities to protect consumers interests high-quality products and services ● Improve service quality at refueling stations ● Publicize commitment to quality services Consumers ● Constantly improve the quality and ● Increase the supply of clean fuel, such as natural gas, high-standard gasoline and diesel ● Provide hotline services variety of services ● Secure oil supplies for disaster relief and agricultural production ● Conduct customer satisfaction surveys ● Operate with integrity ● Organize Refueling Station Open Day activity ● Hold tendering meetings ● Hold large cross-border business negotiations and technical exchange ● Strengthen centralized procurement management to provide suppliers with equal opportunities meetings ● Enhance communication and coordination with contractors and strengthen the HSE management of contractors by creating a safe Business ● Fair and transparent procurement ● Use the electronic trading platform and healthy working environment partners ● Win-win cooperation ● Engage in sharing managerial practices and technical standards ● Improve security measures and the emergency response network ● Conduct contract negotiations and routine meetings ● Open the investment field ● Hold training for business partners ● Organize PetroChina-Siemens Strategic Cooperation Summit ● Conduct daily operation meetings ● Improve sustainable management ● Submit a progress report to the UN Global Compact ● Share the Company’s experiences ● Perform social responsibilities such as ● Attend to external concerns through various forms of communication NGOs ● Participate in NGO activities poverty alleviation and environmental ● Play an active role in participating in and supporting international environment and standardization initiatives ● Promote international communication protection ● Participate in a wide range of forums and conferences ● Promote employment growth ● Participate in disaster relief and reconstruction, and provide financial support for education and poverty alleviation ● Hold dialogues with local communities ● Protect community environment ● Support and drive local economic growth through large projects ● Organize community visits ● Promote economic development in ● Supply clean energy, e.g. natural gas, to remote Regions Communities ● Conduct social and environmental impact assessments of projects the community ● Hold volunteering activities among employees ● Promotion of education ● Respect cultural traditions of the ● Procure locally, where the business is carried out ● Increase information disclosure community ● Provide job opportunities and training for the local community 2016 Sustainability Report SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY 16 17 SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY Energy is essential to socio-economic development. Our mission is to develop a safe, stable, diversified and clean energy supply system, thereby promoting sustainable economic growth and social progress. At PetroChina, we proactively change the ways to produce energy, so as to constantly adapt to energy reform. With an innovative, harmonized, green, open and mutual development concept, we make sustained efforts to build a safe, stable, diversified and clean energy supply system. We never cease consolidating our resource base through technological and managerial innovations. With an eye on sustainable energy supply in the future, we are accelerating natural gas development, exploring unconventional energy, deploying new energies, and supplying more clean energy. In addition, we are expanding international cooperation and optimizing our global businesses in order to play a leading role in supplying cleaner and greener energy and to provide sustained momentum to socio-economic development. CONSOLIDATING OUR RESOURCE BASE Oil and gas resources are the foundation of our development and the basis for securing stable oil and gas supply. In recent years, it has become more difficult and expensive to explore and develop the remaining oil and gas resources, and oil prices have continued to decline. Under such unfavorable circumstances, we have achieved exploration breakthroughs, made new oil and gas discoveries, and consolidated our resource base through management innovation and technological progress, enhancing our capacity to provide society with economical, stable and sustainable energy. Fine Potential Tapping and Obtaining Reserves with Economics of Scale In 2016, we continued to adhere to our resource strategy, optimized exploration deployment, focused on concentrated exploration, fine exploration and cost-efficient exploration of key basins and favorable zones, and strengthened comprehensive geological research, resulting in the discovery of a number of large-scale, high-quality recoverable reserves. In the Changqing Oilfield in particular, we made outstanding achievements in the multi-layer, threedimensional exploration of lithologic reservoirs, with 370 million tons of proven reserves added. Changqing Oilfield overcame technological obstacles by focusing on increasing the output of individual wells, improving the recovery ratio and cutting development costs, and enabled oil and gas production of over 50 million tons for the fourth consecutive year in 2016. Daqing Oilfield’s fine water flooding technology improved its recovery ratio by 1% to 3%, and provided strong support for the sustainable development of the oilfield. In 2016, PetroChina’s newly added proven oil in place exceeded 600 million tons for the 11th consecutive year, and newly added proven gas in place exceeded 400 billion cubic meters for the 10th consecutive year, with the total proven oil and gas geological reserves equivalent exceeded 1 billion tons of oil equivalent for the 10th consecutive year. In 2016, in newly-added oil and gas reserves, 600 million tons In 2016, PetroChina’s newly added natural gas accounted for 40%, an increase of 9% year-on-year. proven oil in place exceeded 600 million tons for the 11th consecutive year Proved 100 million Proved several 100 tons or 10 million tons reserve areas Oil Gas billion cubic metres reserve areas in 1 billion tons In 2016, PetroChina’s total proven in the Ordos, exploration exploration the Ordos Basin, oil and gas geological reserves Tarim, Junggar, Sichuan Basin and equivalent exceeded 1 billion Qaidam and other Tarim Basin and tons of oil equivalent for the 10th basins other regions consecutive year 2016 Sustainability Report SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY 18 19 Steady and Moderate Rise in Oil and Gas Production, with Increased Located in Tarim basin Located in Ordos basin Efficiency and Production Gas source of West-East Gas Pipeline Project Gas source of Shaanxi-Beijing Gas Pipeline network In oil and gas field development, we prioritized profitability refocusing our efforts from Accumulative proven economic recoverable natural gas Accumulative proven economic recoverable natural production scale to quality and efficiency. We adjusted and optimized our yield structure reserves of 910.2 billion cubic meters gas reserves of 1,241.5 billion cubic meters according to oil prices and market changes. In 2016, we produced 1,466.6 million barrels of Annual output of 23.4 billion cubic meters Annual output of 36 billion cubic meters oil equivalent, while oil and gas operation costs dropped 10.1% from 2015. Tarim gas region Four Major Changqing gas region PetroChina’s Innovative Technologies Winning National Awards in 2016 Gas Regions of Qinghai gas region PetroChina Southwest gas region Technology Award Paleo-marine carbonate exploration theory and technology Second-class National Science Located in Qaidam basin Located in Sichuan basin innovation, and discovery of the giant Anyue Gas Field and Technology Progress Award The highest gas field in the world (elevation above Gas source of Southwest Gas Pipeline network and Large-scale ethane process technology package, key Second-class National Science sea-level) Zhongxian-Wuhan Gas Pipeline equipment and industrial application and Technology Progress Award Gas source of Sebei-Xining-Lanzhou Gas Pipeline Accumulative proven economic recoverable natural Special drilling liquid for complex well and industrial Second-class National Technical Accumulative proven economic recoverable natural gas reserves of 1,178.3 billion cubic meters application Invention Award gas reserves of 164.4 billion cubic meters Annual output of 20.7 billion cubic meters Quantitative calculating method of oil saturation in Gold Medal of China Patent Annual output of 6.5 billion cubic meters fractured reservoirs Award 2012－2016 Oil Equivalent Production of PetroChina (106 barrels) Promoting the Effective Connection between Resources and Demand 1,343.1 1,400.0 1,450.4 1,493.9 1,466.6 and Stable Supply in the Market While consolidating our resource base, we actively promoted the connection of multiple gas sources. As a result, we have put in place a configuration of gas transportation and allocation in which long-distance natural gas pipeline networks play a leading role, and LNG and gas storage play a supplementary role, in order to meet the needs for gas supply in different periods (for details, refer to P20 “Pushing Forward Pipeline Network Construction”). 39.6 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 % Promoting the Development of Unconventional Gas In 2016, the contribution of natural DEVELOPING CLEAN ENERGY Question: As the energy consumption gas to our total domestic oil In 2016, the Company steadily promoted the exploration and development of tight gas, shale equivalent output reached 39.6%. gas, coal-bed methane and other unconventional natural gas resources. mix is getting more diverse with lower Fossil fuel will remain the driving force of global economic development in the near future, carbon emissions, has PetroChina whereas clean and low-carbon energy will chart the course for future energy development. As a practical and effective low-carbon energy currently, natural gas plays an important role made any adjustment to the 73.2 % development of traditional oil and gas PetroChina’s domestic natural gas We set up the National Energy R&D Center for Tight Oil and Gas to improve in meeting the needs of socio-economic development and protecting the environment. output accounted for 73.2% of the Tight gas and new energy? tight gas development efficiency. PetroChina focuses on the sustainable supply of clean energy, and will continue to regard national total. natural gas as a strategic and growing business. The Company is increasing investment in Answer: Fossil fuels will remain the main natural gas exploration and development, accelerating the construction of cross-border gas energy for consumption until 2030. As energy pipelines and domestic gas pipeline backbone network facilities, advancing development of consumption growth gradually slows in China We accelerated construction of coalbed methane production bases, unconventional gases such as tight gas, coal bed methane and shale gas. It is also pushing and the energy structure is constantly being promoted extensive development, and set up the most advanced CBM forward the development and use of natural gas, studying and promoting the development optimized, we are going to enter a new stage Coalbed laboratory in China. Baode Gasfield, China’s largest low rank coal methane and use of new energy, in order to meet the demand for clean energy. where overcapacity in traditional energy will methane field was completed and put into operation. Two coalbed methane coexist with the rapid growth of clean and lowproduction bases in Qinshui and Edong realized reserve growth and largeOrdinary natural Increasing Natural Gas Exploration and Development carbon energy. Under such circumstances, gas: 68.2% scale development. PetroChina will stabilize oil production Tight gas: 27.2% In 2016, the Company strengthened production management in major gas areas, hub gas Coalbed methane: fields and key gas fields, and continued to reinforce the development and construction of and increase the output of natural gas while 1.7% natural gas fields, with an emphasis on capacity building in mature fields including four gas highlighting development quality and benefits. Shale gas: 2.9% PetroChina chose favorable development zones and formed six major provinces in Changqing, Tarim, Southwest, and Qinghai. We intensified the use of the “largeIt will push forward the development of new technology series with platform horizontal well fracturing as the core Shale technology and matching domestically-produced toolkits, realizing largecluster, factory-like, and comprehensive” capacity building mode in natural gas development, energy, by focusing on alternative energy gas scale production and efficient development. By the end of 2016, two stateproviding a guarantee for stable production growth. The contribution of natural gas to resources, including geothermal and natural level shale gas demonstration zones at Changning-Weiyuan and Zhaotong Components of PetroChina’s our total domestic oil equivalent output reached 39.6%, and our domestic production of gas hydrate in oil and gas basins. achieved production capacity of 3 billion cubic meters. domestic natural gas production marketable natural gas was 3,008.3 billion cubic feet. in 2016 2016 Sustainability Report SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY 20 21 Facilitating the Utilization of Natural Gas and Alternative Fuels Improving Domestic Pipeline Backbone Network We actively cooperated with the government and industry companies to promote the In 2016, the Guigang-Yulin Section and the Jintan-Liyang Section of West-East Gas Pipeline application of natural gas in electric power, the chemical industry, transportation and were completed and put into operation, which will effectively enhance resource allocation shipping. In 2016, in the promotion of “coal-to-gas” projects in North China, Sichuan and efficiency and market supply capacity in Guangxi and Jiangsu. The eastern section of the Chongqing, we supplied stable sources of gas, promoting the smooth implementation of Third West-East Gas Pipeline was completed and put into operation, opening the channel “coal-to-gas” projects in these regions and effectively improving the local environment. of gas supply to Fujian Province. The construction of Yunnan Oil Products Pipeline, JinzhouZhengzhou Oil Products Pipeline, Anshan-Dalian Pipeline and some other projects made continuous progress. In addition, construction was started on the Fourth Shaanxi-Beijing In 2016, PetroChina’s gas supply volume was 131.5 billion cubic meters, which, if calculated by equivalent Gas Pipeline, the Zhongwei-Jingbian Pipeline, and the Second Russia-China Crude Pipeline, heat value, is equal to the substitution of 270 million tons of standard coal, and an emission reduction of 490 further enhancing our oil and gas supply and distribution capacity. million tonnes of CO2 and 3.37 million tons of SO2 respectively. The Shaanxi-Beijing Gas Pipeline project has accumulatively provided 110 billion cubic meters of natural gas to Beijing and North China since the first Shaanxi-Beijing Gas Pipeline became operational in 1997. The proportion of natural gas in primary energy The West-East Gas Pipeline network will be Case study: West-East Gas Pipeline Project Delivering Clean Energy and Facilitating Low-carbon Transition consumption in Beijing has jumped to over 30% in 2016 from only 0.5% in 1997. In 2016, the Shaanxiable to deliver 77 billion cubic meters of natural In December 2016, the eastern section of the Third West-East Gas Pipeline (Line Three) was opened for gas transmission. After Line Two, Line Three is another pipeline Beijing Gas Pipeline provided 32 billion cubic meters of natural gas to Beijing and North China, made a great gas annually upon completion, accounting for running from the west to the east of China and linked to the Central Asia-China Gas Pipeline. The eastern section of Line Three will help eastern China realize the contribution to improving the energy structure and combating air pollution in Beijing and north China. 37% of China’s total natural gas consumption in transition to low-carbon energy and turn the advantages of the resources in Central Asia and Western China into economic and environmental advantages. 2016, replacing 160 million tons of standard coal 490 million 131.5 billion 3.37 million Emission reduction cubic meters of Emission reduction and reducing CO2 and SO2 emissions by 290 tons tons The sketch map of the natural gas million tons and 1.97 million tons respectively. West-East Gas Pipelines The First West-East Gas Pipeline Horgos Completed in 2004 Equal to the substitution CO2 of 270 million tons of SO2 Delivery capacity: 17 bcm/a Urumchi standard coal The Second West-East Gas Pipeline Turpan The Third West-East The Second West-East Gas Pipline Gas Pipeline Completed in 2012 New Energy Delivery capacity: 30 bcm/a Beijing The First West-East With an eye on the future, we promoted the development of renewable energy including The Third West-East Gas Pipline Gas Pipeline The First West-East The western section was completed in Zhongwei Jingbian geothermal energy and solar energy, and researched the exploitation and utilization of Gas Pipeline 2014, the eastern section was completed natural gas hydrate resources, to play a positive role in implementing the nation’s new energy Jinan in 2016, and the Zhongwei-Ji’an section is strategy and improving China’s energy structure. to be constructed Zhengzhou Delivery capacity: 30 bcm/a Xi’an Geothermal energy Biomass energy Nanjing Zaoyang Shanghai The Third West-East Hefei PetroChina completed a demonstration study on middle PetroChina’s ethanol gasoline Gas Pipline and deep layer geothermal resource evaluation and has realized large-scale supply in development, and carried out research on middle and northeast China. We have also made Nanchang Hangzhou low temperature geothermal power generation, oilfield breakthroughs in the industrial The Second West-East Changsha waste water residue heat utilization, artificial recharge to development of aviation biofuel. Gas Pipeline Jian Fuzhou stratum water, and high temperature geothermal drilling. Compared to traditional aviation Pingtan Huabei Oilfield participated in research for the 863 project kerosene, this fuel is predicted to on middle and low temperature geothermal power reduce greenhouse gases by over Guangzhou Nanning Xiamen generation, and passed acceptance checks. 50% within its lifecycle. Hong Kong Shenzhen PUSHING FORWARD PIPELINE NETWORK CONSTRUCTION South China Sea Islands We continuously expanded the building of the oil and gas pipeline network, boosted our transportation and allocation capacity, and optimized the market distribution of resources. By the end of 2016, our oil and gas pipelines in service reached a total length close to 80,000 kilometers and passed through 30 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, forming an oil and gas network crisscrossing the country and internationally connected. 2016 Sustainability Report SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY 22 23 Expanding Transnational Oil and Gas Transportation Channels with Shell continued to maintain stable production. Our domestic oil and gas production equivalent in cooperation with international partners amounted to 5.525 million tons. In 2016, PetroChina continued to expand its transnational oil and gas pipelines and promoted the effective integration of resources and the market. Construction of the Second Russia-China Crude Pipeline and the Eastern Route of Russia-China Gas Pipeline has progressed according to schedule. Vigorously Expanding International Trade Supported by our overseas operation centers and trade networks in Asia, Europe and the ENHANCING INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION Americas, we conducted international trading through cooperation and joint ventures in more than 80 countries and regions around the world, further improved our resource deployment We are actively committed to international oil and gas cooperation, adhering to the international cooperation principles of “mutual benefit capability. In 2016, we reported 360 million tons of international marketing volume, and 201.3 and joint development”, and complying with the laws, regulations and energy policies of the host countries. Due to our advantages in funding, witnessed improvements in both the scale of our trading and quality of operations. technology and management, we contributed to the global oil and gas market. million barrels In 2016, the Company achieved a net overseas oil and gas equivalent Overseas Energy Development output of 201.3 million barrels ENSURING STABLE SUPPLY Thanks to China’s One Belt and One Road Initiative, we made new progress in oil and gas cooperation in regions such as Central AsiaRussia and the Middle East. By the end of 2016, the equity delivery of the joint venture and cooperation of the Central Asia-China Gas Pipeline was completed. Our cooperation in the upstream sector in Niger helped the country build a complete modern oil industry system. The 5.525 million tons Ensuring stable supply is an important social responsibility to PetroChina. To this end, we are strengthening coordination and organizational efforts to establish a sustainable mechanism In 2016, the Company’s domestic and give back to society. During peak agricultural periods in the spring, summer and autumn (at cooperation projects not only met local energy demand, but also achieved export sales of refined oil in 2016. We achieved a net overseas oil oil and gas production equivalent in cooperation with international the time of spring plowing, summer planting, summer harvesting, summer field management, and gas equivalent output of 201.3 million barrels in 2016. partners amounted to 5.525 fall harvesting, fall plowing and fall sowing), during critical moments when natural disasters million tons Promoting Oil and Gas Cooperation with International Partners strike such as earthquakes, heavy rainfall and snowfall, important periods when events are held, and during winter months when gas consumption peaks, we actively mobilize our resources, We continue to make steady progress in cooperation with international partners in developing oil and gas resources in China. In 2016, optimize transport capacity, strengthen on-site services, and ensure a continuous oil and gas we entered into production sharing contracts with BP in the Neijiang-Dazu and Rongchangbei shale gas blocks of the Sichuan Basin. The supply at our service stations at critical moments and in key areas. In 2016, our refined oil and Luojiazhai High-Sulfur Gas Field of Chuandongbei Gas Project jointly developed by PetroChina and Chevron was put into operation, which can natural gas supply accounted for about 40% and 70% of the national market share respectively. supply more abundant natural gas to regions including Sichuan and Chongqing. The Changbei Project in Changqing Oilfield in cooperation Began drafting Communicated purchase and with local sales plan in governments and Set up emergency advance and users to arrange groups to ensure formulated gas supply in We coordinated supply for the natural gas resource integration advance G20 Summit with supply plan programs in advance Serve G20 Serve G20 detailed information with our domestic on supply dynamics counterparts. Su Formulated supply na ppor Increased domestic plan for Zhejiang tio tin na g supply and Jiangsu during gas supply l ac ma tiv jor al gas the G20 Summit itie Natur winter PetroChina’s measures s to ensure market in Provided supply during special Effected spot LNG quality services periods in 2016 resource purchases Se rvi ng Coordinated ac agr Realized operation of tiv icu the Baodi-Xianghe-Xiji railway and pipeline itie ltu delivery capacity s ral Pipeline and the third Yongqing-Dagang The villager thumbs-up our Send oil to the to increase supply Pipeline to ensure to regions with support to famers’ plowing countryside to save busy agricultural Monitored supply in winter on famers’ money and time shedule activities Contacted related the market Stored diesel in departments to dynamics advance better understand to improve the general demand-side situation of oil management demand in the agriculture sector 2016 Sustainability Report SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION 24 25 SAFE AND CLEAN The natural environment is essential for humans. Therefore, we incorporate care for people’s lives and environmental protection into our corporate mission. Upholding the principles of people-centred, prevention-driven, PRODUCTION AND OPERATION full staff participation and continuous improvements, we endeavor to build ourselves as a resource-conserving, environmentally friendly and safely producing business with the goals of zero injuries, no pollution and zero accidents. IMPROVING HSE MANAGEMENT Work safety and environmental protection is a prerequisite which secures our steady development. In 2016, we attached great importance to health, safety and the environment (HSE), gave top priority to safety and environment in our operations, and reinforced our HSE system. By improving the management system and implementing stricter inspection of responsibility fulfillment, PetroChina closely monitored workplace safety results, strengthened hazard control, and endeavored to enhance HSE management performance. As a result, our overall HSE performance was stable and improved in 2016. Improving HSE Management System The Company carries out system audits covering all units twice a year. In 2016, we further improved the “Criteria for Quantification Review and Assessment of the HSE Management System” and conducted comprehensive HSE quantification review in the whole system, and strengthened auditing of leadership competency and process control. We selected 2,282 experts to conduct systematic auditing in 114 subsidiaries, and conducted quantification 100% review to 93 production enterprises at 1,936 operation sites. The HSE quantitative auditing rate for major production and Conducting HSE Standardization at Grassroots Level operation subsidiaries reached 100% To ensure HSE management keeps pace with our daily production and operations, we carried out HSE standardization at the grassroots level. We promote HSE standardization at grassroots level to provide conventional operations with guidelines and unconventional operations with binding regulations. All operations at grassroots level are regulated and guided by standards, including post operation, field management and equipment management, so as to ensure all risks are under control. Promoting HSE Training 100% 100% of grassroots We vigorously promoted the grassroots level HSE training matrix and organized and employees attended developed the compilation of the HSE training matrix and its applications manual for highHSE training risk grassroots posts of main force professionals. We explored the use of the HSE training matrix model for the grassroots-level posts and endeavored to enhance the effect of training through effective training methods such as multiple-way approaches, small scopes and short classes. 2016 Sustainability Report SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION 26 27 Emergency Management In 2016, we revised and improved our emergency plan system at the headquarters level, carried out emergency drills through “scenario construction”, and intensified our efforts in emergency training. On-site emergency handling plans and emergency handling work cards were implemented at all subsidiaries, and substantial progress was made in joint regional emergency response and emergency materials allocation. Case study: Oil Spill Emergency Response System Covering All Lands and Waters in China ENHANCING OPERATIONAL SAFETY PetroChina Offshore Emergency Response Center has set up an oil spill emergency response system covering PetroChina sticks to the principles of people-oriented safety management, and believes that safety comes from accountability, design, quality and prevention. We actively promote the 20 % all lands and waters of the country, which is capable of providing emergency rescue in case of oil spills in building of a long-acting work safety system and raise the entire work safety management level. The number of fatalities in production different environments including rivers, lakes, shallow We have adopted production safety as one of our core values, and implemented this concept accidents dropped by 20% seas and gulf areas. The Company constantly improves in all our sectors and all our production and operation processes. All key work items progressed steadily according to the plan. In 2016, PetroChina saw a stable improvement in its work safety its oil spill emergency plan system in terms of emergency performance, with a continuous decline in the number of production accidents and fatalities. preparedness, warning and monitoring , emergency The Company reported no major safety or environmental pollution accidents in the year. handling and joint emergency response, in order to ensure The Company reported no major that the system is more scientific, targeted and operable. safety accidents in the year Death rate caused by accidents (person/100 million working hours) Supply Chain Safety 0.466 We included suppliers and contractors in our safety management, and conducted wholeprocess management on their access, selection, training, use, evaluation and assessment. 0.25 0.26 We guided our suppliers to operate in compliance with the law, quality standards and safety 0.20 0.20 regulations. HSE assessment was conducted regularly to prevent and reduce accidents caused by suppliers and contractors. We strengthened contractor training by putting in place unified standards, requirements, and rewards and punishments, in order to build a competent 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12 and trustworthy contractor team with standard management and outstanding performance. We regularly assess their HSE performance. Contractors with a record of major accidents were Safety and environmental removed from the qualification list. We strive to build a dual-prevention mechanism covering risk prevention and potential technology diagnosis and hazard control, while improving classified risk control and close-loop hazard management, in management assessment were order to eliminate risks and potential hazards before they occur. We emphasize management conducted at 12 key subsidiaries and projects, and significant Strict screening process Capacity building of key links and areas including high-risk operations. Safety and environmental protection problems and major hazards were technology diagnosis and management assessment are carried out on key subsidiaries, key handled with follow-up measures. Implement safety qualification screening system for Promote the holding of dual certificates by projects and high-risk areas to ensure that major risks are under control. contractors and suppliers contractors’ management personnel Establish safety performance records Provide training on HSE system development, Pipeline Hazard Control Regularly publish the list of qualified audits, management and emergence 100 contractors, and remove unqualified contractors processing We attach great importance to hazard prevention and control to effectively improve the % from it PetroChina Supply intrinsic safety of the Company. In 2016, we continously carried out special investigation and Chain Safety rectification activities on pipeline hazard control and accomplished the target of rectifying In 2016, rectification rate of longManagement potential hazards on long-distance pipelines. distance pipeline hazards reached Evaluation and assessment Process control 100% Process Hazardous Chemicals Management Establish safety performance evaluation system Strictly implement the safety supervision Carry out safety capability assessment, daily safety responsibility of contractors, based on The Company continues to strengthen safety supervision of hazardous chemicals. the principle that those who undertaking, performance evaluation, and comprehensive safety Besides reinforcing safety education and training regarding hazardous chemicals, we set up a hazardous chemicals safety technology center, and pushed the construction of an 98 % performance assessment Strictly hold accountable for those who violate national workplace supervising and implementing the project are held responsible. information platform on hazardous chemicals safety supervision. Inspection and treatment safety laws, regulations and contracts Conduct targeted safety inspection of In 2016, rectification rate of of potential hazards were carried out at chemical tank farms, with the rectification rate of key contractors’ oversight chemical tank field hazards Contractors with major accidents will no longer be engaged potential hazards in tank farms reaching 98%. reached 98% 2016 Sustainability Report SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION 28 29 Offshore Oil Production Safety The Company strengthened supervision of offshore oil production safety. We carried out special inspections on project commencement in spring, typhoon prevention, offshore operations in Up g winter, and wharf workplace safety. We implemented follow-up measures for major potential of rad ac e m e rc ity hazards. Additionally, emergency response drills were carried out for fire and explosions at in cid an fo il n in sib tio cid en ag Re on ga offshore oil and gas production facilities, oil spill and pollution, and man overboard. In 2016, we e n ts a e m sp sti ts nd en Layeredre nve realized stable and orderly operation at our offshore oil production facilities. t i management and graded prevention and e control ECOLOGICAL PROTECTION e th th of le se ty sib Ac cid ea ili n an ent cr b po In nta res al le ys ss PetroChina respects and protects the environment and strictly complies with relevant u is o co on n ac pers international and domestic laws and regulations. We take the initiative to evaluate the environmental impact of our decisions and activities, step up efforts in hazard control and environmental protection during production in order to safeguard our land, water and biodiversity, and reinforce ecological restoration of the environment. By doing so, we Farming besides the oil well endeavor to grow in harmony with the environment. Oil and gas Environmental Risk Management leakage We constantly reinforce our environmental monitoring capabilities. The Company completed We assess and identify environment risks, implementing a risk prevention and control Pollutant Radioactive discharge source out the installation and data networking of online monitoring equipment for waste water management model focusing on environmental forecasting, early warning and monitoring. exceeding of control standards Classified and waste gas, and performed real-time monitoring and early warning of discharges from We began the environmental risk management at an earlier stage, and established a sound environmental major pollution sources. To strengthen supervision and evaluation of subsidiaries, we set up risk managerisk management mechanism featuring “management in tiers, prevention and control by ment the environmental monitoring network featuring “three-level environmental monitoring, level”. In 2016, no major or worse environmental accidents were reported. Secondary Biodiversity pollution of environmental emergency monitoring and online monitoring of pollutants”, which ensured destruction safety We carried out classified management of “six major environmental risks”, drafted a targeted accidents treatment at the source, and control over the production process. Violation of control plan, and organized major production subsidiaries to identify potential risks at environmental laws and enterprise-level and implemented risk control measures, so that risk management measures regulations Case study: Real-time Environmental Risk Management by Using Internet can be implemented at every level. Technology In 2016, we released administrative measures such as PetroChina’s Administrative Measures on We actively integrate internet technology with our ecological conservation practices. The Pollution Sources Online Monitoring System was set up, realizing networking and sharing of ecological data. With 45 functions Environmental Incidents and PetroChina’s Regulations on Oil Pipeline Environmental Risk Prevention In 2016, no major or worse environmental divided into six modules, the system can accurately monitor, calculate and analyze the emission data of each and Control to strengthen the management of environmental emergencies and environmental accidents were reported monitoring point in real time; monitor emissions from key sources in real time and assess the operating results risks, and to control, reduce and eliminate the danger caused by environmental incidents. of environmental protection facilities; and collect and analyze the alarm data. In case of an environmental accident, the Pollution Sources Online Monitoring System can be used as the ● Conduct environmental risk assessment Before environmental emergency monitoring and decision-making platform. It can receive, analyze and process the the event ● Adopt effective measures on environmental risk prevention and control emergency monitoring data, video images of the accident and weather conditions, and integrate the functions ● Draft emergency plan for environmental emergency, make preparation and of GIS space analysis, pollutants migration simulation, environmental alert and consultation on final decisions. Environmental carry out drills according to related requirements emergency During the event ● Immediately start emergency response plan By the end of 2016, 304 key monitoring points of PetroChina had completed data networking, covering ● Inform companies and residents that may be affected 87 waste water and 217 waste gas discharge outlets in the national monitoring list of key enterprises. These ● Report to local government and competent department of the Company monitoring points are located in oil and gas fields and refining & chemical enterprises in 13 provinces Environmental After the (municipalities and automous regions). event ● Carry out emergency response actions directed by the on-site rescue incident command office management Water Management ● Properly handle solid waste and liquid waste during emergency response to avoid secondary pollution We strictly complied with applicable laws and regulations protection of water and other Commission qualified company to deal with hazardous waste resouces. For this, we established specific management regulations and implementation rules 1.31 Violations of ● environmental % covering all production units, staff and processes relevant to the Company. PetroChina endeavors regulations ● Specify responsibilities for environmental protection to improve water utilization efficiency throughout its production and operation activities. ● Identify and assess risks of violation of environmental regulations In 2016, the Company reduced overall freshwater consumption Through measures including strengthening water conservation management and water-saving ● Avoid violations of environmental laws and regulations by 1.31% year-on-year. technological transformation, we reduced our use of fresh water and enhanced water efficiency. 2016 Sustainability Report SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION 30 31 Water Resource Management Covering the Entire Industrial Chain Feasibility study Construction and operation End of project Compile land reclaimation Apply technologies Choose contractors for Exploration and Development Pipeline Operations Refining & Chemicals plan to be reviewed by local including cluster well land reclaimation and land resources department groups, horizental conduct construction wells, combined station process supervision In our oil and gas development activities, equal importance We focused on managing the We improved water use efficiency List land reclaimation expenses in the total investment of the construction, and multiAcceptance check and is given to water pollution prevention & control and water impact on water resources of by promoting clean production layer development project handover of reclaimed land recycling. After the oil-water separation and filtration treatment construction projects and the risk of processes, saving water from of the recycled wastewater, oil recovery and water reinjection leakage accidents during pipeline the source, and optimizing were realized, preventing groundwater and surface water operations. Environmental impact water systems. We increased Southwest Oil and Gas Field implemented land reclamation management through the entire life cycle of the contamination. By the end of 2016, 100% of oil extraction assessments (involving water the concentration ratio of projects. From 2011 to 2016, a total of 191.22 hectares of land were reclaimed at the oilfield, and 100% of the wastewater in all oil and gas fields was treated, with a reinjection environment) were conducted, and circulating water to reduce water reclaimed land was turned into grassland or forest. rate of 95%. water conservation and protection supplement; and strengthened concepts were assimilated into steam condensate water recovery Waste and Emission Management We carried out water system maintenance and reconstruction, to realize water saving. In addition, improved the water qualification rate, optimized operation construction activities. we emphasized wastewater At PetroChina, environmental protection has always been a top priority. Therefore, we strictly programs, and upgraded waste water discharge and treatment treatment and reuse to reduce In 2016, comprehensive control implement national and local environmental laws and regulations. We issued the Opinions processes to reduce production water discharge, and promoted sewage discharge and improve the application of new technologies for water treatment to of VOCs emission was conducted, on Strengthening Environmental Protection, and focused on water pollutant prevention and the industrial water recycling the VOCs comprehensive control control, air pollutant prevention and control, and solid waste pollution prevention and control maximize water conservation. In 2016, the comprehensive water rate; and enhanced plugging of information platform for refining qualification rate of the Company’s oilfield wastewater reached underground pipelines to get in our environmental efforts. Through total emissions control, we ensured emissions in enterprises was set up. 100%, and water discharges were reduced by 10% year-on-year. lower groundwater loss rate. compliance with the established standard. We developed and implemented the Regulations on Environmental Protection, Measures for Environmental Event Management and other provisions, promulgated the Guidance on Waste Gas Emission Management, Guidance on Waste Reducing water pollution risks through three-level Water Emission Management, and Guidance on Solid Waste Management, put forward the pollution prevention and control system requirements for whole-process pollution control featuring “prevention, recycling, treatment and disposal”, and incorporated prevention of pollution at source, process control and endof-pipe treatment into the whole process of production. We also implemented classified and hierarchical management, and strictly assessed the process of pollution sources. First-level Second-level Third-level prevention prevention prevention and control and control and control In 2016, we implemented 58 projects to reduce emissions, including 49 on waste gas system system system emission reduction, and nine on waste water discharge reduction. Emissions of sulfur dioxide, Prevent possible minor Prevent possible major Prevent possible serious ammonia nitrogen, COD and nitrogen oxides dropped year-on-year respectively. pollution risks by pollution risks by setting up pollution risks by setting setting up cofferdam, rainwater cutting system, up terminal accident tank farm fire dike and waste barrage, anti-overflow buffer and supporting Key State Laboratory for Pollution Control and Treatment of Petroleum and Petrochemicals supporting facilities and diversion facilities, as well facilities. as intermediate accident Key areas Petroleum and petrochemical Field pollution risk prevention wastewater treatment and reuse Solid waste recycling VOCs detection and recycling buffer and supporting and restoration facilities Packaged technology for upgraded Packaged technology for Packaged technology for wet Packaged technology for Research processing of refinery waste water resource treatment of desulfurization and low-temperature restoration of petroleum based on advanced oxidation drilling waste while drilling denitrification of catalyst hydrocarbon contaminated sites achievements pretreatment in-situ upgrading inregeneration flue gas for catalytic depth processing cracking units We set up a safe, timely and effective pollution prevention and control system, conduct environmental risk Solved difficulties such as biological Realized drilling waste Emitted SO2 and NOX with Applied in waste storage locations inhibition and poor biodegradability recycling rate of 100%, and concentration lower than 50ppm in Jilin, and several service stations assessment, and adopt necessary prevention measures to control water pollution risks and prevent oil spill of point source wastewater clean drilling operation which met ultra-clean emission and oil-contaminated coastlines in Met requirements of new standard for with zero solid or liquid standards, and denitration catalyst Hebei, providing technical support accidents. Comprehensive inspection is carried out within the Company, and a three-level prevention and Application waste emissions reached international advanced level for site pollution prevention and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and control mechanism against water pollution accidents is implemented at enterprises located close to rivers and effect ammonia nitrogen Promoted in natural gas Completed desulfurization and control for oil enterprises lakes or near where public water pollution is possible. Applied in the upgrading of wastewater wells in Sichuan-Chongqing denitrification projects at 20 Obtained four invention patents, treatment in subsidiaries such as Region, generating RMB 80 plants, saving RMB 130 million for two utility model patents and one Lanzhou Petrochemical million in economic benefits technology introduction and catalyst software copyright costs Decommissioning and Land Restoration The Company attaches great importance to the protection of land resources. We formulated Conservation of Biodiversity and Natural Habitats Measures for Land Management, make careful and intensive use of land during production, We are devoted to reducing the potential influence on ecological environment and biodiversity during production and operation, and take strictly controlling land use growth, and optimize use of land through various ways such full precautions to avoid environmental impact and work hard to restore the environment to its original state in case of any adverse impact. as active reclamation, and carrying out environmental treatment and recovery in mining areas. Changqing Oilfield managed to save 15,000 mus of land in 2016, thanks to a number 1,135 hectares Environmental management is implemented in full life cycle throughout the industry chain. In 2016, we comprehensively checked and rectified environmental pollution and ecological damages, and reduced the impact on the ecological environment through noise reduction, emission of measures, such as the extensive use of cluster well and horizontal well technologies, reduction and other means. We endeavored to reduce the occupation of arable land, and put a lot of efforts in the conservation of soil and water In 2016, the Company saved land optimizing well pattern arrangement, and integrative planning of terminals and station. of 1,135 hectares. and in restoring the vegetation, working hard to restore the ecological environment and protect the biodiversity of our operation areas. 2016 Sustainability Report SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION 32 33 Eco-environmental Management in Full Life Cycle throughout the Industry Chain RESPONSE TO CLIMATE CHANGE Exploration and Oil & gas storage development and transport At PetroChina, we support the goal of limiting global warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius Plans and initiatives for greenhouse Before During After by the end of this century. To this end, we actively respond to climate change, devote construction construction construction gas emission reduction and control Whole-process environmental management ourselves to low-carbon development, and share the practice of greenhouse gas control with supported and participated in by Communication with Communication with Formulate Supervise and Ecological industry peers and all segments of society. Environmental Ecological Monitoring and Ecological detailed and inspect the restoration. PetroChina: management Assessment protection treatment restoration implementation of feasible stakeholders stakeholders Project Design Construction Commissioning Acceptance environmental environmental ● Paris Agreement Carbon Emission Management construction check protection plan protection plan according to and rectify ● China’s National Program to Address Climate We pay close attention to greenhouse gas emissions and have addressed climate change in conditions of problems or Multi-level risk prevention and control hidden dangers Change our development plan. In 2016, we specified our objectives, action plans, safeguard measures the operation within a definite sites. time frame up on ● National Plan on Climate Change (2014and key tasks to address climate change. We focused on carbon footprint verification and discovery. Marketing and Refining and 2020) built basic management databases, in order to lay the foundation for carbon emissions trading chemicals ● China Technology Strategic Alliance for CO2 accounting and reporting. Capture, Utilization and Storage Technology Case study: Green Drilling to Protect the Environment Innovation (CTSA-CCUS) Our overall objectives to address climate change: Implementing a policy of PetroChina integrates environmental protection into the whole well-drilling cycle and takes all kinds of ● Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) Overall low-carbon development, actively developing clean energy, establishing carbon Objectives emission control mechanisms, and effectively controlling greenhouse gas measures to protect surface and underground water. During the drilling process, we use eco-friendly mud, emissions. strengthen recycling of drilling waste, and conduct standard treatment of waste liquid. By the end of 2016, PetroChina recycled 1.05 million tons of drilling waste and the reuse rate of waste liquid reached 80%. Our action plan for addressing climate change: Actively developing and utilizing natural gas, coalbed methane and shale gas, and implementing demonstration Eco-friendly mud Recycling of drilling waste projects for carbon capture, utilization and sequestration. Promoting energy conservation, enhancing energy efficiency and substitution of clean energy for ● Conduct R&D and upgrading ● Use bio-safety treatment technology for drilling waste Action other fuels, and strengthening the comprehensive utilization of greenhouse of eco-friendly mud: oil-based ● Adopt solidified disposal and bio-safety treatment to drilling Plan gases. Enhancing the recovery and utilization of vent gas and associated gas, mud－water-based mud－ecodetritus and waste mud, which become useful building and promoting the control of greenhouse gas emissions in the refining process. friendly mud materials reaching environmental and building material Carrying out international cooperation to combat climate change and participate strength standards in the work of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI). Information The green drilling philosophy and technology is widely applied in PetroChina’s global operation. For example, Basic database system of Our safeguards to address climate change: Developing management systems and of greenhouse greenhouse gas in Chad, the Company uses a close-loop treatment system to separate, treat and reuse waste mud, and turn it emissions work plans and establishing a control and management system for greenhouse gas gas Safeguards into mud plate and clean water to be used in well station construction and mud mixing. PechoChina’s Three manageemissions, strengthening capacity for greenhouse gas emission control, increasing emissions Systems for ment and capital investment, and promoting innovation of low-carbon technologies. Greenhouse Gas control Emissions PROMOTING ENERGY CONSERVATION Control Our key tasks for greenhouse gas emission control: Carrying out greenhouse gas Key emission accounting, exercising carbon emissions quota control, taking measures The Company endeavors to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and increase energy Measurement and Tasks to control greenhouse gas emissions, regulating greenhouse gas emissions monitoring system of reporting, and strengthening international cooperation to combat climate change. efficiency by reducing energy intensity. We pay attention to energy conservation at the source, greenhouse gas and carry out energy-saving assessments of newly-developed, revamped and extended emissions projects. We promote the application of energy-saving technologies and equipment to boost Development of Low-Carbon Energy the efficiency of heating furnaces in oil and gas fields and optimize refining and chemical As an advocator and practitioner of the low-carbon economy, we actively developed natural energy systems. We reinforce energy use management in the production process, and Mechanism for gas, coal bed methane (CBM), shale gas, biomass and other low-carbon energy, produced conduct monitoring and evaluation of energy and water-intensive devices and equipment. greenhouse gas emissions accounting and supplied clean products, and worked hard to achieve clean production of the products 01 02 and the consumption process (see P17 Chapter 2: Sustained Energy Supply for details). Mecha● Five oil and gas subsidiaries including Daqing Oilfield and seven refining companies including Jilin PetroChina’s Four nism for Development and Application of Low-Carbon Technologies Mechanisms for quota Petrochemical received the award of the “National Advanced Unit in Petrochemical Industry in the Mechamanage12th Five-Year Plan”. nism for Greenhouse Gas As the application of science and technology plays a significant role in controlling 133 ment emission Emissions Control % trading greenhouse gas emissions and addressing climate change, we carried out special low-carbon ● Dushanzi Petrochemical was selected as the energy efficiency leader of the ethylene industry by studies and conducted R&D of low-carbon technologies, established major projects in key the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the National Development and Reform Commission, and the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of In 2016, the Company realized energy saving of 870,000 tons of 04 Mechanism for 03 technologies for low-carbon and clean development, and engaged in scientific and technical the People’s Republic of China in 2016. carbon asset research on CO2 flooding and storage, aviation bio-fuel production, refining energy system standard coal, which is 133% of management our annual plan optimization and other areas. 2016 Sustainability Report SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION AND OPERATION 34 35 PetroChina’s Achievements in Low-Carbon Research Carbon Sink Forest Construction Projects Participated/Operated by PetroChina through China Green Carbon Foundation Achievements Application Effect/Prospects Location Area Research on policies, We established the low-carbon data management platform and comprehensive low-carbon standards and strategies evaluation index system, and the statistical and accounting standard for greenhouse gases from Shaanxi 100,000 mus for low-carbon upstream and downstream enterprises, providing technical support for greenhouse gas emissions Inner Mongolia 100,000 mus development accounting and reporting, as well as carbon emission benchmark value accounting of the Company. Hebei 50,000 mus Forestation projects 331 Strategies and policies We developed evaluation index systems, energy efficiency benchmarking and pollutant emissions supported by China Green Anhui 50,000 mus million mus Research on evaluation reduction benchmarking techniques for energy saving and emissions reduction. We also established Carbon Foundation index systems for index database framework for energy efficiency benchmarking and pollutant emissions reduction In 2016, the China Green Carbon Hunan 100,000 mus energy saving and benchmarking. As demonstrated by pilot applications, the index systems have high practicality and Foundation together with the Yunnan 400,000 mus emissions reduction can provide strong support for the implementation of our energy saving and emissions reduction State Forestry Administration, projects. building an accumulative total of Sichuan 200,000 mus 331 million mus of carbon sink forests, equivalent to the area of Dingxi, Gansu 20 million mus Carbon dioxide The technology was deployed in industrial tests at Jilin and Daqing oilfields. By the end of 2016, nearly flooding technology 2 million tons of carbon dioxide was injected, and a total of nearly 700,000 tons of oil was produced. 3,090 football fields Qingyang, Gansu 20 million mus Zezeng, Heilongjiang 80 million mus Significant progress was made in core technologies for aviation biofuel production, and key technical Biomass energy and economic indicators reached an internationally advanced level. The packaged technology for Forestation projects Beijing 23 million mus development aviation biofuel production with independent intellectual property rights has great significance to operated by PetroChina Dingzhou, Hebei 20 million mus technology the partial replacement of petroleum resources, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the through China Green improvement of the environment. Carbon Foundation Wuhan, Hubei 100 million mus Lin’an, Zhejiang 7 million mus The technology has been comprehensively promoted and applied in the Company, saving at least Energy system Longzhou, Guangdong 30 million mus 200,000 tons of standard coal per year. It features increased refining and chemical integration, and is optimization deeply integrated with information technology, playing an important role in the highly automated technology Shantou, Guangdong 30 million mus and intelligent development of the refining and production process. Technologies Vent gas (associated The technology enabled the closed gathering, transportation and treatment of associated gas gas) recycling throughout the production process, and was applied in Changqing and other oilfields. It is expected Case study: Supporting the Paris Agreement and Promoting Carbon technology to recover 200 million cubic meters of natural gas each year. Implementing the Paris Agreement Emission Reduction in the Oil and Gas Industry requires the further promotion of We innovated and developed a series of CBM development technologies focusing on high-efficiency As a responsible energy company, PetroChina acts in strict compliance with the Chinese government’s energy supply-side structural reform. CBM development drainage and stimulation. In 2016, we produced 1.68 bcm of marketable gas (totaling 7 billion cubic requirements on greenhouse gas emission reduction, and actively supports and participates in the international technology meters), equivalent to reduction of 25.2 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions (totaling 105 million OGCI provides an ideal cooperative communities’ efforts to address climate change. Robust international cooperation is required to combat climate tons). platform for the global petroleum change. In 2015, CNPC joined the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI). Together with CNPC, PetroChina industry’s low carbon transformation. We improved standards for the evaluation of geothermal resources in oil regions, established the takes the initiative in carbon reduction and sequestration, and pledges to help all participants, governments, Geothermal energy geological model for geothermal field development, and developed geothermal resources evaluation ——Wang Yilin, Chairman industrial sectors and individuals to jointly invest in a future of lower carbon, in order to play a leading role in utilization technology software. We optimized abandoned exploration wells, prepared scheme design for underground direct heat transfer, and evaluated the economic efficiency of absorption heat pump technologies. emissions reduction in the oil and gas industry. Carbon Emission Reduction During Production While supplying society with clean oil products, we pay signficant attention to optimizing the Since becoming a member of the OGCI, CNPC has been actively involved in all types of activities within the OGCI framework, and has worked closely with member companies such as BP, Total and Shell. energy utilization structure within the Company. We also care about carbon emissions and the carbon footprint during production and operation. In Huabei Oilfield, Tarim Oilfield and Established the OGCI work leading group to ensure the execution of various endeavors. The OGCI work leading group is composed of three working other areas, we used renewable energies, such as geothermal energy and solar energy, to groups: Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage; Low Emissions Roadmap; and Managing Methane Emissions. The working groups carry out joint research with reduce carbon emissions during production. their respective member companies, and released phased research reports at the CEO Summit in early November 2016. Actively participated in the preparation of OGCI’s new management regulations. Through respective teleconferences with the executive committee Forest Carbon Sequestration members from BP, Total, Shell, Saudi Aramco and other member companies, CNPC appreciated the cooperative relations among these companies, coordinated We actively support carbon sink forest construction and forestation activities in China. We their opinions on important issues, and ensured that the Company’s viewpoints were fully understood and addressed. participated activities of China Green Carbon Foundation, which is jointly set up by CNPC Actively participated in the Climate Investments (CI). CNPC took part in the work of the OGCI Climate Investments preparatory group, followed the and the State Forestry Administration. Together with the State Forestry Administration, China work in progress, and invested in demonstration projects in low-carbon areas jointly with member companies. The member companies will invest USD1 billion Green Carbon Foundation built an accumulative total of 331 million mus of carbon sink over the next 10 years to accelerate development of innovative technologies, and the investment will be made mainly in technologies development, demonstration forests. In addition, we set up the Forestation Committee to ensure forestation in our factory projects and emerging projects. districts, staff communities and living areas. 2016 Sustainability Report CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE 36 37 CUSTOMER-FIRST At PetroChina, quality is our lifeline and the foundation of our corporate value, brand and image. It integrates technological innovation, resource allocation and human resources, and wholly reflects our systems, culture and MARKET SERVICE integrity. As a leading producer and supplier of petrochemical products in China, PetroChina continues to optimize its product structure, while attaching paramount importance to the environment, safety and quality, and people. We endeavor to enhance quality management by focusing on the development and revision of standards, supervision and inspection, and nurturing a culture of quality, in order to provide customers with clean, high-quality and diversified products as well as excellent services. ENHANCING QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM We strictly complied with applicable laws and regulations on quality management. For this, we established specific management regulations and implementation rules covering all production units, staff and processes relevant to the Company. Giving top priority to quality, we intensified quality management and control, and put into practice the State Council’s Quality Development Program 2011-2020. We continually improved our quality management system, enhancing quality measurement and standardize quality management, and honoring our quality commitments. This is to ensure the safety and environmental quality of our products, and to achieve high-efficiency and stable development. In 2016, we focused on improving quality supervision, enhancing metrological verification capacities, and developing and revising quality standards. As a result, we saw continuous improvements in our quality management. Main Work Content System Promoted management system integration and quality management system certification. construction ● System integration was tested and put into trial operation at five subsidiaries. and integration ● 100% of our production and operation subsidiaries passed quality management system certification by a third party. We carried out supervision and spot-checks on the quality of the products we produced, sold, procured and used, as well as the quality of construction projects in progress. We regularly reported quality hazards and announced quality risks of major projects, and adopted “zero tolerance” against unqualified products. ● Promoted business management innovation, and investigated and punished suppliers of non-conforming products. Quality ● We shifted our focus of supervision and inspection from the product qualification rate to the problem identification rate. supervision ● We carried out spot checks on the product warehouses of our subsidiaries, increased the coverage of supervision and inspection, and inspection and released the results from the spot check in a timely manner. ● We attach equal importance to project quality and quality behavior. Focusing on identifying major potential quality hazards, we realized the full coverage of supervision and inspection of projects under construction. ● By combining “daily supervision and expert inspection and supervision”, we strengthened quality supervision of major projects under construction including the fourth Shaanxi-Beijing Gas Pipeline and the Second China-Russia Crude Pipeline. We strictly implemented mandatory standards, actively upgraded corporate standards, participated in the formulation and revision of national and industry standards with the establishment of a complete, consistent, advanced, and internationally Formulation recognized standard system, and accelerated the internationalization process of standards. and revision of ● We formulated and implemented self-declaration and disclosure plan for product and service standards to ensure compliance standards and effective adoption of standards. ● 32 experts took part in international standardization conferences, and newly led to the formulation and revision of three international standards. ● Primary standard device of Chengdu branch of the National Oil and Gas Large Flow Metering Station passed construction standard test. Metering ● Guangzhou branch received national authorization and started verification. infrastructure ● Urumqi branch completed operational test and started construction standard test. construction ● Oil metering standard device construction moved forward stably, and precision development was carried forward in major oil and gas fields. ● We carried out the Marth 15th activity and Quality Month Campaign, released the achievements of Excellent Quality Management Nurturing Activites, and conducted supervision of product and project quality. quality culture ● 62 groups won the National Award on Excellent Quality Management, 22 teams won the Award of National Trustworthy Quality, and four subsidiaries won the title of Excellent Enterprises in Quality Management Team Activity. 2016 Sustainability Report CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE 38 39 Continuous Upgrading of Oil Product Quality With the increasingly strict environmental protection, the demand for oil quality upgrading ● As of December 31, 2016, PetroChina has grown, and many local governments have called for the earlier completion of oil quality completed upgrading to the National upgrading projects. PetroChina actively responded to the National Program for Accelerating V standard at its oil depots and service the Quality Upgrading of Oil Products. Through increased investment and accelerated R&D and stations in 31 provinces (municipalities and application of new technologies, we promoted the upgrading of gasoline and diesel quality, autonomous regions) (excluding Hong and continuously improved our capacity to inspect and test product quality. We developed Kong, Macao and Taiwan), supplying the programs for oil quality replacement and upgrading in advance, while our subsidiary regions with qualified gasoline and diesel of the National V standard. companies in sales and refinery operations implemented initiatives promoting production capacity and output. We facilitated several of our subsidiary refineries to deliver oil products ● National V and above standards of motor of National V standard ahead of schedule, and coordinated and optimized oil products of gasoline accounts for 45.7% of PetroChina’s both the National IV and National V standards. PROVIDING HIGH-QUALITY PRODUCTS gasoline sales volume. To ensure the quality of oil replacements, PetroChina strengthened quality testing with ● National V and above standards of motor The Company has set up standards for using our brand identity. We comply with the a focus on sulfur content indicators. We accelerated the clean-up of remaining oil of the diesel accounts for 21.1% of PetroChina’s Advertisement Law of the People’s Republic of China and other laws and regulations in the National IV standard at our oil depots and service stations, and all oil products were tested diesel sales volume. advertising campaigns for the company’s products and services. The Company established to be qualified before being marked with the National V standard for sale, in order to provide ● At the Ceremony for the 18th WIPO-SIPO consumers with qualified oil. Several rounds of full-coverage spot checks were conducted to customer data management provisions, and in strict accordance with the provisions as for Award for Chinese Outstanding Patented ensure the upgrading of oil products. During the National-V standard oil product upgrading customer data management and use. Invention & Industrial Design jointly in 11 provinces and cities in eastern China and then nationwide, and for special sources such Focusing on Product Innovation organized by China’s State Intellectual as imported oil and special periods like the Quality Month, we carried out four rounds of oil Property Office and the World Intellectual We optimized the product structure, giving full play to the supporting role of the innovationquality spot checks, which covered Property Organization, PetroChina was driven strategy, actively upgrading corporate standards to enhance in-house scientific all oil depots of the enterprises granted one gold award and five awards of management proficiency, and further extending scientific and technological exchanges excellence of Chinese Patent. checked, as well as all ser vice and cooperation. To meet market demand, we researched, developed and applied new stations of subsidiaries at prefecture technologies, new equipment and new techniques, and spared no effort in implementing ● In 2016, the Company won 2,315 patents in and city level, effectively preventing major technical projects at PetroChina and national levels, and sufficient research funding, China. unqualified oil from entering the thereby providing consumers with diverse and high-quality products. In 2016, we developed ● As of December 31, 2016, the Company market. We carried out installation 1.033 million tons of petrochemical products of 84 new brands. possesses a total of about 11,500 patents and transformation of oil and gas home and abroad. recovery units in our oil depots Providing High-Quality and Environmentally-friendly Chemical Products and service stations, and increased We cultivate high-quality brand products, and provide consumers with environmentally investment in the 11 provinces and friendly and diversified product solutions. cities in eastern China implementing the National-V standard. Refining products ● Developed 1.033 million tons of petrochemical products of 84 new brands. Question: Why does oil quality need to be upgraded? ● Important progress was made in automotive fuel tank materials, IBC container materials, special Answer: Compared with the National IV standard, the sulfur content of gasoline and diesel of the National “Living near the service station, we didn’t feel medical materials, and Goodyear materials. V standard is 80% lower (down from 50ppm to no more than 10ppm). Based on vehicles with the same very safe in the past as the area used to have displacement, sulfur dioxide emitted by five cars fueled by National V standard gasoline or diesel is equivalent a smell of gasoline. But now, as PetroChina ● Mass production was realized for ethylene propylene, NdBR and eco-friendly NBR products. to the sulfur dioxide emitted by one car fueled by National IV standard gasoline and diesel. Once gasoline is building green service stations, the smell is ● Developed production technologies for many chemical characteristic products such as Hexene-1 and and diesel are upgraded to the National V standard, nitrogen oxide emissions will be reduced by at least 10% gone, and we are no longer worried.” highnitrile SAN. and 7% respectively for gasoline and diesel products, the emissions of hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and ——Yan Yanping, resident of a community ● Major progress was made in the development technologies for olefin polymerization monomer, particulate matter will be effectively controlled, and PM2.5 emissions in the tail gas will be directly reduced. in Pudong District, Shanghai methanol conversion to olefin, alkylation of benzyl alcohol and high-grade lube base oil, providing Lanzhou Petrochemical won the award of “2016 In addition, the upgrading can also help to enhance the combustion performance of oil and the stable technical support for efficient resources utilization, low-cost chemical material production and Model Enterprise for Industrial Brand Nurturing” operation of the engine. Therefore, promotion of the use of gasoline and diesel of a higher standard will be of from China Petroleum and Chemical Industry material production of high-end polyolefin copolymer. Federation. great significance to the reduction of tail gas pollution and the improvement of urban air quality. 2016 Sustainability Report CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE 40 41 DELIVERING CONSIDERATE SERVICES SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT We strictly complied with applicable laws and regulations on advertising, labelling and privacy At PetroChina, we actively promote the sustainable development of the industry chain, of products and services. For this, we established specific management regulations and encourage our partners to jointly fulfill our social responsibilities, and provide society with highimplementation rules covering all production units, staff and processes relevant to the Company. quality products and services in a respectful, communicative, honest and cooperative manner. Committed to our pledge on customer satisfaction and upholding our principle of customer We have set up a supplier review committee, which includes 54 materials working groups focus, we work hard to expand the coverage and functionality of our service network and to composed of representatives from the relevant departments and subsidiaries of PetroChina. They enhance our brand value, in order to meet customers’ demand for high quality. are authorized to exercise supplier management for relevant materials on behalf of headquarters. Through open tenders, a unified supplier base and online transaction, we provide suppliers 1 100 % with equal opportunities and implement “open business, controlled processes, whole-process documentation, and permanently traceable records” to ensure the quality of the procured 100% of our subsidies passed Provide value-added service quality management systems products and services. We have also established a complete supplier quality management ● We are operating 20,000 service According to the Chinese certification by a third party. (gas) stations, with a retail capacity Customer Satisfaction Manual mechanism which covers quality approval, inspection, supervision and spot-checking, and onOptimize service of 80.18 million tons. Our sales jointly issued by the Customer site supervision of the manufacturing of major products. Through the application of information 100 ● Developed PetroChina e-station APP to service covers 31 provinces (directly Satisfaction Measurement Center realize mobile payment. administered municipalities and under China National Institute of % technology and internet, we implemented targeted and comprehensive supervision and network autonomous regions) and the Hong Standardization and the Chinese ● Opened PetroChina e-station official Inspection rate of materials before inspection to minimize dishonest behaviors. Moreover, at various stages such as the supplier Kong SAR. State-owned Enterprise Research WeChat account for rechargeable cards putting in storage reached 100% admission, supplier assessment, strategic supplier development, materials and service Center under Tsinghua University, and credits store. the satisfaction level for our procurement, tender invitations and tender evaluations, we make clear supplier requirements in 98 ● Promoted Alipay and WeChat pay company’s service stations ranked nationwide; added payment methods first in 2016 in the petroleum % terms of business ethics, human rights, HSE, quality standards and public responsibility, so as to such as QR scanning, face-to-face Alipay, ● The number of convenience stores industry in China. First-pass rate of materials build a responsible supply chain in the petrochemical industry. mobile payment and mobile transfer. selling non-oil products reached inspected before putting in Expand scope ● Promoted full and semi self-service 17,000, and 89% of our service storage is over 98% In 2016, we revised administrative measures on material suppliers, unified requirements stations in 7,356 stations in 26 provinces stations were equipped with on supplier qualification management, and carried out onsite inspections, in an effort to of service (municipalities and autonomous regions). convenience stores. ● Worked closely with automakers and strengthen source management of suppliers and improve the quality of procured materials. auto service providers, increased the We constantly optimized our supplier base and selected suppliers around the world through number of 2S auto service stations, 95.9% public bidding and qualification review, and provided suppliers with equal opportunities Improve consumer satisfaction and 306 auto service stations were added in 2016. Satisfaction rate of under public scrutiny. Trough the fostering a relationship in a respectful, communicative, follow-up on customer complaints reached honest and cooperative manner and increased cooperation with suppliers, we endeavored to ● Took measures such as collecting consumer opinions, conducting customer satisfaction surveys and launching the “Customer Experience Day Campaign”, and 95.9%, up 3.2% yearbuild a global supply resources network, promote the sustainable development of the supply solicited customer opinions in a timely manner to improve service quality. on-year. chain and provide the public with high quality products. ● Invited third party providers to conduct the “Mystery Customer Program” at 31 branch companies, and followed up with rectification measures to improve service quality at grassroots stations. Supplier Management Principles, 1 Centralized, two-level management 2 System construction Systems and Mechanisms The headquarters is responsible for Build a supplier management management of suppliers of materials system framework to regulate “Travel with PetroChina on the Silk Management principles within the Class-I materials directory supplier evaluation, graded and Road” Open and voluntary, competition and The supplier management classified management, and supplier selection; small quantity but high quality, departments of affiliates are in evaluation management In 2016, the Company invited 69 customers and mutual benefits and win-win; dynamic charge of the rest Formulating supplier Management management and resource sharing Measures and other regulations journalists, through PetroChina E-station, online Supply chain and offline recruitment, to take part in the selfManagement mechanism management driving tour themed “Travel with PetroChina on Unified management; layered measures the Silk Road”. Through the activity, participants responsibility; authorized procurement; separation of supervision and execution 3 Strict access, dynamic 4 Establish a unified shared became familiar with our work at oilfields and management resource library refineries, experienced the integrated sales model Operating mechanism Establish performance appraisal Apply materials procurement covering refined oil, fuel cards, convenience Centralized procurement, separate system, implement survival of the management information system, stores and lubricants, and enjoyed the “smart operation, joint participation and fittest and dynamic management to to realize supplier resource sharing lifestyle” at our service stations. effective supervision weed out unqualified suppliers and computer-based whole-process management 2016 Sustainability Report PEOPLE-ORIENTED EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 42 43 PEOPLE-ORIENTED EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT At PetroChina, employees are our most valuable asset. The all-round development of employees is one of our important development targets. We protect employees’ rights, care for their health and well-being, and create a platform for their development. We continue to promote the hiring of local staff, and have been strengthening security at our overseas operations. We endeavor to create an inclusive, equal, mutually trusting and cooperative working environment, and to ensure value is aligned to benefit both employees and the Company. PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS We remain committed to a people-first philosophy in treating our employees with respect and equality while protecting their legal rights. We endeavor to resolve the practical issues that most of our employees concern and make sure that all employees can equally share in the fruits of our development. Workforce by Fair Treatment of Employees Profession We strictly abide by international conventions approved by the Chinese government including the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention, domestic laws including the Labor Law of the Peoples Republic of China and the Labor Contract Law of the People’s Republic of China, and relevant laws, rules and regulations of the host countries. We have Administrative staff 15.35% established a fairly complete employment management and policy system to regulate Technical staff 13.52% employment practices according to the law. The system incorporates employment contract Production staff 58.92% management, remuneration insurance and benefits, leave, performance appraisals and Sales staff 7.42% vocational training. Through self-inspection of our employment practices in compliance with Financial staff 2.34% the law, we regulate recruitment, promotion and termination of employee contracts, and Others 2.45% provide effective protection of the legal rights of employees. We are committed to providing equal opportunities and fair treatment to all employees regardless of their nationality, ethnicity, race, gender, religion and culture. We prohibit the employment and use of child labor and reject all forms of forced or compulsory labor. We emphasize the employment of local residents, women, ethnic minorities and college students in order to increase job opportunities for local communities. We strictly implement regulations on female employees’ confinement and lactation to protect their rights and Workforce by interests. We continued to recruit from public without restrictions regarding applicants’ Education ethnicity, gender or religion. 7.22% 31.2% 6.45% Master’s degree and above 3.5% By the end of 2016, By the end of By the end of 2016, Bachelor’s degree 30.77% female administrative 2016, female staff ethic minority College degree 23.3% accounted for 31.2% staff accounted of the Company’s employees for 7.22% of the accounted for 6.45% Technical secondary employees company’s total of the Company’s school and below 42.43% employees total employees. 2016 Sustainability Report PEOPLE-ORIENTED EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 44 45 Remuneration and Benefits In 2016, we released Occupational Health Management Measures to improve the management of occupational health. We also issued the Guideline on Assessment of Occupational Disease Hazards The Company has further improved its performance appraisal and remuneration system, promoted the and Medical Staff Competency of Overseas Projects, and set up an industry-leading quantitative mechanism to link payroll with performance, established a compensation scheme that pays attention to assessment system on occupational disease hazards covering nine indicators of six categories, 100% the value of a position, the job performance and the innovative results of employees while matching the and the deployment matrix of medical staff. We conducted special programs to deal with particularities of all staff operations, ensuring that employees’ compensation grows synchronously with the occupational disease caused by dust and promoted the use of surveillance cameras at dangerous Company’s business development and labor productivity. The compensation system continues to favor In 2016, 100% of employees who took workplaces to reduce occupational disease hazards. A program with specific hardware and researchers, front-line employees, and those in difficult and key posts, so that each employee can realize 98 maternity/paternity software standards was launched, which enables doctors from hospitals in Beijing, CNPC Central leave returned to work their full potential. In addition, we are steadily extending employee coverage of social security programs and kept their posts. Hospital and overseas projects to conduct joint consultations. We also organized heads of related % in accordance with the Social Insurance Law of the People’s Republic of China, and we have improved departments from our subsidiaries to participate in training sessions on occupational health. The occupational health supplementary medical care and insurance, corporate annuity and living allowance schemes to ensure examination rate for employees We pay close attention to our employees’ mental health, and take measures to continuously facing occupational hazards was employees’ interests are addressed. more than 98%. improve the employee vacation system. We implemented the Employee Assistance 100 Democratic Participation Program (EAP), set up a hotline and a website for psychological counseling, and carried out various forms of training on mental health knowledge, in order to encourage employees to % The Company attaches great importance to employee democracy and their legal rights and employees The establishment rate of adopt a positive and healthy attitude. In 2016, we set up the first full-service psychological play a role through democratic management, democratic participation and democratic oversight. Apart employee occupational health decompression chamber under the Company’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP). The monitoring archives was 100%. from establishing trade unions, PetroChina has put in place a democratic style of management and a Company continued to implement mental health projects overseas such as hotlines and facetransparent system to deal with matters at its plants, through its Employees’ Congress system, to ensure to-face counseling, and saw a substantial increase in hotline services. We continued to send employees are well-informed and have the means to participate in and supervise corporate management. psychological experts to projects in many countries, such as Mongolia, to carry out training We have further standardized the content, procedures and model of our open system for matters at and provide counseling services. In addition, we employed counselors to deliver lectures its plants by clarifying rights and obligations, the organizational system, and working processes for the on cultivating a healthy mind and related psychological knowledge forfrontline employees employee representative congress. working in saline wastelands, deserts and other harsh natural environments, in order to help them cope with stress. The Company has established multiple channels to communicate with employees and has continued to implement democratic procedures. We communicate across different levels of the Company, and conduct multi-level communication through meetings with staff representatives and online discussions, to encourage employees to participate in the management of production and operations. Case study: PetroChina won 2016 International EAP Quality Award The Employee Assistance Program Association (EAPA) is the world’s largest and oldest EAP association, Case study: “General Manager’s Mailbox”, A Bridge Connects Frontline Employees and Management Team and represents the highest standards of international EAP implementation. In 2016, PetroChina won EAPA’s “International EAP Quality Award”, the highest honor won by Chinese corporations in the field of EAP. In order to serve frontline employees and help them overcome their difficulties and problems, Urumqi Petrochemical set up the “General Manager’s Mailbox” on the homepage of its website in 2010. By the end of 2016, the mailbox had received hundreds of thousands of clicks. The messages are dealt with in a timely manner, and all are Since 2008, when PetroChina’s EAP was launched, it has progressed steadily in terms of its service content and replied by email or phone calls. Around 850,000 visits have been made to the mailbox since the beginning of this program, and it has become a bridge that connects the form, and its international perspective, and now covers over 20,000 employees and their family members in frontline employees and the management team. Africa, the Middle East, Central Asia and Latin America. PetroChina is the first oil and gas Company in China to set up a psychological health hotline. Additionally, based on the mental health status and adaptive capability of the employees and their family members, the Company conducted on-site training, consultation and crisis OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH intervention, and established a web platform where they can receive help either directly online, or get advice on other resources. Since 2010, the Company has sent experts dozens of times to its projects in many countries, We abide by the Prevention and Control of Occupational Diseases Act of the Peoples Republic of China in our occupational health management, such as Iraq and Iran, to provide psychological services. focusing on the prevention and control of occupational hazards as well as the implementation of related measures. We give top priority According to EAPA, PetroChina’s EAP is in line with international EAP standards and principles, with clear to employee health and personal safety by emphasizing occupational health management and protection at field operations, adopting 1,034 logic, strict management, and an efficient quality improvement strategy and actions. The program has achieved mechanized production to reduce labor intensity and improve working conditions, and caring for employees’ mental health. great success in meeting the demands of both employers and employees, especially in suicide prevention. hours This indicates that Chinese companies have reached the highest international level in terms of employee care, In 2016, the psychological psychological management and EAP. counseling hotline provided 1,034 Workplaces moderately Workplaces significantly exceeding hours of service, including 256 Sources of psychological hours of face-to-face counseling. exceeding emission standards emission standards Dust hazard 98 problems for overseas employees Customized solutions Effects 87 Use technical, engineering and Apply remote monitoring technology % treatment management measures to meet for unattended operations at posts ● Far away from home ● Remote psychological ● Overseas employees have occupational exposure limit (OEL) exposed to hazards In 2016, the detection rate of ● Great work pressure counseling hotline mastered correct methods for easing psychological stress The Company sent psychological requirements Shut down devices in the workplace workplace occupational hazards ● Insufficient communication ● On-site counseling by experts experts to 15 subsidiaries overseas was more than 98%. ● Improved psychological Fundamental that still fail tout down devices in with their families ● Exclusive online platform for to provide 87 training sessions improvement of the overseas employees condition the after treatment and lectures. working environment ● Improved work efficiency 2016 Sustainability Report PEOPLE-ORIENTED EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 46 47 ESTABLISHING A PLATFORM FOR EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT We adhere to modern corporate concepts and advocate innovation in creating space and mechanisms for employee development. We have improved our training centers and network, and address our employees’ need for career development at different stages by providing career planning services. We strive to develop innovative employees and provide a stage for employees to develop their self-worth. Employee Training By applying modern corporate training concepts, we continue to improve our training bases and training network. We have carried out diversified and differentiated vocational training 100 % The training rate of senior skilled for employees through knowledge training, professional training, job training, off-the-job personnel and key operation post training, etc, in order to achieve positive interaction between employee development and employees was 100%. the Company’s development. On the basis of promoting comprehensive staff training, we conducted the “Four Training 100 % Projects” for managerial, technical, skilled and international personnel. The training rate of frontline employees was 100%. Main Training Programs of “Four Training Projects” in 2016 Managerial Personnel International Personnel ● Training 252 executives of subsidiaries 172 employees received PetroChina’s technology competition ● Leadership training for 591 medium-level managers training under 10 training sessions at Stanford ● Training 118 general accountants University in the USA, Provide Continuous Career Development Channels ● Training for over 3,500 departmental directors in 18 key posts Siemens AG, and Gubkin including human resources, legal affairs, safety, information, With a corporate culture that values moral integrity as well as professional competence, we Russian State University auditing, etc. of Oil and Gas have developed a selection process that is democratic, open, competitive and merit-based in order to create a positive workplace atmosphere that enables the recognition and best use of talent. We attach great importance to career planning and endeavor to expand career development space for employees to maximize their potential. In 2016, we continued to promote the reform of professional rank-based career development for professional technical staff at R&D institutions, persisted in fair competition and merit-based selection, selected talents for appropriate positions through competitive employment, and provided technical professionals with an independent, continuous and stable career path. We improved the Technical Personnel Skilled Personnel career path for skilled personnel by training leading technicians, and implementing the A young employee in operation ● 37 technical experts received elective-course training at ● The Company held the Operating Staff Promotion Plan, the Innovation and Efficiency Improvement Program and the Tsinghua University and China University of Petroleum (Beijing) 2016 Vocational Skills Petroleum Expert Development Program. We also opened a career path for innovative talents ● 5,200 core employees received training in 54 training sessions Competition. by drafting plans for training oil scientists and outstanding young technicians. In 2016, two of for senior technicians ● Operating skills training was carried our employees were listed in the national “Ten Thousand Talent Program”. Dai Nanxun, a well● 23 employees were selected to attend advanced training on complex reservoir E&P theory and technological innovation out for 840,000 known geophysics professor, won the “2016 Chinese Government Friendship Award”. The held by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security employees in 2016. IAU’s Committee on Small Body Nomenclature (CSBN) has approved the naming of minor planet No.210231 after Wang Demin, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and the pioneer of stratified development of oilfield and chemical flooding technology, for We improve employees’ occupational skills and abilities through training and competition. his contribution to oil development. We held the 2016 Vocational Skill Competition, and organized our employees to take part in the Petroleum and Petrochemical System Vocational Skill Competition, the National By the end of 2016, we had 18 academicians at the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Competition for Hazardous Chemical Incidents Rescue Skills, the Hoisting Competition and Chinese Academy of Engineering, 451 on job experts entitled to the Government Special the National Vocational Skill Competition for Young Employees, revealing a number of highlyAllowance, as well as 1,490 senior technical experts, 328 skilled experts, 5,136 senior skilled talents. In 2016, eight of our employees won the title of “National Skill Experts” and two technicians, and 27,221 technicians. We set up 54 Skilled Expert Studios, among which 14 are were awarded the “National May 1st Labor Medal”. National Skilled Expert Studios. 2016 Sustainability Report PEOPLE-ORIENTED EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 48 49 Local Hiring Case study: Petroleum Experts Development Program We actively recruit and train local employees and do not discriminate against local candidates In the context of China’s economic transformation and upgrading, it has become imminent for the Company to for managerial positions, providing local people with job opportunities. We have hired carry out personalized customization and flexible production, and cultivate the spirit of craftsmanship, in order professionals in over 30 countries and regions to work in exploration and development, to train its skilled workers. In particular, enhancing the capability of skilled workers and incentivizing the vigor project construction, international trade, finance, accounting, and human resources at and creativity of frontline employees are extremely important against the backdrop of falling oil prices. overseas projects. In 2016, international employees and local employees accounted for 91.1% The Petroleum Experts Development Program is designed to train three to five top-quality experts of high of our overseas workforce. PetroChina International (Indonesia) has always regarded local moral standing from each major profession in main production enterprises, so that they can drive the holistic hiring as an assurance of its long-term development. The Company continues to improve improvement of experts’ skills throughout the Company. staff welfare and selects outstanding employees to assume managerial positions, and 98.6% of its employees are local hires, and and 70% of them are managerial personnel. Candidates for the program are identified by the Company, and they may enjoy preferential treatment in terms of training, setting up key technical projects, and working conditions. Outstanding candidates On-site technical communication Respect for Cultural Diversity are chosen to take part in innovation programs, the selection of model workers and government special allowance experts, and the China Skills Award. The Company continues to increase support for Skill Expert In 2016, the American subsidiary of the PetroChina fully respects cultural diversity and local customs. We promote communication Studios which serve as a platform for frontline employees to communicate and tackle technical problems Company participated in the 16th Huston between employees from different cultural backgrounds and advocate respect for different through innovation. Multimedia is applied to strengthen the spirit of craftsman among skilled workers, and Dragon Boat Festival and won fifth place. The values and traditions, in order to foster cross-cultural cooperation in a culturally diverse to create an environment of respecting skilled talents and competing to become top-notch talents to deliver event has promoted cultural integration and workplace. the best performance. team building between Chinese and foreign staff, enabled foreign staff to deepen their Case study: Lectures on Iraqi Culture at Halfaya Project understanding of Chinese culture and helped In order to help international staff better understand Iraq and the local people, Halfaya project has hosted LOCAL STAFF DEVELOPMENT the Company to integrate itself into local a series of lectures on Iraqi culture. The lectures attracted a large number of international employees and society and strengthen exchanges with local contractors with content ranging from basic local etiquette and daily customs to the origins of Mesopotamian At PetroChina, we embrace a respectful, open and inclusive culture and are committed to energy enterprises. civilization. selecting more local talents overseas, upgrading their professionalism and making them The lecture series has enabled all staff to better understand the local culture and customs. The lecturers are more responsive to market forces. We abide by all laws and regulations of the host countries. local Iraqi employees who have worked at the Halfaya project for a long time, who see themselves as cultural We have formulated Protocols on Local Employee Management in Overseas Operations and have ambassadors for Iraq with great responsibilities. established an optimal system for hiring, deployment, performance appraisals, incentives and penalties. We work hard to attract and train top local talents and to provide a working environment more conducive to employee development. STRENGTHENING OF SECURITY IN OVERSEAS OPERATIONS The safety of our employees has always been an over riding priority in our overseas operations. We promoted operation of security management systems, strengthened Javier Aguirre is a local employee who has comprehensive control over security risks, continuously enhanced emergency response worked for Andes Petroleum for 18 years. As an capabilities, and eliminated security-related fatal incidents. IT engineer, he now serves as the supervisorof In 2016, we continued to improve the security management system, implemented the hardware base structure of the IT department. Security Management Regulations for International Business, and revised system documents “I had just started working when I joined the according to situations of the projects. We reinforced supervision and inspection on system Company in 1997, and I still remember the efficiency, and conducted inspections on the security management system of 17 subsidiaries total number of employees in the production with foreign businesses. We also strengthened anti-terrorism training to improve the field and office was less than 75 at the time. employees’ emergency response capability. In 2016, 264 trainings were organized for 16,000 The Company has grown into a large-scale employees, which helped to protect the safety of our staff. international Company in a little more than a decade. Cultural diversity and inclusiveness has 91.1 provided us with an opportunity to learn from each other and make the Company one of the % best among its peers.” In 2016, international employees and local —— Javier Aguirre employees accounted for 91.1% of our overseas workforce. 2016 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 50 51 As a company rooted in society, we have a duty to give back. Our ultimate goal is to promote socio-economic development, so we attach great importance to the well-being of people and social advancement. We expand GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY cooperation with the private sector through joint ventures, enhance local development capabilities, give donations to impoverished students and organize our staff to join volunteer activities and community service. Through our efforts, we strive to build a harmonious society. PROMOTING LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PetroChina’s development is inseparable from the support and help of the governments, communities and the wide public. While providing continuous and stable energy supply for economic development, we insist on the principle of open cooperation for mutual benefit, expanding our joint-venture cooperation with state-owned capital, social capital and foreign capital in the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors. During the process of developing and running our projects, we help to nurture local suppliers and contractors, thereby creating jobs, driving the growth of related businesses, and giving back to local people. In 2016, Fushun Petrochemical supported local investment promotion and industrial park construction. It provided 10 enterprises in Fushun High-tech Development Zone, including Qilong Chemical Co., Ltd., with C5 and C9 fraction from ethylene cracking, ethylene tar and other materials, and transported these materials for relevant supporting enterprises through mutual supply pipelines, promoting the development of deep processing enterprises in the industrial park. As a result, five industrial clusters (organic chemical industry, fine chemical industry, carbon fiber, synthetic rubber, and plastic wax) have been established, creating economic value and providing job opportunities. POVERTY ALLEVIATION Poverty alleviation is an important topic in sustainable development around the world and also one of our key concerns. We have responded positively to the initiatives of the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and to the Chinese government’s policies on poverty alleviation targeted at the improvement of people’s livelihoods, industrial development, intellectual development and medical care. By combining our business strengths with local resources and market advantages in the areas receiving assistance, we have innovated the models of poverty alleviation, have taken targeted measures to help the needy and have helped them develop the local economy on their own. In 2016, together with CNPC, we continued to carry out fixed-point poverty alleviation and aid programs, and implemented over 30 projects, including infrastructure reconstruction, education & training, and healthcare in 13 counties and districts in seven provinces (municipalities See patients on a volunteer basis and autonomous regions) of China, including Xinjiang, Tibet, Qinghai, Chongqing, Henan, Jiangxi and Guizhou, promoted income increase for 20,000 people from the assisted areas. At the “2016 Symposium on Enterprise Participation in Precise Poverty Alleviation Work & the Blue Book on Poverty Alleviation” sponsored by the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA), PetroChina was awarded the title of “Excellent Example of Enterprise Poverty Alleviation”. 2016 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 52 53 20 person-times RMB 20 million 2,800 people Case Study: “Hand in Hand” to Help Ordinary People Realize Their Public Welfare Dreams To enhance the ability of the appointed In Shuanghu County, Tibet, we invested We helped build roads in Nantianmen officials to implement targeted measures RMB 20 million in livelihood projects Village, Niba Township, Xishui County, Public Welfare Platform “Hand in Hand” in poverty alleviation, we provided training including the maintenance and expansion Guizhou Province, solving transportation for over 20 officials for fixed-point poverty of PV power stations in townships, difficulties for nearly 2,800 people. alleviation and aid programs throughout reconstruction of primary school campuses, the year. and the construction of an integrated market for poverty alleviation. 900 people 3,000 people 2,800 people We helped build the safflower plantation In Barkol Kazak Autonomous County, We sent medical experts to Jeminay project in QapqalXibe Autonomous County, Xinjiang, we carried out poverty alleviation County and Qinghe County in Xinjiang, Program Nature Xinjiang, promoting the development activities, granting loans to 1,000 Lenghu in Tibet, and Xishui in Guizhou to of its economy with local characteristics households and benefiting more than 3,000 provide medical diagnosis and treatment, Mobile client platform Program Purpose and providing jobs for 900 impoverished people. benefiting a total of more than 2,800 for public welfare people. people. 01 To help ordinary people realize their public welfare dreams, and spread the concept of national public Part of Our Cooperated Poverty Alleviation Projects with CNPC and Achievements in 2016 02 welfare activities Project Name Start Time Location Partner Project Details Achievements Program Actions In 2016, to mitigate the re-occurrence of disease-related poverty and help improve medical conditions in Hengfeng County, the project established a special relief fund of RMB Program Achievements To set up the platform, donate special funds to the 03 1 million to subsidize the treatment of critical illness and China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation, and explore rehabilitation for impoverished people. The project is mainly In 2016, a total of 17 sessions of collection and assessment Tongzhou China and fund innovative and feasible public welfare Hengfeng intended for poverty-stricken patients aged 18〜50 who are By the end of 2016, the Health Poverty October, Foundation of public welfare initiatives werecompleted via the initiatives with social influence County, suffering from critical illnesses. In addition, an “Angel Home” project has helped 13 local Alleviation 2016 for Poverty platform, with 221 initiatives collected and 173 Jiangxi will be established in Hengfeng County People’s Hospital families. Project Alleviation to pool social resources for patients suffering from critical funded. These initiatives were contributed by illnesses through multiple channels and reduce the burden of college students, community residents, their medical care. We also provide psychological counseling for patients to help them build up their confidence and NGO organizations, industry associations 04 improve the efficacy of their treatment. and other groups in 24 provinces Professional teams are (municipalities and autonomous regions) engaged to provide including Beijing, Inner Mongolia, Gansu, planting management and Sichuan, Guizhou, Guangdong and Fujian. They The project was officially launched on August 1, 2015. With technologies for agricultural Agricultural covered a wide range of areas, including youth education, services for Lenghu a total investment of RMB 22.58 million and a construction greenhouses equipped with Scale of Public Participation Plantation the elderly, community development, and heritage protection. We 2015 County, — scale of 4,200 square meters, the project mainly consists of intelligent facilities. As a Project in Qinghai the construction of 1,000 square meters of green planting result, more than 10 varieties launched “Hand in Hand for Public Welfare”, a two-month special LenghuCounty The mobile APP of the platform has been downloaded areas and 3,200 square meters of vegetable planting areas. of seasonal vegetables, all fund program for young students in 43 Chinese universities and pollution-free, can be planted and used by more than 76,000 users (75% of them 05 simultaneously, with an colleges. With 100 public welfare initiatives funded, this program has under 24 years old) in 34 provinces (municipalities annual output of 75 tons. been well received by students. and autonomous regions). A total of 1.89 million votes 10 povertyCombining infrastructure construction and industrial have been cast, and nearly 46,000 comments given. It stricken development, construction of cooperatives and management is becoming a platform for the public to demonstrate China The project has provided job counties of the tourism industry, and “red tourism” and the homestay Foundation opportunities to housewives, their creativity, exchange ideas, realize dreams, and Project of at the economy, this project is designed to develop villages with for Poverty promoted economic “Women national unique characteristics and stimulate economic development spread positive energy. 2016 Alleviation, development in povertyReturning level in in the recipient areas. It mainly supports labor-intensive village Tencent stricken areas, and reduced 06 Home to Work” Xinjiang, cooperatives with a high employment rate of women, helps 99 Charity the number of left-behind Henan, Platform migrant women to return home for work, cultivates and develops children. Ways of Public Participation Guizhou the collective economy of impoverished villages, and alleviates and Jiangxi social problems like left-behind children and empty-nest families. The process of collection, approval, voting, funding and supervision of Individuals Drinking Water Together with CNPC, we helped build the project with an (Universities/Colleges) 63% implementation are required to turn the initiatives into actions. The Safety Project investment of RMB 150 million. The project addresses drinking The project has been put Organizations 37% for Urban and Central and water safety issues for 1.1353 million urban and rural residents fully into operation, providing public can log onto the website of the platform to offer public November, Rural Areas Southern — in 603 administrative villages in 44 towns and townships of four clean and safe water to welfare initiatives and download the “Hand in Hand with 2012 Composition of Public Welfare Initiators in Central Ningxia counties (districts) (Yuanzhou, Pengyang, Xiji and Haiyuan) in the 1.1353 million urban and rural PetroChina for Public Welfare” mobile APP to view them, and Southern central and southern regions, in order to improve their basic living residents. on the Platform Ningxia conditions and promote regional economic development. support them by voting and communicate with others. 2016 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 54 55 Case Study: “Hand in Hand” to Help Ordinary People Realize Their Public Welfare Dreams CaseStudy: Xuhang Educational Program Welfare Initiative: Traveling with Sanitation Workers The Xuhang Program is a public welfare project which is jointly launched by CNPC and China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA). The Company actively participated in In February 2016, “Traveling with Sanitation Workers”, a public welfare initiative PetroChina’s funding and the warm praise from netizens have made this longthe project, and help impoverished senior high school students from underdeveloped areas proposed by the Henan Xinxiang Volunteers Association, was officially launched awaited public welfare dream come true. Through this program, we hope that complete their studies and gain access to a college education by providing support for their on the platform, attracting many netizens. With 50,000 votes, this initiative was public respect and care will be aroused for sanitation workers, who are a special learning and daily life. outstanding and selected for funding by PetroChina. group in our society. Now, more and more people start to pay attention to them. ——Liu Fupeng, initiator of the “Traveling with By the end of 2016, the program has invested a total of RMB 4 million through the project to On May 1, 2016, 14 sanitation workers in Xinxiang City, Henan Province, started Sanitation Workers” program support 1,000 impoverished senior high school students in Sichuan and Henan provinces. a three-day trip to Beijing, paying visits to the Forbidden City, the Great Wall, Among the 400 high school graduates supported by the program, more than 300 students Nanluogu Xiang and the Temple of Heaven. This trip has left them with good Fulfilling the dreams of public welfare is just the first step. Through the Internet, have realized their dreams for universities, with each one granted RMB 5,000 in enrollment memories. To ensure the smooth implementation of the event, the team brought the programs on the platform are attracting more attention. More dreams and scholarships. Hundreds of youth volunteers from PetroChina, and more than 5 million of along a doctor, two volunteers to deal with emergencies, and three professionals aspirations for public welfare will be gathered, exchanged and shared here. Sellers of PetroChina service station providing free drinking water the public and consumers participated in this program. to record the entire journey. ——Wen Yong, executive of the “Hand in to students in the shuttle bus to the college entrance examination Hand for Public Welfare Platform” Make financial donations for solving students’worry for living expenses Care for Growth and Development CNPC of Students PetroChina makes use of 80 service stations in Support students Work-study Scan the QR code for Scan the QR code to China Foundation for Poverty Chengdu and Zhengzhou as the plateform for to taking the Program WeChat ID download the app Alleviation this program. To help poverty-stricken students college entrance to complete their studies, for every liter of gasoline examination Oil Experience Day in PetroChina purchased by its customers, the Company donates PetroChina We organized visits to We provided part-time jobs Offline RMB 0.01 to the project. provided shuttle PetroChina marketing at our service stations to over Activities buses and set up companies for 60 70 high school and university The project volunteers, including caring persons, customers, PetroChina employees and journalists, student-service students receiving aid students in Henan and SUPPORTING EDUCATION took part in a motorcade to visit the recipients of stations for nearly in Henan and Sichuan Sichuan under the “Xuhang the donations and witness the changes brought 10,000 examinees provinces, to introduce Program”, in order to enhance The Company believes that supporting education is important for social progress and about by the program. in poverty-stricken them with our Company their learning capacity and development. Therefore, together with CNPC, we set up scholarships, offered grant loans counties in Sichuan and give them their first quality, and further reduce and subsidies to students from underprivileged families, and supported relevant competitive With the help of online platforms of Tencent and and Henan. career familiarization the financial burden on their Online activities in order to give young people equal opportunities for education and help them to Fellowship Society, the project got the support of experience. families. Activities pursue their goals and personal growth. It teamed up with 13 tertiary institutions, including 12,378 netizens, and raised RMB 100,000 in a week. China University of Petroleum, Tsinghua University and Peking University, to set up the PetroChina Scholarship. In 2016, we granted PetroChina Scholarships worth a total of RMB 3.99 We not only provide material assistance to the impoverished We are deeply touched and encouraged by PetroChina’s moves to provide financial 11,047 million to 635 students. We have sponsored the Kunlun Lubricant Formula Student China students, but also help them strengthen their social communication assistance to impoverished students, organize young volunteers to set up student-service students (FSC) program for six consecutive years, aiming to create a cooperation platform for the skills, develop positive and healthy attitudes, expand their horizons stations, and fund the leasing of shuttle buses for the college entrance examination. These Since its inception in 2002 to government, enterprises, colleges and universities, research institutes and users, to nurture and improve their overall quality through service station experience good deeds have demonstrated the Company’s efforts to spread positive social energy as a December 31 2016, we have talent for the automobile industry. In addition, we explore new modes to support education, and work-study programs. central government-led enterprise. granted PetroChina scholarships to 11,047 outstanding students and call on the public to focus on and work together to achieve educational equality. For ——An Executive of the “Xuhang” Program ——Principal of Xinxian County High School (including 4,207 impoverished students), worth a total of RMB instance, PetroChina and the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA) co-sponsored The “Xuhang” Program has truly provided timely assistance to The “Xuhang” Program has provided me with a great deal of care and love. I will redouble my 49.7 million. the “Xuhang” Program, a public welfare project enabling the Company and drivers to jointly impoverished students to be admitted to universities. This generous efforts to study, in order to repay those who have helped me with practical actions. help senior high school students from poor families complete their studies. Through the educational program will benefit future generations. “Teacher Training Program”, we introduced advanced teaching ideas and methods to poverty——A student from Tongjiang County Middle School stricken areas, improving the professional quality and skills of local teachers. ——Feng Chun, Deputy Director of Tongjiang Although a penny may not be worth much on its own, when accumulated, they can help County Education Bureau impoverished students achieve their educational dream and promote their career development. ——Henan Channel of People’s Daily 2016 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 56 57 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF OVERSEAS CaseStudy: Teacher Training Program COMMUNITIES The Teacher Training Program was launched jointly by CNPC and China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation (CFPA). The Company actively participated in the project, in order to improve the quality of teaching and compulsory education in the recipient areas. Under the program, outstanding teachers in developed areas are assigned to We respect the cultures and conventions of the host countries in which we operate, poverty-stricken areas in Xinjiang, Henan, Jiangxi, and Guizhou for academic exchanges, while outstanding young teachers in poverty-stricken areas are sent to developed committed to establishing long-term and stable cooperative relations with the host regions for advanced studies. countries, and promote their socio-economic development. In 2016, in partnership with the Education Group of Experimental High School Attached to Beijing Normal University, we held training sessions for high school In 2016, thanks to the excellent performance in our local operations in Indonesia, the managers, which were attended by 40 principals and educational administrators from Henan, Guizhou, Jiangxi and Qinghai. In the same year, we invited famous teachers Indonesian government granted us the “Share Fulfilment Commitment Award” for honoring from the High School Affiliated to Renmin University of China and Beijing No.171 High School to provide teacher training in poverty-stricken counties in Xinjiang, our commitment to support localization in 2015. In recognition of our outstanding Henan, Jiangxi, and Guizhou. Previously in 2015, we selected 12 outstanding young teachers from poverty-stricken counties for a semester of training at Beijing No.171 contributions to enhancing oil and gas cooperation between China and Kazakhstan, High School. promoting green and sustainable socio-economic development in Kazakhstan and Sino-Kazakhstan Oil Pipeline employees promoting friendship between the two peoples, we were awarded the “Order of Friendship” Since its implementation, the program has conducted training for a total of nearly 500 person-times using superior educational resources in prestigious schools celebrate Kazakhstan’s 70th anniversary of the of the Republic of Kazakhstan by Kazakh President NursultanNazarbayev. victory of World War II with the veterans throughout China. Enhancing Communication with Local Communities We have set up environmental protection and community relations coordination departments VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES in many overseas areas to promote cooperation with local governments, NGOs and community representatives. By holding conferences, issuing reports and paying visits, we strengthen 130,000 PetroChina has made continued efforts to improve the voluntary service system. It communication and coordination and achieve a win-win situation in cooperation. In Iraq, we launched encourages and supports employees to devote their personal time, skills and expertise to person-times safety education campaigns for 18 local schools in the oilfields and surrounding communities. participate in volunteer activities, to serve the community and show their care. According to incomplete statistics, the “Helping Migrant Workers Return Home” campaign has helped an accumulative total of 130,000 personCommunity Welfare In 2016, we had 6,892 youth volunteer teams with 184,000 members. They provided 421,000 times over the past six years. We take an active role to help improve the living conditions of local people, give donations to hours of volunteer services to 1.843 million beneficiaries. The “Blue Sky Volunteer Association” education, healthcare and other public welfare programs in order to achieve harmonious and of Daqing Oilfield launched the “Blue Sky Life Bracelet” campaign, a voluntary activity to mutual development. assist the old, weak, sick and disabled, and other vulnerable groups including those suffering from depression and Alzheimer’s disease. In 2016, it distributed bracelets to 700 elderly people without family and autistic children in Songyuan City, and set up emergency teams United States to provide timely help for those wearing the bracelets. The youth volunteer service team We organized a volunteer team to produce peanut butter in the peanut butter plant of Jesus of Changqing Oilfield has dedicated itself to tree planting together with local residents, Christ of Latter-day Saints Church in Houston for the local relief food warehouse. This organization provides food assistance for 1.8 million person-times in 18 counties in Texas through food covering a cumulative area of 20,600 square meters in Jingbian County, effectively curbing distribution points every year. land desertification. The Spring Festival in 2017 marks the sixth consecutive year for us to provide free food and gasoline at the Company’s service stations at 65 national and inter-provincial highways in Fujian, Jiangxi, Hunan and Hubei provinces for migrant workers who need to travel home on motorcycles before the Spring Festival. The volunteer service has been extended from two to Kazakhstan 10 days. We donated the construction of the National Dance Academy of Kazakhstan Financial support for local children’sattendance at summer camps Free services by the Activitie We provided RMB 1.684 million in 2016 through the North Buzachi Project to improve the dwelling conditions and living standards of local residents We entered into an MOU with the Aktobe government to help build the Aktobe City Youth Refueling Motorcycle repair and Palace in the city’s Presidential Park, with a capacity for15,000 people Fast food replacement of engine oil Ginger soup A PetroChina service station is situated every 50〜100km Ecuador A RMB 300,000 traffic along the route to ensure a We built roads for villages in Nueva Froutera Lounge accident insurance free supply station for migrant We provided school buses in Tarapoa and surrounding communities policy workers every 1〜2 hours of We jointly funded the construction of 200 “Millennium Schools” and their journey helped build classrooms and libraries with the Chinese government A map of PetroChina We built two hospitals to provide the surrounding communities A reflective vest service stations with free medical assistance The volunteers play with the students We provided technical training and employment opportunities for local residents We were involved in earthquake relief work 2016 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 58 59 Local Environmental Protection We stress the importance of striking a balance between business development and environmental protection. Therefore, we strictly comply with the laws and international standards on environmental protection in the countries in which we operate, protect local ecological environment, take measures to restore the original environment immediately after our operation, and strive to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment. In 2016, our project company TTGP presented PetroChina International in Kazakhstan Trans-Asia Gas Pipeline Company Limited gifts and festive blessings to children at Abad District International School. ● We improve construction of the environmental protection system, and keep establishing ● Southern Kazakhstan Project: Since and auditing our environmental protection system. In our projects such as PK and 2015, we have been maintaining a Caring for orphans MMG, we develop environmental protection system certification review programs at reasonable level of investment in sand at Abad District the beginning of each year, and conduct comprehensive auditing of the ISO 14001 fixation along the pipeline. To beautify International School environmental system according to our annual plan. and protect the environment, we in Tajikistan fix shifting sand along the pipeline ● We carry out environmental impact assessment and risk control. In key areas such as disturbed by construction, and carry refineries, oilfields, oil depots and pipelines, we regularly conduct risk assessment and out forestation when the construction hazard monitoring and control. For new projects, renovation projects and expansion of the stations is completed. projects, we take environmental measures such as environmental impact assessments and design program optimization in strict accordance with laws and regulations. ● Uzbekistan-China Gas Pipeline: “For our foundation, the Kazakhstan-China Gas Pipeline Project Company has achieved three very Environmental protection facilities are designed, built and commissioned together Waste heat boilers are used in the six with the main project. Our Aktobe Project monitored and controlled polluted soil and compressor stations along the pipeline important tasks. First, it is the first Chinese joint venture to make donations to the foundation. Second, the entered into treatment contracts with professional companies by regions, to ensure in winter as main sources of heat. The donations cover a broad range of recipients, including more than 20 World War II veterans, solving the the full implementation of the treatment schemes for oil-contaminated soil. PK Project boilers are heating equipment specially problems facing the foundationin a timely manner. Third, the donation process has been highly efficient. It established a dedicated environmental protection database according to relevant used for fuel-driven compressor took just over one month for us to receive donations from the day the activity was launched.” environmental factors and their influence. stations. In 2016, letter of acknowledgment to ● We increase our investment to promote the construction of environmental protection ——Zbarhanov, President of the Kazakhstan WWII Veterans Foundation Trans-Asia Gas Pipeline Company from the projects. The project for integrated utilization of natural gas in Kazakhstan was completed Kazakhstan World War II Veterans Council and put into operation, setting the benchmark for natural gas processing in the region. In Indonesia, in strict accordance with the requirements of the environmental assessment documents (EIA/UKL ISO 14001 Certificate UPL), we spared no efforts to control air (Environmental and water pollution, worked hard to treat Management Systems) issued hazardous and toxic waste, and prevented by Sucofindo environmental damage in all types of International production activities, particularly in oil and Certification Services Award for Zero Exploration Accident from gas exploration. In 2016, our performance the Indonesian Ministry of Employment in HSE was recognized by the local government and international professional organizations. We were granted the award “Certificate of for zero exploration accidents and the Appreciation of award for zero operational accidents by the Occupational Safety and Health Ministry of Employment, the “Certificate Management System of Appreciation of Occupational Safety (SMK3)” from the and Health Management System (SMK3)” Indonesian Minister of Employment by the Minister of Employment, and Award for Zero Operational Accidents from the ISO 14001 certificate by Sucofindo the Indonesian Ministry of Employment International Certification Services. Tajikistan employees from TTGPB attended comprehensive management training course at University of Petroleum (East China) 2016 Sustainability Report GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY 60 61 Turkmenistan natural gas treatment plant Mtwara natural gas treatment plant supplies water to the nearby villagers Develop Local Economy Protecting Indigenous Rights PetroChina places strong emphasis on reliance on local resources and procurement of local products and services, strengthening cooperation Before the construction of a project, we conduct assessments of the social and economic with local enterprises in technical services, logistical support, catering and logistics to boost and promote the development of local SMEs impact, such as the requirements of the indigenous people, human rights, cultural heritage, and create more income and employment opportunities for the local communities. In 2016, in the implementation of the Aktobe Project in involuntary resettlement, etc. We try our best to protect all the rights and interests of Kazakhstan, we actively hire local staff, and contract with Kazakh manufacturers for material supply if technical requirement permits, we gave the indigenous people. We uphold standard operation in land compensation, and make as much as possible priority to contracts, and promote the development of related local industires. compensation plans by referring to the opinions of the local governments, our partners, and the local villagers. Specifically, compensation is paid before land use, and the compensation Tax Payments According to Law information is released timely in order to ensure operational transparency. PetroChina strictly complies with the laws and regulations in the countries where it operates, makes lawful and transparent tax payments to local governments, and makes due contributions to local economic development. In countries where the EITI (Extractive Industries CaseStudy: Localization of Operation in Indonesia Transparency Initiative) standard is implemented, such as Iraq, Mongolia and other countries, our local companies actively participate in In 2016, on behalf of the Government of Indonesia, the country’s Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources the multi-stakeholder groups and publish information on our projects and tax payments, as required by EITI with the content beyond EITI’s granted PetroChina International (Indonesia) the award for honoring itscommitment to support localization minimum disclosure requirements. We support and respond to the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) initiative and the PetroChina in its operation in 2015. The award aims to encourage upstream oil and gas companies engaged in international Tax Policy, and pledge to pay tax according to the law in areas where we operate and create value, in order to strive for our sustainable cooperation in Indonesia to use local materials and equipment, as well as human and technical resources, and development and make due contributions to socio-economic development. recognizes the oil companies’ outstanding performance in honoring their commitment to contract morelocal businesses in Indonesia. In response to low oil prices, PetroChina International (Indonesia) has taken measures to deepen corporate Petrochina Tax Policy 98.6% management, strengthen cost control, ensure effective economic evaluation and cost sharing, and minimize PetroChina tax policy is consistent with its corporate strategies. PetroChina is committed to paying taxes in countries where business activities take place and expenditure. By the end of 2016, our value is created in compliance with applicable tax laws and regulations, and to contributing to local economic growth and sustainable development of the employee localization By the end of 2016, the company had provided local communities with over 3,300 direct employment and company. rate in Indonesia is over 10,000 indirect employment, with a localization rate of 98.6%. In addition, in terms of equipment/material 98.6% ● PetroChina carries out tax planning in support of its business strategy and in compliance with international tax agreements and principles, as well as tax laws of procurement and technical service procurement, the local shares reaching 75% and 90% respectively, exceed host countries. PetroChina opposes to aggressive tax planning to avoid potential risks and negative impacts on the company’s reputation and sustainability. the requirement set by the Indonesian Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources. ● PetroChina pays taxes in compliance with applicable tax laws of host countries, its business principles and code of conduct, and adheres to high professional standards to ensure the legitimacy and accuracy of tax payment in a timely manner. ● PetroChina advocates tax transparency, and ensures the accuracy and completeness of tax information disclosure in line with requirements of tax authorities. ● PetroChina manages tax risks through its effective internal control system and engages with tax authorities and external advisors in case of different interpretation of tax laws and regulations for professional judgment. ● PetroChina carries out intercompany transactions based on arm’s length principle and not for the purposes of eroding tax base and shifting profits. ● PetroChina takes part in promoting a fair, consistent and stable taxation environment globally and strives to establish a fair, transparent and effective dialogue with tax authorities of host countries. 2016 Sustainability Report INVESTOR FAQS 62 63 INVESTOR FAQS PETROCHINA’S OVERALL ESG PERFORMANCE security, public health, exploration and development business. In the event of any emergency, these material issues will be looked into with the same level of attention, and the Company’s relevant departments will take action in a timely and efficient manner under the Plan. PetroChina requires contractors to Work safety and environmental protection is a pre-requisite, which secures our steady follow the company’s health, safety development. In 2016, we attached great importance to health, safety and the environment and environmental (HSE) standards. (HSE), giving it top priority in our operations, and reinforced our HSE system. By improving For the company’s CAPEX strategy, to The Company formulates its production, business and investment plan according to market How does the company monitor and the management system and implementing stricter inspection of responsibility fulfillment, what extent does PetroChina consider needs, while the CAPEX is determined based on the production, business, and investment ensure contractors’ HSE performance PetroChina closely monitored workplace safety results, strengthened hazard control, and demand risk in project sanctioning? plan of the company. The Chinese government has increasingly tightened requirements i s c o n fo r m i n g to t h e co m p a ny ’s endeavoured to enhance HSE management performance. As a result, our overall HSE What kind of impact does PetroChina relating to environmental law and carbon emissions. We strictly abide by laws and regulations, requirements? performance was stable and improved in 2016. expect fuel efficiency, carbon pricing conduct environment impact assessments for new projects, actively cooperate with the local and other climate regulatory measures government and carry out public hearings to ensure all production process and products The Company carries out system audits covering all units twice a year. In 2016, we set up to have on demand, and how is it meet governmental, environmental and emissions regulations. At the same time, the company an audit team to conduct on-site audits, make recommendations and rectify problems. We considered in the CAPEX strategy strictly complies with China’s oil products quality upgrade timetable and oil quality needs to initiated quantitative management of the HSE system, organized the preparation of Criteria produce oil products. We have been putting efforts in developing the natural gas business, and for Quantization Review and Evaluation of the HSE Management System, and helped affiliates contributed clean energy to the country and society. in benchmarking against advanced standards to improve their management level. Using the scoring system, the criteria not only includes laws and regulations and the Company’s system requirements, but also reflects the HSE best practices of outstanding enterprises. It also What is PetroChina’s plans in relation to In terms of long-term business strategy, we actively optimize our business structure, step up the combines priorities and weaknesses, including rated risk prevention and control, contractor their gas share of potential production development and utilization of natural gas exploration, accelerate the efficient development management, risk control, and pollution reduction. in 2015-2025? of unconventional resources, and increase the output of green, low-carbon energy forms to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and work with the globe to address the climate change. To ensure HSE management keeps pace with our daily production and operations, we carried out HSE standardization at the grassroots level, which covered compliance with management Looking ahead, in our 13th Five Year Plan, we will increase investment in natural gas exploration and operation procedures, equipment integrity and worksite cleanliness. We emphasized and development, as well as in the construction of pipelines and marketing. Meanwhile, we will the importance of risk management and control, focused on the enhancement of execution continue to promote natural gas production. capability, and standardized our procedures in order to ensure our staff at the grassroots level to pass the assessments. We promoted advanced HSE management concepts and methods to Has the Company set a target to The primary goal of our HSE efforts is to achieve “Zero Accidents, Zero Pollution and Zero staff, and facilitated the continuous improvement of HSE at the grassroots level. improve H&S performance? Casualty”. Through clear lines of responsibility as well as stringent risk and HSE management, In 2016, we implemented safety management regulations and mechanisms, including the accident and casualty rates at our production facilities continue to decline, while the the Administrative Measures for Production Safety Risk Control. We strengthened the HSE performance has improved remarkably. All of these achievements serve to reinforce the implementation of the safety and environmental protection responsibilities of all employees, company’s corporate image and lay a solid foundation for our stable growth. and carried out an appraisal of their capabilities to perform safety and environmental protection duties. As a result, our clearly defined, companywide safety management system, and the various levels of responsibilities continued to become more effective. PETROCHINA’S GOVERNANCE PetroChina has been developing and In 2016, the Company will adjust and optimize the allocation of audit resources and distribution, implementing its Compliance Management strengthen auditing oversight, legal supervision and effectiveness monitoring, and strictly Can you provide information about Please find the below information on ongoing investigations into former employees as you System. Key actions related to management investigate accountability for violations. It is worth emphasizing that the Company’s internal corruption investigations and trials have requested. mechanisms include prevention, control, control and risk management system passed an external audit for the eleventh consecutive s u p e r v i s i o n , a n d a cco u nt a b i l i t y. year in 2016. on former or current employees of 1. Several of PetroChina’s former employees were suspected of bribery and other acts of Regarding ‘Accountability’ – what will Pe t ro C h i n a , a n d o t h e r re l e v a n t corruption. China’s regulators have made clear that the suspected corrupt conduct of these be the next step? Are third party audits documents on anti-corruption? former employees was limited to the individuals concerned. PetroChina and its affiliates or and reporting on performance being subsidiaries have not been implicated in any allegation of corruption, and the Company’s considered? operations have not been affected. 2. The former employees under investigation are facing allegations of mainly bribery, abuse of What is the process of prioritization of The Company has established an Emergency Preparedness Plan (the Plan) in accordance with power, misconduct and violating regulations advocated by the Communist Party of China. Once material issues? the laws, regulations, regulatory requirements and guidance promulgated by the government their cases of violating China’s laws have been confirmed, China’s procuratorial organ will file a and CNPC. This plan covers 22 categories of material issues including natural disasters, social suit against them in court. At present, some of the suspected employees have been tried and 2016 Sustainability Report INVESTOR FAQS 64 65 relevant information has been published, while the rest remain under judicial investigations. The Company has no further knowledge of the matter. How do you train your employees in With regard to the anti-corruption training, the Company places a strong emphasis on senior anti-corruption, what’s the content management and staff training. We arrange internal training for senior management of the 3. PetroChina takes a zero-tolerance stance on corruption. With our relentless focus on of the trainings, how is the training Company’s subsidiaries every year with the aim of enhancing their knowledge of internal combating and preventing corruption, the Company has developed a series of rules and conducted? Who will receive these monitoring. For example, our representatives have attended the “China Overseas Listed regulations, and built related monitoring and inspection mechanisms. trainings? How about the frequency of Corporate Regulation and Corporate Governance Conference” organized by The Hong Kong the trainings? Institute of Chartered Secretaries and the training organized by Hong Kong’s Independent Commission Against Corruption to deepen their understanding of the principles of company Is the Company taking all necessary PeterChina strives for good corporate governance, and has always made the three areas of management and anti-corruption. The Company also arranged for staff to participate in steps to avoid corruption and bribery? safety and environmental protection, harmony and stability, and anti-corruption as its top training, study training material and has pushed forward the strengthening of moral standards. What kind of efforts is the Company priorities. Further, PetroChina takes a firm stance against corruption. As a company listed in making to strengthen its internal policies three major financial hubs, including the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange and oversight systems to guarantee and Shanghai Stock Exchange, PetroChina has a well-established corporate governance compliance? structure as well as an open and transparent information disclosure system, in compliance with PETROCHINA’S OPERATIONS IN SENSITIVE REGIONS all applicable listing rules and related policies. Since becoming a member of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007, and as one of the pioneer Chinese company participants, PetroChina has been reporting its progress in social responsibility, including anti-corruption, in Please describe PetroChina’s business PetroChina has no asset in Sudan or South Sudan. compliance with the Ten Principles of the UNGC. in Sudan and introduce the Company’s As a subsidiary of CNPC, PetroChina has been carrying out production and operations practical measures to avoid investing Regarding PetroChina’s progress in fighting corruption, we would like you to know that independently since its listing in April 2000. This is in compliance with the Company Law, and operating in politically sensitive PetroChina has a firm commitment against corruption and has adopted a series of antithe Articles of Association of the Company, and the regulatory rules stipulated by the listing regions. corruption measures. venues. Under its operational guidelines of maximizing enterprise value and shareholder value, PetroChina conducts extensive oil and gas production in the PRC and abroad, while 1) The Company views anti-corruption as one of the key initiatives for the management. respecting local religions, customs and cultures, emphasizing environmental protection, and PetroChina has established an anti-corruption leading group led by its Chairman, and maintaining stable production. PetroChina strictly complies with the relevant regulations of formulated a system and work plan for corruption penalties and prevention, to continuously the United Nations, and respects the principles of the U.S. and other Western investors that promote the functioning of the disciplinary mechanism for corruption. prohibit investing in companies operating in conflict-prone and sensitive regions. In countries 2) The Company has developed comprehensive mechanisms, rules and procedures to combat and other jurisdictions under UN sanctions and sanctions by the governments where we are corruption. PetroChina has further enhanced and reinforced its systems, promoted management listed, including Sudan and South Sudan, we do not have any oil and natural gas exploration, innovation, strengthened its fundamental work, ensured the proper exercise of management development, production and investment projects at present. We also do not own any venture authority, clearly defined the delegation of power, developed a compliance management companies, representative offices and staff or provide any product and service in these areas. system, stepped up the supervision of its overseas businesses, and strengthened its supervision PetroChina does not communicate or have relationships with these countries and governments. and accountability system. Since 2012, the Company has implemented a series of measures and In the future, we will always handle our investment and business activities in politically sensitive regulations, including the 2013-2017 Work Plans to Establish and Improve the Systems for Punishment regions in a prudent and responsible manner, and always take our shareholders’ rights and and Prevention of the Bribery Act, the Anti-corruption Guidelines for Overseas Businesses and the Views respect for our investors’ choices into consideration. on the Implementation of Anti-Corruption Training of Senior Management. These aim to create a PetroChina’s holding company CNPC owns assets and operations in Sudan and South Sudan. long-lasting, effective mechanism which can plug loopholes, prevent and resolve the problems. However, we must emphasize that CNPC and PetroChina are two separate legal entities. 3) To improve the corporate governance structure, PetroChina has set up a board nomination PetroChina has no influence or control over the business activities of its controlling shareholder, committee, consistent with the best standards in corporate governance in August 2015. A more and is not involved in its parent’s business activities and investments in Sudan and South Sudan. transparent and complete nomination process has thereby come into being. To what extent is the management PetroChina has enhanced its HSE system through recognized certification, in compliance with PETROCHINA’S COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS system certified to OHSAS 18001 or international regulations and standards. For example, the Oman Project was certified under other systems? OHSAS 18001:2007, ISO 90001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, three international certifications issued by Has PetroChina considered developing The Company has established multiple channels to communicate with employees and has British Standards Institution. Det Norske Veritas was engaged for the Halfaya Project to conduct a mechanisms to carry out stakeholder continued to implement democratic procedures. We communicate across different levels of the HSE audit in 591 aspects, according to the requirements of International Safety Rating System (SRS). communication and engagement Company, and conduct multi-level communication through meetings with staff representatives To ensure the smooth operations of the HSE system and its continuous improvement, that ensure proactive and inclusive and online discussions, to encourage employees to participate in the management of PetroChina introduced a third-party HSE management system. An independent HSE community consultation, and call for production and operations. Management Certification Center, which is also certified under the national OHS-MS the development and implementation We have set up environmental protection and community relations coordination departments management system, was established with support from the former State Economic and Trade of formal and transparent communication to promote cooperation with local governments, NGOs and community representatives. By Commission. The Certification Center will conduct an independent audit of HSE applicants. and grievance procedures? holding conferences, issuing reports and paying visits, we strengthen communication and Successful applicants will be granted both HSE and OSH-MS certification. coordination and achieve a win-win situation in cooperation. 2016 Sustainability Report INVESTOR FAQS 66 67 How does stakeholder engagement The Company has built a multi-faceted mechanism to communicate with stakeholders, What is PetroChina’s plans in relation As a responsible energy company, we attach great importance to the control and reduction of (active consultations, feedback, general through periodic reports, interim reports, media communications, interviews and visits, as to future GHG direct emission and zero greenhouse gas emissions and have addressed climate change in our development plan. We co m m u n i c at i o n s, e tc. ) i n f l u e n ce well as interactive communication. It has amplified and honed the management and other routine flaring by 2030? have already started to formulate the roadmap for low-carbon development and started to Pe t r o C h i n a’s i d e n t i f i c a t i o n a n d related systems for the disclosure of major events. Through in-depth communications with establish a carbon emission control system. This specifically sets development goals, emission prioritisation of material issues? stakeholders and listening to their views, the Company can effectively identify stakeholders’ real reduction measures and technical routes, with a primary focus on carbon footprint verification, concerns on material issues. carbon emission reduction and on building near-zero carbon emission demonstration projects. Additionally, we will strengthen greenhouse gas management and controls, plan and mitigate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions from the source, production process and Could you provide insight into We remain committed to a people-first philosophy in treating our employees with respect and product use, and conduct carbon inventories and reporting in accordance with international PetroChina’s approach to identifying any equality while protecting their legal rights. We endeavour to resolve the practical issues that practice. risks to the rights of local communities most concern our employees and make sure that all employees can equally share in the fruits and other stakeholders in the countries of our development. PetroChina strictly comply with the Chinese government’s requirements on greenhouse gas where it operates? emission reductions, and actively support and cooperate with the international community in We strictly abide by domestic and international rules and regulations and have established the formation of policies and action to address climate change. As the founding member of a fairly complete employment management and policy system to regulate employment the Oil and Gas Climate Change Initiative (OGCI), we have taken the initiative to reduce carbon practices according to the law. The system incorporates employment contract management, emissions and sequestrate carbon to address climate change challenges together with the remuneration, insurance and benefits, leave, performance appraisals and vocational training. international community. Through self-inspection of our employment practices in compliance with the law, we provide effective protection of the legal rights of employees. In terms of long-term business strategy, we actively optimize our business structure, step up the development and utilization of natural gas exploration, accelerate the efficient development of We are committed to providing equal opportunities and fair treatment to all employees unconventional resources, and increase the output of green, low-carbon energy forms. In China, regardless of their nationality, ethnicity, race, gender, religion and culture. We prohibit the we supply natural gas to more than 500 million people, increasing the proportion of natural gas employment and use of child labor and reject all forms of slavery and forced labor. Instead, we in China’s primary energy consumption by 3.4%. emphasize the employment of local residents, women, ethnic minorities and college students in order to increase job opportunities for local communities. With regard to the disclosure of carbon emissions, the Company will calculate greenhouse emissions based on the new national greenhouse emission calculation methods and reporting guidelines. The emission data will be released according to applicable regulations upon Can you to elaborate on how the The Company has set up environmental protection and community relations coordination approval by third party organizations and government authorities. At present, relevant work is company has enhanced communications departments in many overseas areas to promote cooperation with local governments, NGOs under preparation, and will complete as soon as possible. with communities? and community representatives. By holding conferences, issuing reports and paying visits, we strengthen communication and coordination and achieve a win-win situation in cooperation. For the Canadian project, we have set up a counselling office and held senior official meetings, About PetroChina’ stance in some peer We believe only by increasing the development and use of clean and efficient low-carbon leadership committee meetings, community advisory group meetings and environment companies increases the share of lowenergy and by reducing the carbon emissions caused by the use of energy, can the earth meetings, in order to communicate with members of the local community, and enhance their carbon energy in their portfolios or reach the carbon dioxide emissions peaking soon and effectively control the rise in the earth’s understanding of and support for the project. even created separate divisions for temperature. Natural gas is generally recognized as a high quality clean energy and is the lower carbon activities? most realistic option to adjust the energy structure, control air pollution and reduce carbon emissions at present. PetroChina is eyeing the sustainable supply of future clean energy, and considers natural gas as a strategic and growing business. It is increasing investment in natural gas exploration and development, accelerating the construction of cross-border gas pipelines PETROCHINA’S ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION and the domestic gas pipeline backbone network facilities, advancing the development of unconventional gases such as tight gas, coal bed methane and shale gas, pushing forward the Internal audits of the EMS are conducted, The Company’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management System is aligned with development and use of natural gas, researching, developing and promoting the development is it considered to obtain auditing and international standards and widely accepted by the petroleum industry. To ensure the and use of new energy, in order to meet demand by society for clean energy. certification by independent thirdstandardized operations and continuous improvements of the HSE Management System, In addition, as the application of science and technology plays a significant role in controlling parties? PetroChina introduced a third-party management certification system and encourages greenhouse gas emissions and addressing climate change, we carried out studies on carbon corporations and their subsidiaries to appoint third parties to conduct the HSE management dioxide flooding and storage and other key carbon lowering technologies. PetroChina’s “Study system assessment, in order to raise their HSE Management levels and sharpen their on Key Technologies for CO2 Enhanced Oil Recovery and Carbon Dioxide Storage” project under competitive edge. the National 863 Program passed national acceptance. Moreover, we established China’s first CCS (carbon capture and storage) base in Jilin Oilfield which covers the entire value chain, To what degree are site-level reduction As a leading energy company in China, the Company takes national carbon emission reduction including carbon dioxide separation, capture and flooding in. Furthermore, a memorandum of targets and strategies to improve toxic targets as reference when setting our own general carbon emission reduction target. Our understanding was signed with GE on technology and R&D cooperation which promotes our emissions performance developed ingeneral target has been further deconstructed to apply to various departments at different collaboration in carbon capture, storage and utilization, and low-carbon and environmentally house? levels and on various projects. friendly technologies. 2016 Sustainability Report PERFORMANCE STATISTICS 68 69 PERFORMANCE STATISTICS With its excellent performance in green, lowcarbon development, PetroChina was named a “China Low-carbon Model Enterprise” for the sixth consecutive year at the Seventh “Low-carbon Development • Green Life” Charity Exhibition and the Press Conference on 2016 China Lowcarbon Model Enterprises organized by China News Service and China News Weekly. Category Indicator 2014 2015 2016 General assets (RMB 109 ) 2,405.5 2,393.8 2,396.7 H ow d o e s i n c re a s i n g re g u l a t i o n Our oil and gas exploration and development projects, long-distance pipeline projects and Turnover (RMB 109 ) 2,283.0 1,725.4 1,616.9 on ecological and environmental refining facilities may involve certain environmental risks. PetroChina respects and protects Net Profit (RMB 109 ) 107.2 35.5 7.9 degradation affect the Company’s the environment and strictly complies with relevant international and domestic laws and Taxes (RMB 109 ) ① 414.0 337.5 317.1 approach to overall risk management? regulations. We take the initiative to evaluate the environmental impact of our decisions and Proved reserves of crude oil (106 barrels) 10,593 8,521 7,438 How have environmental impac t activities, step up efforts in hazard control and environmental protection during production in Proved reserves of gas (109 ft3 ) 71,098 77,525 78,712 assessments (EIA) and mitigation order to safeguard our land, water and biodiversity, and reinforce ecological restoration of the Oil equivalent production (106 barrels) 1,450.4 1,493.9 1,466.6 strategies evolved in response? environment. By doing so, we endeavour to grow in harmony with the environment. In 2016, Economic 6 Crude oil production (10 barrels ) 945.5 971.9 920.7 the Company reported no major environmental pollution or ecological damage accidents. Marketable natural gas production (109 ft3 ) 3,028.8 3,131.0 3,274.5 We assess and identify environment risks, implementing a risk prevention and control Total length of crude oil pipelines (km) 18,107 18,892 18,872 management model focusing on environmental forecasting, early warning and monitoring. Total length of refined products pipelines (km) 10,086 10,091 10,560 We begin the environmental risk management at an early stage, and establish a sound risk Total length of natural gas pipelines (km) 48,602 48,629 49,420 management mechanism featuring “management in tiers, prevention and control by level”. 6 Crude runs (10 barrels) 1,010.6 998.1 953.3 Environmental management is implemented for the duration of construction projects. For Ethylene production (103 tons) 4,976 5,032 5,589 each construction project, facilities for the prevention and control of pollution, and other Death rate caused by accidents (person/100 million working hours) 0.466 0.26 0.20 potential damages to the environment, are integrated and established in the process of design, Safety Total accident rate (incidents/million working hours ) 0.0487 0.0498 0.0598 construction and operation, with the main project to ensure full control of environmental risks. Total energy consumption (106 TCE) — 80.77 79.90 We have reinforced the environmental monitoring capacity, completed the installation and data 6 Total raw coal consumption (10 TCE) — 11.83 11.80 networking of online monitoring equipment for waste water and waste gas, and performed Total crude oil consumption (106 TCE) — 2.90 2.03 real-time monitoring and early warning of discharges from major pollution sources, to ensure Total natural gas consumption (109 m3) — 16.5 16.2 treatment at the source and control over the production process. Total electricity consumption (109 kwh) — 42.9 46.6 Comprehensive energy consumption for producing unit volume of oil and — 128 119 What is the expected time horizon With regard to the disclosure of carbon emissions, the Company will calculate greenhouse gas equivalent (Kg of standard coal / ton) regarding the disclosure of carbon emissions based on the new national greenhouse emission calculation methods and reporting unit energy factor consumption for refining (Kg standard oil / [t · factor]) 8.74 8.3 8.07 Environment② emission targets and performance guidelines. The emission data will be released according to applicable regulations upon Comprehensive energy consumption of producing ethylene products (Kg of 616.7 594 576.3 data? approval by third party organizations and government authorities. At present, relevant work is standard coal / ton) under preparation, and will complete as soon as possible. Energy conserved (106 TCE) 1.16 1.04 0.87 Water conserved (106 cubic meters) 19.79 16.83 11.32 COD discharged (103 tons) 31.0 28.5 28.4* On behalf of about 300 institutional We support “China’s National Program to Address Climate Change” and “National Plan on NH3-N emissions (103 tons) 12.4 11.7 11.4* investor members, the Global Investor Climate Change (2014-2020)”, and agree that the rise in global temperatures cannot exceed 2℃. SO2 emissions (103 tons) 174.4 123.3 123.2* Coalition on Climate Change calls for PetroChina has developed the Action Plan for Green Development, promoted green and NOx emissions (103 tons) 140.3 122.7 112.7* a disclosure of a “2 ℃ stress-testing” sustainable development as our business strategy, and has taken the initiative to adapt to Number of employees (103 ) 535 522 508.8 from companies in their portfolios. Has the global trend of low-carbon development. The Company adjusted its business structure this caused any new considerations or Percentage of female staff (%) 31.9 31.6 31.2 to promote clean energy development, launched numerous campaigns for associated gas initiatives? Employees Percentage of female administrative staff (%) 7.26 4.7 7.22 recovery in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and carried out energy conservation Percentage of employees receiving Occupational health checks (%) 97 98 98 technology research, research and development of low-carbon technologies, active Percentage of non-Chinese nationals in Overseas hires (%) 91 91.3 91.1 development of carbon sinks, and promotion of carbon emission reduction throughout China. Contribution to poverty alleviation (RMB 106 ) 89.74 208.64 252.89 Educational donations (RMB 106 ) 64.31 15.40 41.88 Public welfare Donations to disaster relief (RMB 106 ) 3.14 3.88 1.74 6 Environmental protection (RMB 10 ) 0.85 92.95 2.43 ① The total taxes paid by the Company in China and abroad. The data disclosed in Sustainability Reports published before 2015 were the taxes paid by the Company in China. ② Data indicated with * are internally tested and audited data. Note: Measurement units 1 BOE = 1 barrel of crude = 6,000 cubic feet of NG = 169.9 cubic meter of NG 1 cubic meter of NG = 35.315 cubic feet of NG 1 metric ton of crude = 7.389 barrels of crude (API = 34) 2016 Sustainability Report GLOSSARY 70 71 OBJECTIVES AND PLANS GLOSSARY In 2017, we will firmly establish and implement new development concepts, continue to optimize our business chain and value chain, give better play to our integration advantages, and endeavor to grow steadily. We will adjust our structure, improve weak areas, enhance According to China National Standards, proven reserves are estimated quantities of hydrocarbon profitability and guard against risks. We will fully carry out all works, and make our development more balanced, coordinated and sustainable. Proven reserves deposits possibly to be recovered from reservoirs proved by appraisal drilling during the period of reservoir evaluation, with a reasonable certainty or a relative difference of no more than ±20%. Aspects 2017 Objectives 2017 Action Plans According to the guidelines of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, proved reserves refer ● Improve the corporate governance structure, and optimize the management and control model; to, against current economic and operating circumstances, the quantity of oil, natural gas or liquid Optimize corporate governance ● Improve rules and regulations, and promote their integration with management systems; natural gas which can be reasonably identified and recovered from known oil & gas layer in the structure, improve relevant ● Intensify the implementation of rules and regulations; Proved reserves future according to geological and engineering documents. Their price and cost are based on the Corporate systems, ensure operation ● Focus on compliance management in key areas, fair competition in the market, and integrity reality in evaluation. Price changes will only consider the changes of current price specified by governance and management are in legal in operations; contract agreement rather than escalations. Proved reserves include proved reserves developed and compliance, and optimize ● Adjust and optimize the allocation of audit resources and distribution, strengthen undeveloped. foundational management. auditing oversight, legal governance and monitoring effectiveness, and strictly investigate accountability for violations. The reserve replacement ratio refers to the value of the amount of oil and gas reserves added in a year Enhance the ability to create benefits along the crude oil business chain; Reserve replacement ratio Enhance quality and efficiency, ● divided by the amount of oil and gas produced during that same year and promote the coordinated ● Endeavor to increase reserves and achieve stable production, focus on large basins and key development of core businesses. areas in domestic oil and gas exploration, and ascertain high-quality reserves; Recovery ratio The percentage of oil/gas in place that is recoverable from underground. Oil & gas Make full use of domestic and ● Focus on enhancing benefits in overseas oil and gas exploration and development, and production and foreign resources and markets, enhance project viability; A class of nonvertical wells where the wellbore axis is near horizontal (within approximately 10 supply ensure optimal operation of oil ● Intensively participate in the One Belt and One Road Initiative; degrees of the horizontal), or fluctuating above and below 90 degrees deviation. A horizontal well may business chain and gas business ● Strive to implement projects of strategic value along the natural gas chain; chain, and strive for maximum produce at rates several times greater than a vertical well, enhance recovery efficiency and prolong ● Promote innovation-driven growth, and accelerate the fostering of new momentum for Horizontal well the production cycle, due to the increased wellbore surface area within the producing interval. overall benefits. development. Meanwhile, the environmental costs or land use problems that may pertain in some situations, such ● Expand quantitative review of HSE management system; as the aggregate surface “footprint” of an oil or gas recovery operation, can be reduced by the use of ● Improve mechanism for graded risk prevention and control; horizontal wells. ● Strengthen risk prevention and control in key areas; ● Promote hazard control in oil and gas wells, pipelines, tank areas and hazardous chemicals; Liquefied natural gas is produced by dewatering, deacidifying, dehydrating and fractionating the Strictly implement the ● Focus on safety supervision of hazardous chemicals and radioactive source management, Liquefied natural gas (LNG) natural gas produced from a gas field and then turning it into liquid under low temperatures and high Work Safety Law and the and fully complete key hazard treatment in chemical tank areas; pressure. Environmental Protection Law, Safety and ● Carry out thorough inspections of construction projects, strengthen contractor management, implement the responsibility environmental and strictly implement the primary responsibilities of the construction companies; interface and content at every New energy refers to unconventional energy and renewable energies, mainly including CBM, shale protection level, and continually improve ● Expedite the building of HSE standardization in grassroots teams, and strengthen safety New energy gas, oil sands, oil shale, fuel ethanol, biodiesel, geothermal energy, wind energy, solar energy, hydrogen performance of safety and capability training for employees; energy, water-soluble gas and NGH. environmental protection. ● Implement new national standards for environmental protection and new requirements for air pollution prevention and control, and implement measures to strengthen air pollution prevention and control in Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei and surrounding key areas; A low-carbon economy is an economic development model characterized by low energy consumption, ● Strengthen energy measurement and online monitoring of major energy consumption, and low pollution and low emissions. Its essence is efficient energy consumption, development of clean establish a classified energy management mode progressively at different levels. Low-carbon economy energy and pursuit of green GDP. The core of this model is the optimization of the industrial structure, low-carbon technology and institutional innovation. A low-carbon economy is developed by means of Build a talent team based on ● Push forward key talent projects; energy conservation, emissions reduction and the development of clean energy. innovation, promote strategic restructuring of the talent ● Strengthen the cultivation of highly-skilled talents led by skilled experts; Employee team, and implement the Law ● Develop employee incentive policies; Greenhouse gases are gases in an atmosphere that absorb solar radiation from the surface and then development of the PRC on Promoting the ● Promote reforms in professional and technical posts; emit radiation, such as water vapor, CO2, and most refrigerants. Their effect is making the Earth’s surface Transformation of Scientific and Greenhouse gas (GHG) ● Improve innovation and entrepreneurship platforms, and organize the “Oil Maker” contest. warmer, as the “greenhouse effect” sequestrates solar radiation and increases the temperature of the air. Technological Achievements. Greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere mainly include CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCS, PFCS and SF6. Let the general public enjoy ● Broaden joint ventures and cooperation, and push forward reforms to steadily promote the fruits of our reform and mixed ownership of state-owned enterprises; Also refers to carbon sinks. It is the process, activity and mechanism to remove carbon dioxide from the Social development in a wider and ● Move forward with targeted poverty alleviation; air. Generally, it indicates the capability of forests to absorb and store carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide in contribution fairer way and contribute ● Participate in public welfare undertakings; Carbon sequestration towards a harmonious the atmosphere is artificially sequestrated in biological forms in plants and the soil through forestation, ● Support local economic and social development, and share local resources and the fruits of community. forest management, and other forest carbon sequestration measures. development with host countries. 2016 Sustainability Report GRI, IPIECA /API AND HKEX INDEX 72 73 GRI, IPIECA/API AND HKEX INDEX The report consults the reporting elements and performance indicator indices proposed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and compares HSE is the acronym of the health, safety and environment management system. The HSE management the report with indicators listed in Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting by the International Petroleum Industry system is an integration of various elements such as organizational structures, mandates, practices, Environment Conservation Association (IPIECA) and American Petroleum Institute (API). Meanwhile, we took reference from the Environmental, HSE management system procedures, processes and resources used for health, safety and environment management. The Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide issued by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. advanced, scientific and systematic integration and operation of these elements create the mutually reinforcing, supportive and interactive and dynamic management system. IPIECA/API 2015 GRI 4.0 ESG Material Topics G4-19 Compounds of hydrocarbons in wastewater. These include all substances collected by certain solvents, About Petrochina G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-13, G4-17, G5-56 B6 Oils (mineral oil) as well as all substances extracted by solvents from acidified samples, which remained fixed during the Message from the Chairman E1, E3, SE1, SE4, SE11, SE12 G4-1, G4-2, G4-43, G4-56, G4-EC2 B7 extracting process. Interview with the President E1 G4-1, G4-2, G4-43, G4-EC2 A1.3 Sustaining Steady Development G4-1, G4-2, G4-35, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-45, G4-51 Chemical oxygen demand is the quantity of strong oxidant consumed to process water samples. It Integrity and G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-38, G4-40, G4-41, G4-46, G4-47, G4-48, Chemical oxygen demand ComplianceSolidifying Governance Framework G4-49, G4-52 serves as a comprehensive index of pollutants in wastewater and their impact on the environment. A Based (COD) Optimizing Management System SE11, SE12, SE18 G4, G4-57, G4-58, G4-SO4 B7 higher COD represents the heavier pollution of reductive substances in the water body. Corporate Upholding Business Ethics SE11, SE12 G4-56, G4-SO4 B7 Governance Communicating with Stakeholders SE11 G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-37, G4-45 Major accidents refer to accidents that cause deaths above 10 but below 30, or grievous harm to Consolidating Our Resource Base G4-8 A2.3 Major accident people numbering above 50 but below 100, or economic losses worth above RMB 50 million but Developing Clean Energy E3 G4-8, G4-EN27, G4-EC7 below RMB 100 million. Pushing Forward Pipeline Network Sustained G4-8, G4-6, G4-EC7, G4-EN30 Construction Energy Supply Emergency accidents refer to sudden emergent accidents which result in or may result in serious casualties, Enhancingning International G4-6 Cooperation Emergency accidents and/or damage to property, the environment, society and public safety. Emergency accidents faced by Ensuring Stable Supply G4-8 PetroChina include four types, namely natural disasters, accidents, public health and social security. Improving HSE Management G4-14 Diseases caused by exposure to dust, radioactive substances and other toxic and hazardous substances Safe and Clean Enhancing Operational Safety HS5 G4-14 Occupational disease Production Ecological Protection E4, E5, E6, E7, E8, E10, E11 G4-14, G4-EC7, G4-EN5, G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN13, G4-EN27 A1, A1.5, A1.6, A2, A2.4, A3, A3.1 to employees working for enterprises, institutions and private organizations. and Operation Promoting Energy Conservation E2 G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 A2.3, A3, A3.1 Response to Climate Change E1, E2, E3, E4 G4-14, G4-15, G4-EC2, G4-EN21, G4-EN31, G4-LA15, G4-SO10 A3, A3.1 A series of health examinations for professionals in an industry aimed at preventing occupational health Occupational health Enhancing Quality Management System HS4 G4-16 B6.4 threats and improving the health of employees. Occupational health surveillance includes occupational surveillance Customer-First Providing High-Quality Products HS4 B6, B6.3 health checks, management of occupational health archives, etc. Market Service Delivering Considerate Services G4-8, G4-PR5 B6.2 Whole Supply Chain Management SE8, SE9 G4-12, G4-13, G4-EN33, HR11, G4-SO10 B5 Physical examination of workers exposed to occupational health threats. The items and frequency of Protection of Employee Rights SE16, SE18 G4-10, G4-15, G4-52, G4-58, G4-LA1, G4-LA3, G4-LA12 B1, B1.1, B4, B4.2 Occupational health checks should be determined by the category of health threats, and by stipulations in the Items and Occupational Health HS2, HS3 B2, B2.1, B2.2, B2.3 examination Frequencies of Occupational Health Checks. These include checks before, during and at the end of a PeopleEstablishing a Platform for Employee Oriented SE17 G4-LA10 B1, B3 worker’s assignment, as well as emergency checks. Development Employee Development Local Staff Development SE6, SE15, SE17 G4-LA12 B1 Occupational health The annual ratio between the number of workers exposed to occupational threats who have taken Strengthening of security in Overseas SE10 G4-6 B1 Operations examination ratio occupational health checks and the total number of workers who should receive such checks. Promoting Local Development SE1, SE5 G4-EC7, G4-EC8 B8, B8.1 Poverty Alleviation SE4 G4-15, G4-EC7, G4-EC8 B8.1 Stakeholders are groups and individuals that are able to impact the accomplishment of corporate goals, Giving Back to Supporting Education SE4 B8.1 or groups and individuals that are impacted by corporate goals, including the natural environment, Society Volunteer Activities B8.1 Stakeholders future generations, and non-human specifies that are directly or indirectly affected by corporate Contributions to the Development of SE1, SE2, SE3, SE4, SE5, SE7, G4-EC1, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-HR8, G4-SO1 B8, B8.1, B8.2 business activities Overseas Communities SE15 SE2, SE3, SE8, SE9, SE11, SE12, A1, A2, A3, A3.1, B1, B2, B3, Investor FAQs SE15, SE16, SE17 G-41, G4-58 B4, B7, B7.1, B7.2, B8, B8.1 Generally this refers to mining zones recovered, being recovered or to be recovered. It includes several Performance Statistics E2, E6, E7, HS2, HS3, SE4, SE6 G4-EC1, G4-EN5 A1.1, A1.3, A2.1 Production base regions covering mines and open mines equipped with utilities like production processes, ground Objectives and Plans transportation, power supply, telecommunication scheduling, production management and living services. Appendix A1, A2, B1, B2, B4, B5, B6 Global Compact and Us G4-16 A community is an administrative jurisdiction within which a group of people live in a fixed Approach to Reporting G4-17, G4-18 Community geographical area, fulfilling their social functions and creating social norms. It is at the same About This Report G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30 administrative level as an administrative village. Contacts G4-31 2016 Sustainability Report GLOBAL COMPACT AND US 74 75 APPENDIX GLOBAL COMPACT AND US We strictly complied with applicable laws and regulations on quality management. For this, we established rules and regulations covering all The Global Compact is a global framework initiated and advocated by the United Nations aiming at the promotion of sustainable development production units, staff and processes relevant to the Company, which including but not limited to: and the collective improvement of social well-being through responsible and innovative business practices. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to observing and supporting the Ten Principles advocated by the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption, using the Ten Principles to guide our practices in fulfilling social responsibilities. And Names of the Rules and Regulations we will continue to disclose our progress in keeping with the Ten Principles in the Global Compact in our annual report. 1 Measures of PetroChina Company Limited for Management of Labor Contract Ten Principles in the Global Compact Corresponding sections herein 2 Measures of PetroChina Company Limited for Performance Evaluation of Senior Executives 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Internationally 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs Human Rights proclaimed human rights; Administration Measures of PetroChina Company Limited on Production Safety and Environmental Protection 3 Accountability System 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 4 Administrative Measures of PetroChina Company Limited for Supervision and Inspection of Product Quality 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 5 Administrative Measures of PetroChina Company Limited for Appraisal of Staff Safety and Environmental Performance 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs Labour Rights 5. The effective abolition of child labour; 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs 6 Regulations of PetroChina Company Limited on Environmental Protection Concerning Project Acquisition 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 5.1 Employees’ Rights, Investor FAQs 7 Administrative Measures of PetroChina Company Limited for Energy and Water Conservation occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 8 Regulations of PetroChina Company Limited on Quality Supervision of Procured Materials 3.5 Response to Climate Change challenges; Message from the Chairman, Interview with the 9 Regulations of PetroChina Company Limited on Detection of Occupational Hazards at Workplace Environment President, 3.2 Enhancing Operational Safety, 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Protection 3.3 Ecological Protection, 3.4 Promoting Energy 10 Regulations of PetroChina Company Limited on Occupational Health Surveillance Conservation, 3.5 Response to Climate Change 11 Measures of PetroChina Company Limited for Material Supplier Management 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 3.5 Response to Climate Change technologies. 12 Measures of PetroChina Company Limited for Tender Management 10. Businesses should work against corruption of all kinds, including About PetroChina, Integrity and ComplianceAnti-Corruption extortion and bribery. based Corporate Governance, Investor FAQs 13 Measures of PetroChina Company Limited for Service Trademark Management 14 Measures of PetroChina Company Limited for Land Management 15 Regulations of PetroChina Company Limited on the Management of Industrial Water of Refining Enterprises APPROACH TO Concerns of stakeholders REPORTING This report focuses on major international and domestic events related to the Investor FAQs sustainable development of the Company Media monitoring and its subsidiaries. Field research Site interview Requirements of NGOs Major economic, environmental and social impacts of the Company Major policies, projects, strategies, risks and opportunities of the Company 2016 Sustainability Report GRI, IPIECA /API AND HKEX INDEX 76 77 Content Selection Process The contents in this report were selected and disclosed based on their substantiality, integrity and balance principle, and taking into account the concerns of stakeholders and the Company’s great influence on the society. They exert substantial impact on the Company’s sustainable development. 1. The Company pays close attention to the views of its stakeholders, and Identification collects their comments through community visits, periodical reports, field Media monitoring study and online communication. It makes suggestions on the topics of the Email network report by taking into account stakeholders major concerns. Field study 2. We assess the Company’s sustainable development strategy and cover major social, economic and environmental events related to our strategies, Review risks and opportunities. Prioritization Internal evaluation Questionnaire 3. We refer to the social responsibility initiatives and standards proposed Feedback from readers Seminars by NGOs for topic selection. These include ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility). 4. Topics are selected based on the comprehensive assessment of stakeholders Validation concerns and their impact on the Company’s strategies. The time span and Content development the scope of impact for each specific topic are clearly defined to ensure the Department review accuracy of the information disclosed. Executive approval ABOUT THIS REPORT This report illustrates activities the Company undertook in 2016 pursuant to its ongoing commitment to advance the community, the economy and the environment. All information disclosed in this report was sourced from PetroChina’s official documents and statistics as well as from statistics gathered from the Company’s affiliated enterprises. It takes into account the Company’s development priorities and stakeholder concerns. This report has been reviewed in accordance with the Company’s Rules for Information Disclosure Control and Disclosure Procedures. For continuity and comparability purposes, this report provides explanations on past and future initiatives on certain issues. This report is formulated according to the key principles of accuracy, transparency and consistency. We took reference from the Guideline on Preparing the Report on Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide issued by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Furthermore, we continued to consult the Sustainability Reporting Guideline (Version 4.0) released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability (2015) co-published by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). As a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we report our progress in compliance with the Ten Principles and will submit the report to be posted on UNGCs website (http://www.unglobalcompact.org). This report includes a set of Forward-Looking Statements. Excluding historical facts, all events that may or will occur (including, but not limited to, premise, objectives, estimation and business plans) and descriptions of such events are categorized as Forward-Looking Statements. Due to the presence of external uncertainties, actual outcomes or the future climate may differ from those expressed in the Forward-Looking Statements. As the Forward-Looking Statements were made prior to December 31, 2016, PetroChina holds no responsibility or liability for any modifications made subsequent to the said date. Thank you for taking the time to read this report. We welcome any comments and suggestions you may have as we believe that your feedback can improve our performance. This report is published, along with the Company’s You can log on to our website Annual Report 2016 in March 2017, in simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese and English. In the case of any www.petrochina.com.cn or discrepancy, the version in simplified Chinese shall act as the lead publication. scan the QR code to browse The Board and all the Company’s directors hereby certify that there are no misrepresentations, misleading or download the electronic statements or material omissions in this report. Furthermore, we jointly and severally accept full version of this report and learn responsibility for the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of this report. more about us.
