2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About This Report G4-15, 28-33, 48 This annual Sustainability Report provides information about Stantec’s material issues and impacts. The report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 (GRI–G4) reporting framework at the core level, and specific references to GRI-G4 requirements are included throughout the document. Additional pertinent information is available in our Annual Report, Management Information Circular, Annual Information Form, and Sustainability Report: Additional Information on stantec.com. Combined, these reports provide transparency to Stantec’s economic, social, and environmental performance. This Sustainability Report includes information about Stantec’s performance for our 2016 fiscal year (the calendar year). Unless otherwise noted, it covers all Stantec’s global operations and the information applies to employees working in premises owned or leased by Stantec.* All financial information is reported in Canadian dollars unless otherwise specified. To check that information in this report is accurate and reliable, Stantec established internal controls and a formal review process, including reviews from senior management in each functional area and final approval from members of our Executive Leadership Team. This report has not been externally assured; however, our consolidated financial statements, referenced in this report, were audited by Ernst & Young LLP Chartered Professional Accountants. Stantec is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, and we have included our Communication on Progress within this report. Stantec additionally provides information to CDP (formerly, the Carbon Disclosure Project). * MWH Global, Inc., our largest acquisition in 2016, has not yet been integrated into our Stantec operations, as explained in this report. Therefore, MWH data is not included in this report (except for required financial reporting data). 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report Table of Contents MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO 1 DESIGN WITH COMMUNITY IN MIND 2 SUSTAINABILITY AT STANTEC 4 LIVING OUR VALUES 8 WE PUT PEOPLE FIRST 10 OUR WORKFORCE 12 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 12 CAREER DEVELOPMENT 12 LEARNING 13 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 15 WE DO WHAT IS RIGHT 16 HEALTH, SAFETY, AND SECURITY 18 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 18 GOVERNANCE 20 WE ARE BETTER TOGETHER 24 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 26 ABORIGINAL CONNECTIONS 27 SUPPLIER DIVERSITY 28 CREATIVITY, INNOVATION, AND RESEARCH 28 WE ARE DRIVEN TO ACHIEVE 30 SUSTAINABLE CLIENT SOLUTIONS 32 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 34 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT: 35 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Stantec Inc. 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO G4-1 Sustainability matters to our people and communities. At We Are Better Together Stantec, sustainability means reducing the environmental We are successful because of our strong relationships impacts and improving the social impacts of our operations. with our clients and communities. In 2016, we invested Plus—through the services we offer—we help our clients do $2 million in grants for creativity, innovation, and research the same. to support, encourage, and celebrate Stantec employees who develop and apply ideas that benefit our clients, our Sustainability is built into our operations, our promise, and communities, and our competitive position. About one-third our values. This report is organized by those values: we put of that funding supported sustainability-related projects. people first, we do what is right, we are better together, and we are driven to achieve. Supporting our communities goes beyond the projects we design. Each year, we donate money and time to help the We Put People First communities where we work and live. In 2016, we gave $3 million—our largest amount yet—to community activities As a professional services firm, our business is our people. in the arts, education, the environment, and health and And we want our people to be successful. Every year, wellness. And during our fourth annual Stantec in the we invest in learning and talent development initiatives Community Day, 8,000 employees provided 16,000 hours that help our people grow their careers. In 2016, our of volunteer services in 250 locations. Career Development Program was recognized with three Leadership Excellence and Development awards. We Are Driven to Achieve We focus on initiatives that enrich our welcoming, diverse, Beyond our internal focus on sustainability, we broadly and inclusive culture. In 2016, we launched a grassroots impact sustainability through our services. We can boast employee-led campaign across our Company. The about many examples, including our leadership on resiliency, Diversity & Inclusion Lifts Us Higher campaign inspired sustainable infrastructure and buildings, renewable energy, employees around the world to share stories about what climate action, and environmental protection. diversity and inclusion means to them. We also held unconscious bias training for our leadership team. From our leadership team to our employees in the field, our people are passionate about doing more with less. We Do What Is Right We continue to make progress toward our sustainability targets and actively support internationally recognized From health and safety to environmental stewardship standards, including the United Nations’ Global Compact and governance, our commitment to doing what is right and Sustainable Development Goals. I thank all employees is evident in all that we do. As our Company—and our for their commitment to sustainability and to designing with geographic reach—grows, so does our dedication to community in mind. upholding our strong reputation. In 2016, we enhanced our safety culture by developing the Safer Together program and incorporating security into our Health, Safety, and Environment system; added Marie-Lucie Morin to our board of directors, Bob Gomes thereby increasing its diversity; and changed how we President & CEO collect activity data to improve the accuracy of our environmental footprint calculations. Stantec Inc. 1 ABOUT STANTEC Creating communities is our purpose. Designing with community in mind is our promise. We’re active members of the communities we serve. That’s why at Stantec, we always design with community in mind. The Stantec community unites approximately 22,000 employees* working in over 400 locations across 6 continents. We collaborate across disciplines and industries to bring buildings, energy and resource, environmental, water, and infrastructure projects to life. Our work—engineering, architecture, interior design, landscape architecture, surveying, environmental sciences, construction services, project management, and project economics, from initial project concept and planning through to design, construction, commissioning, maintenance, decommissioning, and remediation—begins at the intersection of community, creativity, and client relationships. Our local strength, knowledge, and relationships, coupled with our world-class expertise, have allowed us to go anywhere to meet our clients’ needs in more creative and personalized ways. With a long-term commitment to the people and places we serve, Stantec has the unique ability to connect to projects on a personal level and advance the quality of life in communities across the globe. Stantec trades on the TSX and the NYSE under the symbol STN. Visit us at stantec.com or find us on social media. * As explained in this report, the 2016 acquisition of MWH has not yet been integrated into the Stantec operation and thus is not incorporated into this report. The number of legacy Stantec employees referenced throughout this report is 15,199. 2 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report Stantec Inc. Stantec Inc. 33 FOR MORE INFORMATION: See Sustainability Report: Additional Information for ·· Stantec’s GRI Content Index ·· A summary of our Company sustainability commitments ·· Additional information on the MWH acquisition ·· An overview of Stantec’s sustainable client solutions 4 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report SUSTAINABILITY AT STANTEC Welcome to Stantec’s tenth annual Sustainability Report. At Stantec, we commit to reducing our environmental impacts, improving the social impacts of our operations, and governing ourselves responsibly while operating profitably. Our commitment to sustainability enhances shareholder value, improves our relationships with clients, and helps us recruit and retain employees. By holding true to our promise to design with community in mind, we foster a culture of health, safety, security, inclusion, engagement, environmental performance, and quality. Stantec is committed to being a leader and model of sustainability. Our Sustainability Policy helps us implement best practices that meet the letter and spirit of the laws and regulations in locations where we do business and lead to an environmentally, socially, and economically sustainable future. TO BECOME A TOP 10 GLOBAL DESIGN FIRM. THAT’S OUR BUSINESS OBJECTIVE. And we’ll do this by strengthening our local position and bringing world-class expertise to the communities where we live and work. Sustainability is critical to achieving this objective and ensuring our long-term competitiveness. Stantec Inc. 5 STANTEC’S BUSINESS DIRECTLY SUPPORTS SIX UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Clean Water Decent Work and Sustainable Cities and Sanitation Economic Growth and Communities Affordable and Industry Innovation Climate Action Clean Energy and Infrastructure Sustainability Is Part of Our Strategy G4-2, 14, 15, EC2 We Continue to Expand G4-13, 23 Our employees—from every region and discipline—work One main way Stantec grows its business is through to make sure their day-to-day activities contribute to a acquisitions—we acquired five companies in 2016.* sustainable world. We commit to being a leader and model Historically, we have focused on North American design of sustainability by doing business that meets the needs firms. During our strategic plan development last year, we of the present while contributing to an environmentally, expanded our geographic acquisition approach to maintain socially, and economically sustainable future. growth. As a result, we acquired MWH Global, Inc. (MWH) in May 2016. This acquisition—the largest in our history— Sustainability is critical to ensuring our long-term significantly expanded our geographic reach and added to competitiveness and achieving our business objective to our service offerings and staff count. With similar values and be a top 10 global design firm. Sustainability at Stantec is culture and a shared focus on sustainability, MWH is a great not a series of stand-alone activities but rather a philosophy fit for Stantec. that is woven into the fabric of our business. Sustainability is embedded into our core business strategy and explicitly A key part of our acquisition strategy is to fully integrate articulated in our Company’s Sustainability Policy. acquired companies. Four of our 2016 acquisitions were quickly integrated into Stantec, but due to its size and Our clients deal with escalating temperatures, water complexity, MWH continued to operate under its brand scarcity, unprecedented storms, social protests, and loss and management systems. As a result, MWH data has not of biodiversity. Through the services we offer, we respond been incorporated into this report. When MWH is integrated, to these significant challenges, promote sustainable beginning in 2017,** Stantec will set new sustainability development, and protect human rights. We are a signatory baselines and targets for the combined company to to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, plus we actively address the significant increase in our size, services, and support six of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. geographical reach. * Stantec acquisitions in 2016 were MWH Global, Inc.; Bury Holdings, Inc.; VOA Associates, Inc.; Edwards & Zuck, P.C. and Edwards and Zuck Consulting Engineers, D.P.C.; and Architecture | Tkalcic Bengert. ** MWH Constructors will continue to operate as a separate business. 6 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality G4-18-27 Our key stakeholders—employees, clients, investors, and the Using various tools and processes, we regularly ask our key communities where we live and work—play a crucial role stakeholders to focus on their relationship with Stantec in our success and our ability to achieve our objective of and identify what matters most to them. Our goals are to becoming a top 10 global design firm. Key stakeholders are prioritize our sustainability efforts and address those issues those significantly impacted by our operations or those able that are materially significant. to significantly impact our operations. WAYS WE ENGAGE WITH OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS MATERIAL ISSUES Employees We Put People First Employee engagement survey Diversity and inclusion Integrity hotline Employment (third party) Skilled workforce retention Post-acquisition surveys Town hall meetings with employees We Are Better Together Diversity & Inclusion councils Charitable investments in education, clean environment, Career development and and food security performance reviews Clients We Do What Is Right Board and executive Regularly scheduled engagement and oversight client meetings Energy and emissions Client surveys management Supplier questionnaires Ethics Account managers Greener buildings and workspaces Investors Occupational health and safety Annual General Meeting Operational effectiveness Quarterly investor updates and project execution Conference attendance and quality Conference calls One-on-one meetings We Are Driven to Achieve Response to investor disclosure requests Economic performance Online stakeholder Sustainability in services feedback surveys Secondary research on select priorities Communities Stantec in the Community Day (across our Company) Locally driven engagement initiatives (varies regionally and locally) Aboriginal Partnerships Stantec Inc. 7 We Put People First We Are Better Together Our people are at the core When we combine our unique of what we do, and we want strengths and passion, we them to succeed. By providing reach our full potential as an challenging work and by organization and as trusted developing our leaders, we advisors to our clients. foster a culture of opportunity, mentorship, diversity, and innovation. We Do What Is Right We Are Driven to Achieve Working with integrity is a Achievement at every level begins promise we make to our clients, and ends with a firm commitment colleagues, and shareholders. to being the best we can be. Our high standard of business We are committed to being a practices guides our Project top 10 global design firm across Management Framework, the sectors, markets, and regions Code of Ethics, and policies we serve, and we plan to achieve and practices. an average compound annual growth rate of 15%. 8 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report Stantec Inc. 9 IN THIS Our Employee Career Learning Diversity SECTION: Workforce  Benefits Development and Inclusion  FOR MORE INFORMATION: See the data tables in the GRI Content Index for statistics pertaining to our workforce, learning, and performance review programs. 10 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report OUR VALUES IN ACTION Lifts Us Higher: Many Voices. One Song. Diversity and Inclusion at Stantec In 2016, Stantec employees took part in the first-ever Diversity and Inclusion Lifts Us Higher campaign. And it began with balloons. Employees at 240 Stantec offices around the world exhibited brightly colored biodegradable balloons in a myriad of creative displays, from pillowy pillars to weightless walls. Each balloon—inscribed with a message about diversity and inclusion—helped bring people together and inspire conversations and actions that support diversity and inclusion at Stantec. Alberta South regional leader, Arliss Szysky, is a member of the Canadian Diversity and Inclusion Council’s Communications and Education subcommittee, which developed this awareness campaign with help from our Marketing & Communications team. Arliss says, “We wanted to catch people’s attention to get them talking about diversity and inclusion. We can’t make a difference if we don’t have the conversation.” And the campaign goal was achieved! Approximately 1,300 photos of balloon displays poured in, and more than 300 employees submitted personal six-word stories about their experiences related to diversity and inclusion. Stantec Inc. 11 Our Workforce G4-10 Health and Dental Care For employees and their eligible Treating people with respect helps us dependents, we offer various options for recruit and retain the best talent. We comprehensive health and dental care value our employees and strive to ensure coverage so employees can choose they have what is needed to build great benefits that fit their needs. careers and be trusted advisors to our clients. We draw from a diverse candidate Wellness Program pool that reflects our clients and the Our voluntary Wellness program offers communities we serve. Many employees employees free information, tools, and join us through acquisitions, so integrating support programs to help them and their them quickly and helping them thrive is families improve their health and well-being. 2016 WORKFORCE critical to us. AT A GLANCE The Stantec team—a collaborative Employee and Family network of skilled employees—is Employees: 15,199 Assistance Program committed to improving the lives of people, our communities, and the Stantec offers a voluntary, confidential Females: 5,163 (34%) environment. To help us retain skilled counseling and referral service free to Males: 10,036 (66%) workers, Stantec offers comprehensive employees and dependent members of employee benefits and development their households to help with personal and Under 30: 2,498 (16%) programs, including competitive work-related problems and stressors. 30 to 50: 8,203 (54%) salaries, challenging work, training, Over 50: 4,498 (30%) coaching, mentoring, tuition, and Group Retirement Program leadership development. We offer country-specific group retirement Please note that employee plan choices, each with a wide variety of numbers include employees investment options, including retirement integrated into Stantec Employee Benefits G4-LA2 savings plans with employer-matching systems and, therefore, do not include MWH. contributions. We also have share purchase Our employees’ health and financial plans in Canada and the United States and well-being is the focus behind our a Tax-Free Savings Account plan in Canada. competitive, flexible benefits plans. The Canadian and US benefits plans are standard for all full-time and permanent Career Development G4-LA11 part-time (working at least 20 hours per week) employees. For other countries, As a professional services firm, our business program eligibility is consistent with local is based on our expertise. We have created markets. We continually monitor and a comprehensive talent management regularly enhance our benefits plans so we program that helps our employees stay remain competitive within our industry and up-to-date on our policies, strategies, and within each country that we operate in. commitments; gives them feedback on job performance; and supports them in their Compensation career growth. Our goal is to provide an overall compensation package based on an Employee Experience employee’s performance and geography At Stantec, we consider the entire and on what the industry does. Each year, employee experience—from onboarding we review local market and competitive to retirement. The career development third-party salary survey data to more process starts with an extensive onboarding competitively compensate our employees program, including information about based on performance, skill level, industry benefits and Company systems, as well as experience, and role at Stantec. training on values, ethics, health, safety, security, and the environment. 12 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report Stantec’s career streams, based on objectives. Through assessments and employees’ skills and preferences, help reviews and with assistance from supervisors, define career paths. Employees get employees measure achievements, fineopportunities for on-the-job development, tune individual contributions, identify career STANTEC WAS plus coaching and mentoring for personal development and training opportunities, and RECOGNIZED and professional development. At the end establish strategic performance objectives. FOR LEADERSHIP of their career, employees can transition to casual or part time, focusing on specialized EXCELLENCE BY Succession Planning assignments that make the most of their THE INTERNATIONAL expertise and career passions. All Stantec leaders participate in our HR.COM succession planning program by identifying potential candidates and developing ORGANIZATION Performance Reviews plans to prepare them for advanced roles through their 2016 Our annual Career Development and and duties. The chief executive officer LEAD (Leadership Performance Review process helps our and board of directors work together on Excellence and people set clearly defined goals and executive succession planning. Development) awards: Learning G4-LA10, HR2, SO4 ·· Best First Time Manager To increase our employees’ personal and organizational effectiveness, we provide formal Program (#11) and informal learning opportunities: internal training courses; attendance at conferences, seminars, and events; professional memberships; tuition assistance; coaching and ·· Best Experienced/ mentoring; and on-the-job training. Senior Leaders Program (#10) Online Training ·· Best Global/ International Stantec uses the eLearning platform to improve access to learning options. This platform Leadership provides the added benefit of minimizing our carbon footprint by reducing business travel. Program (#17) eLEARNING TRAINING INTENDED PROGRAMS REQUIREMENT AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION* Company Policies Mandatory All new employees 99% and Practices HEALTHY EMPLOYEES Ethics and Code Mandatory All employees 94% ARE HAPPIER AND of Conduct (each calendar year) MORE PRODUCTIVE. Equal Employment Mandatory Supervisors, project 93% We continue to offer Opportunity (each calendar year) managers, and an engaging voluntary leaders in the Wellness program in United States Canada and the Workplace Harassment Mandatory Supervisors, project 87% United States that (every second managers, and encourages employees calendar year) leaders in the United States to maintain a healthy lifestyle by earning Project Management Optional Employees interested 2,638 completed points through in improving skills education, physical * For mandatory programs, the percentage reflects participants from the intended audience who took the training. activity, healthy living, prevention, and biometric screening. Stantec Inc. 13 Live Training Although our learning strategy focuses on eLearning, we recognize the benefit of live training and offer a number of in-person courses. IN-PERSON TRAINING INTENDED PROGRAM REQUIREMENT AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION* Emerging Leaders Program Optional Supervisors 155 participants and leaders Supervisory and Leadership Optional Supervisors 13 supervisory development Programs and leaders sessions with 337 participants 11 leadership development sessions with 244 participants HSSE Safety Leadership: Mandatory Supervisors and 93% Rights and Responsibilities project managers HSSE Hazard Recognition, Mandatory Supervisors and 92% Assessment, and Control project managers Influencing Employees to Choose Safe Behaviors HSSE Alcohol and Mandatory Supervisors and 89% Drug Program project managers Project Management Optional Project managers Boot camp sessions delivered Training Program to over 650 employees in 26 offices, including London and Dubai Unconscious Bias Mandatory Senior leaders Delivered as part of our for Leadership executive strategy meetings * For mandatory programs, the percentage reflects participants from the intended audience who took the training. Human Rights Training We strongly believe that businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and we train our staff accordingly. NUMBER OF TOTAL TRAINING TRAINING COURSE EMPLOYEES LENGTH HOURS Ethics and Code of Conduct 14,087 1 hour 14,087 Equal Employment Opportunity 2,603 30 minutes 1,302 Workplace Harassment: Employee 2,508 1 hour 2,508 Edition and Manager Edition Basic Workplace Harassment: 633 2 hours 1,266 Manager Edition Standard 14 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report Diversity and Inclusion Management Commitment Diversity and inclusion permeates all the A diverse team is a strong team. And way up to Stantec executive management. a strong team better serves clients and Our CEO Scorecard (a management tool TO INSPIRE AND communities. Diversity expresses itself in used to evaluate executive and corporate EMPOWER WOMEN various ways: race, sex, gender, color, performance over the year) includes a AT STANTEC TO BE creed, religious beliefs, citizenship status, metric for diversity and inclusion, thus tying our efforts to our executive team’s overall STRONG LEADERS, national origin, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, performance and pay. In 2016, members WE CREATED 17 NEW education, personality, experiences, and of our board of directors also participated WOMEN@STANTEC approaches to work. We support, foster, in panel discussions focused on addressing EMPLOYEE and invest in each employee’s success gender and diversity issues. RESOURCE GROUPS through a culture of inclusion. Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Program helps us Pay Equity to provide education, meet the needs of our key stakeholders, is networking, and Historically, our industry—engineering, supported throughout our organization, community engagement design, and architecture—has been and is reflected in our value statements. male dominated. We actively address opportunities. To build compensation to mitigate disparities on this success, we D&I Program between genders, as well as provide tools include other identified To develop our D&I Plan in 2015, we for our leadership and hiring managers surveyed our employees to measure how to foster a more diverse, inclusive, and minorities in programs included and respected people of different equitable workforce. across the organization genders, ethnicities, and sexual orientations and expand our diversity feel. We also consulted with the Canadian Education and Outreach outreach efforts. Institute of Diversity and Inclusion to learn In 2016, our most senior leadership how we can strengthen our diversity and participated in training on unconscious bias inclusion culture so that all employees feel and the role it can take in our everyday more included. lives. We work to ensure that all levels of the In 2016, we repeated the employee census organization are educated about conscious and inclusion survey; it was interpreted by and unconscious biases. an outside consultant, then compared against our 2015 baseline data. The result? External Diversity and Inclusion WE CREATE A 7.2% improvement in the number of Stantec is also involved in external activities employees who feel included at work. OPPORTUNITY BY that promote diversity and inclusion in We also compared ourselves against global INVITING, EMBRACING, the broader marketplace. We actively workplace benchmarks in an Employer AND CELEBRATING participate in a number of community Inclusivity Index study. partnerships, promoting opportunities for DIFFERENCES. D&I Council representatives from engaging with and recruiting women, Our mission is to throughout the business provide program members of visible minorities, indigenous people, people of diverse ethnic origins, foster a workplace visibility and incorporate diversity and inclusion into our day-to-day activities. and people with disabilities. where employees are valued based on their abilities, talent, and potential. Stantec Inc. 15 IN THIS Health, Safety, Environmental Governance SECTION: and Security  Stewardship FOR MORE INFORMATION: See the data tables in the GRI Content Index for statistics pertaining to our health and safety programs and systems. See our CDP Climate Change response for more information about our environmental statistics. See our Management Information Circular for more information about our board of directors, governance structure, and board and executive remuneration and incentives. 16 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report OUR VALUES IN ACTION Everybody Home Safe, Every Day Making Safety Personal at Stantec At Stantec, we believe that following a robust safety system—whether at work or at home—is the best defense against injury. Our interdependent safety culture helps shape how our employees think, feel, and talk about safety. For example, one of our structural engineers arrived on site to inspect a building under renovation. The general contractor and crew were gone for lunch, so no workers were present. He entered the building and climbed two flights of stairs. After completing the inspection, he walked to another stairwell, opened the door—and froze. The landing and fire escape were gone. Empty space stood between the engineer and a potentially deadly two-story fall. Jon Lessard, senior vice president of Health, Safety, Security, and Environment (HSSE), shared this story at a safety meeting. “The light came on for many in the room,” Jon says. “They realized that our workspaces are dynamic, and we need to take responsibility for what we—and others—do at all times.” Today, Jon leads the charge to grow Stantec’s interdependent safety culture, one where we look out for ourselves as well as for each other. Why? Because we’re better—and safer—together. Stantec Inc. 17 Health, Safety, Stantec’s security program provides tools, resources, and practices to protect and Security employees when traveling and to address location and asset risks. IN 2016, STANTEC We are committed to providing and DESIGNED SAFER maintaining a healthy and safe workplace, TOGETHER—A FACILITATED and to making sure that our people return Environmental Stewardship INTRODUCTION TO home injury-free every day. G4-12, EN2, EN3, EN5, EN6, EN15, EN16, EN18, EN19 OUR EVOLVING SAFETY Occupational Health and Safety Stantec is responsible for addressing CULTURE—to strengthen the impact of our operations on the each employee’s We operate under an Occupational Health environment. We choose approaches of and Safety Management System that is attitude and least impact to the environment and are OHSAS 18001-certified. Stantec applies commitment to safety accountable for our day-to-day choices: health and safety principles when planning from the products we buy and the suppliers and help employees and executing projects, shares practices we retain to the way we manage resources focus on safety at and lessons, and focuses on a robust in our offices. continuous-improvement cycle. work, at home, and in Stantec manages, monitors, and improves the community. Safer At Stantec, each employee is trained our environmental performance with a Together gives us a in health, safety, and security, and we formal Environmental Management System provide support, policies, and practices that common language, that is ISO 14001-certified. In late 2016, strengthen and uphold our safety culture. increases consistency our new Environment and Sustainability In 2016, we introduced a Leading Indicator program manager began improving our across business areas, Safety Index that measures the proactive management approaches. In 2017, we will and provides a and preventive activities—including facility define new environmental baselines and venue for discussing inspections, planned job observations, and performance goals as part of integrating MWH, our largest acquisition. our prevention and hazard identifications—performed by our employees. post-incident safety Environmental Footprint performance. We also identified our 12 critical risks— those with the greatest potential for serious Each year since 2010, we have calculated incidents—and established controls for our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and employees to follow when engaged in energy consumption and reported them critical risk work. Employees can more easily in our annual Sustainability Report and our identify, recall, and access information CDP submittals. Because of our Company’s about critical risk controls so that when strategy of growth through acquisition and, critical risks are present in the field or office, therefore, the regular addition of new staff employees know how to work safely. and offices to our footprint, our overall emissions and energy consumption will We see the results of our focused health continue to increase. To track and influence and safety endeavors: in 2016, Stantec’s the success of our conservation measures, total recordable incident rate fell to 0.52 we evaluate our progress against reduction (from 0.67 in 2015), the lowest since we first goals based on emissions and energy recorded this statistic in 2006. consumption per employee. At the end of 2016, Stantec occupied Security approximately 400 offices covering more Our world is increasingly complex with than 450,000 square metres (4.9 million new and emerging security challenges square feet) of space. Because most related to geopolitical threats, terrorism, offices are leased in multi-tenant buildings, crime, and natural disasters. Stantec helps separate metering is usually not available; minimize and manage these risks. In 2016, utility amounts are included in lease costs we added “security” to our HSSE Program. and are not easily accessible. 18 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report SCOPE 1 AND 2* GHG SCOPE 1 AND 2* ENERGY IN 2016, STANTEC EMISSIONS (mtCO2e) CONSUMPTION (MWh) PROCESSED PER EMPLOYEE PER EMPLOYEE 59,420 kilograms (131,000 pounds) 3.60 3.60 10.00 10.00 of equipment, recycled 750 3.40 3.40 8.00 8.00 cellphones, and redeployed metric ton C02e metric ton C02e 3.20 3.20 6.00 6.00 120 iPhones. MWh MWh 3.00 3.00 4.00 4.00 2.80 2.80 2.00 2.00 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2016 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2013 2016 2014 2015 2016 * Scope 1 includes fleet emissions and natural gas used in our offices. Scope 2 includes electricity used in our offices. As noted in last year’s report, we Reducing Our Impact streamlined our activity data collection Various programs at Stantec help minimize in 2015: instead of collecting data office the resources we use. They bring direct by office, we now use centralized sources environmental benefits, increase our (e.g., Accounts Payable, Travel, Fleet, efficiency, and provide cost savings. Procurement). In 2016, we collected additional activity data directly from REAL ESTATE landlords for our largest office locations, and in 2017, we will continue to refine our Newly acquired companies often result process as we integrate the global offices in Stantec having multiple offices in one acquired from MWH. locale. As soon as possible, we consolidate space and consider LEED/BOMA Best Since our 2013 baseline year, we have buildings as well as sustainability successfully reduced our per-employee features. Our offices work with landlords GHG emissions by more than 10%; however, to participate in energy and water our per-employee energy consumption conservation programs, use Energy Star has risen more than 2%. We will continue or comparable appliances, and purchase to explore and evaluate ways to improve renewable energy when possible. activity data collection (which makes our data more accurate), to continue BUSINESS TRAVEL to reduce per-employee GHG emissions, and to find alternatives to help us meet We can reduce our environmental footprint our per-employee energy consumption for business travel (airline and rental car reduction goals. use). As a professional services company, we must travel to respond to client needs, but we can choose more efficient travel options and reduce nonessential business travel (which also saves us money). Stantec Inc. 19 We have a travel management system, RECYCLING and our central travel provider provides Stantec offices implement recycling tools that help monitor our progress. We also programs that meet municipal recycling encourage employees to collaborate in standards and take advantage of EVERY DECEMBER, WE other ways, including virtual meetings. progressive local options. We continue SEND ELECTRONIC working with offices to improve local SEASON’S GREETINGS EQUIPMENT waste-diversion programs. to our clients and To save power, we automatically hibernate colleagues through workstations and laptops when not in use. Sustainable Supply Chain For our IT data centers, we are moving our holiday eCard. Stantec strives to award business to toward a higher density infrastructure so that suppliers who demonstrate a strong We donate the costs less power and air conditioning is required. commitment to sustainability through their normally associated New network technologies reduce the ethical, labor, health and safety, and with printing and number of duplicate services and minimize environmental principles. Stantec’s supply our equipment needs. distributing to chain includes leased buildings and fleet, purchased goods and services, and project charities that our We standardized our Dell, Microsoft, subcontractors. Our procurement team clients choose. We and Apple hardware; one selection uses standard sustainability language in donated $50,000 criterion was life-cycle environmental requests for proposals to new vendors and management. All standard workstation from our 2016 makes sustainability features a standard and laptop equipment is Electronic campaign to Habitat reporting requirement. Product Environmental Assessment Tool for Humanity, Oxfam, (EPEAT) certified. We use Dell’s Asset Resale and Recovery Services to securely Food Banks Canada, recycle computer e-waste and Firefly Governance and Food Banks Asset Management to recycle our G4-14, 34-37, 42, 49, 56-58, LA12, SO3, SO4, PR8 United States. mobile devices. Responsible global citizenship calls for a OFFICE SUPPLIES culture that is committed to operating under the highest ethical standards, promoting Using centralized vendors for office supply integrity and excellence in project delivery, purchases helps us better track what is and working toward sustainable growth. used, negotiate discounts for sustainable materials, and influence purchasing choices. Our vendors offer a range of Company Leadership eco-friendly office supplies. For instance, in At Stantec, we recognize that a significant many Canadian offices, our paper is made part of doing what is right is having the of 100% post-consumer recycled content right leadership in place. The integrity because of our strategic partnership with of a company’s board of directors sets Rileys Copy Centre. the tone for its operations, and Stantec has a strong group of qualified and To reduce overall paper consumption, our knowledgeable directors. Records Management Program promotes electronic file storage. We encourage Stantec actively pursues gender diversity electronic markup of documents and on the board; in 2016, we added drawings and double-sided, black-andMarie-Lucie Morin as a board member. white printing, and we continue to promote Now, three board members are women electronic invoicing with our clients. and six are men. As stewards of our Company, board FLEET ACTIVITY members participate with executive Our Fleet Management group understands leadership in our strategic planning the environmental impacts of our fleet and process and, each quarter, review improves efficiency and reduces emissions. management’s performance against In 2016, we replaced 85 older vehicles with key strategic and operational 84 new vehicles that offer lower emissions objectives. The chief executive officer and better fuel economy. has designated senior environmental, 20 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report social, and governance leadership to Stantec’s legal team offers advice and the chief operating officer. Members support to help us act ethically and of our corporate HSSE team implement lawfully. Employees who become aware sustainability programs and reporting of unethical or unlawful issues relating to NUMEROUS TOPICS and are responsible to a Sustainability accounting, internal controls, auditing, or ARE ADDRESSED IN Executive Steering Committee. other financial or nonfinancial matters can OUR ETHICS AND report them to our Company’s Integrity Hotline (managed by a third party). CODE OF CONDUCT Ethics and Integrity Complaints can be made anonymously. TRAINING, including Stantec does what is right by embracing Stantec does not tolerate retaliation against code of conduct, the highest standards of personal and employees who voice concerns. professional integrity. Our ideals are those conflicts of interest, shared by all good companies—sound Stantec’s Code of Business Conduct Policy global antibribery governance, transparent accounting, is accessible to all employees through and anticorruption, and long-term shareholder value. stantec.com and our Intranet site. We government require that all employees, including Corruption is a serious threat to our business. contract employees and our board of contracting, harassment To reduce risk, we employ appropriate directors, take Ethics and Code of Conduct and discrimination, mitigation strategies: all operations are training every year. This training helps us political activities, and assessed quarterly for corruption-related comply with regulations and requirements risks, and the economic and political social responsibility. while demonstrating to stakeholders our conditions of the markets we serve are commitment to ethics, integrity, safety, closely monitored. and security. Integrated Management System Our Integrated Management System (IMS) provides a disciplined and accountable framework that guides how we deliver services to our clients and communities. The IMS covers all critical business processes and is illustrated in the diagram below. LEADERSHIP COMMITMENT PROJECT & OPERATIONAL STEWARDSHIP ·· Strategic plan ·· Project delivery processes 1 ·· Core values LEADERSHIP ·· Occupational health COMMITMENT ·· Enterprise risk and safety assessment ·· Major projects risk reviews 4 2 ·· Carbon footprint IMPROVEMENT PROJECT & reduction targets ·· Stakeholder engagement & CHANGE OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT STEWARDSHIP ·· Business continuity ·· Regulatory compliance management ·· Third-party services 3 ·· Policies ·· Incident management PERFORMANCE ASSURANCE ·· Employee orientation ·· Records management ·· Maintenance and PERFORMANCE ASSURANCE calibration of equipment ·· Client feedback ·· Internal practice audits IMPROVEMENT & CHANGE MANAGEMENT ·· External practice audits ·· Improvement procedure ·· Management review Stantec Inc. 21 The IMS offers many benefits: ISO/IEC 20000-1:2011-certified IT Service Management System. ·· Promotes quality service delivery Stantec’s comprehensive IT security ·· Promotes transparent accountability program helps ensure the continuous and through rigorous performance effective security of Stantec’s information assessment systems and maintain data confidentiality, ·· Clarifies expectations for employees integrity, and availability (whether data is and management stored on our premises or in the cloud). ·· Facilitates formal and regular Our comprehensive security systems include client feedback web filtering, intrusion protection, cloud·· Supports regulatory compliance based email filtering, advanced threatprotection systems, and next-generation Currently, our IMS is certified by BSI Palo Alto firewalls. We have multi-factor and Management Systems to the following two-factor authentication for external access internationally recognized standards: to our systems, and our highly secure wireless ·· ISO 9001:2008 Quality network has three levels of access. We also Management System have stringent requirements for reviewing and applying cloud-based applications that ·· OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational store financial or personal information. Health and Safety Management System ·· ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Business Continuity Management System Certain events can prevent us from ·· ISO/IEC20000-1:2011 IT Service delivering services to our clients. Our primary Management System risks are the loss of IT systems, impact of an influenza pandemic on our employee Each year, BSI conducts third-party resources, and loss of access due to an compliance audits. Our Internal Practice emergency at an office that provides group conducts field audits for at least key client services. Stantec has business one-third of our offices annually and for all continuity management practices that offices at least once over the three-year address each risk. These practices, a core term (for ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and OHSAS part of our Quality Management System, are 18001 registrations). Our headquarters in subject to both internal and external audits. Edmonton, Alberta, is audited every year because many processes being audited are centralized and managed in that office. Management Review and Improvement For our quarterly reviews by management, Risk Management executive leadership considers business performance, leading and lagging health Stantec strategically manages risk at the and safety indicators, progress against project level and through our Enterprise environmental goals, client feedback, Risk Management program, which applies and claims statistics. When management the integrated framework designed by the performance issues are identified, a formal Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of improvement plan is put in place. the Treadway Commission. Project Delivery Privacy and Information Security Our success as a company is directly Stantec values relationships with employees, related to how well we deliver work clients, and investors. We follow a strict to our clients. Stantec’s formal Project Privacy Policy to protect personal information, Management Framework and Quality maintain high standards of confidentiality for Management System identify and promote personal information we have, and manage consistent practices for our project teams, it according to applicable provincial, state, thereby improving productivity and and federal legislation. Stantec is one of efficiency, managing project risks, the only architectural, engineering, and and promoting client satisfaction. construction firms that maintains an 22 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report Stantec Inc. 23 IN THIS Community Aboriginal Supplier Creativity, Innovation, SECTION: Engagement  Connections Diversity and Research FOR MORE INFORMATION: See stantec.com for more examples of our Stantec in the Community Day activities. 24 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report OUR VALUES IN ACTION BikeSmart-GrowSmart Stantec Transportation Planners Bring Bike Safety to Their Communities Senior transportation planner Scott Lane, a League of American Bicyclists Certified Master Instructor, is dedicated to keeping children—and their love of cycling—alive through the BikeSmart-GrowSmart program he co-founded five years ago. For our 2016 Stantec in the Community Day, Scott and his Stantec colleagues conducted a BikeSmart-GrowSmart clinic at Dillard Drive Elementary School in Raleigh, North Carolina. Our team of trained instructors talked about bike safety and then oversaw the nine-yearolds as they strapped on helmets, hopped on bikes, and practiced safe starting, stopping, scanning, and signaling. “At BikeSmart-GrowSmart, we make kids better bicycle riders,” Scott says. “We hope this will also make them responsible drivers.” Amy Sackaroff, a trained bike safety instructor, is also a transportation planner who volunteers to make her community safer. Now Amy voluntarily leads the development of a Safe Routes to School Program in 17 municipalities on behalf of one of Stantec’s former metropolitan planning clients. Amy, Scott, and a dozen other staff at the Raleigh office are transforming our communities into more walkable, more rideable, and safer places. Scott says, “Through these programs, we connect directly to our community and to our most valuable end clients—our children.” Stantec Inc. 25 Community Engagement G4-SO1 We commit to our communities by investing in initiatives that build capacity and support long-term change. We do this year-round by contributing time, expertise, and money. Annually, Stantec donates up to 1% of pretax profits to charitable and not-for-profit endeavors through direct cash contributions and in-kind services. We made this commitment first in 2007, and each year the amount we give has grown. PILLAR Arts Education Environment Health & Wellness OUR Every thriving Stantec encourages Stantec supports Stantec proudly community has a the pursuit of higher environmental supports healthcare PHILOSOPHY vibrant arts community. education by supporting programs that initiatives that make Stantec supports visual scholarships and promote sustainable a difference in our and performing arts educational programs. development, communities. We focus organizations, museums, We partner with environmental on supporting credible art education programs, schools and businesses protection, energy and recognized health and symphonies. to help students efficiency, air quality, charities, including pursue education and response to national, provincial, and training in design climate change. and state charitable disciplines. As well, health organizations, we actively promote regional hospitals, and science, technology, health centers. engineering, and math (STEM) education. A FEW The Nina Haggerty Motivated by our Our team in Boston, Our Albany, Centre for the Arts in ongoing commitment Massachusetts, New York, office showed EXAMPLES Edmonton, Alberta, is to education and our donated five months’ how we “CAN” feed one of our rewarding Aboriginal Partnerships worth of professional our communities partnerships. Our initiative, we offer a expertise. They helped through teamwork sponsorship, fundraising, unique scholarship the Charles River and a CANstruction and volunteer work to Students on Ice. A Conservancy determine competition. The team help the organization learning opportunity whether a beach along transformed their cans of give artistic identities to for high school and the Charles River at food into a classic Skeepeople with disabilities. university students, this North Point Park was Ball machine for the 2016 Arctic expedition gives safe for swimming and “play” theme. students a chance to provided a feasibility experience the polar study for a permanent Members of our regions firsthand. The swimming facility. Calgary, Alberta, office scholarship is awarded got on the phone during to one deserving Members of our Baton a Power-Hour Radiothon student each year. Rouge office helped a in 2016 to raise funds for local family in East Baton the Alberta Children’s As part of Louisville, Rouge Parish rebuild Hospital. Their combined Kentucky’s Give a after the 2016 Louisiana efforts brought in Day – Mayor’s Week flooding. They spent an 100 monthly donors. of Service, our Water entire day removing and Transportation debris and gutting teams spent hands-on the home to help with afternoons sharing their restoration. engineering experience with over 50 after-school students at Meyzeek Middle School. 26 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report Corporate Giving Aboriginal Connections Because we are an active part of the G4-HR8 communities we serve, we want to give back to the places we call home. We At Stantec, we commit to building and IN 2016, STANTEC connect with people within our communities maintaining respectful and successful CONTRIBUTED and strengthen those communities in relationships with Aboriginal communities. $3 MILLION meaningful ways. Our Company and our Our direct involvement supports Aboriginal employment, capacity building, education, to community people donate time, expertise, and funds to four core areas: the arts, education, the training, and community engagement. activities in the environment, and health and wellness. Our programs have two components: arts, education, partnerships and relations. the environment, Stantec in the Community Day and health and For the last four years, Stantec has provided Aboriginal Partnerships wellness—our largest a day—Stantec in the Community Day— Successful partnerships are built on mutual contribution yet. when employees can pool their resources respect and common goals. For 17 years, and, together, make a difference in their Stantec has been the minority partner and communities. Stantec provides paid time legal operator of numerous Aboriginal so that employees can support local Partnerships. In 2016, seven Aboriginal charitable organizations. Partnerships generated $17 million in gross revenue for Stantec and our partners. IN 2016, 8,000 STANTEC Dollars for Doers EMPLOYEES PROVIDED Stantec’s Aboriginal Partnerships create Stantec encourages employees to shared value for our partners, our clients, 16,000 HOURS OF PAID personally give back to their communities and Stantec that extends beyond revenue. VOLUNTEER SERVICES through our Dollars for Doers program. We We connect our clients to local resources reward employees who volunteer personal in 250 locations and provide local Aboriginal community time or money to local charities by boosting members with employment, training, handsduring Stantec in the the value of their charitable contribution: on skill development, and direct investment Community Day. Our we provide a charitable donation for to support economic growth. involvement with food every 25 hours of personal volunteer time or a matching donation if a team of four Stantec also provided community drives, park cleanups, or more Stantec employees raises money engagement support—valued at $35,000— hospital radiothons, for a qualified local charitable event. In directly to the communities of our Aboriginal and hundreds of other 2016, Stantec donated more than $23,000 Partnerships. We supported programs such activities helps our through this program. as Students on Ice, Polar Bike, Food First, Aboriginal Sport Circle – Youth Traditional communities develop Scholarships Games, and the Aboriginal HIPPY and thrive. reading program. To support the next generation of leaders, in 2016, Stantec gave approximately $347,000 to 74 scholarships for programs Aboriginal Relations in colleges, universities, and vocational In 2016, we announced our new Aboriginal and technical schools. Part of this amount Relations Program. This program fosters was awarded through our internal Stantec positive and productive relationships with Scholarship Program (an annual opportunity), Aboriginal communities and businesses, which recognizes the achievements of supports diversity and inclusion, and children and other dependents of Stantec guides planning, procurement, opportunity employees. Scholarships range in focus from pursuits, and project execution. A key engineering to design and the arts. leader in our Practice Services team, Denise Pothier, has been appointed to a new leadership position—vice president of Aboriginal Relations. Stantec Inc. 27 In 2016, Stantec joined the Canadian ·· Finding ways to trench pipelines through Council of Aboriginal Business; the council watercourses while protecting fish and promotes prosperous relationships and their habitat grows an economy based on mutual STANTEC PROMOTES ·· Connecting geomorphic and biologic respect and shared prosperity. We proudly changes to dam removal THOUGHT LEADERSHIP supported Aboriginal educational programs, ·· Creating innovative housing solutions and helps shape the including a continued sponsorship of the University of Alberta’s Indigenous Partnership using small living as a model for affordable future of our industry Development Program and a sponsorship of and sustainable urban housing by allocating $2 million the Indspire Youth Career Fair. ·· Using big data to prioritize infrastructure annually to creativity, investments that make communities more innovation, and walkable and accessible research activities. Supplier Diversity G4-EC9 Publish & Speak Stantec performs services for numerous Stantec employees regularly present federal, state, and municipal clients in at conferences and publish research the United States. For those contracts, we papers, journal articles, and reports about track the opportunities provided to small scientific advances achieved or attempted and diverse businesses. Our overall spend while working on client projects. Stantec’s on small and disadvantaged businesses new Publish & Speak Program awards increased by US$4.5 million to US$73 million employees $1,500 to $3,000 to cover their time in 2016, representing 14% of our total developing manuscripts for publication or subcontracting. presentation at conferences. In 2016, more than 25 papers were published by Stantec-affiliated authors in peer-reviewed Creativity, Innovation, technical journals. and Research eLibrary In-house researchers can stay at the Stantec engages in creativity, innovation, forefront of their fields by using Stantec’s and research to better prepare for future eLibrary, which provides online access client needs and to promote thought to subscriptions for 6,200 technical leadership. Our programs encourage journals, including journals specializing in creative and innovative thinking, a key part sustainability. The environmental impacts of the value we bring to our projects, clients, of hardcopy libraries are avoided; we had and communities. 20,000 paperless downloads of about 10 pages each in 2016. Greenlight Program Stantec invests $2 million a year in our Academic Partnerships Greenlight Program. Consisting of creativity In addition to initiatives that we fund and innovation projects as well as research internally, Stantec partners with academic and development projects, this program researchers to access federal funding for provides project grants to applicants research conducted with our involvement. (employees and project teams). In 2016, In 2016, these partnerships attracted about one-third of the grants funded $550,000 in federal funding for sustainabilityprojects related to sustainability. Read related research. about a few project examples below: ·· Using greenhouse building technology to support food security in high-Arctic climates ·· Identifying optimal, sustainable, and multipurpose uses of wetland-like areas in large, aging reservoirs 28 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report Stantec Inc. 29 IN THIS Sustainable Economic SECTION: Client Solutions Performance  FOR MORE INFORMATION: See Sustainability Report: Additional Information for a summary of various Stantec client services related to sustainability and for examples of project profiles. For more information about our economic performance, refer to our Annual Report. 30 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report OUR VALUES IN ACTION Envision at Stantec From Strategic Investment to Competitive Advantage In 2008, Paul Zofnass, an industry-leading acquisitions specialist, invited Stantec to serve on the advisory board for the Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure, a new initiative he established with Harvard University. Because of our commitment to sustainability, we jumped at the opportunity to contribute. We sensed that we were on the cusp of major changes in resiliency and sustainability—and we were right. The Zofnass Program evolved into the intellectual engine behind the Envision Sustainable Infrastructure Rating System, created by the Institute of Sustainable Infrastructure (ISI). Fast forward to 2016. Stantec, an ISI charter member, is at the forefront of the Envision movement in North America and can boast a number of firsts: the first Envision certifications for projects in Canada, the world’s first Envision-verified wastewater treatment project, and the world’s first Envision-verified transportation project. But our passion for Envision extends beyond project certification. “We employ Envision sustainability professionals, trainers, and verifiers,” explains Marty Janowitz, vice president of Sustainable Development. “By educating clients on how to set and achieve their own infrastructure sustainability goals, we further the overall sustainability cause.” Stantec Inc. 31 Sustainable Client Solutions G4-EC2 RESILIENCE Because Stantec is a professional services ·· Our services position communities firm working with industrial and government to withstand and recover rapidly clients around the world, we have the from disruptions. potential to influence our clients’ technical ·· Stantec is recognized as a thought decisions to improve sustainability. Our leader because of our infrastructure pledge is to provide sustainable client planning and design during our solutions that protect our environment recovery work for New York City after and improve people’s lives. Hurricane Sandy. Our professionals regularly apply sustainability principles and techniques SHOWCASE PROJECT: We helped in their areas of expertise. An integrated clients secure US$250 million in sustainability strategy helps our clients resiliency grants through the U.S. achieve social, environmental, and Department of Housing and Urban economic benefits and, more than ever, Development’s National Disaster business advantages. To support this, Resilience Competition. Stantec is involved in steering the direction of policy, standards, and rating systems in the public and private sectors. SUSTAINABLE INFRASTRUCTURE ·· Stantec has 171 employees certified under the Envision certification credential that includes 3 Envision trainers and 3 verifiers. ·· We have 17 projects that applied the Envision framework and 3 projects that achieved Envision certification. SHOWCASE PROJECT: Stantec’s design of the City of Surrey’s Biofuel Processing Facility will divert 80% of wastes for use as fertilizer and power. SUSTAINABILITY AND BUILDING PERFORMANCE ·· We have more than 700 LEED Accredited Professionals on staff and have designed 402 LEED-certified projects. ·· We have 24 net-zero energy projects; 3 target Passive House certification. SHOWCASE PROJECT: Our Sustainable Waterloo Region design helps inspire others to build regenerative buildings. 32 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENTAL PRESERVATION ENERGY AND HABITAT RESTORATION ·· We have been pioneers in utility·· We have 2,500 environmental scientists, scale renewable energy generation engineers, planners, and technicians development since the 1990s and are with expertise in the full spectrum of on the forefront of renewable energy’s environmental sciences. next phase of system integration and ·· Stantec provides proactive advice to energy storage. clients for design projects that reduce the ·· We work with major utilities across environmental footprint of their industrial, North America on grid resilience, commercial, and urban projects and distributed generation, and the stability restore terrestrial, wetland, freshwater, of power supply. estuarine, and marine habitats. SHOWCASE PROJECT: Stantec is helping SHOWCASE PROJECT: Stantec helped improve Toronto’s electricity grid by offset wetland impacts from the using battery energy storage systems. Chicago O’Hare airport expansion by restoring the Deer Grove East forest preserve. CLIMATE CHANGE PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ·· We work to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate change while maximizing economic, social, ·· By facilitating respectful conversations and environmental opportunities for among those with a stake in a project, sustainability. we help clients connect with communities ·· Stantec provides a robust set of and identify priorities. climate change services, including ·· Stantec helps clients and communities environmental accounting, strategic partner so that technical projects move management consulting, and climate forward in a positive way. change risk assessment and mitigation. SHOWCASE PROJECT: We partnered SHOWCASE PROJECT: For the City with the Peerless Trout First Nation of Edmonton, Stantec assessed to build schools that incorporated emission levels and prepared plans language, tradition, history, and popular for future GHG reductions. activities into the design. Stantec Inc. 33 Economic Performance G4-EC1 Gross Revenue EBITDA 4,500 350 We recognize that our profitability is directly tied to the health of our people and the environment. We are pleased to say we 4,000 300 have been profitable each year since 1954. 3,500 Our 2016 annual results were impacted 250 primarily because of the MWH acquisition,* 3,000 the completion of a common share offering, and the renegotiation of our credit 2,500 200 facilities. We closed 2016 with a 49.5% increase in gross revenue, a 9.8% increase in 2,000 150 EBITDA,** and a 15.5% increase in adjusted EBITDA compared to 2015. EBITDA was 1,500 affected by a decrease in gross margin 100 as a percentage of net revenue and an 1,000 increase in administrative and marketing expenses due to MWH-related acquisition 50 500 costs, professional fees, integration-related administration labor expenses, severance costs, and retention and merit payments 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 to retain key employees during integration periods following acquisitions. Our net income was $130.5 million in 2016 Diluted EPS Net Income compared to $156.4 million in 2015. Diluted 175 1.75 earnings per share (EPS) was $1.22 in 2016 compared to $1.65 in 2015, and adjusted diluted EPS was $1.69 in 2016 compared 150 1.50 to $1.84 in 2015. Net income and diluted EPS were impacted by increases in net interest expense, the amortization of 125 1.25 intangible assets, and the number of shares outstanding, and by a higher effective income tax rate. 100 1.00 Acquisitions continue to be vital to our 75 0.75 strategy, deepening the Company’s expertise and strengthening our presence in priority markets. Growth in 2016 was mostly 3,000 50 0.50 due to the contributions of acquisitions we completed in recent years. This past year, 2,500 2016, was highlighted by the acquisitions 25 0.25 of MWH; Bury Holdings; VOA Associates; Edwards & Zuck; and Architecture|Tkalcic 2,000 Bengert. Each organization adds strength 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 in key regions and sectors. 1,500 Free cash flow * Though MWH data is not incorporated into other parts of this report, it is included in all reported financials 1,000 All charts represent millions of Canadian dollars, except for Diluted EPS. Diluted EPS for 2012 because of financial reporting requirements. and 2013 has been adjusted for the November 14, 2014, two-for-one share split. Figures for 2012 are restated for IFRS 10 and 11. ** EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted EPS are non-IFRS 500 measures defined in our 2016 Annual Report. 0 11 12 13 14 15 34 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report United Nations Global Compact: Communication On Progress (COP) ISSUE PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Stantec COP: Stantec’s mandatory Ethics and Code of Conduct training covers ethics, integrity, harassment and discrimination, anticorruption, government contracting, political activities, and social responsibility. Human Rights: Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Stantec COP: Stantec monitors best practice commitments for all ethical performance in the context of ongoing project management and terms and conditions reviews. Labor: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Stantec COP: Stantec does not engage in any practices that would impinge on freedom of association or the right to collective bargaining. Labor: Principle 4: Businesses should eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Stantec COP: Stantec does not do business in areas where forced or compulsory labor is a significant risk. Labor: Principle 5: Businesses should effectively abolish child labor. Stantec COP: Stantec does not do business in areas where child labor is a significant risk. Labor: Principle 6: Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Stantec COP: Stantec has a comprehensive Harassment and Discrimination Policy that prohibits harassment or discrimination of employees on the basis of characteristics such as race, sex, gender, color, creed, religious beliefs, citizenship status, national origin, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Stantec COP: Stantec’s approach to environmental management is centered on prevention. Environment: Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Stantec COP: Stantec’s ISO 14001-certified Environmental Management System helps the Company reduce the environmental impacts of our operations, monitor compliance with environmental regulations, and advance environmental performance commitments consistent with our Sustainability Policy. Environment: Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Stantec COP: Stantec is considered a leader in the sustainable design of buildings and civic infrastructure. Anticorruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Stantec COP: Stantec’s mandatory Ethics and Code of Conduct training covers ethics, integrity, harassment and discrimination, anticorruption, government contracting, political activities, and social responsibility. M  WH Global, Inc., our largest acquisition in 2016, has not yet been integrated into our Stantec operations, as explained in this report. Therefore, MWH data is not included in this report (except for required financial reporting data). Stantec Inc. 35 Contact us for more information Head Office 200, 10160 – 112 Street Edmonton, Alberta T5K 2L6 Canada Ph: (780) 917-7000 Fx: (780) 917-7330 sustainability.internal@stantec.com Learn more about Stantec’s sustainability efforts at stantec.com. 36 2016 Stantec Sustainability Report
