10 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability that showed the necessity of weight-minimizing packaging material usage and of using more recycled packInnovative products, aging material. together with socially Since business travel is our third largest generator of carbon emissions, reducing these emissions is a top and environmentally priority. In 2016 we made focused efforts to decrease onsite maintenance in our service organization. We conscious behavior, implemented several measures: ■■ Remote monitoring in the Netherlands reduced travfor the benefit of ■■ eling hours by 2,666 hours Germany, Austria and Switzerland implemented a all our stakeholders centralized call entry, which increased the first resolution rate and reduce travel ■■ The French service car fleet average emission was reduced from 109 g CO2/km to 98 g CO2 /km ■■ The number of contract customers with remote fault handling in Norway has increased from 98 to 134. Ascom is committed to conducting its business while In Denmark, customers with surveillance have incomplying with all applicable laws on international, creased from 57 to 101 national and local levels. As an international technology group Ascom aims to fulfill the high standards of Ascom has also reduced unnecessary business travel environmental and social concerns while bringing by encouraging internal teams to make better use of the business forward as a comprehensive solution technology-based alternatives such as video conferprovider. encing, teleconferencing and online meetings. Many long-term improvements have resulted: E.g. intercontiOur Code of Ethical Business Conduct and several Cornental air travel from Sweden has decreased CO2eq porate Directives form the basis of our corporate culture. by 20% from 2013 to 2016. The Code of Ethical Business Conduct contains binding Ascom complies with several international regulaprinciples regarding anti-corruption, labor, human rights tions for protecting the environment. The company and the environment. It applies to every Ascom employtakes EU chemical legislations such as REACH (Regisee. In 2016 Ascom took numerous measures to foster a tration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of socially responsible and environmentally friendly workChemicals) and RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Subing and business environment. Ascom has been a signastances Directive) into account. Ascom requires 100% tory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) supplier documentation on bill of material level, comsince 2010 and is committed to respecting the 10 prinplemented with risk-based testing. The company also ciples of human rights, labor rights, the environment and meets the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment anti-corruption. Directive (WEEE) and is a member in producer compliance schemes. In addition, Ascom is certified by Energy efficiency improved ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and ISO 13485. The three main elements of Ascom’s environmental Monitoring of first tier contract manufacturers reimpact are power consumption during use, materials garding environmental issues occurs quarterly. The used in its products and solutions, and business travel reports include CO2 emissions, energy consumption, of employees. These account for close to 85% of water and waste. 60% of our first tier contract manufacAscom’s total carbon footprint. turers are ISO 14001 certified. Ascom continues to address the energy efficiency of its products and solutions on several fronts: The Compliance is a key topic for Ascom Myco project has identified various potential ways of To support the transformation of Ascom into an ICT reducing power consumption of new hardware (e.g. healthcare company, we have built a strong compliance speech, standby). The new version of Telecare IP Reculture throughout the organization. Every Ascom empeater is calculated to have a power consumption of up ployee is responsible for fully complying with our complito 2% lower than previous versions. ance principles. Reparability and serviceability are included in In order to improve the understanding and the Ascom’s initial design, giving predictable life-cycle sensibility for these topics, all employees had to pass costs. Formal life cycle analyses have been performed a comprehensive online compliance training including on key products. During 2016, an analysis was made a self-assessment test in December 2016. The training ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY 11 enhances our employees’ ethical problem-solving skills and raises awareness of critical aspects in a complex international business world. Additional on-site compliance trainings were held in Italy and at a top management meeting in January 2016. In addition, we completed Medical Compliance Culture Trainings in most product lines and global functions (90% attendance) during 2016. Ascom has an active and anonymous whistleblowing procedure in place for anti-competitive practices, corruption and bribery issues. Beside the whistleblower channel, a compliance hotline has been set up for inquiries related to compliance matters. These channels are accessible to all employees. No incidents were reported “To support the transformation through our whistleblower channel during 2016. of Ascom into an ICT healthWide diversity of employees care company, we have built a The principle of non-discrimination, and our commitment to a diverse workforce, is laid down in the Ascom Code strong compliance culture of Ethical Business Conduct. Diversity, particularly of throughout the organization.” gender, ethnicity and generation, is a core value of all Holger Cordes, CEO Ascom our recruiting, promotion and development activities. Equality and diversity plans are in place where required by law. Recruitment diversity (male/female) amounted to Purchasing activities include controls to ensure about 20% during 2016, while the recruitment diversity that suppliers comply with applicable laws and regulaof management members reached over 30%. tions, including environmental protection, safety, fair Ascom has signed collective agreements on worklabor practices and restrictions on use of conflict mining conditions where applicable, including agreements erals. Contracts for first tier contract manufacturers on remuneration and company-specific pension plans contain mandatory sustainability and compliance comfor employees. Regular assessments of individual permitments. Ascom also requires that our first tier conformance are conducted on a yearly basis. tract manufacturer meet the ten principles of the UN During 2015 and 2016 most managers of the former Global Compact; this is verified by them signing a SusWireless Solutions Division attended a leadership boot tainability Commitment included in their contract. camp. We also started the Leadership Development ProIn regards to the conflict minerals tin, tantalum, gram for new managers. With these programs we aim to tungsten, and gold (3TG) Ascom is committed to impleprovide each manager with an eight day hands-on-skills menting responsible supply chains for minerals from training to help them further develop their leadership caconflict-affected and high-risk areas. During 2015 and pacity based on our corporate values and principles. 2016, Ascom implemented processes to be consistent with OECD due diligence requirements. We have conGold recognition level from EcoVadis ducted Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiry (RCOI) for Since 2012, Ascom has been annually evaluated by the smelters/refiners reported in supply chains. The file independent CSR assessment group EcoVadis (www. listed 261 smelters. 33 of these smelters are sourcing or ecovadis.com) by request from several large European there is reason to believe they may be sourcing, from the customers. Ascom was awarded the gold recognition covered countries. All 33 of these smelters comply with level in December 2015. This excellent result means the CFSP (Conflict Free Sourcing Program) of the ConAscom is among the top 5% performers evaluated by flict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). During 2016 continuEcoVadis. The EcoVadis methodology takes into acing work identified more smelters in our supply chain, count 21 CSR criteria which are contained under four and at year-end Ascom gained information on more than themes: environment, labor, fair business practices 75% of these. Non-responding suppliers have been reand sustainable procurement. The methodology and duced from 14% to 4%. Ascom will continue to obtain criteria are in line with international CSR standards infurther information on suppliers of 3TG. cluding the Global Reporting Initiative, UN Global Compact, and ISO 26000. We placed ourselves better than average in all areas, and distinguished ourselves in the area of environment and fair business practices. For more information visit www.ascom.com/corp/ corporate-governance/sustainability.html
