better together Annual Report 2016 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 01 Introduction In 2016, we brought two Welcome to our first Annual Report as a merged company, Ahold Delhaize. In 2016, we brought two successful businesses together to successful businesses together create one of the world’s largest retail groups, able to deliver even more for the customers of our great local brands. This is reflected in the to create one of the world’s theme of our report: Better together. It is also the name of our strategy, which you will find out more about as you read our report. We believe that our long-term financial largest retail groups, able success is directly tied to how well we manage our financial, natural, and human resources. For that reason, we have decided to publish to deliver even more for one report that provides an integrated view of our sustainability performance as part of our overall company performance. the customers of our great Please read on to find out more about our year and the good momentum we achieved following the merger. Our report outlines the progress our great local brands made on all local brands. our strategic priorities, including making our fresh offering even fresher, providing healthier choices for our customers, reducing waste, supporting our communities, expanding our online offering, making it easier to shop, and much more. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 02 In this year’s report Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors 01 Introduction 20 Our Better Together strategy 73  Our Management Board 110 Financial statements 240 Share performance 02 Contents 22 Our purpose and Executive Committee 111  Consolidated income 242 Shareholder structure 04 We are Ahold Delhaize 23  Our sustainable 77  Supervisory Board statement 244 Shareholder returns 05 Group highlights business model 81  Corporate governance 112  Consolidated statement 245 Key dates 29 Our promises 88  Supervisory Board report of comprehensive income 06 Our story 246 Five-year overview 33 Our values 94  How we manage risk 113 Consolidated balance sheet 09 Where we operate 248 Contact information 35 Market overview 103  Remuneration 114  Consolidated statement 10 Our great local brands of changes in equity 250 Cautionary notice 14 Message from our CEO 38 Our stakeholders 108  Declarations 115  Consolidated statement 17 Chairman and CEO interview 40 Material sustainability topics of cash flows 42 Value chain 116  Notes to the consolidated 44 Sustainable retailing financial statements 48 Group key financial indicators 216  Parent company 49 Group financial review financial statements 70 Non-GAAP measures 218  Notes to the parent company financial statements 229  Other information For more information visit our website at www.aholddelhaize.com Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 03 Overview Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 04 We are Ahold Delhaize Together, we build great local brands, bringing fresh inspiration every day. Our family of strong local brands delivers great food, value and innovations to customers in 11 countries through 6,556 stores and online. We combine global scale with the most local and personal service. We make supermarkets smarter and online shopping faster and better. And are committed to becoming an even more sustainable business. We are working hard to be the world’s most inspiring food retailer. We are better together. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 05 Group highlights On July 23, 2016, the merger between Ahold and Delhaize Group was completed. Legally, Net sales of Operating income of Underlying operating income of Underlying operating margin the merger was implemented by Delhaize Group merging into €49.7bn €1.6bn €1.9bn 3.8% Ahold, with the entity renamed Pro forma net sales of Pro forma operating income of Pro forma underlying operating Pro forma underlying Ahold Delhaize. income of operating margin As a result, Delhaize Group’s financial results €62.3bn €2.0bn €2.3bn 3.7% have been included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the merger date, affecting comparability of the 2016 financial results to the 2015 results. This Annual Report also provides numbers and analysis on a pro forma basis, using data that is based on the assumption that the merger became effective on Underlying EBITDA Pro forma underlying earnings the first day of Ahold’s 2015 financial Free cash flow of €3.3bn from continuing operations €1.4bn year. This provides a comparative basis, per basic share at Dividend per common share €1.17 for illustrative purposes, to facilitate assessment of the current performance of the combined company. Pro forma underlying EBITDA €4.1bn after €1.7bn capital expenditure1 €0.57 42% Own-brand sales from healthy products 6,556 stores worldwide 370,000 associates €2.3bn net consumer online sales 1 Free cash flow and capital expenditure including Delhaize Group for a full year. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 06 working better together business Tracing our roots back 150 years, we have come together to build on our portfolio of strong local brands, common purpose and deep commitment to sustainable retailing. Together we are sharing best practices, learning from one another, and realizing the benefits of our scale. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 07 great local brands flavors Our family of great local brands serves more than 50 million customers each week across 11 countries. Each brand shares a passion for delivering quality, value and experiences to customers and partnering with local communities to be a better neighbor. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 08 creating fresh inspiration offering We are bringing fresh inspiration and new innovations every day to customers, communities and associates. Our brands aim to make life a little easier, healthier and more affordable for everyone, to build a better future for our businesses and their communities. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 09 Where we operate 38% net sales Europe Albert Heijn Gall & Gall AB Delhaize bol.com ENA Etos Albert Mega Image Maxi Pingo Doce* Tempo 62% net sales United States Food Lion Stop & Shop Hannaford Giant Martin’s Giant Food Peapod bfresh Asia Super Indo* *Joint venture Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 10 Our great local brands Our great local brands are the Ahold USA heart of our businesses. Each brand shares a passion for delivering great food, value and innovations, both in stores and Market area Market area Market area online, and for creating inclusive Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia workplaces that provide New York and Rhode Island and West Virginia rewarding career opportunities. Formats Formats Formats Supermarkets, superstores, online shopping Supermarkets, superstores, online shopping Supermarkets, superstores, online shopping Our brands have also established meaningful, lasting commitments to strengthen local communities, 413 147 44 stores stores stores source responsibly and help Customer proposition Customer proposition Customer proposition customers make healthier My Stop & Shop helps me save money, My Giant helps me save money, My Martin’s helps me save money, choices every day. save time and eat well save time and eat well save time and eat well For more information about our brands, visit our website at www.aholddelhaize.com Market area Market area Market area Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland 12 states across the U.S. East Coast Massachusetts and Virginia and Midwest plus the District of Columbia Formats Formats Formats Small supermarkets Supermarkets, superstores, online shopping Online grocery shopping 168 4 stores online store stores Total associates Customer proposition Customer proposition Customer proposition Ahold USA segment: My Giant helps me save money, We make life easier. We give our customers bfresh – your super city market – the perfect 114,000 save time and eat well the time back to do the things they love mash-up of fresh foods, groceries, inspiring meals, killer service and great value Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 11 Our great local brands continued Delhaize America The Netherlands Market area Market area Market area Market area Delaware, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, The Netherlands, Belgium and Germany The Netherlands The Netherlands North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Formats Store formats Store formats Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia Supermarkets, convenience stores, Drugstores, online shopping Wine and liquor stores, online shopping Formats online shopping Supermarkets, convenience stores 1,033 1,011 547 605 stores stores stores stores Customer proposition Customer proposition Customer proposition Customer proposition You can count on Food Lion…Every day! Everybody Appie The best drugstore with the best & affordable Everyone an expert solutions for Health, Beauty, Care & Baby Total associates Delhaize America segment: 95,000 Market area Market area Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, The Netherlands, Belgium New York and Vermont Formats Formats Total associates The Netherlands segment: 100,000 Supermarkets, online shopping Online shopping for general merchandise 181 stores online store Customer proposition Customer proposition The full shop… fresh, local, priced right, The store for all of us healthy, great service Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 12 Our great local brands continued Belgium Central and Southeastern Europe (including Shop&Go) Market area Market area Market area Belgium and Luxembourg Czech Republic Serbia Formats Formats Formats Supermarkets, convenience stores Supermarkets, compact hypers Supermarkets, online shopping 765 330 379 stores stores stores Customer proposition Customer proposition Customer proposition Buy well, eat well Well-crafted fresh food with trusted Always fresh, always near, always Maxi quality and price Total associates Belgium segment: 14,000 Market area Serbia Market area Greece Formats Formats Total associates Central and Southeastern Europe segment: Hypermarkets Supermarkets, convenience stores 47,000 25 stores 364 stores Customer proposition Customer proposition Always in action The joy of offering the best Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 13 Our great local brands continued Central and Southeastern Europe continued Joint ventures Market area Market area Market area Market area Greece Romania Portugal Indonesia Formats Formats Formats Formats Supermarkets Supermarkets, online shopping Supermarkets Compact supermarkets, supermarkets 14 526 415 140 stores stores stores stores Customer proposition Customer proposition Customer proposition Customer proposition Your partner for competitive grocery Enjoy your life It tastes good to pay so little Fresher, affordable, closer Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 14 Message from our CEO Together, we build Dear reader, It is with great satisfaction and pride that I Customers want convenience and they want it across channels, as well as in the products they buy. They don’t want to compromise it even as great local brands, look back on 2016. It was the year we became they increasingly care about the health benefits Ahold Delhaize: a top 10 retail family with and origins of the food they eat. Our brands more than 20 strong local brands brought to are responding. life for customers by hundreds of thousands of bringing fresh dedicated associates. We are an international In 2016, our great local brands achieved retailer with an omni-channel offering a strong performance, increasing sales, centered on our leading supermarkets and operating income and margins for the full year. eCommerce businesses. Pro forma net sales increased 3.4% at constant inspiration every day. What an exciting journey it’s been so far exchange rates and adjusted for the 53rd week of 2015, to €62.3 billion, driven primarily by the customer-focused strategies, smart promotions, and sharp store management in We kicked off our new company with great energy, thanks to the relentless drive of the Netherlands, Delhaize America and Central our teams. They maintained the business and Southeastern Europe. We were able to momentum and enabled our brands to grow market share in most of our markets. continue innovating and doing better, Our successful “save to invest” programs for customers, for each other, and for the continued to make it possible for our businesses communities they serve. to reinvest in our customer proposition, resulting in stronger net promoter scores, and improve We’re in a time of unprecedented change in the overall pro forma underlying operating our industry. Our challenge today is not only margin compared to 2015. to adapt to rapid developments taking place but also to predict them and lead the way. Our strong free cash flow of €1.4 billion enabled To do this, we continue to look both externally, us to keep funding growth in our key channels tracking trends and staying close to our – supermarkets, eCommerce and smaller customers, as well as across our businesses, formats – and return excess liquidity to our to understand how we can share innovations shareholders. We have a strong balance sheet from one brand to the next. We know that and we are pleased to propose a dividend people in all our markets seek connection – of €0.57 to our shareholders, an increase of in a modern way – and we, as food retailers, 9.6% compared to last year’s Ahold dividend. need to find relevant ways to maintain a bond This proposed dividend represents a payout with shoppers in stores, online and everywhere ratio of 48% of pro forma underlying income in between. from continuing operations. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 15 Message from our CEO continued To build on this success, we have used our Food Lion is improving its offering with its Ah.nl expanded to serve 25% more customers, In the midst of this very busy knowledge of customers and changing trends Easy, Fresh & Affordable strategy – focused on and Peapod launched an own-brand line year, and while delivering strong as the foundation for developing our new customer service, convenience, freshness and of fresh meal kits to help make it easier for strategy: Better Together. It is driving our entire prices – and completed its deployment in the customers to put a home-cooked dinner performance, I’m proud of what company forward with a shared purpose: key Charlotte, North Carolina, market during on the table. Our Better Together strategy the people across our great local together we build great local brands, bringing the year. sets ambitious 2020 growth targets for our brands have already achieved fresh inspiration every day. Our brands are eCommerce businesses as we keep capturing embracing Better Together and implementing Investing in the future opportunities across our brands. towards our strategic goals. it locally to further deepen connections with Our own-brand ranges remain an important To further satisfy and entice In our core business of supermarkets, we both customers and communities. way to differentiate by giving our customers continue to fund development and grow sales, customers, we are improving affordable, innovative and healthy choices they As you read our Annual Report, you will see can’t find elsewhere. Albert Heijn continued to notably in Greece and in Romania, where our offering with better quality sustainable retailing embedded throughout Mega Image opened their 500th store in and more healthy choices, both significantly improve its own-brand ranges and Better Together, in everything we do. It is one October. Even with advances in eCommerce, connected story, showing sustainability as a reduce the level of salt, sugar, fat and other our stores will continue to be important at affordable prices.” additives during the year. core business driver linked to how we save for because they will give us a physical location our customers, drive growth, make promises to To fund our investments, we are making smart to welcome and inspire customers – they our stakeholders, live our values, and achieve choices aimed at simplifying and saving money. serve as gathering places for people in our our purpose as a company. For more detail on Our Delhaize supermarket brand in Belgium neighborhoods and hubs to connect local all the elements of our new strategy, please finished implementing a new store organization communities, with initiatives like collecting see Our Better Together Strategy. that is helping it run more efficiently while donations for local food banks. In 2016, for simultaneously improving service to customers example, our Hannaford brand donated more In the midst of this busy year, and while and creating a better working environment for than 25 million pounds of food to food pantries, delivering strong performance, I’m proud associates. Stop & Shop opened a cutting edge meal programs, and food banks across its of what the people across our great local facility in Massachusetts that converts food five-state footprint. At the same time, we need brands have already achieved towards our waste from the stores into energy to power a to offer a seamless shopping experience where strategic goals. To further satisfy and entice distribution center. our customers feel the same level of personal customers, we are improving our offering with attention online and offline. better quality and more healthy choices, both We continue to drive our leading eCommerce at affordable prices. In the United States, the brands by investing in their growth – and Leadership is essential to delivering Better Ahold USA brands finished rolling out new customers clearly appreciated our efforts in Together. We have a strong leadership bakery and produce departments, as part 2016. Online consumer sales grew by more than team, with a new Executive Committee and of their continuing program to enhance the 27%1, and more than 30% in the Netherlands. Supervisory Board in place since July. customer proposition and focus on fresh. Some notable examples of our progress over the year were bol.com’s launch of same-day and Sunday home delivery, giving customers even more flexibility and faster service. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 16 Message from our CEO continued I would like to thank the Supervisory Board, It is energizing to see all the Looking forward to the year ahead, we I want to thank our associates for their focus and the Chairman, Mats Jansson, and Vicebrands in the Ahold Delhaize expect deflation in the United States in 2016: for keeping our day-to-day business in Chairman, Jan Hommen, in particular, for their for the first quarter of 2017 to continue, all our brands thriving while at the same time unwavering support throughout the merger family – including our two with resilient volume trends driven by our delivering a smooth start to our new company. process. It’s been a pleasure working together joint ventures, Super Indo and strategic initiatives to improve the customer They showed their amazing dedication to the with them as a team from the start. Pingo Doce – coming together proposition. We confirm our target for 2017 company and, most importantly, to customers of realizing an additional €200 million in and communities. We’ve had several leadership changes in this report, with all their net synergies, incremental to underlying during the year that I’d like to mention. I also want to thank customers across all our local color. This is who we are: operating income, bringing the total merger James McCann resigned from his role as great local brands for being the reason we Chief Operating Officer Ahold USA in order this is Ahold Delhaize.” synergies to €220 million by the end of 2017. come to work with energy and drive – for We expect free cash flow for the year 2017 to move out of full-time executive work. giving compliments, constructive criticism, This year, a number of our great local brands to be €1.6 billion, after €1.8 billion of capital I would like to thank him for his contributions and the chance to serve and delight them are marking important milestones: Delhaize expenditure. In January 2017, we started a to driving our eCommerce strategy during every day. And, of course, I would like to thank celebrates 150 years of serving customers, €1 billion share buy-back that will be carried his time with Ahold in Europe and mobilizing our shareholders, who have supported us this Albert Heijn is close behind with 130 years, and out throughout this year. the transformation at Ahold USA. Kevin Holt, year as we made one of the biggest moves in former COO of Delhaize America, has brought Food Lion in the U.S. turns 60. We are proud of In closing, I have been in retail all my life and our companies’ history; we appreciate your his strong leadership skills and extensive U.S. our brands’ longevity and heritage, but even one thing I’ve learned is that it’s about people. confidence in our vision for the future. retail experience to succeed James in this more so of the fact that they reinvent and The interaction we have with customers and transform themselves every day to stay fresh All the best, role. I would also like to thank our Deputy CEO the role we can play in helping people live and Chief Integration Officer Frans Muller and relevant to customers around the world. healthier lives, in providing connection to and Dick Boer for taking on an additional responsibility as Powerful branding today is more fundamental supporting our communities, and in leading Chief Executive Officer Acting Chief Operations Officer (ad interim) of than ever for a retailer’s long-term profitability this industry, thrills me more than ever. It is Delhaize America. I’m confident we have the and our businesses have already made energizing to see all the brands in the Ahold right balance of experience and capabilities great strides to create truly brand-centric Delhaize family – including our two joint across our leadership teams to successfully organizations. Our omni-channel offering is ventures, Super Indo and Pingo Doce – coming take the company into the future. helping us capture the loyalty of customers together in this report, with all their local color. who increasingly want to shop on their This is who we are: this is Ahold Delhaize. own terms, and we are pursuing our strong ambitions to win online. Our merger gives us the opportunity to capture more synergies so we can continue to invest in innovations – we are on track with our goal to generate €500 million in net synergies in 2019. 1 Total net consumer sales growth, including bol.com plaza sales and excluding the impact of week 53. Number also corrected for exchange rate impact. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 17 Q&A with CEO and Supervisory Board Chairman Our CEO Dick Boer, and Mats Jansson, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, answer questions about our merger and what it means for the company, now and in the future. As we say today, we are Better Together. I think that is a fantastic payoff. And that was the mindset from the very beginning. Mats Jansson Chairman of the Supervisory Board Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 18 Q&A with CEO and Supervisory Board Chairman continued How do you feel when you capturing the benefits of our scale. As soon MJ It is also reflected in the functioning of the DB Indeed. Our “Better Together” strategy look back on 2016, the year as we started our talks it was clear that the Management Board, Executive Committee will guide us, while our great local brands marked by preparations for cultural fit between our leadership teams was and Supervisory Board. I believe our two-tier continue to build further on their excellent extraordinary. We shared the same values and structure – with the Executive Committee also positions. And we have a clear financial and completion of the merger? the same focus on the customer. representing the business – strengthens the framework, with a balanced approach MJ I’m proud of what teams across our quality of our decision-making and how we between funding growth, managing our debt businesses accomplished in the period MJ I agree – there was an instant culture can implement our strategy. portfolio and returning cash to shareholders. before the closing. Thanks to their careful “click.” We just felt that we should do this – All our progress is thanks to the hard work preparations, Ahold Delhaize got off to that the merger made sense. Our companies of our associates and the support we got a great start. And at the same time, it was complemented each other perfectly, Can you give an update from investors, who approved our merger with minimal overlap and a large synergy business as usual: they were able to keep up potential, but I believe the cultural fit is even on the progress since merger with overwhelming support. It shows their the good work on our customer offerings. It was very satisfying to see the companies more important. From the first meeting, we completion in July 2016? confidence in our future together. really come together as one. knew we had this. As we say today, we are MJ Once it was final, the teams could really kick off and start working together. And they DB I feel proud, as well. Many associates Better Together. I think that is a fantastic got off to a great start – I want to compliment 2017 will be Ahold Delhaize’s payoff. And that was the mindset from the worked very hard together to make the merger very beginning. them on their dedication and cooperation. first full year. What will your happen, and you could feel the excitement I am seeing good progress on culture, and the main point of focus be? in the events we organized to mark Day 1 We also agreed that our foundation is made integration is on track, with a clear roadmap MJ The Supervisory Board will be of the new company. At a meeting of 350 of great local brands that must remain local for synergy delivery as presented by Dick and focused on overseeing execution. leaders in October, people commented that to best serve customers and communities. his team to investors in December. Challenging and supporting the Executive there was already a real “Ahold Delhaize” The merger makes us one of the largest food Committee. Making sure they are able spirit. And as Mats said, it was impressive retailers in the world – and that is important to deliver the synergies and strengthen our how everyone kept their eyes on the ball, for because scale matters in this business. brand propositions to ensure sustainable the customer. We never, not for one second, growth for the future. lost sight of what our businesses are about. DB We’ll be focused on the transformation, What does the name of your working towards our synergy target and strategy, “Better Together,” continuing our companies’ process of What convinced you the mean to you? learning to work together. And at the same merger was the right move time, we will continue doing what matters to DB It applies to so many aspects of who we at the right time? are and what we want to be. We are better our customers and building stronger brands DB It was a unique opportunity to combine for our future. together because we learn from each other, two companies with a similar heritage because we bring together so many great and values, a strong financial position and local brands in one family and because we’re complementary geographies – it will help working together to become better every day. us further build our great local brands while Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 19 Business review Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 20 Our Better Together Strategy Ahold Delhaize’s strategy is helping our brands offer the best to customers, associates and communities. The strategy was developed by our Better Together builds on strengths Executive Committee with input from shared across the group but each teams of different disciplines across brand applies it according Ahold Delhaize. Together, we defined to the specific and unique local the kind of group we want to be, what needs of its customers. We measure drives us, and how our great local the execution of our strategy brands will win in all our markets. using a series of Key Performance Indicators, including market share Ahold Delhaize’s great local and net promoter score. brands each face different market conditions and customer needs The following section will take while sharing common challenges you through all of the elements and opportunities. of our strategy. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 21 Our Better Together Strategy Our purpose, values and promises give associates in all Our purpose our brands a common language for talking about the business Together, we build Great Local Brands, bringing Fresh Inspiration Every Day and reinforce our shared commitment to sustainability. Our sustainable business model Our promises Our business model ensures our brands have the resources and direction to invest in the right areas to help us grow together, and our group-wide focus on Save for our customers: Invest in our • Buy better ...D customer creating value for customers, o. .. ri A better • Operate smarter proposition: place to associates, communities and • Waste less ve t sa m • Affordable for all ve shop shareholders will drive our Sa • Best own brands long-term success. e store sales •Fresher & healthier • Most local & Every personal service Day Fund growth A better A better in key channels: ... place to ...An neighbor • Supermarkets df work u nd • eCommerce grow th... • Smaller formats Our values Courage Integrity Teamwork Care Humor We drive change, We do the right thing and Together, we take We care for our customers, We are humble, down-toare open-minded, earn customers’ trust. ownership, collaborate, our colleagues, and our earth, and we don’t take bold, and innovative. and win. communities. ourselves too seriously. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 22 Our purpose Together, we build Great Local Together: Across all our brands and functions, we learn from each other, share best practices, and realize the benefits of our scale. Brands, bringing Fresh Inspiration Great Local Brands: We serve local retail businesses, active on three continents, each under its own brand name that is well-known Every Day. and well-loved by local customers. Fresh Inspiration: Our brands are known not only for fresh offerings – from fruits and vegetables to delicious prepared meals – but We strive to live up to our also for innovative spirit. Our brands inspire customers with new and exciting products and services and by helping them solve the purpose in everything we do. everyday challenge of bringing affordable, healthy and tasty meals to the table. Every Day: Our brands fulfill customers’ daily needs and are there for them every single day. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 23 Our sustainable business model Our sustainable business We work to find savings in each area of our businesses and then invest these savings to benefit customers and keep building model is a continuous cycle our omnichannel offering. Our business model guides brand strategies and priorities, enabling us to move in the same direction as that describes how we create a group while simultaneously meeting local customer needs and market challenges. Our sustainable business model value for all our stakeholders o. .. ...D ri – including customers, ve t sa m Sa ve e store sales associates and communities. ... An ... df u nd grow th... Save for our customers Invest in our customer • Buy better proposition • Operate smarter • Affordable for all • Waste less • Best own brands • Fresher & healthier Fund growth in • Most local & key channels personal service • Supermarkets • eCommerce • Smaller formats Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 24 Our sustainable business model continued Save for our customers Invest in the customer Fund growth in key channels To jump-start this continuous cycle, proposition Ahold Delhaize seeks to fund growth in three we always look for ways to save for our Our brands invest the money we save into key channels – supermarkets, eCommerce customers. We evaluate every area of our the local customer proposition to provide and smaller formats – so that our brands businesses to see where we can do things a great overall shopping experience that can be there wherever and however smarter and better to save money, conserve meets customers’ changing needs and customers shop. resources and reduce waste. to continue to build loyalty to our brands. Supermarkets Buy better Affordable for all Supermarkets are the core channel and the main Our brands cultivate long-term partnerships We want every family in our trading areas to be able focus of our investments. Our brands work to keep with suppliers, and work together to innovate to do their weekly shopping with one of our brands, their stores regularly refreshed and remodeled so and develop local own-brand product ranges. regardless of their budget, so every brand continues they remain appealing to customers. Across the Our brands also achieve savings through buying to make pricing more competitive. group we share an objective to be the #1 or #2 alliances. In sourcing practices, we always operate supermarket brand in every local market. in a competitive and fair way. Best own brands Each of our great local brands focuses on building eCommerce Operate smarter innovative own-brand product ranges, such as our We continue to invest in our eCommerce brands to Our brands are streamlining operations to achieve organic and natural lines, to keep differentiating enable customers to shop when and how they want, cost efficiencies. itself from other retailers and maintaining its and to drive sales growth in developed markets. competitive edge. Smaller formats Waste less Our brands are reducing shrink through inventory Fresher and healthier Our brands are continuously improving small controls, and through resourceful initiatives, such Across Ahold Delhaize we believe our brands formats and testing new ones, to fulfill customers’ as donating food that would otherwise be wasted, have an opportunity and a responsibility to make growing demand for convenience. to help people in need. healthier eating tasty, affordable and accessible for customers – especially through broad fresh product assortments; this is what customers say they want. Most local and personal service Each great local brand works to build stronger relationships with customers – through the service provided by every associate in every store and through best-in-class personalized offerings, enabled by technology. The brands target their assortments to the needs of people in their neighborhoods and sell a wide range of products from local suppliers. By supporting the causes that local customers and associates care about, each brand deepens its involvement in the local community. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 25 Our sustainable business model in action Save for our customers Waste less Turning food waste to electricity Sometimes our stores create food waste that can’t be donated or used for consumption – in those cases, we make sure we dispose of it in the best possible way. Stop & Shop opened a Green Energy Facility fueled by non-edible food waste that is capable of creating up to 40% of the power needed to operate its Freetown Distribution Center. The innovative anaerobic digester is helping the Ahold USA brands to increase food waste recycling. Buy better Operate smarter Always saving for New way of working brings pride, our customers better customer service Albert Heijn has fully embedded its Delhaize Belgium has been transforming its cost-saving program in its strategy and company-operated stores, as part of an overall is supporting this mindset change with plan aimed at guaranteeing its sustainable future internal story-telling videos that bring and reducing its cost base in order to reinvest in it to life for associates and share best its customer proposition. As part of this, the brand practices. Associates are challenged has put in place a new labor model focused on to look for ways to save in every part better communication and flexibility in terms of of the business. For example, Albert both work and hours for associates, with the goal Heijn is buying better by expanding its of offering customers better service. In 2016, the collaboration with buying alliances AMS Delhaize teams successfully completed the rollout (for own-brand products) and Coopernic of this new store organization across the brand’s (for international brands). It is also 128 company-operated supermarkets. saving significantly through packaging improvements and investing the savings back into the quality of products. In one project alone Albert Heijn is saving €2 million annually by switching from glass to plastic juice bottles. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 26 Our sustainable business model in action Invest in our customer proposition Best own brands Creating own brands customers love All our brands continuously focus on improving their own-brand lines to give customers more and better options. Delhaize is known in Belgium for its innovative, high-quality products. According to external tastings published in Belgian media in 2016, a consumer test panel greatly preferred Delhaize’s own brands and exclusive products compared to those of its next best competitors. The Nature’s Promise line at the Ahold USA brands saw double-digit growth this past year and expanded into 12 new categories. The brands added “Free Affordable for all From” labeling to Nature’s Promise food Providing value when products without nonessential ingredients such as artificial colors and flavors and customers need it most nonfood products without additives such The Greek economy remains challenging, as potentially harsh chemicals. with high unemployment and taxation 12 leaving consumers with little disposable income. Customers expect retailers to offer both everyday low prices on the products they need most as well as new categories great promotions. Our Alfa Beta brand provided both in 2016, lowering prices on daily needs and implementing a 52-week plan of exciting promotions. They ran a strong campaign encouraging customers to discover their great prices and promotions for themselves, and received a very positive response. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 27 Our sustainable business model in action Invest in our customer proposition continued Fresher & healthier Fresh inspiration for customers Hannaford is building on its excellence in fresh to enhance the customer experience across the store and provide more healthy choices. The team opened a new prototype store that showcases the fresh offering in bold, new ways, with fresh home-meal solutions available in a comfortable, modern café; cut-to-order fruits and vegetables in the produce department; and new merchandising across all its fresh departments. The new store’s seafood department Most local & personal service highlights the brand’s deep local roots, Loyalty programs sustainability and value, to enhance old and new the customer experience and grow the business. Similarly, in the Butcher Shop, Around the world, more than 30 million customers experience “cut-above-thecustomers are members of our loyalty best” quality and value, driving sales. programs and receive personalized offers and communications. During the year, our Etos drugstore brand in the Netherlands launched a new loyalty program and “My Etos” app, combining personalized offers, advice and discounts with a healthy perk: a pedometer that motivates and rewards customers with gifts and offers when they exercise. At the same time, our Alfa Beta brand celebrated the 20-year anniversary of its successful loyalty card program – the first in Greece when it was launched – that continues to offer great rewards for customers, driving basket size and visits. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 28 Our sustainable business model in action Fund growth in key channels Supermarkets eCommerce Investing in Fast, convenient... innovative formats online Mega Image is one of the fastest-growing Our brands are working to live up to food retailers in Romania. In 2016, the brand growing customer demand for convenient opened 16 supermarkets and 44 convenience ways to shop. stores – that’s an average of one store Bol.com added same-day home every six days! Mega Image continuously delivery for 300,000 items across all invests in its innovative store concepts, its product categories – a global first in such as “Gusturi romanesti,” that exclusively its scale – and expanded home delivery sells products from its own-brand line for regular orders to seven days a week, of traditional, authentic and high-quality including Sundays. Romanian products. Hannaford expanded its Hannaford to Go service to the 34th store across five Smaller formats states. In many regions the service is the Fast, wallet-friendly, first of its kind – it lets customers order healthy choices to go products online for pickup in as little as four hours. This brought the total number Albert Heijn to go, our convenience store of pick-up points in our U.S. brands to 244. concept offering a fresh and innovative assortment in high traffic locations, is expanding through new partnerships. In the Netherlands, the team opened new stores at a hospital, educational institutions and six fuel stations. They brought fresh choices to the German Autobahn through five compact “clip in” stores at Shell fuel stations. By partnering up to be present in more of the places our customers are, Albert Heijn to go is making good food more accessible for everyone. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 29 Our promises We promise customers, associates As a group, we will measure the performance on each promise according to the following criteria, starting in 2017: and communities to always work A better place to shop: Net promoter score, which gauges customers’ willingness to recommend our great local brands to others to be a better place to shop, a better A better place to work: Associate engagement, as measured by an annual survey of all associates company-wide and a twice-yearly place to work, and a better neighbor pulse survey sent to a random set of associates by an external vendor A better neighbor: Our progress against – every day. All of our brands share our sustainable retailing targets and the assessment of our sustainability performance for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Our compensation and awards for associates these promises and each fulfills are tied to and dependent on delivering our strategy and promises, and doing so in a sustainable way. The performance criteria them according to what’s best for in our incentive plans for management associates include Key Performance Indicators related to all three promises. their local markets. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 30 Our promises in action A better place to shop Ahold USA Food Lion Fresh value at Making shopping easy, Ahold USA fresh and affordable The Ahold USA brands have continued Food Lion’s Easy, Fresh & Affordable their program to enhance the customer strategy was developed in 2013 and proposition. They are putting a strong aims to improve the overall offering focus on fresh, and have completed with a focus on customer service, the rollout of new produce and bakery convenience, freshness and prices. departments to all stores – and both This year, Food Lion remodeled 142 stores are delivering strong sales. They are in its home market of Charlotte, for a starting to roll out a Deli Grab and Go total of 380 stores representing 37% of program that provides fast and easy Food Lion’s sales and a total investment meal solutions. The waves of price drops of close to $600 million. In addition, they’ve made on thousands of products the most successful elements from the have helped improve their price index strategy have been rolled out across the compared to other retailers by 2% and entire store network, and have shown price perception by 4% over the past encouraging results, especially around two years. produce and meat freshness, value for money and ease of finding products. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 31 Our promises in action A better place to work Delhaize America Building a diverse and inclusive business Our Business Resource Groups (BRGs) at measures workplace practices and Delhaize America were ranked 14th out policies related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, of nearly 1,300 similar BRGs and councils transgender, questioning and ally by PRISM International’s 2016 ERG and (LGBTQA) associates. Delhaize America Councils Honors Award. The award received a perfect score of 100 on the recognizes outstanding contributions CEI for the sixth consecutive year and and achievements in organizational continues to be the only grocery retailer diversity processes. in the United States to earn this prestigious rating. Ahold USA posted a Corporate Delhaize America and Ahold USA each Equality Index score of 95 – the highest it scored well in the 2017 Corporate Equality has received – demonstrating an ongoing Index (CEI), reflecting a strong commitment commitment to workplace equality. to diversity and inclusion. The index, a national benchmark administered by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, Delhaize Serbia Count on me at Delhaize Serbia With its Count on Me program – adapted During the year the teams in Serbia also from a successful program at Food Lion – worked to improve the temperatures in Delhaize Serbia is shaping its culture and the store, reduce expired products on the creating a strong connection between shelves, make the promotional and pricelocal leadership and associates, all to changing processes more efficient and build a better customer experience. launch a service desk to help the stores In 2016, they raised awareness of the new with technical issues. culture with meetings, workshops and internal communications organizationwide. And it’s already started to work – the brand achieved an associate engagement score of 88%. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 32 Our promises in action A better neighbor Delhaize Belgium Peapod Aiming for zero waste Green is the in Belgium new black Delhaize Belgium aims to completely The Peapod team is always taking eliminate waste from its business. In 2016, steps to manage their environmental they intensified their efforts and engaged impact. Using alternative fuels is one of suppliers, associates and customers to the biggest ways they reduce Peapod’s address this complex problem through carbon footprint. In the Midwest market, projects such as offering imperfect fruits they have made great progress in and vegetables for sale and transforming transitioning to vehicles that use cleaner an overstock of turkeys – the result fuels with 16 propane trucks and two of a decline in consumer preference compressed natural gas trucks. On the associated with unseasonably warm East Coast, Peapod uses diesel trucks weather at Christmas – into 26,000 with zero toxic gas emissions. Across all prepared meals to sell in their stores. markets, the brand has a no-idle policy: Delhaize also expanded its food donation drivers are trained and reminded daily program to 116 stores and five distribution to shut off the vehicle at every stop to centers in 2016 and donated the decrease vehicle emissions and protect equivalent of 2.5 million meals. The brand the environment and communities. even started a program where food no longer suitable for humans is donated to zoos for feeding animals. In the summer, Delhaize engaged associates by distributing smoothies made from rescued fruit. They are also educating customers to reduce food waste at home through tips on keeping food fresh and recipes for food that might otherwise be thrown away. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 33 Our values Our merger brought together two Courage: We drive change, are open-minded, bold, and innovative. companies with complementary Integrity: We do the right thing and earn customers’ trust. Teamwork: Together, we take ownership, cultures and similar values. collaborate, and win. Care: We care for our customers, our colleagues, and our communities. Now, our brands have adopted Humor: We are humble, down-to-earth, and we don’t take ourselves too seriously. a set of shared values that reflects their strengths, how they want to work and who they want to be in years to come. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 34 Our values in action Courage Integrity Teamwork Care Humor Alfa Beta Albert Peapod, ah.nl, delhaize.be Ahold USA, Hannaford, Food Lion Albert Heijn The courage to care Quality front and Teaming up to Filling empty plates Making customers for refugees center at Albert stay ahead in the U.S. smile Alfa Beta was the first Greek retailer Albert was the first Czech company Our eCommerce brands are teaming U.S. food banks are seeing increased Albert Heijn has launched a new, to welcome and help refugees – chosen as one of 15 finalists in the up to share their knowledge and demand for assistance – helping proactive social media approach 800,000 of whom arrived in Greece prestigious European Quality Awards stay ahead in this fast-moving area to feed people in our communities that uses humor to connect with last year, despite the country’s own this year, and was recognized with of the business. Peapod in the U.S. is no longer a seasonal request, customers. Their Customer Contact financial struggles. In early 2016, a trophy. To determine the winners, and ah.nl in the Netherlands came it’s a year-round appeal. In 2016, Service started in 2016 to make a over 2,000 refugees were stranded an independent team performs a together for a two-day deep dive our U.S. brands donated 46 million visible switch, sending more personal in the port of Piraeus without food comprehensive evaluation of each into our Dutch Home Shop Center kilograms of food through hunger notes in reply to customers on social and water. Alfa Beta responded to company, including interviews with (HSC) concept. They visited Delhaize. relief initiatives. For example, media channels like Facebook, Twitter the requests of local organizations associates from store level to top be to share best practices about how Hannaford’s “Fresh Rescue” program and Instagram, and keeping the by offering over 1,000 meals, fruit management. The jury appreciated to scale up a young, fast-growing donates unsold bakery, deli, meat conversation going after a question and water bottles daily for a period Albert’s successful strategy to business. Our eCommerce brands and produce items that are still safe has been answered. The friendly of over a month. In cooperation grow in the Czech market and its from Greece, Belgium and Romania for consumption. The Ahold USA and “human” moments this creates with suppliers, Alfa Beta also sent activities in the area of sustainability, have also visited our Dutch HSCs to brands donate high-quality meat is making a real difference for food, water and diapers to a refugee particularly related to children and discuss fulfillment and the service products approaching their sell-by customers – it has been recognized camp for people stranded near the healthy eating. delivery proposition. Participants in all date to local food banks through their in positive media stories and other country’s northern border. these sessions have appreciated their “Meat the Needs” program. Food Lion external recognitions during the year. colleagues’ openness and willingness has pledged to donate 500 million to share both successes and learnings. meals to families in need by the end of 2020. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 35 Market overview Retail is in an exciting phase: Macro trends Resource availability the world around us, consumer Economics With a changing climate and growing global needs and the overall industry Customers are very focused on value. In the demand for food, natural resources are increasingly under stress. The increasing are changing fast. Our Better past year, some notable events in the political scarcity of natural resources such as water and world impacted our market areas, including Together strategy is designed soil nutrients will continue to impact agriculture the Brexit referendum in June, when UK to make sure our brands can citizens voted to leave the EU – which could and affect how we source products in the turn these shifting trends and impact the future European economy, trade future. Since commodities like corn, wheat challenges into opportunities to partnerships and international businesses, and rice are at the core of the products we sell, “commodity crunches” could substantially attract new customers and keep and the culmination of the presidential impact our businesses. earning the loyalty and trust of election in the U.S. in November. While the U.S. economy will most likely outpace other the customers who shop with advanced economies in terms of GDP, we do Technology Unprecedented technological change is us today. see competition intensifying as a consequence underway across the globe – and it has of the price investments retailers are making to direct implications for the retail industry. attract value-focused customers. Although the Everyday objects in people’s homes, such 2017 growth prospects for Europe remain as televisions, refrigerators and personal relatively stable, the outcomes of the elections wearables, are getting connected to the in France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands Internet, and are measuring and generating and their unknown policy implications will most data. This data enables companies to build likely influence Europe’s economic conditions. more intimate relationships with shoppers by Demographics understanding their personal preferences and We continue to see population growth slowing being able to cater to them – or even predict down in our markets, especially in Europe, and new ones. It also makes possible artificial an aging consumer base. The communities we intelligence and automated devices such as operate in are becoming increasingly diverse self-driving cars and delivery drones. in terms of ethnicity, household composition, affluence and urban versus suburban. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 36 Market overview continued Consumer trends Health and well-being Transparency and sustainability Value Although consumers have become more aware Food is safer today than ever before. At the Consumers’ continued focus on value and of the relationship between the food they same time, people are increasingly interested budget-consciousness comes in the wake of eat and their overall health and well-being, in where their food comes from and how their the post-2008 economic downturn and the diet-related diseases – such as heart disease, buying decisions can impact the environment growth of low-cost players operating stores diabetes and malnutrition – remain a growing and people’s lives all over the world, for and online. At the same time, customers are worldwide issue. example through climate change or working redefining what value means to them. They are conditions. They expect retailers to help them Customers increasingly demand transparency less loyal to brands and formats, and online make responsible choices, and to ensure the on product ingredients. For example, they want and mobile technology makes it quick and integrity of the supply chain wherever they can. to understand the effects on their health from easy to compare offers – so providing great additives like sweeteners and artificial colors, Connection and communities value for money remains a license to operate. but also from the use of plastics in packaging In all our markets, people are searching for a Being affordable increasingly means being and the preventative use of antibiotics in feeling of community and personal connection. able to present customers with the right animals and poultry. Consumers inspired to They are finding it in traditional ways, through personalized offers at the right time. strive for healthier and cleaner lifestyles are involvement in their local neighborhoods, but Convenience prioritizing fruits, vegetables, nuts and grains also in new ways, through social media and Customers have busy lifestyles and are and increasingly adopting a vegetarian online communities. They want to connect increasingly pressed for time. While their or vegan diet. with others who have common interests and awareness of healthy eating is on the rise, shared values. Customers increasingly buy local both the time they have available and their products and support local businesses to feel ability to cook these foods is on the decline more involved in their communities. – especially among Millennials. This explains the growing popularity of fresh ready meal offerings that can be eaten immediately or quickly prepared at home. In addition, customers are looking for smaller store formats that provide a fast and easy shopping experience, convenient locations that reduce their travel time and cost, and multiple delivery options for their online orders. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 37 Market overview continued Industry trends Diversification Online and mobile Consolidation There is much diversification taking place in The total eCommerce market continues There is a great deal of consolidation, in both terms of channels and formats in the retail to expand, and is expected to grow by the retail and consumer packaged goods industry. More and more, customers are 10-15% each year through 2020 – and food industry, which is continuing to drive scale. doing their food shopping at multiple retail eCommerce is expected to grow even more This is especially apparent in the U.S., where brands in multiple segments – they do not quickly. Online grocery has reached a tipping companies are seeking scale advantages in distinguish between formats, but just want to point as companies make it beyond the pilot sourcing and other areas. Another trend that get their favorite products at the best possible stage and some start to become profitable. is currently emerging is “vertical integration,” price. Retailers are developing their formats Traditional retailers are developing deeper in which retailers acquire specific parts of the in response to customer needs, leading to relationships with third-party delivery services value chain to be able to innovate, be more increased competition across additional to help them keep up with the challenges of transparent or lower their costs. formats. Customers are showing a preference “last-mile” logistics. There is growing demand for small formats that emphasize specialty for same-day and instant delivery as customer products, urban locations and convenience, expectations for convenience increase. while discounters continue to grow by Pure online companies are looking for physical improving their offering and increasing touch points to connect with consumers, even their advertising. The convenience channel launching store-based formats to enhance is growing at one of the fastest rates of all the convenience and customer service they physical grocery channels. can provide. 10–15% The total eCommerce market is expected to grow by 10-15% each year through 2020 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 38 Our stakeholders Becoming a sustainable retailer Customers means working closely together As a retailer, customers are the lifeblood of our with the people our businesses businesses. Our brands engage with them every time they visit our stores or shop online. We stay impact. Our stakeholders help tuned in to what they want through third-party us to get better every day by surveys, consumer studies, focus groups, and challenging us, giving us insight through the immediate feedback they provide into their concerns, offering to our customer service departments, websites feedback on how we are doing, and social media. and collaborating with us to Customers tell us they want competitive prices, solve the problems and issues we high quality and a great shopping experience. all face. We engage with them in They want healthier eating to be more accessible, more fun and more delicious, and both formal and informal ways they want products that are made with respect throughout the year. for people, animals and the planet. See examples of how we respond to our customers’ needs in Our sustainable business model, A better place to shop, Our values and Sustainable retailing. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 39 Our stakeholders continued Associates See examples of great initiatives for and by Shareholders Associates in our local brands bring our associates in A better place to work and We strongly believe that by serving customers, strategy to life every day for our customers. Sustainable retailing. associates, communities and the environment Managers engage with associates informally well, our businesses will prosper, and our Communities throughout the workday but also through shareholders will benefit. Our shareholders are Our brands touch the lives of millions of people more formal touch points, such as a regular crucial to our business; they put their trust in us every day and are in continuous dialogue performance review process; management by investing in Ahold Delhaize financially. with members of the broader communities meetings; internal communications; awards, where they operate. The communities are Shareholders monitor our company closely and incentives and recognitions; knowledge-sharing made up of many different stakeholders such support and challenge us on our strategy and sessions; training courses; and an annual as governments, civic organizations, schools, how we manage our business. We communicate associate engagement survey conducted research institutes, industry bodies, charitable with them through quarterly disclosures and in each of our brands. Because Ahold and organizations, franchisees and affiliates, and of financial performance briefings, presentations Delhaize Group were still two separate course, suppliers. We engage with communities and exchanges with analysts and investors. companies for the first half of 2016, two in person, through partnerships, memberships, We also respond to the socially oriented separate engagement surveys were sponsorships, and in dialogue with key investment community, who ask about our administered, each with its own specific organizations that overlap with our work as financial performance and synergies but methodology. We saw strong participation food retailers. With our suppliers, we maintain also about our strategy to build a sustainable from associates in both surveys, with 87% of multiple communication channels, including business that will be successful in the long term. associates from former Ahold brands and face-to-face meetings, online communication 84% of associates from former Delhaize By organizing events such as our Capital and supplier events. At local and global level, brands participating. Both companies had Markets Day on December 7, 2016, we engage we play an active role in industry associations a 1% improvement in year-over-year scores. with our shareholders, getting their perspectives and other bodies. We believe these results are exceptional given on our strategy and financial performance, and it was also a year of integration. Our community stakeholders provide valuable giving them more insight into our operations so feedback, for example on how we can be they can make informed investment decisions. Associates indicate that they want to work in a stronger partner in creating healthier a supportive environment where their voices communities. Input from our suppliers, both are heard, where they have development local and global, helps us, for example, to opportunities, and where they are recognized create better products for customers, find new for doing a great job. ways to reduce food waste and increase the We aim to run strong businesses that offer economic, social and environmental value for stable jobs and great careers and provide the communities we source from throughout the working environments where associates are supply chain. See examples of our projects to respected and appreciated. Our businesses build better communities in A better neighbor are committed to the principles of equal and Sustainable retailing. employment opportunities, freedom of association, and respecting legal rights to collective bargaining. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 40 Material sustainability topics To ensure we chart a strategic Our approach course that benefits both our Following our merger in mid-2016, we carried Higher businesses and our broad group out a process to determine our material Ethical behavior sustainability issues. We analyzed the issues & integrity of stakeholders, we examine the Ahold and Delhaize Group had identified Product safety relevance of sustainability topics in the past, checked them against recent Product & & quality Human & labor rights through an annual materiality evolutions in topics relevant to our businesses supply chain transparency analysis. (such as the UN Sustainable Development Compliance & Goals), and worked with stakeholders to Affordable & regulation healthy product Through this process, we engage with our develop an Ahold Delhaize materiality matrix. Product sustainability Very high stakeholders to understand what social, Healthy lifestyle In 2017, we will reevaluate our material topics economic, and environmental topics are and carry out a full materiality analysis, important in their view, and to evaluate involving our broad group of stakeholders: Importance to stakeholders the significance of the impact we have on customers, associates, investors, suppliers Associate development customers, associates, communities and & diversity and representatives of civil society. Associate engagement the environment. Identifying our material sustainability topics and integrating them into our business strategies keeps us focused so we can deliver on our commitment to running Clean & safe stores Food waste sustainable businesses that are successful in High the long term. Packaging waste Climate change Donations Product innovation Moderate Healthy eating Lower Food waste Healthy & inclusive workplace Essentials Lower Impact on Ahold Delhaize Higher Other Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 41 Material sustainability topics continued Matrix heading Description Matrix heading Description Healthy eating Essentials Affordable and healthy products The number and affordability of products we sell that Product safety and quality The safety and quality of products we sell. meet the dietary needs and preferences of customers and Product sustainability The impact our products have on human rights, help them lead active and healthier lives. the environment, animals and community health. Healthy lifestyle Programs, services, and information we provide to Product and supply chain Credible and transparent information about products, their enable healthier lifestyles for our customers and transparency supply chains and their health and sustainability impacts. associates, including responsible marketing, sound nutritional advice and the responsible sales of alcohol Climate change Impacts our businesses have on climate emissions (from and tobacco in our stores. stores, distribution, supply chain, and product production and consumption), and adaptability of our business to the Product innovation Development of own-brand products with improved impacts of the changing climate. sustainability performance e.g., introducing products with reduced salt, fat and sugar. Clean and safe stores Clean and safe store environments for customers and the surrounding communities. Food waste Donations Product donations or financial contributions to charitable Food waste Food that goes to waste in stores, distribution, the supply organizations, including food banks. chain and in customers’ homes. Other Packaging waste Waste created from packaging materials (plastic, paper, glass, metal) that are not recycled. Ethical behavior and integrity Doing business with honesty and mutual respect, free of discrimination, harassment, corruption, and bribery. Healthy and inclusive workplace Compliance and regulation Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Associate development and diversity Professional development programs and a work environment that supports a diverse population of associates to thrive and reach their career potential. Building our strategy on what our stakeholders care about Associate engagement The level of engagement associates have in We developed our Sustainable Retailing strategy, as part of our overall Better Together strategy, our businesses. to address the most important topics we identified. The materiality assessment helped us Human and labor rights Respect for – and protection of – human rights, including choose our three global focus areas of healthy eating, food waste, and healthy and inclusive labor rights, of our associates, as well as people working workplaces, as well as five essential areas where we commit to continue our progress, such as in our supply chain. product safety and sustainability, climate impact, and safety at work. Material topics not taken into our Sustainable Retailing strategy (such as compliance and regulation), are managed by the relevant departments within Ahold Delhaize (including Legal, Risk & Control, Finance and Operations). We have also discussed broader topics, such as financial performance and business continuity, with our stakeholders; while they are important drivers for success, they are not exclusive sustainability topics and are therefore excluded from the matrix. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 42 Value chain The material sustainability topics Suppliers Ahold Delhaize we’ve identified not only impact Raw materials Production Distribution Retail operations Consumption the work we do “within our The products we sell come Raw materials are Products are delivered We sell our products Our products are four walls.” from farms and natural combined into products to our warehouses and in stores and online. consumed, ideally in resources around the world and packaged for sale. prepared to reach stores ways that benefit our They are often areas where we can have a and in our own backyards. or pick-up points. customers and the broader communities significant impact by partnering with suppliers, we serve. customers and other stakeholders to improve sustainability throughout the full value chain. We are committed to making a meaningful Open + contribution through such partnerships, building on our promises to be a better place to shop, a better place to work, and a better neighbor. Making the full value chain more sustainable Shop is not an easy task. Transparency of products’ now environmental and social impacts along the Pick up chain, for example, is increasing, but remains a challenge for a company with our global spread of suppliers, production locations and farmers. It requires a continuous effort to map Consumption We help associates and and understand the supply chain in order to customers eat better assess how, for instance, natural resources Retail operations and reduce food waste are used or how good working conditions We engage and empower to support healthier Raw materials Distribution our brands’ diverse teams communities. are monitored in actual practice. The merger of associates to improve We implement stronger We make our distribution brought us an even wider spread of partners product safety and centers and transportation health and sustainability, in the supply chain, but at the same time sustainability standards more energy-efficient supporting the long-term to conserve resources at to reduce our carbon success of our business. the opportunity to make an even bigger the start of our value chain. footprint. impact. Another challenge we have taken on is to help make it easier for our customers to reduce waste at home, through projects such Production as education around shopping to reduce We partner with suppliers on innovations that leftovers and giving away free containers to drive more sustainable Communities help preserve food longer. We support local communities production practices throughout the value chain, and reduce food waste. from projects with suppliers in Africa to sourcing fresh local products from the communities around our stores. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 43 Value chain continued Material topics along our value chain Case study Value chains are complex and they are different Partnering to source for every product we sell. In the case of food, the sustainably from the first step in the chain takes place on the farms Greek seas where the raw materials are grown. During the AB Vassilopoulos, in collaboration next step, these raw materials are turned into the with WWF Greece, fishermen, seafood products we sell. Sometimes we simply wash and suppliers, scientists, and other partners package the product, and sometimes it takes since 2011, is creating sustainable options more than one step and multiple ingredients. for wild caught and farmed fish from the Mediterranean Sea. The multi-year Fishery Some of the material challenges associated Improvement Project for the Kavala with the production of food are product sardine fleet is well on its way to bringing safety, working conditions, human rights, food the local fleet to the sustainability level waste, climate change and transparency. of the Marine Stewardship Council Ahold Delhaize identified these as material standards, and ultimately to certification. areas to address because of their importance to In the end, AB will be able to provide us as a company, but also to our customers, the customers with traceable and sustainable industry and our wider group of stakeholders. seafood, while supporting the long-term viability of the fish stocks and local Within our own direct distribution and retail fishing economy. operations we bring products together, move At the same time, a second collaboration them efficiently, and sell them to our customers. with WWF Greece and others is driving Relevant material topics at this stage are: toward more responsible aquaculture. product safety and quality; an affordable and Through adapting the standards of the healthy assortment; compliance and regulation; Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) clean and safe stores; associate development to the requirements of Mediterranean and diversity; and the management of food species, the project aims to reach ASC waste within our operations. certification for three farms supplying AB with sea bream and sea bass. At home, our customers use the products they buy from us. Consumption impacts the health and well-being of our customers, as well the broader communities we serve. Relevant material topics at this phase of the value chain include food waste, healthy lifestyles and product safety and quality. For more detail, see Material sustainability topics. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 44 Sustainable retailing Global challenges like building Our Sustainable Retailing strategy, which was healthier communities, developed as part of Better Together, is based eliminating poverty and hunger, on our most material topics and leverages our global reach, market expertise and great local and reducing inequality cannot brands to enable us to lead our industry in be solved without businesses making sustainable retailing the norm. and society working together. We used the UN Sustainable Development Ahold Delhaize’s Better Together Goals (SDGs), adopted at the end of 2015, as strategy is the roadmap we use an important input to guide how we prioritize to create value for customers, our sustainable retailing ambitions. In our associates, communities and strategy, we put particular focus on the the environment. It sets out following SDGs: zero hunger, decent work and economic growth, reduced inequalities, a way of doing business for responsible consumption and production and our new company that builds climate action. We also consulted trends in on the strong commitment to our markets and around the world, integrated sustainable retailing that has stakeholder feedback, and referenced other always been part of our legacy. global frameworks (such as the UN Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises) in establishing our areas of focus. For more detailed information on the Sustainable Retailing 2016 performance and targets for 2020 visit our website at www.aholddelhaize.com/en/sustainable-retailing Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 45 Sustainable retailing continued Our focus Promote healthier eating Reduce food waste Create a healthy and inclusive workplace Our Sustainable Retailing strategy prioritizes three areas where we can have the most impact on the lives of customers and associates, and on our communities around the world. 1.  2. 3.  We will enable our brands’ customers and We will reduce food waste by: We will provide a healthy and inclusive associates to eat healthier food every day by: • Driving down food waste in our own workplace for 370,000 associates by: • Innovating to make healthier eating more operations by 20% by 2020 (from our • Making healthier food choices available in affordable and more fun 2016 baseline) all workplaces for all associates • Inspiring customers and associates with • Maximizing the recovery of unsold food • Enabling associates to become healthy food programs and services to make healthier to reduce hunger in our communities ambassadors by supporting them in eating eating easy, every day nutritious foods • Working with our suppliers on innovations • Rewarding customers and associates to reduce food waste upstream • Creating a work environment in which for nutritious choices everyone is valued and where everyone • Helping customers reduce food waste can reach their full potential • Improving our assortment to increase sales at home of nutritious own-brand products to 45% by 2020 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 46 Sustainable retailing continued Our commitments to essentials Product safety and sustainability Climate impact Associate development Beyond the three focus areas, our Sustainable The products we sell are safe, of high We take our responsibility for using the planet’s We take care of people by encouraging Retailing strategy includes five additional quality, affordable, and meet sustainable resources sustainably by reducing carbon associate development areas where we make clear commitments: sourcing standards emissions and waste Safety at work Local community connection We integrate safe working practices We partner at the local level to create for all associates into our workplace healthier, more sustainable communities designs, equipment purchases and for future generations operational procedures Safety image TBC Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 47 Sustainable retailing continued Sustainable retailing governance Each brand sets specific annual targets on Local action, global impact Sustainable retailing at Ahold Delhaize is all of the Ahold Delhaize sustainable retailing Ahold Delhaize is a family of great local managed at all levels of the organization, performance indicators. On a quarterly brands, each with a deep connection to and from the Supervisory Board (Sustainability basis, each brand leader reviews the brand’s understanding of its local community. While we and Innovation Committee), to a designated year-to-date data and discusses progress have identified the areas we want to impact as Executive Committee (ExCo) member, to with the Chief Sustainability, Transformation a company, we empower our brands to create individual leads at each of our brands for the and Communications Officer. market-specific programs that also address three focus areas and five commitments. Projects that support meeting the sustainable these issues. Within the ExCo, our Chief Sustainability, retailing targets are integrated into the Ahold We build on the past achievements of all our Transformation and Communications Officer is Delhaize strategic review and budget cycle. brands while collaborating and sharing best responsible for sustainable retailing. The Vice To guide our Sustainable Retailing strategy, practices to achieve our sustainable retailing President Sustainable Retailing is responsible track performance, and share best practices, goals. Each brand has set targets to ensure for Ahold Delhaize’s Group-wide Sustainable we have put in place a global steering we grow our businesses and create value Retailing strategy, for global reporting against committee as well as topic-specific working consistently. The remuneration of our senior it both internally and externally, and for groups (in areas such as diversity and inclusion, management is also directly tied to these engaging external stakeholders on our strategy, safety at work, food waste, and product targets (see Remuneration). monitoring related trends and managing integrity) with participants from all our brands. For more information on our 2016 Sustainable related issues and risks. Relevant functional For more information on the members and roles Retailing data and 2020 targets, and to find leaders across the brands (in areas such as and responsibilities of these committees please out more about what our great local brands Human Resources, Occupational Health and visit our website. are doing in their communities to advance our Safety, and Product Integrity) are responsible sustainability goals, visit our website. for setting targets and implementing the work relevant to their functions. The leaders of our local brands are ultimately responsible for sustainable retailing within their brands, and a dedicated Executive Sponsor oversees sustainable retailing-related strategy, targetsetting and implementation. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 48 Group key financial indicators Monitoring our performance These are the key indicators that help us to monitor our progress towards our goals and measure our financial success. We include them to help give readers a better understanding of our company’s overall performance. Change 2016 2015 Change versus 2016 2015 versus Shareholders € € prior year Results IFRS € million € million prior year Net income per common share (basic) 0.81 1.04 (22.1)% Net sales 49,695 38,203 30.1% Pro forma underlying income from continuing Operating income 1,584 1,318 20.2% operations per share1 1.17 1.11 5.4% Underlying EBITDA 3,259 2,454 32.8% Dividend payout ratio2 48% 49% (1)% Underlying operating income 1,899 1,461 30.0% Dividend per common share 0.57 0.52 9.6% Income from continuing operations 830 849 (2.2)% Total shareholder return 5.5% 41.1% (35.6)% pt Net income 830 851 (2.5)% 2016 2015 Change versus Underlying income from continuing operations 1,230 950 29.5% Other information € million € million prior year Change Net debt 3,244 1,148 182.6% 2016 2015 versus Free cash flow (combined)3 1,377 1,705 (19.2)% Pro forma results € million € million prior year Capital expenditures included in cash flow Net sales 62,331 60,881 2.4% statement (excluding acquisitions) (combined)3 1,694 1,580 7.2% Operating income 1,974 1,899 3.9% Credit rating/outlook Standard & Poor’s BBB / stable BBB / stable — Underlying EBITDA 4,063 3,862 5.2% Credit rating/outlook Moody’s Baa2 / positive Baa2 / stable Change in Underlying operating income 2,298 2,155 6.6% outlook Income from continuing operations 1,078 1,202 (10.3)% Net income 1,078 1,203 (10.4)% 1 For more information on underlying pro forma income from continuing operations, see Group financial review in this section. 2 Dividend payout ratio for 2016 is based on underlying income from continuing operations (on a pro forma basis). In 2015 this Underlying income from continuing operations 1,486 1,410 5.4% was based on a payout ratio of adjusted income from continuing operations. 3 Free cash flow and capital expenditure including the Delhaize Group for a full year. Certain key performance indicators contain non-GAAP measures. The definitions of these non-GAAP measures are described on page 70 of this Annual Report. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 49 Group financial review On July 23, 2016, the merger This review also provides numbers and Group performance on an IFRS basis between Ahold and Delhaize analysis on a pro forma basis. The pro forma Change versus prior Group was completed. Legally, data is based on the assumption that the € million 20161 20151 year % change merger became effective on the first day of the merger was implemented Ahold’s 2015 financial year. This provides a Net sales 49,695 38,203 11,492 30.1% by Delhaize Group merging into comparative basis, for illustrative purposes, Cost of sales (36,317) (27,760) (8,557) (30.8)% Ahold, with the entity renamed to facilitate assessment of the current Gross profit 13,378 10,443 2,935 28.1% Ahold Delhaize. performance of the combined company. Operating expenses (11,794) (9,125) (2,669) (29.2)% Operating income 1,584 1,318 266 20.2% The following main adjustments to the Consequently, Delhaize Group’s financial Net financial expense (541) (265) (276) (104.2)% combined historical data were made to arrive results are included in our consolidated Income before income taxes 1,043 1,053 (10) (0.9)% at the pro forma information: financial statements since the merger Income taxes (247) (224) (23) (10.3)% date, affecting comparability of the 2016 • Exclusion of the performance of remedy Share in income of joint ventures 34 20 14 70.0% financial results to the 2015 results. Due to stores and other divestments Income from continuing operations 830 849 (19) (2.2)% the significance of Delhaize Group’s results to • Exclusion of merger transaction costs Income (loss) from discontinued the Company, the Delhaize Group sales and operations — 2 (2) (100.0)% • Inclusion of purchase price allocation effects operating expense categories and the mergerNet income 830 851 (21) (2.5)% on Delhaize assets and liabilities, impacting related integration and restructuring activities Operating income 1,584 1,318 266 20.2% depreciation and amortization, net interest in 2016 are the main drivers of the changes in expense and rent Adjusted for: results of operations when compared to the • Alignment of Global Support Office Impairments 104 39 65 2015 results. functions and related costs (Gains) Losses on the sale of assets (22) (18) (4) • Alignment of foreign exchange rates for Restructuring and related consolidation of foreign group entities charges and other items 233 122 111 Underlying operating income 1,899 1,461 438 30.0% Underlying operating income margin 3.8% 3.8% —% pt 1 For the former Ahold segments, including the operating segment within Central and Southeastern Europe, the number of weeks included for 2016 is 52 weeks (2015: 53 weeks). Net sales from former Delhaize segments are included as of July 24, 2016. Week 53 Our financial year consists of 52 or 53 weeks and ends on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Financial year 2016 consisted of 52 weeks, while 2015 consisted of 53 weeks for the former Ahold businesses. Net sales in 2015 were positively impacted by the additional week, while the impact on operating margins for the Group was negligible. In some of the discussions below, we have included comparisons of 2016 with 2015 excluding week 53 (referred to as “adjusted for week 53 in 2015”). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 50 Group financial review continued Net sales In addition to the merger, sales growth was driven by new store openings (€836 million), which Net sales in the financial year ended January 1, 2017, were €49,695 million, an increase of includes the full-year impact of the acquisition of 25 A&P stores at Ahold USA in Q4 of 2015 and €11,492 million or 30.1%, compared to net sales of €38,203 million for the financial year ended the full-year impact of the conversion of 17 stores transferred from Jumbo in the Netherlands January 3, 2016. At constant exchange rates, net sales were up by €11,360 million or 29.6%. during 2015. In addition, Ahold Delhaize saw an increase of €631 million in comparable sales. Change This was driven by sales growth at our online businesses (eCommerce), strong growth reported versus prior in the Central and Southeastern Europe (CSE) segment and Albert Heijn’s sales momentum, with year at % change Change constant at constant an increased number of transactions and a higher average purchase amount per visit in the versus prior exchange exchange Netherlands. Our brands in the United States grew comparable sales despite the deflationary € million 20161 20151 year % change rates rates environment. Sales growth was partly offset by closed stores. Net sales 49,695 38,203 11,492 30.1% 11,360 29.6% Comparable Of which gasoline sales 919 1,093 (174) (15.9)% (177) (16.1)% Sales Comparable sales growth Net sales excluding gasoline 48,776 37,110 11,666 31.4% 11,537 31.0% million 20161 20151 growth sales growth2 ex gas2 Ahold USA ($) 26,377 26,350 0.1% 0.0% 0.7% 1 For the former Ahold segments, including the operating segment within Central and Southeastern Europe, the number of weeks included for 2016 is 52 weeks (2015: 53 weeks). Net sales from former Delhaize segments are included as of July 24, 2016. Delhaize America ($) 7,746 — € million Net sales overview adjusted for week 53 in 2015 Ahold USA 23,845 23,732 0.5% 0.0% 0.7% % change 2016 2015 at constant Delhaize America 7,065 — € million (52 weeks) (52 weeks) % change exchange rates The Netherlands 13,101 12,699 3.2% 4.1% 4.1% Ahold USA 23,845 23,267 2.5% 2.1% Belgium 2,199 — Delhaize America 7,065 — Central and Southeastern The Netherlands 13,101 12,436 5.3% 5.3% Europe 3,485 1,772 96.7% 0.1% 0.4% Belgium 2,199 — Total 49,695 38,203 30.1% 1.3% 1.7% Central and Southeastern Europe 3,485 1,740 100.3% 98.4% 1 For the former Ahold segments, including the operating segment within Central and Southeastern Europe, the number of Total1 49,695 37,443 32.7% 32.3% weeks included for 2016 is 52 weeks (2015: 53 weeks). Net sales from former Delhaize segments are included as of July 24, 2016. 1 Excluding gasoline sales, net sales in 2016 increased 33.7% at constant exchange rates and adjusted for week 53 in 2015. 2 For the definition of comparable sales (excluding gas) see non-GAAP measures at the end of this section. Gasoline sales decreased in 2016 by €174 million or 15.9%, or at constant exchange rates Ahold Delhaize continued to see strong sales growth in its online businesses, which operate in decreased 16.1%. Adjusted for week 53 in 2015, and at constant exchange rates, gasoline sales maturing eCommerce markets mainly in the United States and the Netherlands and offered decreased 14.5%, mainly due to a decrease in gasoline prices. expanded or new sales categories and extended service delivery areas during the year. Ahold Delhaize’s online businesses contributed €1,991 million, or 4.0%, to Ahold Delhaize’s net Net sales excluding gasoline increased in 2016 by €11,666 million, or 31.4% compared to 2015. sales in 2016 (2015: €1,646 million or 4.3%). At constant exchanges rates, net sales excluding gasoline increased in 2016 by €11,537 million, or 31.0% compared to 2015. Compared to 2015 sales adjusted for week 53 and at constant exchange rates, net sales excluding gasoline increased in 2016 by €12,290 million, or 33.7%. This increase was primarily driven by the merger with the Delhaize Group, which added €11,001 million of sales. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 51 Group financial review continued Gross profit Operating expenses Impairment of assets Net sales € million 49,695 Ahold Delhaize’s gross profit increased by In 2016, operating expenses increased by Ahold Delhaize recorded the following €2,935 million, or 28.1% compared to 2015. €2,669 million, or 29.2%, to €11,794 million, impairments and reversals of impairments 38,203 At constant exchange rates, gross profit compared to €9,125 million in 2015. At constant of assets in 2016 and 2015: 32,682 32,615 32,774 increased by €2,896 million or 27.6%, which was exchange rates, operating expenses € million 2016 2015 2.3% €2,713 million higher as a result of the merger increased by €2,636 million or 28.8%, which was Ahold USA (78) (20) 3.6% 2.0% 32.3% 0.8% with Delhaize Group. Gross profit margin (gross €2,361 million higher as result of the merger Delhaize America (2) — profit as a percentage of net sales) for 2016 with Delhaize Group. As a percentage of The Netherlands (21) (19) 2012 2013 2014 20151 20161 was 26.9%, a decrease of 0.4 percentage points net sales, operating expenses decreased by Belgium — — Net sales compared to 27.3% in 2015. 0.2 percentage points to 23.7% compared to Central and Net sales growth at constant exchange rates1 23.9% in 2015. Excluding gasoline sales and at Gasoline sales have a lower gross profit Southeastern Europe (3) — 1 Sales growth in 2016 and 2015 is adjusted for the impact of week 53. constant exchange rates, operating expenses margin compared to non-gasoline sales; Global Support Office — — as a percentage of net sales decreased by therefore the proportionately lower gasoline Total (104) (39) 0.4%. Online sales sales have a positive effect on the overall € million 1,991 gross profit margin. Excluding the sale of This decrease of 0.4% is mainly explained Impairment charges in 2016 were €104 million, 1,646 gasoline, and at constant exchange rates, by the addition of the former Delhaize up by €65 million compared to 2015. 1,267 gross profit margin was down 0.6 percentage Group operations in part offset by higher The impairments in 2016 were primarily related 1,086 points. This decrease was almost entirely impairments, integration costs and to remedy stores and other divestments at 830 4.0% 4.3% driven by the addition of the former Delhaize restructuring charges. Delhaize America Ahold USA (€46 million) and to other store 3.3% 3.9% 2.5% Group operations. Delhaize America and and Belgium operate with a lower gross operations. In 2015, an impairment charge Belgium operate with a lower gross margin margin and with lower operating expenses of €9 million was recorded for a write-down 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and with lower operating expenses as as percentage of sales. of prepaid consideration for stores transferred Online sales1 percentage of sales. back to Jumbo (related to the transfer of Contribution to Ahold Delhaize’s net sales Operating expenses include impairments, stores from Jumbo in 2012). The remaining 1 During 2012 Ahold acquired bol.com gains (losses) on the sale of assets, impairment charges in 2016 and 2015 mainly restructuring and related charges and other related to underperforming stores. items that management believes can distort Underlying operating income € million 1,899 an understanding of the trend related to the development of its underlying business. 1,412 1,379 1,461 Impairments, gains (losses) on the sale of 1,267 assets and restructuring and related charges are summarized as follows: 4.3% 4.2% 3.9% 3.8% 3.8% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Underlying operating income Underlying operating margin Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 52 Group financial review continued Gains and losses on the sale of assets Restructuring and related charges and Restructuring charges recognized at CSE were Income taxes Ahold Delhaize recorded the following gains other items related to the acquisition of SPAR in 2014. In 2016, income tax expense was €247 million, on the sale of non-current assets in 2016 Restructuring and related charges and other Global Support Office restructuring charges for up by €23 million compared to €224 million in and 2015: items in 2016 and 2015 were as follows: 2015 were mainly transaction costs related to 2015. The increase in income tax expense in € million 2016 2015 € million 2016 2015 the merger with Delhaize (€37 million). 2016 is mainly the result of positive one-time Ahold USA 27 11 Ahold USA (66) (53) items in 2015. The effective tax rate, calculated Operating income Delhaize America — — Delhaize America (32) — as a percentage of income before income tax, Operating income in 2016 increased by was 23.7% in 2016 (2015: 21.3%). The Netherlands (2) 7 The Netherlands (35) (9) €266 million, or 20.2%, to €1,584 million Belgium 2 — Belgium (7) — compared to €1,318 million in 2015. The increase Share in income of joint ventures Central and Central and of €266 million is the difference between Ahold Delhaize’s share in income of joint Southeastern Europe — — Southeastern Europe — (16) the higher gross profit of €2,935 million and ventures, which relates primarily to our 49% Global Support Office (5) — Global Support Office (93) (44) higher operating expenses of €2,669 million. shareholding in JMR and 51% share in Super Total 22 18 Total (233) (122) The changes in gross profit and operating Indo, was €34 million in 2016, up by €14 million expenses are explained above. compared to last year. For further information The 2016 gains and losses at Ahold USA Restructuring and related charges and other about joint ventures, see Note 14 to the Net financial expenses mainly related to the sale of remedy stores items in 2016 were €233 million, up by €111 million consolidated financial statements. Net financial expenses in 2016 increased (€19 million). compared to 2015. The increase is related by €276 million, or 104.2%, to €541 million Results from discontinued operations to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize. compared to €265 million in 2015. This was Results from discontinued operations in In 2016, the restructuring and related charges of mainly due the the increase in Other financial 2016 were nil, versus a gain of €2 million €233 million included €38 million of transaction expenses (€244 million), which consisted in 2015. In 2015, results from discontinued costs and €107 million of integration costs mainly of the one-off finance cost of operations were impacted by various related to the merger between Ahold and €243 million relating to the buy-back of the adjustments to the results of prior years’ Delhaize, as well as €26 million related to JPY 33,000 million notes. Net interest expense divestments as a consequence of warranties divestment of the remedy stores and other increased by €32 million compared to 2015 and indemnifications provided in the relevant divestments. It also included a lump-sum driven by higher interest expenses on debt sales agreements. compensation for a reduction in benefits for (€49 million) and finance lease commitments employees in the Netherlands and the Global For further information about discontinued (€11 million), which was partly offset by the Support Office (€35 million). operations, see Note 5 to the consolidated amortization of the fair value allocation of financial statements. In 2015, restructuring charges related to a the debt brought in through acquisitions reorganization of Ahold USA’s support office (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial (negatively affecting operating income by statements) and higher interest income. €14 million), as well as an early retirement Interest expense and interest income mainly incentive offered to Giant Landover store increased as a result of the merger with the employees, with an impact of €17 million. Delhaize Group. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 53 Group financial review continued Underlying operating income and underlying The improvement was partially offset by Underlying operating income and underlying operating income margin for 2016 and 2015 were operating income margin additional investments in our online businesses, as follows: Underlying operating income was €1,899 million as part of our future growth strategy. Our online Underlying operating income Underlying operating margin in 2016, up €438 million or 30.0%, versus businesses in the Netherlands operate at a million 20161 20151 % change 2016 2015 % pt change €1,461 million in 2015. lower margin and their accelerated growth Ahold USA ($) 1,034 1,043 (0.9)% 3.9% 4.0% (0.1)% pt has a dilutive impact on the segment’s overall Delhaize America ($) 275 — 3.6% Underlying operating income margin in 2016 margin. This additional dilutive effect, at was 3.8%, compared to 3.8% in 2015. At constant € million 0.1 percentage points, was slightly higher exchange rates, underlying operating income Ahold USA 936 940 (0.4)% 3.9% 4.0% (0.1)% pt than last year as a result of the stronger was up by €432 million, or 29.5%, compared to Delhaize America 252 — 3.6% sales performance. 2015, which was €393 million higher as result of The Netherlands 636 578 10.0% 4.9% 4.6% 0.3% pt the merger with Delhaize Group. Tight cost management remains a core Belgium 56 — 2.5% part of our business model. This enables Central and The changes in underlying operating income, us to continue to invest in our competitive Southeastern Europe 127 27 370.4% 3.6% 1.5% 2.1% pt excluding the impact of the merger with position and, at the same time, our businesses Global Support Office (108) (84) (28.6)% —% Delhaize Group, are mainly a reflection of benefit from optimized store processes and Total 1,899 1,461 30.0% 3.8% 3.8% —% pt improved margins in The Netherlands. improved sourcing. Margins in The Netherlands segment mainly 1 For the former Ahold segments, including the operating segment within Central and Southeastern Europe, the number of weeks included for 2016 is 52 weeks (2015: 53 weeks). improved as a result of higher vendor allowances, lower operating expenses and a timing difference between the realization of buy for less simplicity savings and the reinvestments in the customer proposition. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 54 Group financial review continued Group performance on a pro forma basis Pro forma online net sales contribution Pro forma net sales contribution by segment The following is a summary of Ahold Delhaize’s 2016 and 2015 consolidated income statements by category on a pro forma basis. The pro forma information in this financial review presents a picture of what the financial results would have been if the merger of Ahold with Delhaize had occurred on the 7.9% 8.9% first day of Ahold’s 2015 financial year, using the fair values established as of July 23, 2016 (the 54% merger date), as the basis for the purchase price allocation effects. The information is not intended 46% 20.9% to revise past performance, but instead to provide a comparative basis for the assessment of current performance. 37.4% € million, except per share data Pro forma 20161 Pro forma 20151 % change % change constant 24.9% Net sales 62,331 60,881 2.4% 2.1% Operating income 1,974 1,899 3.9% 3.6% Ahold USA Delhaize America Food Income from continuing operations 1,078 1,202 (10.3)% (10.6)% General merchandise The Netherlands Belgium Basic income from continuing Central and Southeastern Europe operations per share 0.85 0.95 (10.5)% (10.5)% Underlying EBITDA 4,063 3,862 5.2% 4.9% Pro forma underlying operating income Underlying EBITDA margin 6.5% 6.3% contribution by segment 1 Underlying operating income 2,298 2,155 6.6% 6.3% Underlying operating margin 3.7% 3.5% 37.7% Underlying income from continuing 9.5% operations per share 1.17 1.11 5.4% 5.4% 5.0% 1 For the former Ahold segments, including the operating segment within Central and Southeastern Europe, the number of weeks included for 2016 is 52 weeks (2015: 53 weeks). Week 53 25.8% Our financial year consists of 52 or 53 weeks and ends on the Sunday nearest to December 31. 22.0% Financial year 2016 consisted of 52 weeks, while 2015 consisted of 53 weeks for the former Ahold businesses. Net sales in 2015 were positively impacted by the additional week, while the impact Ahold USA Delhaize America on operating margins for the Group was negligible. In some of the discussions below, we have The Netherlands Belgium Central and Southeastern Europe included comparisons of 2016 with 2015 excluding week 53 (referred to as “adjusted for week 53 in 2015”). 1 Before Global Support Office costs. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 55 Group financial review continued Net sales Ahold Delhaize saw an increase of €1,177 million Pro forma net sales overview adjusted for week 53 in 2015 On a pro forma basis and adjusted for in comparable sales. This was driven by sales % change week 53 in 2015, net sales increased by growth at our online businesses, strong growth 2016 2015 at constant € million (52 weeks) (52 weeks) % change exchange rates €2,040 million, or 3.4%. at constant exchange reported in the Central and Southeastern Ahold USA 23,316 22,654 2.9% 2.5% rates. Sales growth was driven by new store Europe (CSE) segment, and Delhaize America Delhaize America 15,501 15,146 2.3% 1.9% openings, which includes the full-year impact and Albert Heijn’s sales momentum, with of the acquisition of 25 A&P stores at Ahold USA an increased number of transactions and a The Netherlands 13,015 12,362 5.3% 5.3% in Q4 of 2015 and the full-year impact of the higher average purchase amount per visit Belgium 4,942 4,859 1.7% 1.7% conversion of 17 stores transferred from Jumbo in the Netherlands. Our brands in the United Central and Southeastern Europe 5,557 5,115 8.6% 8.8% in the Netherlands during 2015. In addition, States grew comparable sales despite the Total1 62,331 60,136 3.7% 3.4% deflationary environment. 1 Excluding gasoline sales, pro forma 2016 net sales increased 3.7%, at constant exchange rates and adjusted for week 53 in 2015. % change Comparable Comparable constant sales sales growth Operating income Underlying operating income excludes million 2016 1 2015 1 % change rates growth2 ex gas2 On a pro forma basis, operating income impairments, gains (losses) on the sale of Ahold USA ($) 25,790 25,654 0.5% 0.5% 0.0% 0.7% in 2016 increased by €75 million, or 3.9%, to assets, restructuring and related charges and Delhaize America ($) 17,156 16,828 1.9% 1.9% 2.1% 2.1% €1,974 million compared to €1,899 million in 2015. other items that management believes can € million The changes in pro forma profit and expenses distort an understanding of the trend related Ahold USA 23,316 23,106 0.9% 0.5% 0.0% 0.7% are summarized in the segment reviews below. to the development of its underlying business. Delhaize America 15,501 15,146 2.3% 1.9% 2.1% 2.1% Pro forma impairments, gains (losses) on the The Netherlands 13,015 12,624 3.1% 3.1% 4.1% 4.1% Underlying operating income and underlying sale of assets and restructuring and related operating income margin Belgium 4,942 4,859 1.7% 1.7% 1.7% 1.7% charges are summarized in the segment On a pro forma basis, underlying operating Central and reviews below. Southeastern Europe 5,557 5,146 8.0% 8.1% 5.5% 5.7% income was €2,298 million, up €143 million, or 6.6%. At constant exchange rates, pro Total 62,331 60,881 2.4% 2.1% 2.0% 2.3% forma underlying operating income was up 1 For the former Ahold segments, including the operating segment within Central and Southeastern Europe, the number of 6.3%. The increase was driven by improved weeks included for 2016 is 52 weeks (2015: 53 weeks). profitability at our operations in The 2 For the definition of comparable sales (excluding gas) see non-GAAP measures at the end of this section. Netherlands, Belgium and CSE. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 56 Group financial review continued Ahold USA on a pro forma basis Our online business, Peapod, continued to In 2016, pro forma underlying operating 2016 2015 Change versus grow in its existing market area and has income was €921 million, down by €1 million € million (52 weeks) (53 weeks) prior year % change further expanded in the New York City area compared to last year. At constant rates, Net sales1,2 23,316 23,106 210 0.9% as additional capacity became available at pro forma underlying operating income Comparable sales growth its New Jersey facility. decreased by 0.5%. excluding gasoline 0.7% 1.1% Pro forma operating income decreased by Ahold USA’s pro forma underlying operating Operating income 854 859 (5) (0.6)% €5 million, or 0.6%, to €854 million compared income margin in 2016 was 4.0%, flat Adjusted for: to 2015. Underlying operating income is compared to 2015. Impairments 32 20 12 adjusted for the following items, which (Gains) losses on the sale of assets (8) (10) 2 In a highly competitive landscape, market impacted operating income: Restructuring and related charges share was up, mainly driven by the New and other items 43 53 (10) • Impairments: The 2016 impairment York Metro division and its acquisition of Underlying operating income 921 922 (1) (0.1)% charges amounted to €32 million and 25 A&P stores. Underlying operating income margin 4.0% 4.0% in 2015 impairment charges amounted Underlying EBITDA margin 6.8% 6.8 % to €20 million. The impairments in 2016 related primarily to underperforming stores 1 At constant exchange rates, pro forma net sales for 2016 increased by 2.5%, when compared to pro forma net sales and investment properties. In 2015 these adjusted for week 53 sales in 2015. primarily related to underperforming stores. 2 Excluding gas sales, pro forma net sales for 2016 increased by 3.3%, at constant exchange rates and adjusted for week 53 in 2015. • (Gains) Losses on the sale of assets: No individually significant gains or losses were In 2016, pro forma net sales were overall market deflation in main product recorded in 2016 or 2015. €23,316 million, up by 0.9% or €210 million categories. This was most notable in the • Restructuring and related charges and compared to 2015. At constant exchange second half of the year and in the Meat and other items: The 2016 charges decreased by rates, pro forma net sales were up by 0.5%. Dairy categories. €10 million compared to 2015. In 2016, these Pro forma net sales growth was affected by During 2016, Ahold USA completed the charges mainly related to integration costs lower gasoline sales, primarily due to a decline in transformation of the produce and self-service as result of the merger (€33 million). In 2015, gasoline prices. Comparable gasoline volumes bakery departments. These transformations, charges included a restructuring of the were down by 2.8%. Excluding gasoline, pro and two waves of price reduction at the end of Ahold USA support office in 2015 (affecting forma net sales at constant rates were 1.3% Q1 and Q3, were part of its program to improve operating income negatively by €14 million), higher than in 2015, or, adjusted for week 53 in the customer proposition through targeted an early retirement incentive offered to 2015, higher by 3.3%. This increase was mainly price reductions and marketing, an improved Giant Landover store employees with an driven by 0.7% growth in comparable sales “Fresh” offering, and an enhanced customer impact of €17 million and €11 million charge and the full-year impact of the conversion experience through in-store merchandising from the withdrawal from a multi-employer of 25 acquired A&P stores in Q4 2015 (which and employee engagement. Stores where the pension plan. contributed 2.7% to sales growth in 2016). program has been rolled out continued to see Sales growth was adversely impacted by positive performance. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 57 Group financial review continued Delhaize America on a pro forma basis On a pro forma basis, net sales in 2016 were Pro forma operating income was €459 million. Change versus €15,501 million, up by 2.3%, or €355 million, Underlying operating income is adjusted € million 2016 2015 prior year % change compared to 2015. At constant exchange for the following items, which impacted Net sales 15,501 15,146 355 2.3% rates, sales were up by 1.9%. The increase was operating income: Comparable sales growth 2.1% 2.1% mainly driven by comparable sales growth of • Impairments: Impairments amounted Operating income 459 483 (24) (5.0)% 2.1%. Both Food Lion and Hannaford continued to €6 million. No individually significant Adjusted for: to experience positive comparable sales and impairments were recorded in 2016 or 2015. Impairments 6 6 — volume growth. Sales growth versus last year was adversely impacted by overall market • (Gains) Losses on the sale of assets: (Gains) losses on the sale of assets 7 9 (2) deflation in main product categories. This was No individually significant gains or losses Restructuring and related charges were recorded in 2016 or 2015. and other items 66 21 45 most noticeable in the second half of the year and in the Meat and Dairy categories. • Restructuring and related charges and Underlying operating income 538 519 19 3.7% In addition, price pressure at Food Lion resulted other items: 2016 charges of €66 million, Underlying operating income margin 3.5% 3.4% from a more intense competitive environment. were mostly related to integration costs Underlying EBITDA margin 6.6% 6.6% of €37 million due to merger. In addition, Food Lion continued with its “Easy, Fresh & it includes the settlement of share-based Affordable... You Can Count on Food Lion payments plan prior to the merger Every Day” strategy, relaunching 142 stores (€15 million) and costs due to Hurricane in the Charlotte, North Carolina market Matthew in Q4 (€11 million). after extensive remodeling during the year. Previously launched “Easy, Fresh & Affordable” On a pro forma basis, underlying operating markets in North Carolina, Wilmington, income in 2016 was €538 million, up by Greenville and Raleigh, continue to perform €19 million compared to last year. At constant according to plan both in terms of sales rates, underlying operating income increased and costs. by 3.3%. Delhaize America’s underlying operating income margin in 2016 was 3.5%, up 0.1 percentage points compared to 2015. The increase reflects positive gross profit results driven by volume growth and higher vendor allowances following a decision to add more local products to our assortment. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 58 Group financial review continued The Netherlands on a pro forma basis and accelerated growth in Belgium as well as In 2016, pro forma underlying operating 2016 2015 Change versus the success of the Plaza platform. This platform income in The Netherlands was €629 million, € million (52 weeks) (53 weeks) prior year % change offers a marketplace to merchant partners and up by €59 million or 10.4% from €570 million Net sales 13,015 12,624 391 3.1% is an important driver in delivering on our 2020 in 2015. The underlying operating margin Comparable sales growth 4.1% 3.7% ambition to double net consumer online sales. of The Netherlands was 4.8% in 2016, up Operating income 578 551 27 4.9% 0.3 percentage points compared to 2015. Pro forma operating income increased by Adjusted for: Excluding bol.com, the underlying operating €27 million, or 4.9%, to €578 million, affected by Impairments 15 19 (4) income margin was 5.4% in 2016, up by the following items that Ahold Delhaize adjusts (Gains) losses on the sale of assets 2 (8) 10 0.4 percentage points compared to 2015. for to arrive at its underlying operating income: Restructuring and related charges Margins mainly improved as a result of a timing and other items 34 8 26 • Impairments: During 2016, an impairment difference between the realization of buy for Underlying operating income 629 570 59 10.4% charge of €9 million was recorded for a less simplicity savings and the reinvestments Underlying operating income margin 4.8% 4.5% write-down of prepaid consideration for in the customer proposition, as well as stores transferred back to Jumbo (related to improvements in the cost base. Underlying EBITDA margin 7.0% 6.7% the transfer of stores from Jumbo in 2012). Our online businesses in the Netherlands The 2015 impairment charges included operate at a lower margin and their On a pro forma basis, net sales in 2016 were both brands were able to attract more sales €8 million related to the write-down of accelerated growth has a dilutive impact on €13,015 million, up by 3.1% or €391 million from existing customers, and attract new prepaid consideration from the transfer of the segment’s overall margin. This dilutive compared to 2015. Compared to sales adjusted customers in existing areas. Albert Heijn’s stores from Jumbo. The remaining impairment affect was slightly higher at 0.1 percentage for week 53 in 2015, net sales increased in 2016 comparable sales growth was driven by its charges in 2016, as well as the impairment points compared to last year as result of by €653 million, or 5.3%. ability to attract customers through its newly charges incurred during 2015, mainly related the continuous strong sales growth of our introduced own-brand products, own-brand to underperforming stores. This increase was mainly driven by the 4.1% online businesses. quality improvements, innovative products • (Gains) Losses on the sale of assets: In growth in comparable sales; the full year and the expansion of its healthy food offering. 2016, The Netherlands sold assets with an Our net sales in The Netherlands consist of impact of the conversion of former C1000 In December, Albert Heijn was named best aggregate loss of €2 million and in 2015 sales to consumers and to franchise stores. stores in the Netherlands; the full year impact supermarket in the Netherlands by market with an aggregate gain of €8 million. Franchise stores operate under the same of last year’s opening of new Albert Heijn stores research company GfK. No individually significant gains or losses were format as Ahold Delhaize-operated stores. in Belgium; and further expansion of our store recorded in 2016 or 2015. Franchisees purchase merchandise primarily network in the Netherlands. In 2016 Albert Heijn For the full year, market share at Albert Heijn from Ahold Delhaize, pay a franchise fee started a pilot with Albert Heijn to go stores at increased to 35.2% (source: Nielsen), driven by • Restructuring and related charges and other and receive support services, including gas stations. the growth of Albert Heijn Online and Albert items: The charges in 2016 related mainly to management training, field support and Heijn to go. costs related to a lump-sum compensation for The comparable sales growth in The marketing and administrative assistance. a reduction in benefits for employees in the Netherlands of 4.1% was fueled by doubleBol.com delivered strong double-digit Netherlands (€28 million) and integration cost digit sales growth at our online operations. growth in net consumer online sales of 32.5%. (€4 million). Adjusted for the additional week in 2015, Compared to sales adjusted for week 53 in 2015, net sales at bol.com increased by 25.0% net consumer online sales increased by 35.5%, and at Albert Heijn Online by 29.7% because as in previous years fueled by new categories Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 59 Group financial review continued Belgium on a pro forma basis On a pro forma basis, net sales in 2016 • Restructuring and related charges and Change versus were €4,942 million, up by 1.7% or €83 million other items: The charges in 2016 related € million 2016 2015 prior year % change compared to 2015. This was mainly driven to integration costs of €7 million and Net sales 4,942 4,859 83 1.7% by comparable sales growth of 1.7%. This was restructuring costs of €7 million. In 2015, Comparable sales growth 1.7% 0.2% a result of inflation and continued good charges mainly included €32 million Operating income 97 1 96 performance in the affiliated network, while in Transformation Plan charges and a Adjusted for: volume growth was negative in the company€25 million competition fine. Impairments 14 17 (3) operated stores. For the year, Belgium’s On a pro forma basis, underlying operating (Gains) losses on the sale of assets (4) — (4) market share was stable compared to last income in 2016 was €121 million, up by Restructuring and related charges year at 24.1%. 40.7%, or €35 million compared to last year. and other items 14 68 (54) In 2016, Delhaize Belgium reached an Underlying operating income margin in 2016 Underlying operating income 121 86 35 40.7% important milestone in the implementation of was 2.4, up 0.6 percentage points compared Underlying operating income margin 2.4% 1.8% its Transformation Plan, completing the rollout to 2015. Better underlying operating income Underlying EBITDA margin 5.4% 4.8% of the new store organization to simplify the was mainly a result of lower operational labor organizational structure and processes in costs in the stores as a result of Transformation its supermarkets. Plan savings. During the fourth quarter of 2016, 10 Red Our net sales in Belgium consist of sales Market stores were converted and added to consumers and to affiliate stores. to the Delhaize affiliate store network. Affiliates receive goods at a wholesale The remaining three Red Market stores will price which comprises a mark-up on our be converted in 2017. purchase price. Pro forma operating income increased by €96 million, to €97 million compared to 2015. Underlying operating income is adjusted for the following items, which impacted operating income: • Impairments: No individually significant gains or losses were recorded in 2016. • (Gains) Losses on the sale of assets: No individually significant gains or losses were recorded in 2016. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 60 Group financial review continued Central and Southeastern Europe on a pro forma basis In 2016, net sales on a pro forma basis in CSE 2016 pro forma underlying operating income Change versus were €5,557 million, up by 8.0% or €411 million in CSE was €231 million, up by €38 million or € million 20161 20151 prior year % change compared to 2015. At constant exchange 19.7% from €193 million in 2015. In 2015, this also Net sales 5,557 5,146 411 8.0% rates, net sales were up by 8.1%. Compared to included €7 million of non-recurring costs Comparable sales growth 5.5% 2.5% sales adjusted for week 53 in 2015 and at related to the SPAR integration. Operating income 215 165 50 30.3% constant exchange rates, net sales increased In 2016, pro forma underlying operating Adjusted for: by €448 million, or 8.8%, in 2016. income margin in CSE was 4.2%, which was Impairments 7 6 1 Sales growth was driven by comparable store 0.4 percentage points higher than in 2015. (Gains) losses on the sale of assets 2 4 (2) sales growth of 5.5% and by the addition of 99 Greece, the Czech Republic and Romania Restructuring and related charges stores in 2016, contributing 2.5% to sales growth. reported higher margins, while Serbia’s margin and other items 7 18 (11) Comparable sales growth was mainly driven decreased. The overall increase was mainly Underlying operating income 231 193 38 19.7% by our businesses in Greece, Romania and driven by Greece and Romania, both of which Underlying operating income margin 4.2% 3.8% Serbia, while the Czech Republic increased its reported higher margins than in 2015 by Underlying EBITDA margin 6.8% 6.5% comparable sales slightly. 0.7 percentage points and 0.6 percentage points respectively. 1 For the former Ahold segments, including the operating segment within Central and Southeastern Europe, the number of Pro forma operating income increased by weeks included for 2016 is 52 weeks (2015: 53 weeks). €50 million, to €215 million compared to 2015. Underlying operating income is adjusted for the following items, which impacted operating income: • Impairments: No individually significant gains or losses were recorded in 2016. • (Gains) Losses on the sale of assets: No individually significant gains or losses were recorded in 2016. • Restructuring and related charges and other items: In 2015, charges mainly included €14 million of costs related to the integration of SPAR in the Czech Republic. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 61 Group financial review continued Global Support Office on an IFRS basis Global Support Office on a pro forma basis Change versus Change versus € million 2016 2015 prior year % change € million Pro forma 2016 Pro forma 2015 prior year % change Global Support Office costs 206 128 78 (60.9)% Global Support Office costs 229 160 69 (43.1)% of which Unusual items 98 44 54 (122.7)% of which Unusual items 87 25 62 (248.0)% Underlying Global Support Office Underlying Global Support costs 108 84 24 (28.6)% Office costs 142 135 7 (5.2)% of which related to selfinsurance of which related to self-insurance activities (22) (22) — 0.0% activities (23) (29) 6 (20.7)% Underlying Global Support Underlying Global Support Office costs excluding self insurance 130 106 24 (22.6)% Office costs excluding self-insurance 165 164 1 (0.6)% Global Support Office costs in 2016 were Underlying Global Support Office costs On a pro forma basis, Global Support Office Underlying pro forma Global Support Office €206 million, up €78 million compared to were €108 million, up €24 million compared cost in 2016 were €229 million, up €69 million costs in 2016 were €142 million, up €7 million. last year. Global Support Office costs were to 2015. Excluding the impact of our selfmillion compared to last year. Global Support Excluding the impact of our self-insurance impacted by unusual items that amounted to insurance activities, underlying Global Office costs were impacted by unusual activities, underlying Global Support Office €98 million in 2016, €54 million higher than last Support Office costs were €130 million, or items which amounted to €87 million in 2016, costs were €165 million, €1 million higher than year. This increase was mainly driven by higher €24 million higher than last year which was €62 million higher than last year, mainly due last year. integration and transaction costs in 2016 driven by the inclusion of the Delhaize Group’s to integration costs. related to the merger with Delhaize. Global Support Office functions and related underlying costs as of the merger date in 2016. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 62 Group financial review continued Earnings and dividend per share The increase in the weighted average number € million Pro forma 2016 Pro forma 2015 Income from continuing operations per of common shares also increased by shares Income from continuing operations 1,078 1,202 common share (basic) was €0.81, a decrease of that were issued under employee share-based Adjusted for: €0.23 or 22.1% compared to 2015. This decrease compensation programs. Impairments 74 68 was driven by lower income from continuing Pro forma income from continuing operations (Gains) losses on the sale of assets 4 (5) operations, which declined by 2.2%, and an per common share (basic) was €0.85 cent, a Restructuring and related charges and other items 246 193 increase in weighted average number of decrease of €0.10 cent or 10.5% compared Unusual items in net financial expense1 246 43 common shares (from 820 million in 2015 to to 2015. This decrease was driven by lower Tax effect of unusual items (162) (91) 1,022 million in 2016) as a result of: income from continuing operations, which Underlying income from continuing operations 1,486 1,410 (i) the merger with the Delhaize Group; on declined by €124 million. Income from continuing operations per share completion of the merger 496 million ordinary The weighted average number of shares attributable to common shareholders 0.85 0.95 shares were issued, partly offset by: used for calculating the pro forma basic and Underlying income from continuing operations per share underlying income from continuing operations attributable to common shareholders 1.17 1.11 (ii) the shares repurchased in 2015 under the €500 million share buyback program. per share is 1,272 million (the number of shares 1 Unusual items in net financial expense consists mainly of the one-off finance cost of €243 million relating to the buying outstanding at the merger date). back the JPY 33,000 million notes, see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. The total number of shares repurchased was 8.8 million. The program was suspended at Reflecting the confidence we have in our strategy and our ability to generate cash, we propose Our dividend policy is to target a payout the end of June 2015 in connection with the a common stock dividend of €0.57 for the financial year 2016, up 9.6% from last year. It represents ratio in the range of 40-50% of underlying intended merger of Ahold and Delhaize. a payout ratio of 48%, based on the expected dividend payment on pro forma underlying income from continuing operations (on a income from continuing operations, which is in line with our dividend policy. (iii) the €1 billion capital repayment and reverse pro forma basis). This was changed from stock split transaction in 2016 resulting in a a payout ratio of adjusted income from Income from continuing operations Dividend per common share reduction of 49 million shares. continuing operations to better align with our per common share (basic) (2016 includes proposed dividend) key metrics. As part of our dividend policy, we adjust income from continuing operations 1.04 0.52 0.57 0.47 0.48 for impairments of non-current assets, gains 0.90 0.44 0.84 0.81 and losses on the sale of assets, restructuring 0.79 and related charges, and other unusual items. Pro forma underlying income from continuing operations amounted to €1,486 million and €1,410 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively, and was determined as follows: 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 63 Group financial review continued Financial position The main drivers of changes in Ahold Gross and net debt 7.6 Delhaize’s consolidated balance sheet result € billion Ahold Delhaize’s consolidated balance sheets as of January 1, 2017, and January 3, 2016, are summarized as follows: from the merger between Ahold and Delhaize Group, which was completed on July 23, 2016. 3.0 € million January 1, 2017 % of total January 3, 2016 % of total 3.5 Property, plant and equipment 11,770 32.4% 6,677 42.1% Property, plant and equipment increased by 3.2 3.2 Intangible assets 12,547 34.6% 1,968 12.4% €5,093 million, primarily due to the merger 3.2 Other non-current assets 1,981 5.5% 1,975 12.4% (€4,930 million) and the strengthening of the 1.4 0.9 1.3 1.1 Cash, cash equivalents and U.S. dollar against the euro, while capital short-term deposits and similar expenditures were offset by depreciation and 1.9 4.0 1.9 2.4 4.3 instruments and current portion impairments. Intangible assets increased by 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 of available-for-sale financial assets 4,317 11.9% 2,354 14.8% €10,579 million which was mainly the result of Cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits Inventories 3,288 9.1% 1,676 10.6% the goodwill recognized as part of the merger and similar instruments and current portion of Other current assets 2,372 6.5% 1,230 7.7% with Delhaize Group. available-for-sale financial assets Total assets 36,275 100.0% 15,880 100.0% Gross debt Net debt Group equity increased by €10,655 million. Group equity 16,276 44.9% 5,621 35.4% This increase was mainly driven by the merger Non-current portion Ahold Delhaize’s net debt was €3,244 million as (issuance of €10,761 million shares), the current of long-term debt 5,570 15.3% 3,309 20.8% of January 1, 2017, an increase of €2,096 million year’s net income and a positive currency Pensions and other post-employment from January 3, 2016. The increase in gross translation impact. This was partially offset benefits 659 1.8% 389 2.5% debt (€4,059 million), the capital repayment by returns to shareholders, which included, in Other non-current liabilities 3,373 9.3% 1,559 9.8% addition to the 2015 dividend of €429 million, (€1,001 million), payment of common stock Short-term borrowings and dividend (€429 million) and the buyback of €1,001 million relating to the capital current portion of long-term debt 1,991 5.5% 193 1.2% the JPY33 billion notes and the unwind of the repayment and reverse stock split that was Payables 5,389 14.9% 2,800 17.6% corresponding derivative (total cash impact of recorded and paid in July 2016. Other current liabilities 3,017 8.3% 2,009 12.7% €543 million), were partly offset by our free cash Total equity and liabilities 36,275 100.0% 15,880 100.0% In 2016, gross debt increased by €4,059 million flow (€1,441 million), €2,201 million related to to €7,561 million, primarily due to the merger acquisition / divestments of businesses, net of (€4,134 million) and the strengthening of the cash and acquired available for sale financial U.S. dollar against the euro. This was partially assets and restricted cash (€202 million). offset by the buyback and cancellation of the Net debt does not include our commitments entire principal amount of the JPY33 billion under operating lease contracts, which, on an notes and regular payments on finance lease undiscounted basis, amounted to €7,489 million and financing transaction liabilities. at year-end 2016 (2015: €6,140 million). The offbalance sheet operating lease commitments impact our capital structure. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 64 Group financial review continued Our defined benefit plans showed a net deficit Liquidity and cash flows Group credit facility Credit ratings of €659 million at year-end 2016 compared Liquidity Ahold Delhaize has access to a €1.0 billion Maintaining solid investment grade credit to a net deficit of €389 million at year-end Ahold Delhaize views available cash balances committed, unsecured, multi-currency and ratings is a cornerstone of Ahold Delhaize’s 2015. This increase was primarily driven by a and funds from operating activities as its syndicated credit facility that was amended strategy because such ratings serve to €473 million loss due to changes in financial primary sources of liquidity, complemented and extended in February 2015, whereby the lower the cost of funds and facilitate assumption and a €150 million increase due with access to external sources of funds when Company reduced the size of the credit facility access to a variety of lenders and markets. to the merger with Delhaize Group. This was deemed to be required. Ahold Delhaize from €1.2 billion to €1.0 billion (providing for Ahold Delhaize’s current credit ratings from partially offset by the positive investment manages short-term liquidity based on the issuance of $275 million in letters of credit). the solicited rating agencies are as follows: results on the plan assets. projected cash flows. As of January 1, 2017, At the same time, the facility was extended • Standard & Poor’s: corporate credit rating the Company’s liquidity position primarily to 2020 with two potential extensions after 12 A significant number of union employees BBB with a stable outlook as of June 2009 consisted of €3,134 million of cash (including and 24 months that would take the facility to in the United States are covered by multi(previous rating BBB– assigned in 2007) short-term deposits and similar instruments 2021 and 2022 respectively. In February 2016, employer plans. With the help of external • Moody’s: issuer credit rating Baa2 as of and current portion of assets available-forthe first extension was successfully agreed with actuaries, we have updated the most recent August 2015 (previous rating Baa3 assigned sale, adjusted for cash held under a notional the lenders. In February 2017, the Company available information that these plans in 2007). The outlook was revised from cash pooling arrangement), and the fully requested that the lenders consent to a have provided (generally as of January stable to positive in August 2016 undrawn €1 billion revolving credit facility. second extension. 1, 2015) for market trends and conditions through the end of 2016. We estimate our Based on the current operating performance The credit facility contains customary proportionate share of the total net deficit and liquidity position, the Company believes covenants and is subject to a financial to be $910 million (€865 million) at year-end that cash provided by operating activities covenant that requires Ahold Delhaize, in the 2016 (2015: $873 million or €804 million). and available cash balances will be sufficient event that its corporate rating from Standard These amounts are not recognized on our for working capital, capital expenditures, & Poor’s and Moody’s is lower than BBB / balance sheet. While this is our best estimate interest payments, dividends and scheduled Baa2, respectively, not to exceed a maximum based on the information available to us, it is debt repayment requirements for the next leverage ratio of 4.0:1. During 2015 and 2016, imprecise and not necessarily reliable. For more 12 months and the foreseeable future. the Company was in compliance with these information see Note 23 to the consolidated covenants. As of January 1, 2017, there were financial statements. no outstanding borrowings under the facility. As of January 1, 2017, a standby letters of credit facility for a total amount of $226 million (€214 million) was issued and fully drawn to guarantee self-insurance-related obligations. Delhaize Group’s €400 million committed credit facility was terminated as a result of the merger. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 65 Group financial review continued Cash flows Free cash flow, at €1,441 million, increased by Ahold Delhaize consolidated cash flows for 2016 and 2015 are as follows: €257 million compared to 2015. Operating cash € million 2016 2015 flows from continuing operations were Operating cash flows from continuing operations 2,898 2,139 higher by €759 million. At constant exchange Purchase of non-current assets (1,302) (804) rates, operating cash flows from continuing Divestment of assets / disposal groups held for sale 104 51 operations were higher by €763 million, or Dividends from joint ventures 19 21 35.7%. The purchase of non-current assets was Interest received 15 4 higher by €498 million, or €495 million higher Interest paid (293) (227) at constant exchange rates. Free cash flow 1,441 1,184 Free cash flow Repayments of loans (347) (31) € million Repayments of finance lease liabilities (141) (104) 1,441 1,184 Changes in short-term loans 209 5 1,051 1,109 1,055 Dividends paid on common shares (429) (396) Capital repayment (1,001) — Share buyback — (161) Acquisition / divestments of businesses, net of cash 2,201 (150) Acquired available-for-sale financial assets and restricted cash 202 – 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Other cash flows from derivatives (260) (22) In 2016, the main uses of free cash Other 17 (5) flow included: Change in cash, cash equivalents, and short-term deposits and similar instruments, and the current portion of available-for-sale • €1,001 million returns to shareholders financial assets (before impact of exchange rates) 1,892 320 through capital repayment and reverse Changes in short-term deposits and similar instruments, the current stock split, prior to completion of the merger portion of available-for-sale financial assets and changes in between Ahold and Delhaize Group restricted cash 222 (247) Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 2,114 73 • Common stock dividend at €0.52 per share resulting in a cash outflow of €429 million • Buyback of the JPY33 billion notes and the unwind of the corresponding derivative (€543 million) Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 66 Group financial review continued Capital investments and property overview As of January 1, 2017, Ahold Delhaize operated 6,556 stores. Total sales area amounted to Capital expenditure (including acquisitions), which includes new finance leases, amounted to 9.3 million square meters in 2016, an increase of 86.9% from the prior year. The total number of stores €16,774 million in 2016 and €1,172 million in 2015. (including stores operated by franchisees) is as follows: Change versus Acquired Opened / € million 2016 2015 prior year % of sales Opening Delhaize other Closed / Closing Balance merger acquired sold Balance Ahold USA 513 427 86 2.2% Ahold USA 788 — 2 (14) 776 Delhaize America 229 — 229 3.2% Delhaize America — 1,284 3 (73) 1,214 The Netherlands 389 345 44 3.0% The Netherlands1 2,134 — 63 (34) 2,163 Belgium 83 — 83 3.8% Belgium — 903 10 (148) 765 Central and Southeastern Europe 141 37 104 4.0% Central and Southeastern Europe 331 1,238 73 (4) 1,638 Global Support Office 22 2 20 — Total number of stores 3,253 3,425 151 (273) 6,556 Total regular capital expenditures* 1,377 811 566 2.8% 1 The number of stores as of January 1, 2017, includes 1,152 specialty stores (Etos and Gall & Gall). (January 3 2016: 1,139 Acquisition capital expenditures** 15,398 361 15,037 — specialty stores). Total Ahold Delhaize 16,775 1,172 15,603 33.8 % The increase in number of stores includes the addition of 3,287 stores as a result of the merger * Including new finance leases. with the Delhaize Group, already net of 224 stores divested or closed after the merger (most ** Including conversion expenditure of acquired stores and acquired finance leases. of which were divested in compliance with the regulatory authorities and the Tom & Co stores Capital investments were primarily related to Capital expenditures in Belgium). 16.8 the construction, remodeling and expansion of € billion The total number of retail locations, including the 5,460 stores owned or leased by Ahold stores and supply chain (including online) and Delhaize and 20 pick-up points in stand-alone locations, was 5,480 in 2016, higher by 2,747 IT infrastructure improvements. Under IFRS, the compared to 2015. merger with the Delhaize Group is accounted Ahold Delhaize Franchisees Total for as a business combination following the Number of stores leased or owned 5,460 1,096 6,556 acquisition method. In 2016, acquisition capital 1.9 2.8% expenditures included the merger with the 0.8 1.0 1.2 Number of stores subleased to franchisees (531) 531 — Delhaize Group. In 2015, acquisition capital 2.8% Number of stores operated 4,929 1,627 6,556 2.5% 2.3% 2.1% expenditure included the acquisition of 25 Number of stand-alone pick-up points 20 — 20 stores from A&P in the United States. 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.8 1.4 Total number of retail locations 4,949 1,627 6,576 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Excluding acquisitions, capital expenditures Regular capex in 2016 were €1.4 billion. The increases Acquisition capex versus 2015 mainly relates to the merger Regular capex as % of sales and the construction of bol.com’s new distribution center. Including full year Delhaize Group capital expenditures, total capital expenditures amounted to €1.8 billion. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 67 Group financial review continued Franchisees operated 1,627 stores in the The following table breaks down the ownership Ahold USA Delhaize America Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, 1,096 structure of our 5,480 retail locations (inclusive Number of stores 2016 2015 Number of stores 2016 2015 of which were either owned by the franchisees of stores subleased to franchisees) and 1,202 Stop & Shop New England 217 218 Food Lion 1,033 — or leased independently from Ahold Delhaize. other properties as of January 1, 2017: Stop & Shop New York Hannaford 181 — Retail Other Metro 200 205 Total Delhaize America 1,214 — At the end of 2016, Ahold Delhaize operated % of total locations properties 484 pick-up points, 221 more than in 2015. Giant Landover 168 169 Sales area of own-operated Company-owned 23% 52% Giant Carlisle 191 196 stores (in thousands of These were either stand-alone, in-store or Leased, of which 77% 48% Total Ahold USA 776 788 square meters) 2,980 — office-based. The increase in number of pickFinance leases 13% 8% Sales area of own-operated up points includes the addition of 220 pick-up At the merger date, 1,284 stores from Delhaize points as a result of the merger with the Operating leases 64% 40% stores (in thousands of square meters) 2,960 3,031 America were brought into the company Delhaize Group. portfolio. In the subsequent months, 73 stores Our leased properties have terms of up to Ahold Delhaize also operated the following 25 years, in limited instances up to 30 years, Ahold USA ended the year with 12 fewer were divested, of which 71 in compliance other properties as of January 1, 2017: with renewal options for additional periods. stores, net of two openings and 14 closings. with the regulatory authorities. Including the Store rentals are normally payable on a Peapod closed one pick-up point, bringing the pre-merger period, the net number of stores Warehouse / distribution centers / production facilities / offices 149 monthly basis at a stated amount or, in a total to 210 in 2016. divested or closed at Delhaize America in 2016 limited number of cases, at a guaranteed amounted to 74 stores. Properties under construction / In 2016, the Ahold USA divisions remodeled, development 41 minimum amount plus a percentage of sales Delhaize America operated 34 pick-up points expanded, relocated or reconstructed 16 stores Investment properties 1,012 over a defined base. at the end of 2016. as part of the continuous focus on keeping Total 1,202 stores fresh and up-to-date. Total investments Total investments at Delhaize America, postat Ahold USA amounted to around 2.2% merger, amounted to around 3.2% of sales. The investment properties consist of buildings of sales and ranged from new stores to and land. Virtually all these properties were investment in IT, distribution centers and minor subleased to third parties. The majority were construction work in the stores. shopping centers containing one or more Ahold Delhaize stores and third-party retail units At the end of 2016, Ahold USA operated generating rental income. 229 fuel stations, one less than last year. The majority of these stations are located in the Giant Carlisle and the Stop & Shop New England market areas. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 68 Group financial review continued The Netherlands Belgium Central and Southeastern Europe Number of stores 2016 2015 Number of stores 2016 2015 Number of stores 2016 2015 Albert Heijn: Delhaize Belgium 765 — Czech Republic 330 331 the Netherlands 884 885 Total Belgium 765 — Greece 378 — Albert Heijn: Belgium 42 38 Sales area of own-operated Serbia 404 — Albert Heijn to go: stores (in thousands of Romania 526 — the Netherlands 74 66 square meters) 282 — Central and Southeastern Albert Heijn to go: Europe 1,638 331 Germany 11 6 At the merger date, 903 stores from Delhaize Sales area of own-operated Etos 547 539 Belgium were brought into the company stores (in thousands of Gall & Gall 605 600 portfolio. At the end of July, 145 stores were square meters) 1,203 549 Total The Netherlands 2,163 2,134 divested as result of the divestment of the Tom & Co operations. At the merger date, 1,238 stores from Delhaize Sales area of own-operated stores (in thousands of Greece, Serbia and Romania were brought Belgium operated 117 pick-up points at the square meters) 998 994 into the company portfolio. Together with the end of 2016. 331 stores from the former Ahold operation in In 2016, our brands in The Netherlands opened Total investments in Belgium, post-merger, the Czech Republic, the total store portfolio 29 stores net of store closures, bringing the amounted to around 3.8% of sales. of Ahold Delhaize operations in Central and total to 2,163. Southeastern Europe totaled 1,569 stores. In the Albert Heijn Online opened two pick-up points, subsequent months, 73 stores were added to bringing the total to 54 at the end of 2016. the segment and four stores were closed. A total of 113 stores were remodeled, CSE operated 69 pick-up points at the end expanded, relocated or reconstructed in the of 2016. past year as part of the regular process of Total investments in Central and Southeastern maintaining and modernizing the business Europe amounted to around 4.0% of sales. property portfolio. Total investments in the Netherlands amounted to around 3.0% of sales, allocated to the opening of new stores and investments in IT, distribution centers and minor construction work in the existing stores. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 69 Group financial review continued The key financial and non-financial information per segment for 2016 and 2015 is presented below: Central and Ahold USA Delhaize America The Netherlands Belgium Southeastern Europe 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net sales (€ millions)1 23,845 23,732 7,065 – 13,101 12,699 2,199 – 3,485 1,772 Net sales ($ millions)1 26,377 26,350 7,746 – – – – – – – Net sales growth in local currency 0.1% 1.4% – – 3.2% 8.6% – – 96.7% 15.3% Net sales growth adjusted for the impact of week 53 in 2015 in local currency 2.1% – – – 5.3% – – – 100.3% – Comparable sales growth (0.1)% (1.2)% 1.5% – 4.1% 3.7% 0.8% – 3.1% (0.7)% Comparable sales growth (excluding gasoline sales) 0.6% 1.1% 1.5% – 4.1% 3.7% 0.8% – 3.3% (0.4)% Operating income (€ millions) 818 878 218 – 578 557 51 – 125 11 Operating income ($ millions) 902 974 239 – – – – – – – Underlying operating income (€ millions) 936 940 252 – 636 578 56 – 127 27 Underlying operating income ($ millions) 1,034 1,043 275 – – – – – – – Underlying operating margin 3.9% 4.0% 3.6% – 4.9% 4.6% 2.5% – 3.6% 1.5% Number of employees / headcount (at year-end in thousands) 114 121 95 – 100 102 14 – 47 13 Number of employees / FTEs (at year-end in thousands) 82 85 56 – 32 33 12 – 43 11 Contribution to Ahold Delhaize net sales 48.0% 62.2% 14.2% – 26.4% 33.2% 4.4% – 7.0% 4.6% Contribution to Ahold Delhaize underlying operating income2 46.6% 60.9% 12.6% – 31.7% 37.4% 2.8% – 6.3% 1.7% 1 For the former Ahold segments and operating segment within Central and Southeastern Europe, the number of weeks included for 2016 is 52 weeks (2015: 53 weeks). Net sales from former Delhaize segments are included as of July 24, 2016. 2 Before Group Support Office costs. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 70 Non-GAAP measures This Annual Report includes the useful analytical information to investors Global Support Office (previously Corporate Net debt following non-GAAP financial regarding the operating performance of Center) costs Net debt is the difference between (i) the sum measures: Ahold Delhaize as it neutralizes the impact Global Support Office costs relate to the of loans, finance lease liabilities, cumulative of, for example, newly acquired stores in the responsibilities of the Global Support preferred financing shares and short-term Adjusted income from continuing operations calculation of sales growth. Office, including Finance, Strategy, Mergers debt (i.e., gross debt) and (ii) cash, cash Income from continuing operations & Acquisitions, Internal Audit, Legal & equivalents, current portion of available-foradjusted for significant non-recurring items. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation Compliance, Human Resources, Information sale financial assets, and short-term deposits This measure was a component of the 2015 and amortization, or EBITDA Technology, Insurance, Tax, Treasury, and similar instruments. In management’s dividend policy, which set the dividend payout Ahold Delhaize defines EBITDA as operating Communications, Investor Relations, Corporate view, because cash, cash equivalents, ratio to be 40-50% of adjusted income from income (loss) plus depreciation and Responsibility, and the majority of the current portion of available-for-sale financial continuing operations. amortization. EBITDA is considered to be Executive Committee. Global Support Office assets, and short-term deposits and similar a useful measure for investors to analyze Sales adjusted for week 53 in 2015 costs also include results from other activities instruments can be used, among other things, profitability by eliminating the effects Net sales in full year 2015 minus net sales of coordinated centrally but not allocated to any to repay indebtedness, netting this against of financing (i.e., net financial expense), former Ahold segments in the 53rd week of subsidiary. Underlying Global Support Office gross debt is a useful measure for investors capital investments and the impact of the 2015. Ahold Delhaize’s management believes costs exclude impairments of non-current to judge Ahold Delhaize’s leverage. Net debt purchase price allocation (i.e., depreciation that this measure provides an insight into the assets, gains and losses on the sale of assets, may include certain cash items that are not and amortization). impact of the additional week when net sales and restructuring and related charges and readily available for repaying debt. are compared to the previous year. Free cash flow other items, including business acquisition Net sales at constant exchange rates Ahold Delhaize defines free cash flow transaction costs. Comparable sales Net sales at constant exchange rates exclude as operating cash flows from continuing Comparable sales are net sales, in local Gross rent the impact of using different currency operations minus net capital expenditures currency, from exactly the same stores and Gross rent comprises all of the rent that Ahold exchange rates to translate the financial and net interest paid plus dividends received. online sales in existing market areas for the Delhaize is required to pay to third parties information of Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries Ahold Delhaize has included free cash flow as most recent comparable period plus net and is not corrected for rental income Ahold or joint ventures to euros. Ahold Delhaize’s the Company believes it is a useful measure for sales from stores that are replaced within Delhaize receives from other third parties. management believes this measure provides a investors, because it provides insight into the the same market area. For markets that sell better insight into the operating performance cash flows available to, among other things, Net consumer online sales gasoline, Ahold Delhaize also calculates of Ahold Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries or reduce debt and pay dividends. Free cash Total online sales to customers, excluding sales the comparable sales, excluding gasoline joint ventures. flow is derived from the financial statements; taxes and value-added taxes, but including sales, to eliminate gasoline price volatility however, this is not a measure calculated sales of third parties via bol.com’s Plaza. Net sales in local currency in the comparison. in accordance with IFRS and may not be Ahold Delhaize’s management believes that In certain instances, net sales are presented in Comparable sales and comparable sales comparable to similar measures presented by this measure provides more insight into the local currency. Ahold Delhaize’s management excluding gasoline sales are not reflected other companies. Accordingly, free cash flow growth of our online businesses. believes this measure provides a better insight in Ahold Delhaize’s financial statements. should not be considered as an alternative to into the operating performance of Ahold However, the Company believes that disclosing operating cash flow. Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries. comparable sales and comparable sales excluding gasoline sales provides additional Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 71 Non-GAAP measures continued Operating income in local currency obtained from Thomson Reuters is averaged Underlying earnings per share from In certain instances operating income is over a six-month period preceding the yearcontinuing operations presented in local currency. Ahold Delhaize’s end (average TSR index). Annual TSR is an Underlying earnings per share from continuing management believes this measure provides increase in the average TSR index compared operations is calculated as underlying better insight into the operating performance to the average TSR index in the previous year. income from continuing operations, divided of Ahold Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries. by the weighted average number of Underlying operating income and margin shares outstanding. Pro forma Total operating income, adjusted for Ahold Delhaize defines the pro forma impairments of non-current assets, gains and Underlying earnings before interest, information as the combined results of Ahold losses on the sale of assets, restructuring and taxes, depreciation and amortization, and Delhaize in accordance with International related charges, and other unusual items. or underlying EBITDA Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued Ahold Delhaize’s management believes Ahold Delhaize defines underlying by the International Accounting Standards this measure provides better insight into the EBITDA as underlying operating income Board (IASB) and as adopted by the European underlying operating performance of Ahold plus depreciation and amortization. Union (EU). These combined results are Delhaize’s operations. Underlying EBITDA is considered to be a useful adjusted for: measure for investors to analyze profitability Underlying income from by eliminating the effects of financing (i.e., net • Exclusion of the performance of remedy continuing operations financial expense), capital investments and stores and other divestments Ahold Delhaize defines underlying income the impact of the purchase price allocation • Exclusion of merger transaction costs from continuing operations as income (i.e., depreciation and amortization). from continuing operations adjusted for (i) • Inclusion of Purchase Price Allocation (PPA) impairments of non-current assets, gains and Management believes that these noneffects losses on the sale of assets, restructuring and GAAP financial measures allow for a better • Alignment of Global Support Office related charges, and other specific items understanding of Ahold Delhaize’s operating functions and related costs considered to not be directly related to the and financial performance. These non-GAAP • Alignment of foreign exchange rates used underlying operating performance, (ii) material financial measures should be considered in in the translation of foreign group entities non-recurring finance costs and income tax addition to, but not as substitutes for, the most The comparable periods for comparable sales expense, and (iii) the potential effect of income directly comparable IFRS measures. The comparable periods for comparable sales tax on all these items. for the year correspond to the adjusted for week 53 in 2015. Total shareholder return Total shareholder return (TSR) is the sum of share price growth and dividends paid. In this report, we disclose TSR as defined for the purposes of Ahold Delhaize’s Global Reward Opportunity (GRO) program. A daily TSR index Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 72 Governance Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 73 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Our Management Board and Executive Committee provide a Delivering our new strategy management structure designed The Executive Committee drives the vision and direction of the Company on behalf of the Management Board. to support our business, meet From left to right the needs of our stakeholders Marc Croonen Frans Muller Dick Boer Abbe Luersman Jan Ernst de Groot and comply with relevant rules Chief Sustainability, Deputy Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Human Resources Chief Legal Officer and regulations. Our Executive Transformation and and Chief Integration Officer Chief Executive Officer Officer Communications Officer Committee is comprised of our Hanneke Faber Kevin Holt Pierre Bouchut Jeff Carr Management Board (that has Chief Financial Officer Chief e-Commerce and Innovation Officer Chief Operating Officer, Ahold USA Chief Operating Officer, Europe & Indonesia ultimate responsibility for the overall management of Ahold Delhaize) and certain of our key officers. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 74 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Our Management Board Management Board and Executive Committee diversity Gender 2 7 Female Male Dick Boer Frans Muller Jeff Carr President and Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Chairman Management Board Chief Integration Officer Member Management Board and Executive Committee Member Management Board and Executive Committee Nationality Dick Boer has served as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee Jeff Carr has served as Chief Financial Officer of 1 of Ahold Delhaize since July 24, 2016. Prior to the Frans Muller has served as Deputy Chief Executive Ahold Delhaize since July 24, 2016. Prior to the Belgian 4 merger between Ahold and Delhaize, he had served Officer and Chief Integration Officer of Ahold merger between Ahold and Delhaize, Jeff joined as CEO of Ahold, appointed by the Supervisory Ahold on November 14, 2011, as acting member 1 Dutch Board on September 29, 2010, with an effective Delhaize since July 24, 2016. In addition, Delhaize America, including the Food Lion and Hannaford of the Management Board and CFO. Ahold’s French date of March 1, 2011. Before that, Dick had served brands, has reported to him on an interim basis since shareholders appointed him to the Management 1 as Chief Operating Officer Ahold Europe since November 6, 2006. October 2016. Prior to the merger between Ahold Board on April 17, 2012. British and Delhaize, Frans served as President and CEO He began his career at Unilever, and held senior Dick joined Ahold in 1998 as CEO of Ahold Czech of Delhaize Group from 2013. roles in finance at Associated British Foods, Reckitt 2 Republic and was appointed President and CEO Before joining Delhaize Group, Frans had worked for Benckiser and Grand Metropolitan. From 2005 to American of Albert Heijn in 2000. In 2003, he became 2009, he was group finance director and a member German retailer Metro AG for more than 15 years. President and CEO of Ahold’s Dutch businesses and of the board at easyJet. Jeff was then appointed From 2006 until 2013, he was a member of the Metro on May 3, 2007, shareholders appointed him to the to the role of group finance director and a member AG Management Board; he served as CEO of Metro Management Board. of the board at FirstGroup, the leading transport Cash & Carry from 2008 until 2013. He first joined Prior to joining Ahold, Dick spent more than 17 years operator in the UK and the U.S. Jeff has lived and Metro AG in 1997 as operations director; he then in various retail positions for SHV Holdings N.V. in the worked in Europe and the U.S. became managing director of its Dutch subsidiary, Netherlands and abroad and for Unigro N.V. Makro. In 2002, Frans became a member of the Born: September 17, 1961 Dick is a board member of The Consumer Goods board of Metro Cash & Carry International and was Nationality: British Forum and steward of the Future of Health and appointed regional director for Eastern Europe and Healthcare System at the World Economic Forum Russia. He served as president for Asia Pacific and 2017. He is also vice chairman of the executive Russia / Ukraine from 2004 until he was appointed board of The Confederation of Netherlands Industry CEO of Metro Group Buying in 2005. From 1988 to and Employers (VNO-NCW) and a member of the 1997, Frans worked for KLM Cargo, serving in various advisory board of fashion retailer G-star RAW. management and executive positions in Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Vienna and Singapore. Born: August 31, 1957 Frans is the president of the European Retail Round Nationality: Dutch Table (ERRT) and serves on the board of directors of the Food Marketing Institute Inc. For more information about the duties of the Management Board, see page 81 Born: March 30, 1961 Nationality: Dutch Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 75 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Our Management Board continued Pierre Bouchut Kevin Holt Chief Operating Officer Europe and Indonesia Chief Operating Officer Ahold USA Member Management Board Member Management Board and Executive Committee and Executive Committee Pierre Bouchut has been Ahold Delhaize’s Chief Kevin Holt has been Chief Operating Officer Ahold Operating Officer Europe and Indonesia since July USA since October 2016, after serving as Chief 24, 2016. Prior to the merger between Ahold and Operating Officer Delhaize America since July Delhaize, he had served as Executive Vice President 24, 2016. Prior to the merger between Ahold and and Chief Financial Officer of Delhaize Group Delhaize, he was Executive Vice President of Delhaize since 2012. Group and Chief Executive Officer of Delhaize Before joining Delhaize Group, Pierre was executive America, starting in 2014. director of growth markets at Carrefour, overseeing Before joining Delhaize Group, Kevin served as operations in Latin America, Turkey, India, Indonesia president of retail operations for SuperValu. During his and Malaysia. He also oversaw Carrefour’s personal tenure there, the company owned the Albertsons, financial services and real estate operations Jewel-Osco and Save-A-Lot chains and was the third worldwide. Pierre had joined Carrefour in 2009 as largest food retailing company in the U.S. group chief financial officer. Prior to SuperValu, Kevin worked for three years with Pierre began his career in 1979, first at Citibank Sears Holding Company and 14 years with Meijer, Paris and then Bankers Trust France SA. In 1988, he serving in various leadership positions including joined McKinsey & Company as a consultant in the executive vice president of retail operations and corporate finance and integrated logistics practices. senior vice president of information technology / Two years later, Pierre joined Group Casino, where services and strategic planning. he successively held the positions of chief financial Kevin spent nine years at NCR delivering technology officer, managing director and CEO responsible solutions to large and complex organizations before for both the French and international operations. joining the retail industry. In 2005, Pierre became chief financial officer at Schneider Group. Born: November 6, 1958 Pierre is a non-executive director and chairman Nationality: American of the audit committee of Hammerson PLC and a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee of Firmenich SA. Born: August 22, 1955 Nationality: French Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 76 Our Management Board and Executive Committee Executive Committee members Hanneke Faber Abbe Luersman Jan Ernst de Groot Marc Croonen Chief e-Commerce and Innovation Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Legal Officer Chief Sustainability, Transformation and Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee Member Executive Committee Communications Officer Hanneke Faber has been Chief e-Commerce and Abbe Luersman was appointed as Chief Human Jan Ernst de Groot has served as Chief Legal Officer Member Executive Committee Innovation Officer of Ahold Delhaize since July Resources Officer and member of Ahold Delhaize’s since July 24, 2016. Prior to the merger of Ahold and Marc Croonen has been Ahold Delhaize’s Chief 24, 2016. Prior to the merger between Ahold and Executive Committee, effective July 24, 2016. She is Delhaize, he was appointed Chief Legal Officer and Sustainability, Transformation and Communications Delhaize, she served as Ahold’s Chief Commercial responsible for Global Human Resources, including member of Ahold’s Executive Committee effective Officer since July 24, 2016. Prior to the merger Officer since September 1, 2013. Hanneke is Talent and Diversity; Leadership and Development; February 1, 2015. He is responsible for Ahold between Ahold and Delhaize, he was Executive responsible for eCommerce, digital personalization, Organizational Effectiveness and Design; and Total Delhaize’s legal affairs, governance and compliance Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer customer loyalty and media sales. Rewards. Prior to the merger between Ahold and functions, product integrity and public affairs. at Delhaize Group starting in 2014. Before joining Ahold, Hanneke was vice president Delhaize, Abbe had served as Ahold’s Chief Human Before joining Ahold, Jan Ernst was general counsel Before joining Delhaize Group, Marc was human and general manager Global Pantene, Head & Resources Officer and member of the Executive and managing director at TNT Express. Prior to that, resources director for Europe, the Middle East Shoulders and Herbal Essences at Procter & Gamble. Committee from November 1, 2013. he worked for KLM Royal Dutch Airlines in a wide and Africa at International Paper from 2012. She began her career at Procter & Gamble in 1992 Before that, Abbe worked for Unilever, where she range of business and corporate roles, most recently Between 2010 and 2012, he was chief human and held various senior roles in marketing and held various HR leadership roles, most recently as managing director and member of the board of resources officer at Dexia. general management in both Europe and the U.S. as head of human resources for Unilever Europe. management. Jan Ernst started his career at law Marc began his career with the former Artois Hanneke is a supervisory board member of Bayer Prior to Unilever, Abbe worked at Whirlpool firm De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek. brewery. After serving as human resources manager AG and a member of the Leading Executives Corporation, holding a number of senior roles Jan Ernst is chairman of the supervisory council here for nine years, he became head of human Advancing Diversity (LEAD) advisory board. in human resources, both in the United States of Hivos, supervisory board member of ADG resources and communication at Volkswagen and internationally. Dienstengroep and a board member of Hermitage Belgium in 1995. In 1999, he joined Danone as human Born: April 19, 1969 Abbe is a member of the Catalyst advisory Museum Amsterdam. resources director for Northern Europe. From 2001 Nationality: Dutch board and of the European Leadership Platform until 2010, Marc was employed by AB Inbev, Born: April 11, 1963 advisory board. including as head of human resources for Western Nationality: Dutch Europe from 2005 onwards. Born: December 4, 1967 Nationality: American Born: January 28, 1961 Nationality: Belgian Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 77 Supervisory Board Supervisory Board diversity Gender 3 11 Female Male Mats Jansson Jan Hommen Jacques de Vaucleroy Chairman Vice Chairman Vice Chairman Nationality Mats Jansson has served as Chairman of Ahold Jan Hommen has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Jacques de Vaucleroy has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016 and is a Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and 1 and is a member of its Governance and Nomination member of the Governance and Nomination is member of the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee Canadian Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold and Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold and the Governance and Nomination Committee. 4 Delhaize, he served as Chairman of Delhaize’s Board and Delhaize, he served as Chairman of Ahold’s Prior to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, 1 American of Directors starting in 2012. Supervisory Board since 2013. he served on Delhaize’s Board of Directors starting Swedish in 2005 and was Chairman of its Governance and Mats was CEO of the Scandinavian airline SAS from Jan was previously Vice Chairman of Ahold’s 2006 to 2010. Prior to that he served as president Supervisory Board and served as Chairman of the Nomination Committee. and CEO of Axel Johnson AB, CEO of Axfood, Audit Committee from 2003 to 2007. He is the Jacques has spent most of his career within the ING 4 4 CEO of Karl Fazer Oy and CEO of Catena / Bilia. Mats began his career with ICA, holding positions former CEO of KPMG the Netherlands and was CEO of ING Group N.V., CFO and vice chairman of the group, where he was a member of the executive board and CEO of ING Insurance and Investment Belgian Dutch of increasing responsibility over a period of more board of management of Royal Philips Electronics Management Europe. Jacques was a member of than 20 years and serving as president of ICA N.V. and CFO of Aluminum Company of America Inc. AXA Group’s management committee and CEO of Detaljhandel and deputy CEO and chairman of the Currently Jan is chairman of the supervisory board the company’s Northern, Central and Eastern Europe group from 1990 to 1994. of Brabantse Ontwikkelings Maatschappij Holding business unit from 2010 until 2016. He also assumed Currently, Mats is a member of the JPMorgan B.V., chairman of the board of trustees of Tilburg global responsibility for the AXA Group’s life and European Advisory Council, advisor to Prime Public University and United World College Nederland, savings and health businesses from 2011 until 2016. Communications i Sverige AB and advisor to Advent and an advisor to Advent International PLC. Currently Jacques is a member of the board of Capital Management LLC. directors of Fidelity International Ltd and serves on Born: April 29, 1943 the board of directors of several subsidiaries of Swiss Born: December 17, 1951 Nationality: Dutch Re Ltd. He is also a member of the advisory board of Nationality: Swedish CVC Belgium. Born: January 20, 1961 Nationality: Belgian Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 78 Supervisory Board continued Jack Stahl Ben Noteboom Bill McEwan Rob van den Bergh Chairman of the Audit, Finance and Chairman of the Governance and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Sustainability and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Bill McEwan has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Innovation Committee Jack Stahl has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Ben Noteboom has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is Rob van den Bergh has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is Chairman of the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee Chairman of the Governance and Nomination a member of the Sustainability and Innovation Chairman of the Sustainability and Innovation and a member of the Governance and Nomination Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold and Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold and and Delhaize, he served on Delhaize’s Board Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, he served on Delhaize’s Board of Directors Delhaize, he was first appointed to the Supervisory of Directors as of 2011 and was Chairman of the Delhaize, he was first appointed to the Supervisory from 2008 and was Chairman of its Audit and Board on April 28, 2009. Remuneration Committee. Board on April 20, 2011. Finance Committee. Ben is former CEO and chairman of the executive Bill is the former president and CEO of Sobeys Inc., Rob is former CEO of VNU N.V. Prior to that, he held Jack is former president and CEO of Revlon. board of Randstad Holding N.V., to which he was and was a member of the board of directors of its various other executive positions within VNU he was He started his professional career as an auditor appointed in 2001. He had first joined Randstad in parent company, Empire Company Limited. a member of the executive board from 1992 and at Arthur Andersen & Co. and then spent 22 years 1993 and held various senior management positions Between 1989 and 2000, Bill held a variety of was appointed CEO in 2000. as an executive within the Coca-Cola Company, during his time with the company. progressively senior marketing and merchandising Rob is chairman of the supervisory board of culminating in the role of president and chief Ben is a member of the supervisory board of Aegon roles with Coca-Cola Limited and Coca-Cola Bottling the Nationaal Museum van Wereldculturen, operating officer. He also served as group president N.V., chairman of its remuneration committee and a as well as with The Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea and a member of the supervisory boards of Pon of Coca-Cola Americas and chief financial officer. member of its audit committee. He is also a member Company (A&P), both in Canada and in the United Holdings B.V., Iddink Groep B.V. and Novamedia. Jack is chairman of the board of managers of of the supervisory board and audit committee of States. Bill served as president of A&P’s Canadian He is also a member of the advisory board of CVC New Avon LLC and serves on the boards of Catalent Wolters Kluwer N.V. and Koninklijke Vopak N.V., operations before his appointment as president Capital Partners. Inc., Advantage Solutions LLC and the U.S. board and a member of the boards of the Holland Festival and chief executive officer of the company’s U.S. Atlantic Region. Born: April 10, 1950 of advisors of CVC Capital Partners Advisory Inc. Foundation and the Cancer Center Amsterdam. He is also vice chairman and a member of the board Bill is a member of the board of Agrifoods Nationality: Dutch Born: July 4, 1958 of directors of The Boys and Girls Clubs of America. International Cooperative Ltd, Ultima Foods and Nationality: Dutch Aimia Inc. Born: March 27, 1953 Nationality: American Born: July 28, 1956 Nationality: Canadian Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 79 Supervisory Board continued Stephanie Shern Mark McGrath René Hooft Graafland Mary Anne Citrino Stephanie Shern has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Mark McGrath has served on Ahold Delhaize’s René Hooft Graafland has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Mary Anne Citrino has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is a Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is a Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is a Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is a member of the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee. member of the Governance and Nomination and member of the Audit, FInance and Risk Committee. member of the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, she Sustainability and Innovation Committees. He was Prior to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, he Prior to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, was first appointed to the Supervisory Board on May first appointed to the Supervisory Board on April was appointed to the Supervisory Board on April 16, she was appointed to the Supervisory Board on 18, 2005, and her final term runs until April 12, 2017. 23, 2008. Mark is a director emeritus of McKinsey 2014, with effect from January 1, 2015. March 14, 2016. Stephanie was with Ernst & Young for over 30 years, & Company. He led the firm’s Americas Consumer René previously held the position of CFO and Mary Anne is a senior advisor to Blackstone. most recently as vice chairman and global director Goods Practice from 1998 until 2004, when he retired member of the executive board of Heineken N.V. She joined the Blackstone Advisory Partners Group of retail and consumer products and a member of from the company. Mark is a former director of GATX until April 2015. Before being appointed as a member as senior managing director in 2004. Ernst & Young’s U.S. management committee. and Aware Inc. of Heineken’s executive board in 2002, he held Mary Anne was employed at Morgan Stanley for She is the chair of the audit committee of Gamestop Mark serves on the advisory council of the various international management positions with the over 20 years, during which she served as the global and a member of the board and audit committee University of Chicago’s Booth Graduate School company in Europe, Asia and Africa. head of consumer products investment banking, of Abercrombie & Fitch. Stephanie is also a member of Business. He is a trustee and serves on the René is a member of the supervisory board and co-head of healthcare services investment banking, of the advisory board of Pennsylvania State executive committee of the Chicago Symphony chairman of the audit committee of Wolters Kluwer and as a mergers and acquisitions analyst. University’s accounting major program and a Orchestra Association. N.V. and a member of the supervisory board and of Currently Mary Anne is a director of Dollar Tree, Inc. founding member of the Lead Director Network and Born: August 10, 1946 the audit committee of Koninklijke FrieslandCampina and member of its audit committee and nominating of the Southwest Region of the United States Audit N.V. He is also chairman of the supervisory board of and corporate governance committee. She is a Nationality: American Committee Network, both organized by Tapestry Royal Theatre Carré and chairman of the board of director of Aluminum Company of America Inc. Networks in the United States. Stichting African Parks Foundation. and a member of its governance and nominating Born: January 7, 1948 Born: September 24, 1955 committee and public issues committee. Mary Anne is also chair of the audit committee and member of Nationality: American Nationality: Dutch the finance, investment and technology committee of Hewlett Packard, Inc. and serves on the advisory council for the Center for Health and Wellbeing at Princeton University. Born: April 24, 1959 Nationality: American Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 80 Supervisory Board continued Johnny Thijs Patrick De Maeseneire Dominique Leroy Johnny Thijs has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Patrick De Maeseneire has served on Ahold Dominique Leroy has served on Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, and is a Delhaize’s Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016, Supervisory Board since July 24, 2016 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee. Prior to and is a member of the Audit, Finance and Risk member of the Sustainability and Innovation the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, he served Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold and Committee. Prior to the merger between Ahold on Delhaize’s Board of Directors starting in 2014. Delhaize, he served on Delhaize’s Board of Directors and Delhaize, she served on Delhaize’s Board of Johnny was the former CEO of Belgian Post from starting in 2015. Directors starting in 2015. 2002 to 2014 and served as CEO of TerBeke from Patrick has been the CEO of Jacobs Holding AG, She began working at Belgacom SA in 2011 as vice 2000 to 2002. major shareholder of Barry Callebaut AG, since president of sales for the consumer division. In 2012, Johnny started his career in 1974 at Vanderelst 2015. He is also chairman of the board of directors Dominique held the position of executive vice N.V. (Rothmans group) as product and marketing of Barry Callebaut. Patrick served as CEO of Adecco president of the consumer business unit of Belgacom manager for Belgium. In 1981, he was appointed from 2009 to 2015, and as CEO of Barry Callebaut and was a member of the management committee to the role of marketing and sales manager at from 2002 to 2009. of Belgacom Group. Masterfoods N.V. (Mars Inc.) for Belgium, the Patrick started his professional career in 1980 as a Prior to this, Dominique worked for 24 years at Netherlands, Germany and France. In 1986, Johnny consultant at Arthur Andersen. Between 1980 and Unilever. She was managing director at Unilever moved to Côte d’Or-Jacobs Suchard. Five years later 1997, he held executive positions at Wang, Apple, Sun (Belgium) and member of the Unilever Benelux he joined Interbrew N.V. as executive vice president International and the Belgian TV station VTM. management committee. before becoming CEO for Europe, Asia Pacific and Dominique has been the CEO of Proximus (formerly Born: October 21, 1957 Africa from 1995 to 1999. Belgacom) and a member of the board of directors Nationality: Belgian Johnny is chairman of the board of directors of of Proximus since 2014. She also serves as board Spadel SA, Betafence and Recticel, member of the member of the Proximus subsidiaries BICS, Be-Mobile board of directors of H. Essers and advisor to CVC and Proximus Art. In addition, Dominique serves Belgium and Lazard Frères Benelux. as a board member at Lotus Bakeries and is chair of the international advisory board of the Solvay Born: May 8, 1952 Brussels School of Economics and Management. Nationality: Belgian Born: November 8, 1964 Nationality: Belgian Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 81 Corporate governance We have designed our corporate Governance structure Governance structure governance structure to best Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (“the General Meeting of Shareholders Audit, Finance and Risk Committee support our business, meet Company” or “Ahold Delhaize”) is a public the needs of our stakeholders company under Dutch law, structured to Governance and Nomination Committee execute our strategy and to balance local, and comply with laws and regional and global decision-making. Supervisory Board regulations. Remuneration Committee Our Company comprises a Global Support Sustainability and Innovation Committee This section contains an Office and five segments – Ahold USA, Management Board Delhaize America, The Netherlands, Belgium overview of our corporate and Central and Southeastern Europe (CSE) – Executive Committee governance structure and which are made up of a number of brands. includes information required We have a two-tier board structure with a under the Dutch Corporate Supervisory Board and Management Board Central and Ahold Delhaize The Governance Code. that are accountable to our shareholders. USA America Netherlands Belgium Southeastern Our Management Board has ultimate Europe responsibility for the overall management of Ahold Delhaize. The Management Board is supervised and advised by a Management Board and Together, our Management Board and Supervisory Board. Executive Committee Executive Committee support our businesses, Our Management Board has ultimate meet the needs of our stakeholders and We also have an Executive Committee make sure we comply with relevant rules comprised of our Management Board and responsibility for the overall management of the Company and oversees all corporate and regulations. certain other key officers of the Company, which is led by the Chief Executive Officer. governance activity. It is also responsible for For a more detailed description of the The Executive Committee has been the actions and decisions of the Executive responsibilities of the Management Board established to involve a broader leadership Committee, which manages our general affairs and the Executive Committee, please refer team, including key functional leaders, in and makes sure that we effectively implement to the Rules of Procedure in the governance the decision-making process in order to best our strategy and achieve our objectives. section of Ahold Delhaize’s public website at support our strategy and businesses while www.aholddelhaize.com. having the flexibility to adapt to developments in our industry. The diagram below shows Ahold Delhaize’s governance structure. A list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is included in Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 82 Corporate governance continued Composition of the Management Board and which two members are female and seven Remuneration Supervisory Board Executive Committee members are male. In order to increase the On April 19, 2016, Ahold’s General Meeting The Supervisory Board is responsible for According to our Articles of Association, the gender diversity of the Management Board of Shareholders adopted our current supervising and advising our Management Management Board must consist of at least we pay close attention to gender diversity remuneration policy for Management Board Board and overseeing the general course of three members. The current members are: in the process of recruiting and appointing members. You can find details of this policy affairs, strategy and operational performance Dick Boer, President and Chief Executive new Management Board members. We also in Remuneration. For detailed information on of the Company. The Supervisory Board is Officer; Frans Muller, Deputy Chief Executive encourage the professional development of the individual remuneration of Management guided in its duties by the interests of the Officer and Chief Integration Officer; Jeff female associates, which in the past year has Board members, see Notes 31 and 32 to the Company and the enterprise connected with Carr, Chief Financial Officer; Pierre Bouchut, also led to the promotion of several women to consolidated financial statements. the Company, taking into consideration the Chief Operating Officer Europe and Indonesia; key leadership positions across the Company. overall good of the enterprise and the relevant Possible reappointment schedule and Kevin Holt, Chief Operating Officer interests of all its stakeholders. The Supervisory Appointment, suspension and dismissal Management Board Ahold USA. The current members of the Board is responsible for monitoring and The General Meeting of Shareholders can Date of first Year of possible Executive Committee are the members of the assessing its own performance. appoint, suspend or dismiss a Management Name appointment reappointment Management Board plus Hanneke Faber, Board member by an absolute majority of Dick Boer May 3, 2007 2019 Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of Association e-Commerce and Innovation Officer; Abbe votes cast, upon a proposal made by the Jeff Carr April 17, 2012 2020 require the approval of the Supervisory Board Luersman, Chief Human Resources Officer; Jan Supervisory Board. If another party makes the Frans Muller March 14, 2016* 2020 for certain major resolutions proposed to be Ernst de Groot, Chief Legal Officer; and Marc proposal, an absolute majority of votes cast, Pierre Bouchut March 14, 2016* 2020 taken by the Management Board, including: Croonen, Chief Sustainability, Transformation representing at least one-third of the issued Kevin Holt March 14, 2016* 2020 and Communications Officer. • Issuance of shares share capital, is required. If this qualified On March 14, 2016, the extraordinary General majority is not achieved, but an absolute *Effective July 24, 2016 • Acquisitions, redemptions, repurchases of Meeting of Shareholders reappointed Jeff majority of the votes exercised was in favor of shares, and any reduction in issued and Carr for a second term and appointed Frans the proposal, then a second meeting may be outstanding capital Muller, Pierre Bouchut and Kevin Holt to the held. In the second meeting, only an absolute • Allocation of duties within the Management Management Board with effect from the date majority of votes exercised, regardless of the Board and the adoption or amendment of of the merger between Ahold and Delhaize number of shares represented at the meeting, the Rules of Procedure of the Management Group NV / SA (“Delhaize”). is required to adopt the proposal. Board and the Executive Committee The size and composition of our Management Management Board members are appointed • Significant changes in the identity or the Board and Executive Committee and the for four-year terms and may be reappointed nature of the Company or its enterprise combined experience and expertise of their for additional terms not exceeding four Following the merger between Ahold and members should reflect the best fit for the years. The Supervisory Board may at Delhaize, a presidium was introduced that Company’s profile and strategy. This aim for any time suspend a Management Board regularly meets with the Chief Executive the best fit, in combination with the availability member. The other members of the Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of qualified candidates, has resulted in Ahold Committee are appointed, suspended and and Chief Integration Officer. The presidium Delhaize, as of February 28, 2017, having a dismissed by the Supervisory Board. is composed of the Chairman and first Management Board in which all five members Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board, are male and an Executive Committee in Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 83 Corporate governance continued Mats Jansson and Jan Hommen. Its main task Conflict of interest Shares and shareholders’ rights Adoption of resolutions is to prepare the agenda of Supervisory Board Each member of the Management Board is General Meeting of Shareholders Subject to certain exceptions provided by meetings, deal with the content of Supervisory required to immediately report any potential Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders exercise their Dutch law or our Articles of Association, Board meetings and to stay in close contact conflict of interest to the Chairman of the rights through annual and extraordinary resolutions are passed by an absolute majority with the CEO and Deputy CEO. Supervisory Board and to the other members General Meetings of Shareholders. We are of votes cast without a requirement for of the Management Board and provide them required to convene an annual General a quorum. You can find more detailed information on with all relevant information. Each member Meeting of Shareholders in the Netherlands the Supervisory Board in the Supervisory Proposals submitted to the agenda by of the Supervisory Board is required to each year, no later than six months after Board report. The Rules of Procedure of shareholders require an absolute majority immediately report any potential conflict of the end of the Company’s financial year. the Supervisory Board can be found in the of votes cast at the General Meeting of interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Additional extraordinary General Meetings governance section of Ahold Delhaize’s public Shareholders representing at least one-third Board and provide him or her with all relevant of Shareholders may be convened at any time website at www.aholddelhaize.com. of the issued shares. If this qualified majority is information. The Chairman determines by the Supervisory Board, the Management not achieved but an absolute majority of the Appointment whether there is a conflict of interest. Board, or by one or more shareholders votes exercised was in favor of the proposal, The General Meeting of Shareholders can representing at least 10% of the issued If a member of the Supervisory Board or a then a second meeting may be held. In the appoint, suspend or dismiss a Supervisory share capital. member of the Management Board has a second meeting, only an absolute majority Board member by an absolute majority of conflict of interest with the Company, the The agenda for the annual General Meeting of votes exercised is required to adopt the votes cast, upon a proposal made by the member may not participate in the discussions of Shareholders must contain certain matters proposal, regardless of the number of shares Supervisory Board. If another party makes the and decision-making process on subjects or as specified in Ahold Delhaize’s Articles of represented at the meeting (unless the law or proposal, an absolute majority of votes cast, transactions relating to the conflict of interest. Association and under Dutch law, including the our Articles of Association provide otherwise). representing at least one-third of the issued share capital, is required. If this qualified The Chairman of the Supervisory Board will adoption of our annual financial statements. A resolution to amend the Articles of majority is not achieved but an absolute arrange for such transactions to be disclosed The General Meeting of Shareholders is Association that would change the rights majority of the votes exercised was in favor of in the Annual Report. No such transaction also entitled to vote on important decisions vested in the holders of a particular class the proposal, then a second meeting may be occurred in 2016. In accordance with regarding Ahold Delhaize’s identity or of shares requires the prior approval of a held. In the second meeting, only an absolute best practice provision III.6.4 of the Dutch character, including major acquisitions meeting of that particular class. majority of votes exercised, regardless of the Corporate Governance Code, Ahold Delhaize and divestments. A resolution to dissolve the Company may number of shares represented at the meeting, reports that no transactions between the Shareholders are entitled to propose items be adopted by the General Meeting of is required. Company and legal or natural persons who for the agenda of the General Meeting of Shareholders following a proposal of the hold at least 10% of the shares in the Company Shareholders provided that they hold at least A Supervisory Board member is appointed for a Management Board made with the approval occurred in 2016. 1% of the issued share capital or the shares that four-year term and is eligible for reappointment of the Supervisory Board. Any proposed for two additional term of four years. From 2018 they hold represent a market value of at least resolution to wind up the Company must be onwards, a Supervisory Board members is €50 million. Proposals for agenda items for disclosed in the notice calling the General eligible for reappointment after his or her first the General Meeting of Shareholders must be Meeting of Shareholders at which that term of four years, for one additional term of submitted at least 60 days prior to the date of proposal is to be considered. four years, followed by two additional terms of the meeting. two years. A Supervisory Board member may not serve for more than 12 years. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 84 Corporate governance continued Voting rights Cumulative preferred financing shares Cumulative preferred shares Issuance of additional shares and Each common share entitles its holder to All outstanding cumulative preferred As of January 1, 2017, no cumulative preferred preemptive rights cast one vote. Dutch law prescribes a record financing shares have been issued to SAPFAA. shares are outstanding. The Company Shares may be issued following a resolution date to be set 28 days prior to the date of the Holders of depositary receipts can obtain entered into an option agreement with the by the General Meeting of Shareholders General Meeting of Shareholders to determine proxies from SAPFAA. Dutch foundation Stichting Ahold Continuïteit on a proposal of the Management Board whether a person may attend and exercise (SAC) designed to, in accordance with the made with the approval of the Supervisory In accordance with its articles, the board of the rights relating to the General Meeting of purpose of SAC under its articles, potentially Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders SAPFAA consists of three members: one A Shareholders. Shareholders registered at that exercise influence in the event of a public may resolve to delegate this authority to the member, one B member and one C member. date are entitled to attend and to exercise their offer or a potential change of control over Management Board for a period of time The A member is appointed by the general rights as shareholders in relation to the General the Company, to safeguard the interests of not exceeding five years. A resolution of the meeting of depositary receipt holders, the B Meeting of Shareholders, regardless of a sale of the Company and all stakeholders in the General Meeting of Shareholders to issue member is appointed by the Company and the shares after the record date. Shareholders may Company and to potentially resist, to the best shares, or to authorize the Management C member is appointed by a joint resolution be represented by written proxy. of its ability, influences that might conflict with Board to do so, is also subject to the approval of the A member and the B member. As of those interests by affecting the Company’s of each class of shares whose rights would We encourage participation in our General February 28, 2017, the members of the board continuity, independence or identity. be adversely affected by the proposed Meetings of Shareholders. We use Deutsche of SAPFAA are: issuance or delegation. On April 19, 2016, the Bank Trust Company Americas, the Depositary Member A: J.L. van der Giessen SAC and the members of its board are General Meeting of Shareholders approved a for the Company’s ADR facility, to enable ADR independent from the Company. As of Member B: C.W. de Monchy delegation of this authority to the Management holders to exercise their voting rights, which are February 28, 2017, the members of the board Member C: R. ter Haar, chairman Board, relating to the issuance and / or represented by the common shares underlying of SAC are: granting of rights to acquire common shares the ADRs. Ahold Delhaize pays a mandatory annual Name Principal or former occupation up to a maximum of 10% of the issued common Neither Ahold Delhaize nor any of its dividend on cumulative preferred financing W.G. van Hassel, Lawyer and former shares through October 19, 2017, and subject to subsidiaries may cast a vote on any share shares, which is calculated in accordance with chairman chairman of Dutch the approval of the Supervisory Board. the provisions of article 39.4 of the Company’s Bar Association they hold in the Company. These shares Articles of Association. For further details on G.H.N.L. Chairman of are not taken into account for the purpose cumulative preferred financing shares and van Woerkom Detailhandel Nederland of determining how many shareholders the related voting rights, see Note 22 to the J. van den Belt Former CFO Océ are represented or how much of the share consolidated financial statements. B. Vree Former CEO APM capital is represented at the General Meeting Terminals Europe of Shareholders. Holders of depositary receipts of cumulative For details on Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative preferred financing shares may attend the preferred shares, see Note 20 to the General Meeting of Shareholders. The voting consolidated financial statements. rights on the underlying shares may be exercised by the Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente Financierings Aandelen Ahold (SAPFAA), a foundation organized under the laws of the Netherlands. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 85 Corporate governance continued Upon the issuance of new common shares, Repurchase by Ahold Delhaize of its own shares Major shareholders • BlackRock, Inc – 3.32% shareholding (5.05% holders of Ahold Delhaize’s common shares Ahold Delhaize may only acquire fully Ahold Delhaize is not directly or indirectly voting rights) disclosed on January 12, 2016 have a preemptive right to subscribe to paid shares of any class in its capital for a owned or controlled by another corporation • DeltaFort Beleggingen I B.V. – 10.82% common shares in proportion to the total consideration following authorization by the or by any government. The Company does shareholding (3.43% voting rights) disclosed amount of their existing holdings of Ahold’s General Meeting of Shareholders and subject not know of any arrangements that may, on July 25, 20162 common shares. According to the Company’s to certain provisions of Dutch law and the at a subsequent date, result in a change of Company’s Articles of Association, if: • NN Group N.V. – 7.31% shareholding (3.00% Articles of Association, this preemptive right control, except as described under Cumulative voting rights) disclosed on September 1, 20162 does not apply to any issuance of shares 1. Shareholders’ equity minus the payment preferred shares. to Ahold Delhaize associates. The General • Stichting Administratiekantoor Preferente required to make the acquisition is not less than Significant ownership of voting shares Meeting of Shareholders may decide to restrict Financieringsaandelen Ahold – 17.32% the sum of paid-in and called-up capital and According to the Dutch Financial Markets shareholding (5.49% voting rights) disclosed or exclude preemptive rights. The General any reserves required by Dutch law or Ahold Supervision Act, any person or legal entity on July 25, 20163 Meeting of Shareholders may also resolve Delhaize’s Articles of Association; and who, directly or indirectly, acquires or disposes 1. In accordance with the filing requirements, the to designate the Management Board as 2. Ahold Delhaize and its subsidiaries would not, of an interest in Ahold Delhaize’s capital or percentages shown include both direct and indirect the corporate body authorized to restrict or capital interests and voting rights and both real and as a result, hold a number of shares exceeding voting rights must immediately give written exclude preemptive rights for a period not a total nominal value of 10% of the issued potential capital interests and voting rights. Further notice to the Netherlands Authority for the details can be found at www.afm.nl. exceeding five years. share capital. Financial Markets (Autoriteit Financiële Markten 2. The interest on record for DeltaFort Beleggingen I B.V. and NN Group N.V. includes the indirect and / or potential On April 19, 2016, the General Meeting The Management Board has been authorized or AFM) if the acquisition or disposal causes interest from depositary receipts, as well as the direct and of Shareholders has delegated to the to acquire a number of common shares the percentage of outstanding capital interest real interest from common shares. Management Board, subject to the approval of in the Company or depositary receipts for or voting rights held by that person or legal 3. SAPFAA holds all outstanding cumulative preferred financing shares and it issued corresponding depositary the Supervisory Board, the authority to restrict shares, as permitted within the limits of the entity to reach, exceed or fall below any of the receipts to investors that were filed under DeltaFort or exclude the preemptive rights of holders of law and the Articles of Association and following thresholds: Beleggingen I B.V. and NN Group N.V. Therefore, in relation to the outstanding cumulative preferred common shares upon the issuance of common subject to the approval of the Supervisory 3% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% financing shares, disclosures are made by both SAPFAA shares and / or upon the granting of rights to Board. Such acquisition of shares, at the stock (for the shares) and by DeltaFort Beleggingen I B.V. and 30% 40% 50% 60% 75% 95% NN Group N.V. (for the corresponding depositary receipts). subscribe for common shares through October exchange or otherwise, will take place at a price 19, 2017. between par value and 110% of the opening The obligation to notify the AFM also applies For details on the number of outstanding price of the shares at Euronext Amsterdam by when the percentage of capital interest or shares, see Note 20 to the consolidated NYSE Euronext on the date of their acquisition. voting rights referred to above changes financial statements. For details on capital The authorization takes into account the as a result of a change in Ahold Delhaize’s structure, listings, share performance and possibility to cancel the repurchased shares. total outstanding capital or voting rights. dividend policy in relation to Ahold Delhaize’s This authorization is valid through October 19, In addition, local rules may apply to investors. common shares, see Investors. 2017. Ahold Delhaize may acquire shares in its capital for no consideration or for the purpose The following table lists the shareholders on of transferring these shares to associates record in the AFM register on February 28, 2017, through share plans or option plans, without that hold an interest of 3% or more in the share such authorization. On January 9, 2017, the capital of the Company1. Company commenced a €1 billion share buyback program, with expected completion before the end of 2017. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 86 Corporate governance continued Articles of Association External auditor Our Articles of Association outline certain The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints of the Company’s basic principles relating the external auditor. The Audit, Finance to corporate governance and organization. and Risk Committee recommends to the The current text of the Articles of Association Supervisory Board the external auditor to be is available at the Trade Register of the proposed for (re)appointment by the General Chamber of Commerce and Industry for Meeting of Shareholders. In addition, the Amsterdam and on our public website at Audit, Finance and Risk Committee evaluates www.aholddelhaize.com. and, where appropriate, recommends the replacement of the external auditor. The Articles of Association may be amended by the General Meeting of Shareholders. On April 19, 2016, the General A resolution to amend the Articles of Meeting of Shareholders appointed Association may be adopted by an absolute PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. majority of the votes cast upon a proposal as external auditor for the Company for the of the Management Board. If another party financial year 2016. makes the proposal, an absolute majority of votes cast representing at least one-third of the issued share capital is required. If this qualified majority is not achieved but an absolute majority of the votes is in favor of the proposal, then a second meeting may be held. In the second meeting, only an absolute majority of votes, regardless of the number of shares represented at the meeting, is required. The prior approval of a meeting of holders of a particular class of shares is required for a proposal to amend the Articles of Association that makes any change in the rights that vest in the holders of shares of that particular class. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 87 Corporate governance continued Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Compliance with Dutch Corporate Governance • The information regarding the functioning of Ahold Delhaize’s General Meeting of Directive Corporate Governance Code statement Shareholders and the authority and rights According to the Decree Article 10 EU We apply the relevant principles and The Dutch Corporate Governance Code of our shareholders, as required by article Takeover Directive, we have to report on, best practices of the Dutch Corporate requires companies to publish a statement 3a sub b of the Decree, can be found in among other things, our capital structure, Governance Code applicable to the concerning their approach to corporate the relevant sections under Shares and restrictions on voting rights and the transfer of Company, to the Management Board and governance and compliance with the Code. shareholders’ rights. securities, significant shareholdings in Ahold to the Supervisory Board, in the manner This is referred to in article 2a of the decree • The information regarding the composition Delhaize, the rules governing the appointment set out in the Governance section. For the on additional requirements for management and functioning of Ahold Delhaize’s and dismissal of members of the Management financial year 2016, the Company applied reports “Vaststellingsbesluit nadere Management Board and Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board and the the Dutch Corporate Governance Code of voorschriften inhoud bestuursverslag” last Board and its committees, as required by amendment of the Articles of Association, December 10, 2008, which can be found amended on November 1, 2015 (the Decree). article 3a sub c of the Decree, can be found the powers of the Management Board (in at www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. The information required to be included in this in the relevant sections under Corporate particular the power to issue shares or to As of the financial year 2017, the revised Dutch corporate governance statement as described governance. repurchase shares), significant agreements to Corporate Governance Code of December 8, in articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree, which are which Ahold Delhaize is a party and which are 2016, is being applied. incorporated and repeated here by reference, • The information concerning the inclusion put into effect, changed or dissolved upon a can be found in the following sections of this of the information required by the Decree At the Extraordinary General Meeting Article 10 EU Takeover Directive, as required change of control of Ahold Delhaize following Annual Report: of Shareholders on March 3, 2004, our by article 3b of the Decree, can be found in a takeover bid, and any agreements between shareholders consented to apply the Dutch • The information concerning compliance with the section Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Ahold Delhaize and the members of the Corporate Governance Code. Ahold Delhaize the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, as Directive. Management Board or associates providing continues to seek ways to improve its required by article 3 of the Decree, can be for compensation if their employment ceases corporate governance, including by measuring found in the section Compliance with the because of a takeover bid. itself against international best practice. Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The information required by the Decree Article • The information concerning Ahold Delhaize’s 10 EU Takeover Directive is included in this risk management and control frameworks Corporate governance section and under relating to the financial reporting process, Investors, and the notes referred to in these as required by article 3a sub a of the Decree, sections or included in the description of any can be found in the relevant section under relevant contract. How we manage risk. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 88 Supervisory Board report The Supervisory Board is an Composition of the On March 14, 2016, the Extraordinary General Induction independent corporate body Supervisory Board Meeting of Shareholders reappointed Mark Ongoing education is an important part responsible for supervising Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board McGrath for a third term and appointed Mary of good governance. New members of our Anne Citrino. On the same date, Mats Jansson, Supervisory Board attend a multiple-day and advising our Management determines the number of its members. Jacques de Vaucleroy, Jack Stahl, Bill McEwan, induction program at our businesses in the Board, and overseeing the The Supervisory Board profile is published Johnny Thijs, Dominique Leroy and Patrick U.S. and the Netherlands and at the Global on Ahold Delhaize’s public website at general course of affairs, www.aholddelhaize.com. The Supervisory De Maeseneire were appointed subject to Support Office in Zaandam at which they are strategy and operational Board is of the opinion that its current and with effect from the date of the merger briefed on their responsibilities and informed performance of the Company. composition is in accordance with this between Ahold and Delhaize. On this date, by senior management on the financial, social, i.e., July 24, 2016, Derk Doijer stepped down corporate responsibility, human resources, The Supervisory Board is guided profile, in terms of combined experience and from the Supervisory Board. At the annual governance, legal and reporting affairs of in its duties by the interests of expertise, independence, and variety of ages General Meeting of Shareholders on April 12, our Company and businesses. Throughout the and genders. The Supervisory Board profile is the Company and the enterprise 2017, Jan Hommen and Ben Noteboom will year, all members of our Supervisory Board updated regularly. connected with the Company, be nominated for reappointment. visit several of our brands, operations and taking into consideration the The Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory The composition of the Supervisory Board, other parts of the Company to gain greater Board state that if a member is concurrently overall good of the enterprise a member of another company’s supervisory including its members’ combined experience familiarity with senior management and to develop deeper knowledge of local and the relevant interests of all board, the main duties arising from and / or the and expertise, independence, and diversity operations, opportunities and challenges. its stakeholders. number and nature of any other supervisory of age and gender, should reflect the best board memberships must not conflict or fit for Ahold Delhaize’s profile and strategy. interfere with that person’s duties as a member This aim for the best fit, in combination with of Ahold Delhaize’s Supervisory Board. the availability of qualified candidates, has resulted in Ahold Delhaize currently having a Supervisory Board in which three members are female and 11 members are male. In order to increase gender diversity on the Supervisory Board, we pay close attention to gender diversity in the process of recruiting and appointing new Supervisory Board candidates. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 89 Supervisory Board report continued Diversity profile Supervisory Board Disclosure / Management Sustainability International Social / Netherlands experience employment Communication Marketing experience Belgium Food Finance Gender U.S. Retail industry Name Date of birth Mats Jansson December 17, 1951 • • • • • • M Jan Hommen April 29, 1943 • • • • • • • M Jacques de Vaucleroy January 20, 1961 • • • • • M Jack Stahl March 27, 1953 • • • • • • M Ben Noteboom July 4, 1958 • • • • • • • • M Bill McEwan July 28, 1956 • • • • • • • M Rob van den Bergh April 10, 1950 • • • • • • M Stephanie Shern January 7, 1948 • • • • • • • F Mark McGrath August 10, 1946 • • • • • • M René Hooft Graafland September 24, 1955 • • • • • • • M Mary Anne Citrino April 24, 1959 • • • • • • F Johnny Thijs May 8, 1952 • • • • • • • • M Patrick De Maeseneire October 21, 1957 • • • • • • • • M Dominique Leroy November 8, 1964 • • • • • • • F Possible reappointment schedule Supervisory Board* Reappointment for Name Date of first appointment second and third term End of current appointment Mats Jansson March 14, 2016*** 2020 Jan Hommen October 1, 2013 2017 Jacques de Vaucleroy March 14, 2016*** 2020 Jack Stahl March 14, 2016*** 2020 Ben Noteboom April 28, 2009 2013 2017 Bill McEwan March 14, 2016*** 2020 Rob van den Bergh April 20, 2011 2015 2019 Stephanie Shern May 18, 2005 2009/2013 2017 Mark McGrath April 23, 2008 2012/2016 2020 René Hooft Graafland April 16, 2014** 2018 Mary Anne Citrino March 14, 2016 2020 Johnny Thijs March 14, 2016*** 2020 Patrick De Maeseneire March 14, 2016*** 2020 Dominique Leroy March 14, 2016*** 2020 *In its decision to nominate its members for reappointment, the Supervisory Board will take into account their tenure in the Board of Directors of Delhaize Group, prior to their appointment to the Supervisory Board. **Effective January 1, 2015 ***Effective July 24, 2016 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 90 Supervisory Board report continued Meetings and activities of the The Supervisory Board assessed its own • During a meeting in January 2016, the the Netherlands (including Belgium and Supervisory Board performance over 2016, that of its committees Supervisory Board approved the final Germany) and the Czech Republic, including The merger of Ahold and Delhaize, halfway and its individual members, as well as the prospectus included in Ahold’s F-4 eCommerce businesses, the functioning through 2016, was implemented by Delhaize performance of the Management Board registration statement, the EU prospectus of IT systems and information security, the Group merging into Ahold, with the entity and its individual members during a and the demerger proposal, to hiveenterprise risk management and significant renamed Ahold Delhaize. Consequently, this private meeting. The outcome of a survey down the assets and liabilities and legal legal proceedings with potential impact Supervisory Board report takes the activity at among all Supervisory Board members relationships of Delhaize Group after the on Ahold. Ahold as a starting point. provided the framework for discussions. merger. In addition, the Supervisory Board • Also in March 2016, the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board was positive, overall, approved the agenda and explanatory approved the agenda and explanatory In 2016, the Supervisory Board held seven about the performance of its committees notes for Ahold’s Extraordinary General notes for the annual General Meeting of meetings in person and three meetings by and the Management Board and satisfied Meeting of Shareholders in March 2016, Shareholders in April 2016, including the conference call. with the performance of the Supervisory including the proposal to approve the proposal to amend the remuneration The Management Board attended the Board. The Board determined it works well merger with Delhaize Group, a proposal to policy of the Management Board with meetings. The other members of the together, with all members fully contributing return €1 billion to the holders of common effect from the merger and the proposal Executive Committee, as well as other senior to discussions. As part of the outcome of the shares by means of a capital repayment for the nomination of the external auditor. management were regularly invited to be assessment, the Supervisory Board will have and reverse stock split prior to the merger, The Supervisory Board established the present. The Supervisory Board held several continuous focus on its own size and structure proposed (re-)appointments of Management annual compensation of the Management private meetings without other attendees to and the further introduction to the Company and Supervisory Board members, and the Board members in accordance with the independently review certain issues and to and its businesses following the merger. proposal to amend the remuneration of Company’s remuneration policy and with the discuss matters related to the functioning of Among other topics, the Supervisory Board is the Supervisory Board with effect from assistance of the Remuneration Committee. the Management and Supervisory Boards. closely following the integration activities in the merger. • Prior to the annual General Meeting The external auditor attended the meeting of the Company. • In March 2016, the Supervisory Board met of Shareholders on April 19, 2016, the March 1, 2016, at which the 2015 Annual Report During 2016, the Supervisory Board reviewed to discuss Ahold’s Q4 / full year 2015 results Supervisory Board met to discuss the and financial statements were recommended matters related to all aspects of the activities, and the 2015 Annual Report and financial progress of preparation for the merger, and for adoption by the annual General Meeting results, strategy and management of the statements, including related reports from to review updates on Ahold’s U.S., Dutch, of Shareholders. Company. During its meetings throughout the the internal and external auditors and a Czech and eCommerce businesses. year, the Supervisory Board reviewed reports report from the Management Board on The members of the Supervisory Board • The 2016 quarterly results and related from its various committees and regularly the Company’s internal control system. take it upon themselves to review specific reports and updates were discussed in May, assessed the functioning of the Management The Supervisory Board supported the operations or activities of the Company August and November 2016. Board, the organizational strategy, talent dividend proposal, reviewed Ahold’s outside of the scheduled meetings of the • In July 2016, the Supervisory Board held management and succession planning. responsible retailing initiatives and Supervisory Board. They also have regular a meeting at which it reviewed strategic approved its 2015 Responsible Retailing contact with various layers of management • In January 2016, the Supervisory Board initiatives and market developments in Report. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board in the Company. These informal consultations held a conference call to discuss Ahold’s Ahold’s businesses and approved various approved the Ahold portion of the joint and ensure that the Supervisory Board remains Q4 / full year 2015 trading statement and Company policies and procedures that interdependent remedy package by Ahold well-informed about the running of the preparations for the merger. became effective immediately after and Delhaize Group as part of the antitrust Company’s operations. the merger. approval processes in the U.S. and Europe. The Supervisory Board also received updates on Ahold’s businesses in the U.S., Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 91 Supervisory Board report continued • Effective July 24, 2016, the Supervisory The Supervisory Board confirms that during Chairman Supervisory Board €220,000 Board composition changed in accordance 2016, and on February 28, 2017, all Supervisory Vice Chairman (and member of the presidium) €180,000 with the merger terms and the resolutions Board members were independent within Vice Chairman €125,000 passed at the Extraordinary General the meaning of provision III.2.2 of the Dutch Member Supervisory Board €90,000 Meeting of Shareholders on March 14, 2016. Corporate Governance Code. Mats Jansson succeeded Jan Hommen as Chairman Audit, Finance and Risk Committee €30,000 Number of Number of Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Board meetings meetings Member Audit, Finance and Risk Committee €15,000 attendance held attended Chairman Other Committee €20,000 • The Supervisory Board in its new composition Mats Jansson* 3 3 Member Other Committee €12,500 met for the first time after the merger Jan Hommen 10 10 Travel compensation intercontinental per round trip €7,500 in August 2016, and was updated on integration activities and the divestment Jacques de Vaucleroy* 3 3 Travel compensation continental per round trip €2,500 processes in the U.S. and Belgium. Jack Stahl* 3 3 • In October 2016, the Supervisory Board Ben Noteboom 10 9 Committees of the Supervisory Board met to review strategic initiatives and Bill McEwan* 3 3 The Supervisory Board has four committees to which certain tasks are assigned. The committees market developments in Ahold Delhaize’s Rob van den Bergh 10 8 have advisory powers and provide the Supervisory Board with regular updates on their brands and governance structures of its Stephanie Shern 10 9 meetings. The composition of each committee is detailed in the following table. brands in the U.S. The Supervisory Board Mark McGrath 10 8 also approved the pro forma key historical René Hooft Graafland 10 9 Audit, Finance Governance and Sustainability and data, which provides a comparative basis to Mary Anne Citrino* 5 4 and Risk Nomination Remuneration Innovation Committee Committee Committee Committee facilitate assessment of the performance of Johnny Thijs* 3 2 Mats Jansson (Chairman) Member the combined company. Patrick De Maeseneire* 3 3 Jan Hommen (Vice Chairman) Member • In November 2016, the Supervisory Board Dominique Leroy* 3 3 Jacques de Vaucleroy met to discuss and approve the Company’s Derk Doijer** 7 4 (Vice Chairman) Member Member long-term business and finance plans, and * As per appointment. Jack Stahl Chairman Member annual budget for 2017. **Derk Doijer resigned on July 24, 2016. Ben Noteboom Chairman Member • The Supervisory Board visited various stores Bill McEwan Chairman Member and distribution centers throughout the year. Rob van den Bergh Member Chairman Attendance, independence Remuneration Stephanie Shern Member Except for a limited number of occasions, The annual remuneration of the members of Mark McGrath Member Member and for valid reasons, all Supervisory Board the Supervisory Board was determined by the René Hooft Graafland Member members attended all Supervisory Board Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders Mary Anne Citrino Member meetings in 2016. In all cases, the Supervisory on March 14, 2016. Remuneration is subject to Johnny Thijs Member Board members who were not able to an annual review by the Supervisory Board. Patrick De Maeseneire Member attend made sure they were represented. Dominique Leroy Member All Supervisory Board members made adequate time available to give sufficient attention to matters concerning Ahold and Ahold Delhaize. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 92 Supervisory Board report continued Audit, Finance and Risk Committee The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee and The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee determines how the external auditor should was closely involved in the evaluation of the Chairman of the Audit, Finance and (previously the Audit Committee) assists the be involved in the content and publication Ahold’s external auditor, in accordance Risk Committee also held private individual Supervisory Board in its responsibility to of financial reports other than the financial with provision V.2.3 of the Dutch Corporate meetings with the Chief Financial Officer, oversee Ahold Delhaize’s financing, financial statements. The Management Board and Governance Code. Senior Vice President Internal Audit and statements, financial reporting process the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee external auditor. The Audit, Finance and Risk Committee further and system of internal business controls report to the Supervisory Board annually discussed items including: The Supervisory Board has determined that and risk management. The Chief Executive on their dealings with the external auditor, Stephanie Shern, René Hooft Graafland, Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal including the auditor’s independence. • Quarterly interim reports Jack Stahl and Patrick De Maeseneire Officer, Senior Vice President Internal Audit, The Supervisory Board takes these reports into • Ahold’s 2015 Annual Report including the are “Audit Committee Financial Experts” Senior Vice President Accounting, Reporting, account when deciding on the nomination financial statements within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Risk & Controls and representatives of the for the appointment of an external auditor • Review and approval of the internal Governance Code. external auditor are invited to, and attend, that is submitted to the General Meeting audit plan the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee of Shareholders. • Review of and discussions on the findings meetings. Other members of senior staff and In 2016, the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee in the internal audit letter and the the external auditor are invited when the held five meetings in person. Throughout the management letter of the external auditor Audit, Finance and Risk Committee deems it year, the Audit, Finance and Risk Committee • The Company’s finance structure necessary or appropriate. closely monitored the financial closing • Treasury process and reviewed the publication of quarterly results. Updates on internal controls • Tax were provided during all Audit, Finance • Pensions and Risk Committee meetings. The Audit, • Guarantees Finance and Risk Committee was informed • Insurance regularly on compliance and reviewed and • Appointment of the external auditor received regular updates on the Company’s whistleblower programs. • Code of Conduct and Guide for Ethical Business Conduct Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 93 Supervisory Board report continued Governance and Nomination Committee Sustainability and Innovation Committee In 2016, the Governance and Nomination The Sustainability and Innovation Committee Committee (previously the Selection and was established after the merger between Appointment Committee) held three meetings Ahold and Delhaize. In 2016, the Sustainability in person, all of which the Chief Executive and Innovation Committee held two meetings Officer was invited to attend. The Committee’s in person, both of which the Chief Executive main areas of focus were long-term succession Officer was invited to attend. The Committee’s planning for the Supervisory Board and main areas of focus were Ahold Delhaize’s management development. The Selection and sustainable retailing strategy and eCommerce. Appointment Committee was also involved Conclusion in organizational and management changes The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that and overall succession and management during the year 2016, its composition, mix development processes at the Company as and depth of available expertise; working well as governance matters. processes; level and frequency of engagement Remuneration Committee in all critical Company activities; and access In 2016, the Remuneration Committee held to all necessary and relevant information and four meetings in person, all of which the Chief the Company’s management and staff were Executive Officer was invited to attend. satisfactory and enabled it to carry out its duties towards all the Company’s stakeholders. The main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: The Supervisory Board would like to thank Derk Doijer for his highly valued contributions to the • Preparing proposals for the Supervisory Company, and Jan Hommen for his dedicated Board on the remuneration policy for the chairmanship of the Supervisory Board until Management Board, to be adopted by the July 24, 2016, the date of the merger. General Meeting of Shareholders • Preparing proposals on the remuneration The Supervisory Board would also like to of individual members of the thank Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders for Management Board the trust they have put in the Company and its management. Finally, the Supervisory • Advising on the level and structure of Board wishes to express its appreciation compensation for senior personnel other for the continued dedication and efforts than members of the Management Board of the Management Board and all of See Remuneration for more information on Ahold Delhaize’s associates. our remuneration policy, which aims to help us Supervisory Board attract, motivate and retain the best-qualified Zaandam, the Netherlands workforce, in a cost effective way. February 28, 2017 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 94 How we manage risk Taking risks in a responsible Governance, Risk Management & Compliance Framework Risk appetite way is key to being able to fulfill Risk boundaries are set through our strategy, our stakeholders’ expectations. Values, strategy code of conduct / ethics, bill of authority, budgets and other policies. Our risk appetite In order to meet our Better Together & objectives differs by objective category: objectives, we must be agile and entrepreneurial so that we can respond quickly Strategic and effectively to rapid changes in the retail In pursuing our Better Together strategy, landscape, and take advantage of business Leadership & Ahold Delhaize is prepared to take risks in a Monitor & Assurance Identify & manage risk opportunities whenever and wherever they risk culture responsible way that takes our stakeholders’ exist. Meeting these challenges requires us interests into account. Through our annual to take risks in a responsible way. Having a strategic cycle, we follow a logical and proactive approach to risk management systematic process of analysis, dialogue and that is embedded in our business processes Policies & Procedures planning to optimize our decision-making. benefits our decision-making and helps us We use a fact-based analysis of our different create and preserve value. Managing risks markets and brands to support our strategic and unpredictable conditions in a timely decision-making process in a way that way increases the likelihood that we will considers financial, economic, social and achieve our business objectives, while Risk management a regular part of the business planning and political impacts. ensuring compliance with internal and and internal control performance cycle. In turn, the Executive Committee provides complementary insights Operational external requirements. Enterprise risk management into existing and emerging risks that are The core promises of our Company: “A better Ahold Delhaize’s enterprise risk management We strive for a culture of openness and subsequently included in the ERM process. place to shop,” “A better place to work” and “A (ERM) program is designed to provide transparency in which identified risks are Ahold Delhaize’s enterprise risk management better neighbor” guide the day-to-day running executive management with an understanding disclosed and addressed proactively and program influences the formation of controls of our businesses. Risks related to our promises of the Company’s key business risks and unexpected events are reported as soon as and procedures, the scope of internal audit should be balanced with the related rewards. associated risk management practices. they occur. Risk management is an integral activities and the focus of the business We seek to minimize the downside impact of Within each business, management identifies part of responsible leadership. planning and performance process. operational failures. the principal risks to the achievement of the business objectives and the actions needed Both former Ahold and former Delhaize As of our merger date, Ahold Delhaize Financial to mitigate these risks. Senior executives Group companies used a comprehensive risk has applied one shared Governance, With respect to financial risks, Ahold Delhaize periodically review these risks and the related management program. The risks outlined in Risk Management and Compliance (GRC) has a prudent financing strategy, including mitigation practices. The observations these programs have been aggregated into Framework. We rolled out a global manual a balanced combination of self-insurance are aggregated into an enterprise risk a new enterprise risk management report for of key policies, principles and procedures and commercial insurance coverage. We are management report that is presented to the Ahold Delhaize. We plan to fully integrate our that apply to all Ahold Delhaize brands. committed to maintaining an investmentExecutive Committee and the Supervisory risk management program in 2017. We continue to integrate our global policies grade credit rating and are averse to any and procedures and will have this completed Board. Executive management is required to risks that could jeopardize the integrity of in 2017. review the principal risks and risk management our financial reporting. Our financial risk practices with the Executive Committee as management and risk appetite are explained in more detail in Note 30 of the consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 95 How we manage risk continued Three lines of defense model In a time of significant transition and change, Monitoring and assurance our new company has carried forward the We use a comprehensive business planning Management Board Audit, Finance & unwavering commitment to integrity that and performance review process to monitor Executive Committee Risk Committee/ Senior Management Supervisory Board was also at the core of Ahold and Delhaize the Company’s performance. This process Group prior to the merger. We are in the covers the adoption of strategy, budgeting process of creating a single Code of Ethics and the reporting of current and projected 1st Line of Defense: 2nd Line of Defense: 3rd Line of Defense: that will apply across Ahold Delhaize. Until this results. We assess business performance Group and Business Risk Management, Control, Internal Audit is launched in 2017, the “Code of Conduct” according to both financial and non-financial Management Compliance and other and the “Guide for Ethical Business Conduct” targets. In order to meet business needs and specialized functions (collectively referred to as the “Codes”) apply the requirements of the Dutch Corporate Role Role Role to our businesses and associates with the Governance Code, we have a Group-wide Own and manage the risk Facilitate, support and Provide independent same expectation: that they conduct business management certification process in challenge in implementing assurance in accordance with ethical principles, internal place, which requires that the executive effective risk management policies and procedures, and applicable laws management team members at each of our and regulations. The Codes are intended to reporting entities send letters of representation help each associate understand and follow to the Chief Legal Officer on a quarterly Compliance Our key control requirements are documented relevant compliance and ethics principles basis. These letters confirm whether the At Ahold Delhaize, an essential part of our in the Ahold Delhaize Manual. This Manual and rules, and to know when and where to reporting entities are in compliance with Ahold strategic framework is behaving according provides consistent guidance on the key ask for advice or report a compliance or Delhaize’s Codes, policies on fraud prevention to our values. One of Ahold Delhaize’s values policies and principles that were immediately ethics breach, which includes the use of a and detection, accounting and internal control is “Integrity,” which means that the Company applicable to our businesses as of the merger whistleblower line. The principles in the Codes standards, and disclosure requirements. and all its associates do the right thing to date. Various other former Delhaize Group apply to all associates of Ahold Delhaize and As a consequence of the Ahold Delhaize merger, earn customers’ trust. We strive to comply with and Ahold charters, policies and procedures its operating businesses. Associates of certain Ahold Delhaize is classified as a U.S. registrant, applicable laws and regulations everywhere have not yet been fully integrated and will be defined grade levels have been trained which implies that Ahold Delhaize should we do business. added in the coming year. in and acknowledge compliance with the comply with the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOx) as of Codes on an annual basis. The full Codes Control framework We are creating uniform governance and financial year 2016. SOx Section 404 requires are available in the corporate governance The Ahold Delhaize control framework control standards in areas such as ethical that management perform an assessment of the section of Ahold Delhaize’s public website at incorporates risk assessment, control activities conduct, agreements and product integrity. Internal Controls over Financial Reporting (ICFR) www.aholddelhaize.com. and monitoring into our business practices These and other policies and procedures to confirm both the design and operational at entity-wide and functional levels. A three will be incorporated into the Ahold Delhaize effectiveness of the controls. lines of defense model has been adopted to control framework as mandatory guidelines Both our Risk & Controls and Internal Audit provide reasonable assurance that risks to for all of Ahold Delhaize’s consolidated functions help to ensure that we maintain achieving important objectives are identified entities. Local management is responsible for and improve the integrity and effectiveness and mitigated. business operations, including risk mitigation of our system of risk management and and compliance with laws, regulations internal control. Internal Audit undertakes and internal requirements. Authority limits regular risk-based, objective and critical have been established to ensure that all audits. These functions also monitor the expenditures and decisions are approved effectiveness of corrective actions undertaken by the appropriate levels of management. by management. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 96 How we manage risk continued Governance, Risk Management and Declaration The above statement on internal controls Our principal risks remain substantially Compliance Committee Annual declaration on risk management should not be construed as a statement in unchanged from 2015. The risk related After the merger, the former Ahold and control systems regarding financial response to the requirements of Section 404 to the Ahold Delhaize merger has been Governance, Risk Management and reporting risks of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act. updated to reflect the completion of the Assurance (GRA) Committee was replaced Ahold Delhaize supports the Dutch Corporate merger and current focus on the integration. by the Governance, Risk Management Governance Code and makes the following Risk factors The aggregation of risks to the Ahold Delhaize and Compliance (GRC) Committee. declaration in accordance with best practice The principal risk factors that may impede the enterprise risk management report did not The GRC Committee oversees the Company’s provision II.1.5: achievement of Ahold Delhaize’s objectives result in new principal risks, although nuances governance, risk management and with respect to strategy, operations, financial have been identified and processed. compliance processes. The GRC Committee The Management Board is responsible for and compliance matters are described in establishing and maintaining adequate No significant incidents, which substantially is chaired by the Chief Legal Officer and (i) the following section. The enterprise risk internal risk management and control systems. impacted the business and its results, have advises the Executive Committee on matters management system, the governance and Such systems are designed to manage rather occurred during 2016. concerning the GRC Framework, including an control standards incorporated within our overall GRC vision and strategy, (ii) oversees than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve GRC Framework, and the monitoring systems The risks described below are not the only activities to develop and maintain a fit-forimportant business objectives, and can only described above are the principal means by risks the Company faces. There may be risks purpose GRC Framework and (iii) engages provide reasonable and not absolute assurance which we identify and manage these risks. or additional risks of which we are currently with Ahold Delhaize’s senior management against material misstatement or loss. Management is not aware of any critical unaware or risks that management believes on important developments in the context of With respect to financial reporting, failings in these systems as of year-end 2016. are immaterial or otherwise common to most GRC. To support local management and feed management has assessed whether the risk companies, but which may in the future have The following overview of risks relating to into the GRC Committee, each of our brands management and control systems provide a material adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s Ahold Delhaize should be read carefully operates a local GRC committee. reasonable assurance that the 2016 financial financial position, results of operations, when evaluating the Company’s business, its statements do not contain any material liquidity and the actual outcome of matters During 2016, the GRA and GRC Committee met prospects and the forward-looking statements misstatements. This assessment was based on referred to in the forward-looking statements periodically. In addition to Ahold Delhaize’s contained in this Annual Report. Any or more the criteria set out in COSO: Internal Control – contained in this Annual Report. For additional Chief Legal Officer (Chairman), the Chief of the following risks, when materialized, Integrated Framework 2013. It included tests information regarding forward-looking Executive Officer and the Chief Financial could have a material adverse effect on of the design and operating effectiveness of statements, see the Cautionary notice. Officer sit on the GRC Committee, along with Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, results the heads of Legal of our main businesses and entity-level controls, transactional controls of operations and liquidity or could cause other members of management responsible at significant locations, and relevant general actual results to differ materially from the for our governance, risk management, computer controls. Any control weaknesses not results contemplated in the forward-looking compliance and assurance functions. fully remediated at year-end were evaluated. statements contained in this Annual Report. Based on this assessment, the Management Board determined that the Company’s financial reporting systems are adequately designed and operated effectively in 2016 and provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free of material misstatement. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 97 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 Risk Strategic area Key risk drivers Mitigating actions Potential consequences Business continuity (O) A better place • Dependence on IT (legacy) systems • Business continuity While Ahold Delhaize continues to maintain and invest in Disruption of critical business to shop • Centralized facilities governance structure business continuity and disaster recovery plans, business processes may result in • Dependence on logistics • Business continuity strategic interruptions could have a material adverse effect on the non-availability of products service providers guidelines and tactical policy Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity, for customers • Dependence on suppliers of • Business continuity framework customer perception and reputation strategic own-brand products with guidance and procedures and services • Business continuity and disaster • Cyber threats recovery plans • Events of an exceptional nature • Insurance program Competitive environment and Our sustainable • Consumer value perception (price, • Research and monitoring Ahold Delhaize is focused on the execution of its strategic economic conditions (S) business model assortment, quality) of consumer behavior promises. Unforeseen effects could impair the effectiveness of Changes to the competitive • Changing customer behavior (e.g., • Price benchmarking Ahold Delhaize’s strategy and reduce the anticipated benefits landscape and a weak online shopping) and competition competition of its price repositioning and cost savings programs or other macroeconomic climate without • Lack of distinctiveness • Analysis of strategic initiatives. These factors may have a material adverse appropriate response could • Consumer purchasing power economic developments effect on the Company’s financial position, results of threaten Ahold Delhaize’s ability under pressure • Actively monitoring operations and liquidity. to achieve its strategic objectives • Inflationary forces impacting cost and developing For more information see Business review of goods sold eCommerce business • Pressure on margin • Approved strategies • Promotional activities • Building more personalized customer relationships • Strengthening own brands 1 Risk objectives: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C) risks listed in alphabetical order. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 98 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 Risk Strategic area Key risk drivers Mitigating actions Potential consequences Information security and A better place • Consumer confidence • Strategic and tactical Ahold Delhaize’s business operations generate and maintain privacy (O, C) to shop • Sensitivity of data information security policy confidential commercial and personal information concerning A lack of security around, or A better place and guidelines customers, associates, suppliers and the Company. Data • Changing or conflicting non-compliance with, privacy to work privacy regulations • Information breaches with disclosure of confidential information to requirements for customer or security governance unintended third parties may negatively impact Ahold • Use of third parties to process and associate data might negatively store data • Control standards for Delhaize’s corporate reputation and competitive position or impact strategic initiatives information management result in litigation or regulatory action. This could have a • Global security threats and security relating to customer loyalty • Growth of online sales material adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position • Payment Card Industry • Revoking of EU-U.S. Safe Harbor (PCI) and privacy compliant agreement for personal data export control framework to U.S. • Information security capabilities • Information security awareness program • Incident reporting process • Cyber insurance coverage Labor (O) A better place • People management and • Associate engagement survey A work stoppage or other event due to the failure of one or Ahold Delhaize’s brands might to work associate engagement and response more of Ahold Delhaize’s brands to renegotiate a collective not be able to negotiate Our sustainable • Expiring collective • Performance bargaining agreement, or otherwise, could be disruptive to our extensions or replacements on business model bargaining agreements management cycle businesses, lead to adverse publicity and have a material acceptable terms, or face • Relationships with the relevant • Contract negotiation process adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and unfavorable expectations or trade unions • Functions that support financial position demands from trade unions • Ahold Delhaize merger relationships with trade unions • Contingency plans Legislative and regulatory Our sustainable • Compliance deadlines • Knowledge and awareness Ahold Delhaize’s activities are subject to various laws and environment (C) business model • Increased and targeted enforcement of regulations regulations in each local market where it operates. The cost A changing legislative and • Government budget deficits • Monitoring, review and of compliance with any of these laws could impact Ahold regulatory environment might reporting on changes Delhaize’s operations and reduce its profitability. See further • Public opinion / pressure increase the cost of doing • Operational procedures discussion of the consequences of the legislative and • International and national and guidance business, tax levels and the tax developments regulatory risks below complexity of our operations • Education of regulators and • Local regulatory changes public policymakers, e.g., • Diversity of jurisdictions through industry associations • Changing political climate • Tax policy 1 Risk objectives: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C) risks listed in alphabetical order. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 99 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 Risk Strategic area Key risk drivers Mitigating actions Potential consequences Merger Ahold Delhaize (S) Our sustainable • Integration of the businesses more • Governance structure with If Ahold Delhaize is unable to realize cost savings, synergies, We could be unable to business model difficult, costly or time consuming a Transformation Steering growth opportunities or other benefits, this could have a realize the expected benefits Our promises than expected Committee, direct Executive material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation or have a • Excessive workload and lack of focus Committee involvement and of the merger material adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position Supervisory Board oversight • Key staff leaving the company • Integration management office, plans and processes • Use of external specialists • Synergy targets Pension plan funding (F) Our sustainable • Insolvency or bankruptcy of • Governance structure A decrease in equity returns or interest rates may negatively Ahold Delhaize is exposed to the business model MEP participants • Yearly MEP risk affect the funding ratios of Ahold Delhaize’s pension funds, financial consequences of a • Low interest rates assessment study which could lead to higher pension charges and contributions number of defined benefit • Changing pension laws • Monitoring MEPs / participants payable. According to Dutch law and / or contractually agreed pension plans covering a large • Longevity funding arrangements, Ahold Delhaize may be required to number of its associates in the • Increasing U.S. healthcare costs make additional contributions to its pension plans if minimum Netherlands and in the United funding requirements are not met. In addition, a significant States, as well as multi-employer number of union associates in the United States are covered by plans (MEP) covering both MEPs. An increase in the unfunded liabilities of these MEPs may pensions and other benefits result in increased future payments by Ahold Delhaize and the other participating employers. The bankruptcy of a participating MEP employer could result in Ahold Delhaize assuming a larger proportion of that plan’s funding requirements In addition, Ahold Delhaize may be required to pay significantly higher amounts to fund U.S. associate healthcare plans in the future. Significant increases in healthcare and pension funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and liquidity. For additional information, see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements 1 Risk objectives: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C) risks listed in alphabetical order. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 100 How we manage risk continued Ahold Delhaize’s principal risks and uncertainties1 Risk Strategic area Key risk drivers Mitigating actions Potential consequences Product safety (O, C) A better place • Internationalization of the • Product safety policies Though it has mitigating actions in place, Ahold Delhaize may The consumption of own-brand to shop supply chain • Control standards for food and face product safety problems, including disruptions to the products or other food or • Incidents across the world non-food products supply chain caused by food-borne illnesses and negative non-food products, or food • Increased number of own• Standard operating procedures consumer reaction to incidents, which may have a material fraud in the supply chain could brand products • Dedicated product integrity adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, results of result in our customers’ injury, • Speed of communications guidance and controls in operations and financial position illness or death (social media) the brands • Monitoring of performance in the business • Tracing of product origins and conditions of production • Third-party certification • Insurance program Strategic initiatives (S) Our sustainable • Changing retail environment • Ahold Delhaize’s Ahold Delhaize is implementing its Better Together strategy. Activities are increasingly business model • Dependencies between projects governance structure If the Company is not able to deliver on the objectives of its undertaken in the form of Our promises and operational activities • Approved strategies underlying strategic projects, the realization of key elements projects. Ahold Delhaize • Availability of required capabilities • Program and of its strategy may be at risk. This could have a material might not be able to deliver project management adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, results on the objectives of its • Business review process of operations and liquidity strategic projects 1 Risk objectives: strategic (S), operational (O), financial (F) and compliance (C), risks listed in alphabetical order. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 101 How we manage risk continued In addition to the principal risks Sustainable retailing (S, O) Insurance programs (F) Other financial risks (F) and uncertainties linked to our Increased regulatory demands, stakeholder Ahold Delhaize manages its insurable risks Other financial risks include foreign currency strategy above, the Company awareness and the growing sentiment that through a combination of self-insurance and translation risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, large retailers must address sustainability commercial insurance coverage. A large part liquidity risk and contingent liabilities to third has risks in the following areas: issues across the entire supply chain mean of our operations is self-insured for workers’ parties relating to lease guarantees. that Ahold Delhaize’s brands and reputation compensation, general liability, property, For information relating to these financial risks, may suffer if it does not adequately address vehicle accident and certain healthcaresee Note 30 and Note 34 to the consolidated relevant sustainability issues affecting the related claims. Self-insurance liabilities are financial statements. food retail industry. We have integrated estimated based on actuarial valuations. sustainable retailing into our Better Together While we believe that the actuarial estimates Unforeseen tax liabilities (C) strategy to ensure that it is part of our daily are reasonable, they are subject to changes Because Ahold Delhaize operates in a number business, and that we continue to improve our caused by claim reporting patterns, claim of countries, its income is subject to taxation in performance, with a focus on three strategic settlement patterns, regulatory economic differing jurisdictions and at differing tax rates. areas: promoting healthier eating, reducing conditions and adverse litigation results. It is Significant judgment is required in determining food waste and creating healthy and inclusive possible that the final resolution of some the consolidated income tax position. We seek workplaces. Through the implementation claims may require us to make significant to organize our affairs in a sustainable manner, of our strategy, we aim to strengthen the expenditures in excess of our existing reserves. taking into account the applicable regulations communities where we operate. We also have In addition, third-party insurance companies of the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a the responsibility to our shareholders to control that provide the fronting insurance that is part result of Ahold Delhaize’s multi-jurisdictional our tax costs as described in our Tax Policy. of our self-insurance programs require us to operations, it is exposed to a number of provide certain collateral. We take measures different tax risks including, but not limited to, In addition to addressing risks to our brand and to assess and monitor the financial strength changes in tax laws or interpretations of such reputation, our Better Together and Sustainable and credit-worthiness of the commercial tax laws. The authorities in the jurisdictions Retailing strategies will position us well against insurers from which we purchase insurance. where Ahold Delhaize operates may review the the following other risks: an inability to meet However, we remain exposed to a degree of Company’s tax returns and may disagree with our customers’ changing needs for healthy counterparty credit risk with respect to such the positions taken in those returns. An adverse and sustainable products; increasing costs insurers. If conditions of economic distress outcome resulting from any settlement or due to waste or negative externalities in our were to cause the liquidity or solvency of future examination of the Company’s tax supply chain; negative impact to our associate our counterparties to deteriorate, we may returns may result in additional tax liabilities engagement if we don’t support associates’ not be able to recover collateral funds or be and may adversely affect its effective tax rate, changing expectations of employers; lack indemnified from the insurer in accordance which could have a material adverse effect on of suppliers able to meet improved safety with the terms and conditions of our policies. Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, results of and sustainability standards; and regulations operations and liquidity. In addition, any review related to climate impact. by the authorities could cause Ahold Delhaize For more information see Our Better Together to incur significant legal expenses and divert Strategy. management’s attention from the operation of our businesses. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 102 How we manage risk continued Risks related to the legislative and regulatory From time to time, Ahold Delhaize and its environment and litigation (C) businesses are parties to legal and regulatory Ahold Delhaize and its businesses are subject proceedings in a number of countries, to various federal, regional, state and local including the United States, and may be laws and regulations in each country in subject to investigations or inquiries, including which they operate, relating to, among other but not limited to investigations or inquiries by areas: zoning; land use; antitrust restrictions; the competition authorities related to alleged workplace safety; public health including violations of competition laws in jurisdictions food and non-food safety; environmental where they conduct business. Based on protection; alcoholic beverage, tobacco the prevailing regulatory environment or and pharmaceutical sales; and information economic conditions in the markets in which security. Ahold Delhaize and its businesses Ahold Delhaize businesses operate, litigation, are also subject to a variety of laws governing investigations or inquiries may increase in the relationship with associates, including frequency and materiality. These legal and but not limited to minimum wage, overtime, regulatory proceedings may include matters working conditions, healthcare, disabled involving personnel and employment issues, access and work permit requirements. The cost personal injury, antitrust claims, franchise of compliance with, or changes in, any of claims and other contract claims and matters. these laws could impact the operations and We estimate our exposure to these legal reduce the profitability of Ahold Delhaize or and regulatory proceedings and establish its businesses and thus could affect Ahold provisions for the estimated liabilities where it Delhaize’s financial condition or results of is reasonably possible to estimate and where operations. Ahold Delhaize and its businesses the potential realization of a loss contingency are also subject to a variety of antitrust and is more likely than not. similar laws and regulations in the jurisdictions The assessment of exposures and ultimate in which they operate, which may impact outcomes of legal and regulatory proceedings or limit Ahold Delhaize’s ability to realize involves uncertainties. Adverse outcomes certain acquisitions, divestments, partnerships of these legal proceedings, or changes or mergers. in our assessments of proceedings, could potentially result in material adverse effects on our financial results. For further information, see Note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 103 Remuneration Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration Remuneration philosophy The short-term incentive is focused on the key European peers U.S. peers AEX policy was prepared in Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration policy is financial metrics of a retail organization: sales Tesco Kroger Unilever accordance with the Dutch aligned with the Company’s strategy and growth, operating margin and operating cash Carrefour Costco Philips flow. Our focus and goal is to expand market Corporate Governance supports a strong and aligned performance share, while at the same time grow margins Metro Target Heineken culture. Our remuneration policy aims at Code 2008. It was adopted attracting, motivating and retaining the to increase profitability and manage capital Casino Guichard Walgreen Randstad Perrachon Boots Alliance at the General Meeting of best-qualified talent. spending and expenses prudently to secure J Sainsbury Best Buy Akzo Shareholders on April 19, 2016. strong and sustainable cash flow. Nobel The remuneration policy became Management Board The long-term incentive is measured against W M Morisson Staples Relx effective on July 24, 2016, the remuneration policy (i) our internal measure on Return on Capital In anticipation of potential changes to the labor first calendar day after the The Supervisory Board designed the (RoC), (ii) our external measure of the market peer group due to delisting, mergers Management Board’s remuneration policy merger of Ahold and Delhaize Company’s share performance relative to or other extraordinary circumstances, the to align with the Company’s strategy and to that of its peers: Total Shareholder Return was finalized. support its pay-for-performance culture, while (TSR) and (iii) the Company’s contribution to Supervisory Board has the discretion to include substitute comparable companies. In general, aiming to be effective, transparent and simple. society through sustainability objectives. geographical composition leads in determining While developing the remuneration policy, we Performance for our long-term incentives is a replacement company: for example, if a carried out scenario analyses to determine measured over a revolving three-year period. U.S.-based company drops out, it is replaced by the risks to which variable remuneration may The structure of our remuneration policy aligns another U.S.-based company. expose the Company. the focus of the Management Board with The composition (risk profile) of the Total Direct The basic elements of the Total Direct the interests of the Company’s shareholders, Compensation levels is also taken into account Compensation provided to Management our local communities and society at large. when benchmarking base salary levels. Board members are (1) a base salary, (2) an Compensation and awards are tied to and The target Total Direct Compensation level is annual cash incentive and (3) a long-term dependent on the delivery of our strategy in typically around the median, with base salary equity based program. In line with our overall a responsible and sustainable way. levels slightly below the median and long-term remuneration philosophy, the Management incentives at the higher end of the market to Board’s Total Direct Compensation is Market competitive pay support the pay-for-performance culture and structured and more heavily weighted on The competitiveness of the Management long-term focus. variable shortand long-term incentives tied Board remuneration is benchmarked annually to the realization of financial and societal against a labor market peer group that Base salary performance criteria. These performance reflects the Company’s geographic operating The level of the Management Board members’ criteria are a cornerstone of the areas and the markets most relevant in base salary is derived from the benchmarking Company’s strategy. relation to the recruitment and retention of of Total Direct Compensation. Adjustment of top management. Since Ahold Delhaize is the base salary is at the discretion of the a Dutch-headquartered company, the AEX Supervisory Board. market practice in the Netherlands is included. The peer group consists of 18 companies, including peer companies in Europe and the U.S. as well as AEX-listed companies. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 104 Remuneration continued Annual cash incentive plan: In line with market practice, the target value Shares that will vest Linked to sustainable retailing Executive Committee of the long-term incentives granted under the Company ranking as % of originally granted amount For the remaining 20% of the total GRO award, Incentive Plan program differentiates per role. For the CEO, Ranking 1 175% the performance at vesting is measured using the target value is 235% of base salary; for the sustainable retailing targets. This measure The Management Board members participate Ranking 2 150% Deputy CEO and U.S. COOs, the target value relates to the Company’s sustainable retailing in the Executive Committee Incentive Plan Ranking 3 125% is 200% of base salary; for the CFO, the target strategic ambitions. The targets set under this (EIP). The EIP is an annual cash incentive plan Ranking 4 110% value is 175% of base salary; and for the COO non-financial performance measure are both that uses three equally weighted financial Ranking 5 100% Europe the target value is 150% of base salary. qualitative and quantitative. Dependent on measures: sales growth (30%), underlying Ranking 6 80% operating margin (30%) and operating cash The total GRO award is comprised of three performance, the number of shares that Ranking 7 50% eventually vest can range between zero flow (30%), as well as personal objectives portions of shares, linked to RoC, TSR and Ranking 8 – 14 0% and a maximum of 150% of the number of (10%). The at-target payout as a percentage sustainability targets, respectively. of base salary is 100%, contingent on full shares granted. achievement of the objectives, with a cap at Linked to RoC TSR performance peer group 150% of the base salary in the event of aboveOf the total GRO award, the first 40% is linked Tesco Kroger Shareholding requirements and target performance. to a three-year RoC target. Dependent on Carrefour Costco ownership guidelines performance, the number of shares that Metro Target Management Board members must retain Long-term equity-based eventually vest may range between zero Casino Guichard Walgreen Boots the shares awarded under the GRO program program: Global Reward and a maximum of 150% of the number of Perrachon Alliance for a period of at least five years from the Opportunity shares granted. J Sainsbury Best Buy grant date. The sale of a portion of the shares W M Morisson Staples is permissible to finance tax due at the date The Management Board members participate in the Company’s long-term incentive program: Linked to TSR Walmart of vesting. All members of the Management Another 40% of the total GRO award is linked Board are required to hold shares in the Global Reward Opportunity (GRO). Under the to TSR (share price growth and dividends In anticipation of potential changes to the Company with a value equal to 150% of their GRO program, shares are granted through paid over the performance period), with performance peer group due to delisting, base salary. The holding may be built up by a three-year program. The vesting of these performance at vesting benchmarked against mergers or other extraordinary circumstances, retaining all after-tax shares from the GRO performance shares is subject to performance the TSR performance of a TSR peer group. the Supervisory Board has the discretion to program and does not require personal over a period of three years. The GRO program The number of shares that vest depends on the include substitute comparable companies. share purchases. employs two financial measures: RoC (40%) Company’s relative ranking in the peer group. and TSR (40%). In addition, a non-financial An independent external adviser determines Claw-back performance measure (20%) related to the ranking based on TSR performance. A claw-back provision is applicable to the sustainable retailing targets is included. No shares will vest to Management Board Management Board members’ annual cash members if the Company ranks below incentive plan (EIP) as well as the long-term the seventh position in the performance equity incentive program (GRO). peer group. The table below indicates the percentage of performance shares that vests based on the Company’s ranking. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 105 Remuneration continued Pensions and other Loans Future outlook 2016 Base salary contract terms Ahold Delhaize does not provide loans or For 2017, no adjustments to the remuneration The base salaries of members of the (former Pension advances to members of the Management policy are expected. Ahold) Management Board were increased All existing pension arrangements in the Board. Nor does the Company issue by 1.75% effective March 28, 2016. No changes Netherlands have been brought in line with guarantees to the benefit of members of the 2016 Management Board to base salaries were made at the time of the applicable fiscal pension regulations. Management Board. remuneration the merger. The pension plan for Management Board Additional arrangements The Management Board remuneration for Base salary members is calculated similarly to that In addition to the remuneration of the 2016 is in accordance with the Management thousands of all other associates of the Company Management Board members, a number of Board remuneration policies applicable in in the Netherlands and is referred to as additional arrangements apply. These include 2016. Up to the date of the merger between €987 a defined benefit plan, based on career expense allowances, medical insurance and Ahold and Delhaize, the Ahold remuneration CEO €1,000 average salary. The (current) retirement accident insurance, use of company cars and, policy applied. This policy was adopted at the €1,013 age is 67. The pensionable salary is capped if applicable, expatriate allowances, which General Meeting of Shareholders on April 17, Deputy €1,000 at around €100,000 (2016: € 97,474). apply to other senior associates and are in 2013, and amendments were adopted at the CEO €1,000 Each Management Board member working line with market practice in the Netherlands. General Meeting of Shareholders on April 15, €446* on a Dutch contract pays a pension premium In addition, third-party tax services will be 2015. €658 contribution identical to that of all other provided to ensure compliance with the CFO €666 Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration policy, Ahold Delhaize associates in the Netherlands. relevant legislative requirements. €675 adopted at the General Meeting of In addition, Management Board members (Service) Agreements Shareholders on April 19, 2016, applies as of COO receive a gross (age-dependent) pension The term of appointment for all Management July 24, 2016 – the first calendar day after the US1 allowance and can choose to participate Board members is four years. If the Company merger of Ahold and Delhaize was finalized. €329* in a Net Pension Arrangement by investing the net (after tax) amount. The Net Pension terminates the (service) agreement of any COO Arrangement is identical to that of all other member of the Management Board, the EUR associates of the Company in the Netherlands severance payment is limited to one year’s €280* whose pensionable salary exceeds the cap. base salary. The same applies if an initial 0 400 800 1,200 Participation in this Net Pension Arrangement (service) agreement for four years is not continued in the event the Management Base salary 2014 is voluntarily. Base salary 2015 Board member is not reappointed. Members of the Management Board working Base salary 2016 The agreement may be terminated by the on a non-Dutch contract will be offered Company with a notice period of 12 months * For the members appointed to the Management Board in pensions in line with local practices. and by the Management Board member with 2016, the 2016 base salary reflects a partial year. a notice period of six months. 1 COO U.S. refers to the COO Delhaize America for the period up to October 1, 2016 and the COO Ahold USA for the period starting October 1, 2016. The salary of the COO U.S. has been converted from U.S. dollars into euros using the year-to-date average $/€ exchange rate of 0.912519. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 106 Remuneration continued 2016 Annual cash incentive 2016 EIP Performance measures Actual EIP 1 2016 EIP represents accrued annual cash incentives to be paid in 2017 and subject to shareholder approval of the plan: EIP thousands financial statements. The ExCo Incentive Plan (EIP) for performance 2 For former Ahold management board members, the EIP for Operating €444 the year 2016 has been determined pro rata for the period year 2016 has been determined pro rata for cash flow 30% up to the merger and after the merger became effective. CEO €1,350 the period up to the merger between Ahold Non-financial For former Delhaize management board members, the €1,271 2016 EIP reflects a partial year and has been determined and Delhaize and after the merger became objectives 10% Deputy pro rata for the period after the merger became effective. effective on July 24, 2016. Sales growth 30% CEO The overall 2016 performance multiplier was 108%. This Operating €323* reflects our results being modestly ahead of target. In For the period up to the merger, the EIP uses margin 30% addition to our financial performance, being a responsible €296 retailer remains a key priority. We are pleased with our three equally weighted financial measures: progress in 2016 on our previously established responsible CFO €899 sales growth (30%), operating margin (30%) retailing targets and commitments. The individual EIP €773 amounts also include the component linked to individual and operating cash flow (30%). In addition, performance. In recognition of outstanding leadership one non-financial performance measure (10%) COO leading up to and since the completion of the merger, the Supervisory Board increased the EIP payout for the CEO by is included that relates to our Responsible The at-target payout as a percentage US 11% for 2016, in line with the parameters of the Company’s Retailing strategic ambitions. Targets set of base salary is 100%, contingent on full €252* Remuneration Policy. under this non-financial performance measure achievement of the objectives, with a cap at COO 3 COO U.S. refers to the COO Delhaize America for the period up to October 1, 2016, and the COO Ahold USA for are qualitative. The score under the 150% of the base salary in the event of aboveEUR the period starting October 1, 2016. The EIP of the COO U.S. non-financial component is linked to the target performance. €184* has been converted from U.S. dollars into euros using the year-to-date average $ / € exchange rate of 0.912519. performance of the financial components. 0 400 800 1,200 1,600 If the financial multiplier is zero, the score on the non-financial component will also be zero Actual EIP 2014 Actual EIP 2015 (regardless of the achieved score on the nonActual EIP 2016 financial component). * For the members appointed to the Management Board in 2016, the 2016 EIP reflects a partial year. For the period after the merger, the EIP uses the same three equally weighted financial measures: sales growth (30%), underlying operating margin (30%) and operating cash flow (30%). In addition, personal objectives (10%) are included. Ahold Delhaize does not disclose the actual targets per performance measure, as this is considered to be commercially sensitive information. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 107 Remuneration continued 2016 Long-term equity-based 2016 GRO grant Treatment of outstanding program: GRO To calculate the number of shares to be granted, the at-target value of the award is divided by performance shares The Management Board members participate the average share price over the six-month period preceding the regular annual award date. The outstanding performance shares awarded in Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based Scenario analyses are prepared regularly to estimate the possible future payout levels. under the Ahold GRO program (for former incentive program, GRO. The 2016 GRO award At-target grant and maximum vesting performance shares Ahold management board members) and the was made in the open period following the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan (for Performance shares merger. This grant date was a one-time former Delhaize management board members) RoC TSR Sustainability Total at-target Total maximum exception to the consistent grant policy in (40%) (40%) (20%) grant vesting have been rolled over into Ahold Delhaize’s order to ensure a grant could be made to all CEO 94% 94% 47% 235% 376% GRO program. members of the Management Board on the Deputy CEO 80% 80% 40% 200% 320% As a consequence of the merger, the same date in 2016. This 2016 award will vest on CFO 70% 70% 35% 175% 280% outstanding (non-vested) performance share the regular vesting date in 2019: the day after COO US 80% 80% 40% 200% 320% awards remaining from the Ahold GRO plan the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. COO EU 60% 60% 30% 150% 240% have been split into two parts. One part, Future GRO awards will continue to be made which is related to the full performance years on the regular annual award date, which is All percentages constitute a percentage of base salary prior to the year of the merger (2012, 2013, also the day after the annual General Meeting 2016 GRO share grant calculation – Example CEO 2014 and 2015, where applicable), has been of Shareholders. Number of shares assessed against the performance of Ahold, The vesting of the GRO performance shares granted (award as a stand-alone company on the basis of the At target Award value value divided by is subject to performance over a period of share grant (base salary * six-month average existing performance measures. Based on three years and the GRO program employs (% of base salary) at-target grant %) share price) the performance realized in those years this two financial measures: Return on Capital RoC performance shares 94% 955.999 48.680 portion of the award has been assessed and (40%) and Total Shareholder Return (40%). TSR performance shares 94% 955.999 48.680 transformed into restricted Ahold Delhaize In addition, a non-financial performance Sustainability performance shares 47% 477.999 24.340 shares. These restricted shares are not subject measure (20%) is included related to 235% 2.389.997 121.700 to additional performance criteria, but will be responsible retailing / sustainability targets. subject to the remaining vesting period and For this purpose, performance is measured Table assumes base salary of €1,017,020 and six-month average share price preceding the regular annual award date of €19.63 continued employment. The other portion, on the basis of both an external and internal 2016 GRO share grant calculation – Example CFO which is related to the performance during the target. The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (the year of the merger and beyond (2016 and 2017), Number of shares external target) measures how the Company granted (award will be assessed against the financial measures At target Award value value divided by performs on sustainability against peers in share grant (base salary * six-month average of Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based the sector. Healthy sales (the internal target) (% of base salary) at-target grant %) share price) plan. The outstanding conditional shares will is the measure we use to drive performance RoC performance shares 70% 474.609 24.168 continue to be subject to the remaining vesting against our company objective of facilitating TSR performance shares 70% 474.609 24.168 period and continued employment. healthier eating. Sustainability performance shares 35% 237.305 12.084 Outstanding (non-vested) performance 175% 1.186.523 60.420 shares awarded under the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan have similarly been Table assumes base salary of €678,013 and six-month average share price preceding the regular annual award date of €19.63 converted into Ahold Delhaize restricted shares and shares subject to meeting the performance measures of the Ahold Delhaize GRO plan. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 108 Declarations Introduction Declarations This Annual Report, including the 2016 This 2016 Ahold Delhaize Annual Report The members of the Management Board as financial statements, which are audited dated February 28, 2017, (the Annual Report) required by section 5:25c, paragraph 2, under by PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants comprises regulated information within the c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision N.V., has been presented to the Supervisory meaning of sections 1:1 and 5:25c of the Dutch confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Board. The 2016 financial statements and Act on Financial Supervision “Wet op het the independent auditor’s report relating to • The 2016 financial statements included in the audit of the 2016 financial statements financieel toezicht.” this Annual Report give a true and fair view were discussed with the Audit, Finance For the consolidated and the parent of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Risk Committee in the presence of the company’s 2016 financial statements and profit or loss of the Company and the Management Board and the external auditor. “jaarrekening” within the meaning of section undertakings included in the consolidation The Supervisory Board recommends that 2:361 of the Dutch Civil Code, please refer to taken as a whole. the General Meeting of Shareholders adopts Financials. The members of the Management • The management report included in this the 2016 financial statements included in this Board and the Supervisory Board have Annual Report gives a true and fair view Annual Report and recommends the proposal signed the 2016 financial statements of the position of the Company and the to pay a cash dividend for the financial year pursuant to their obligation under section undertakings included in the consolidation 2016 of €0.57 per common share. 2:101, paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. taken as a whole as of January 1, 2017, and The following sections of this Annual Report Supervisory Board of the development and performance of the together form the management report, or Mats Jansson (Chairman) business for the financial year then ended. the “bestuursverslag” within the meaning of Jan Hommen (Vice Chairman) • The management report includes a section 2:391 of the Dutch Civil Code: Overview, Jacques de Vaucleroy (Vice Chairman) description of the principal risks and Business Review, Our Management Board Jack Stahl uncertainties that the Company faces. and Executive Committee, Supervisory Board, Ben Noteboom Corporate governance, How we manage Management Board Bill McEwan risk, Remuneration and the subsection Rob van den Bergh Dick Boer President and Chief Stephanie Shern Remuneration included in the Supervisory Executive Officer Mark McGrath Board report. Frans Muller Deputy Chief Executive René Hooft Graafland For other information, or “overige gegevens” Officer and Chief Mary Anne Citrino within the meaning of section 2:392 of the Integration Officer Johnny Thijs Dutch Civil Code, please refer to subsection Jeff Carr Chief Financial Officer Patrick De Maeseneire Other information under Financials, and to the Pierre Bouchut Chief Operating Dominique Leroy section Investors. Officer Europe and Indonesia Kevin Holt Chief Operating Officer Ahold USA Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 109 Financial statements Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 110 Financial statements Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 28 29 Cash flow Earnings per share Consolidated balance sheet 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments Consolidated statement of changes in equity 31 Related party transactions Consolidated statement of cash flows 32 Share-based compensation Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33 Operating leases 1 The Company and its operations 34 Commitments and contingencies 2 Basis of preparation 35 Subsequent events 3 Significant accounting policies 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 4 Acquisitions Parent company financial statements 5 Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations Income statement 6 Segment reporting Balance sheet 7 Net sales Notes to the parent company financial statements 8 Expenses by nature 1 Significant accounting policies 9 Net financial expenses 2 Expenses by nature 10 Income taxes 3 Employees 11 Property, plant and equipment 4 Auditor fees 12 Investment property 5 Income taxes 13 Intangible assets 6 Intangible assets 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates 7 Financial assets 15 Other non-current financial assets 8 Receivables 16 Inventories 9 Other current financial assets 17 Receivables 10 Shareholders’ equity 18 Other current financial assets 11 Provisions 19 Cash and cash equivalents 12 Loans 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders 13 Other non-current liabilities 21 Loans and credit facilities 14 Current liabilities 22 Other non-current financial liabilities 15 Derivatives 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 16 Related party transactions 24 Provisions 17 Commitments and contingencies 25 Other non-current liabilities 18 Distribution of profit 26 Other current financial liabilities 19 Subsequent events 27 Other current liabilities Other information Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 111 Consolidated € million, except per share data Note 2016 2015 income statement Net sales 7 49,695 38,203 Cost of sales 8 (36,317) (27,760) Gross profit 13,378 10,443 Selling expenses (9,876) (7,785) General and administrative expenses (1,918) (1,340) Total operating expenses 8 (11,794) (9,125) Operating income 1,584 1,318 Interest income 15 5 Interest expense (273) (235) Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans 23 (18) (14) Other financial expenses (265) (21) Net financial expenses 9 (541) (265) Income before income taxes 1,043 1,053 Income taxes 10 (247) (224) Share in income of joint ventures 14 34 20 Income from continuing operations 830 849 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 5 — 2 Net income 830 851 Attributable to: Common shareholders 830 852 Non-controlling interests — (1) Net income 830 851 Earnings per share 29 Net income per share attributable to common shareholders Basic 0.81 1.04 Diluted 0.81 1.02 Income from continuing operations per share attributable to common shareholders Basic 0.81 1.04 Diluted 0.81 1.02 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 112 Consolidated € million Note 2016 2015 statement of Net income 830 851 comprehensive Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans Remeasurements before taxes – income (loss) 23 (146) (53) income Income taxes 10 47 11 Other comprehensive income (loss) that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (99) (42) Currency translation differences in foreign interests: Continuing operations 408 450 Income taxes 10 — (1) Cash flow hedges: Fair value result for the period (17) 39 Transfers to net income 21 179 (27) Income taxes 10 (41) (3) Non-realized gains (losses) on financial investments available-for-sale Fair value result for the period (7) — Income taxes 10 1 — Other comprehensive income of joint ventures – net of income taxes: Share of other comprehensive income from continuing operations 14 — 1 Other comprehensive income reclassifiable to profit or loss 523 459 Total other comprehensive income 424 417 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 1,254 1,268 Attributable to: Common shareholders 1,254 1,269 Non-controlling interests — (1) Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 1,254 1,268 Attributable to: Continuing operations 1,254 1,266 Discontinued operations 5 — 2 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders 1,254 1,268 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 113 Consolidated € million Note January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 balance sheet Assets Property, plant and equipment 11 11,770 6,677 Investment property 12 727 580 Intangible assets 13 12,547 1,968 Investments in joint ventures and associates 14 274 212 Other non-current financial assets 15 216 516 Deferred tax assets 10 700 628 Other non-current assets 64 39 Total non-current assets 26,298 10,620 Assets held for sale 5 50 3 Inventories 16 3,288 1,676 Receivables 17 1,588 837 Other current financial assets 18 677 596 Income taxes receivable 36 14 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 306 308 Cash and cash equivalents 19 4,032 1,826 Total current assets 9,977 5,260 Total assets 36,275 15,880 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to common shareholders 20 16,276 5,622 Non-controlling interests — (1) Group equity 16,276 5,621 Loans 21 3,311 1,522 Other non-current financial liabilities 22 2,527 2,187 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 23 659 389 Deferred tax liabilities 10 1,596 110 Provisions 24 931 639 Other non-current liabilities 25 578 410 Total non-current liabilities 9,602 5,257 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 5 9 — Accounts payable 5,389 2,800 Other current financial liabilities 26 2,178 330 Income taxes payable 87 39 Provisions 24 383 248 Other current liabilities 27 2,351 1,585 Total current liabilities 10,397 5,002 Total equity and liabilities 36,275 15,880 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 114 Consolidated Additional Currency Cash flow Other reserves including Equity attributable statement of € million Note Share capital paid-in capital translation reserve hedging reserve accumulated deficit1 to common shareholders changes in equity Balance as of December 28, 2014 Net income attributable to common shareholders 9 — 6,844 — (103) — (132) — (1,774) 852 4,844 852 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 449 9 (41) 417 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders — — 449 9 811 1,269 Dividends — — — — (396) (396) Share buyback — — — — (161) (161) Cancellation of treasury shares (1) (785) — — 786 — Share-based payments — — — — 66 66 Balance as of January 3, 2016 20 8 6,059 346 (123) (668) 5,622 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — 830 830 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 408 121 (105) 424 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders — — 408 121 725 1,254 Dividends — — — — (429) (429) Issuance of shares 5 10,756 — — — 10,761 Capital repayment — (1,013) — — 12 (1,001) Share-based payments — — — — 74 74 Share in joint venture’s transactions with non-controlling interests 14 — — — — (5) (5) Balance as of January 1, 2017 20 13 15,802 754 (2) (291) 16,276 1 Other reserves include the remeasurements of defined benefit plans. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 115 Consolidated € million Income from continuing operations Note 2016 830 2015 849 statement of Adjustments for: cash flows Net financial expenses 9 541 265 Income taxes 10 247 224 Share in income (loss) of joint ventures 14 (34) (20) Depreciation, amortization and impairments 8 1,464 1,032 Release of favorable and unfavorable leases — 2 Gains on the sale of assets / disposal groups held for sale 8 (22) (18) Share-based compensation expenses 32 61 47 Operating cash flows before changes in operating assets and liabilities 3,087 2,381 Changes in working capital: Changes in inventories (29) 31 Changes in receivables and other current assets 68 (237) Changes in payables and other current liabilities 171 215 Changes in other non-current assets, other non-current liabilities and provisions (125) (24) Cash generated from operations 3,172 2,366 Income taxes paid – net (274) (227) Operating cash flows from continuing operations 2,898 2,139 Operating cash flows from discontinued operations (5) (6) Net cash from operating activities 2,893 2,133 Purchase of non-current assets (1,302) (804) Divestments of assets / disposal groups held for sale 104 51 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 28 2,205 (150) Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested 28 (4) — Changes in short-term deposits and similar instruments 432 (247) Dividends received from joint ventures 14 19 21 Interest received 15 4 Other 1 1 Investing cash flows from continuing operations 1,470 (1,124) Net cash from investing activities 1,470 (1,124) Interest paid (293) (227) Repayments of loans 21 (347) (31) Changes in short-term loans 209 5 Repayments of finance lease liabilities (141) (104) Dividends paid on common shares 20 (429) (396) Share buyback 20 — (161) Capital repayment 20 (1,001) — Other cash flows from derivatives 21 (260) (22) Other 13 — Financing cash flows from continuing operations (2,249) (936) Net cash from financing activities (2,249) (936) Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 2,114 73 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period (excluding restricted cash) 28 1,819 1,615 Effect of exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents 57 131 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (excluding restricted cash) 28 3,990 1,819 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 116 Notes to the 1 The Company and its operations consolidated The principal activity of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (“Ahold Delhaize” or the “Company” or “Group” or “Ahold Delhaize Group”), a public limited liability company with its registered seat and head office in Zaandam, the Netherlands, is the operation of retail food stores primarily in the United financial statements States and Europe. The Company is registered with the Dutch Trade Register under number 35000363. As of July 24, 2016, Ahold Delhaize is the new name of Koninklijke Ahold N.V. following the completion of the merger between Koninklijke Ahold N.V. (“Ahold”) and Delhaize Group NV / SA (“Delhaize”). As a result of the legal structure of the merger, Delhaize merged into Ahold. Since Ahold is the surviving entity, the historical IFRS information prior to the merger is that of Ahold. Ahold Delhaize’s significant subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are listed in Note 36. 2 Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Historical cost is used as the measurement basis unless otherwise indicated. Ahold Delhaize’s financial year is a 52or 53-week period ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Financial year 2016 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on January 1, 2017. The comparative financial year 2015 consisted of 53 weeks and ended on January 3, 2016. These consolidated financial statements are presented in euros (€). The following exchange rates of the euro against the U.S. dollar ($), the Czech crown (CZK), the Romanian leu (RON), and the Serbian dinar (RSD) have been used in the preparation of these financial statements: 2016 2015 U.S. dollar Average exchange rate 0.9038 0.9001 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.9506 0.9208 Czech crown Average exchange rate 0.0370 0.0366 Year-end closing exchange rate 0.0370 0.0369 Romanian leu Average exchange rate 0.2226 N/A Year-end closing exchange rate 0.2204 N/A Serbian dinar Average exchange rate 0.0081 N/A Year-end closing exchange rate 0.0081 N/A Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 117 Notes to the 2 Basis of preparation continued consolidated The preparation of financial statements requires management to make a number of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. All assumptions, expectations and forecasts financial statements used as a basis for certain estimates within these financial statements represent good faith assessments of Ahold Delhaize’s future performance for which management believes there is a reasonable basis. They involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the Company’s continued actual future results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those forecasted. The estimates, assumptions and judgments that management considers most critical relate to: Business acquisitions (Note 4) Determining the fair value of assets and liabilities recognized from a business acquisition involves a number of judgments and estimates. This includes the use of: • An income approach (for property, plant and equipment, brand names and contractual relationships), which requires the estimation of the income generating capacity of the relevant assets and the return or yield that a market participant would apply to such assets or an estimate or forecast of future expected cash flows through either a relief from royalty or multi-period excess earnings approach. • A cost approach (for property, plant and equipment), which requires the calculation of the depreciated replacement cost of the relevant assets. • A market approach (for property plant and equipment, lease related intangibles), which requires the comparison of the subject assets to transactions involving comparable assets or a comparison of contract and market prices. • Expected sales consideration, less any incremental costs directly attributable to the sale (for acquired assets classified as held for sale). • Market-quoted rates for the listed debt. • Assessments of the expected cash outflow and the probability of such an outflow for contingent liabilities related to legal disputes. • Evaluations of a counterparty’s credit risk and the re-let potential for contingent liabilities related to lease guarantees. Vendor allowances (Notes 3 and 17) The Company must estimate the allowances that are earned based on the fulfillment of its related obligations, many of which require management to estimate the volume of purchases that will be made during a period of time. The Company must also estimate the amount of related product that has been sold and the amount that remains in ending inventories and allocate the allowance to cost of sales or inventories accordingly. Income taxes (Notes 3, 10 and 34) The ultimate tax effects of transactions may be uncertain for a considerable period of time, requiring management to estimate the related current and deferred tax positions. The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain tax positions when it is more likely than not that additional tax will be due. Judgment is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are realizable and therefore recognized in the balance sheet. Intangible assets (Notes 3, 4 and 13) Intangible assets acquired in a business acquisition are stated at fair value, as determined at the date of the acquisition. To determine the fair value at the acquisition date, judgments and estimates are required. Leases and sale and leaseback transactions (Notes 3, 22 and 33) The classification of leases as finance leases or operating leases requires judgments about the fair value of the leased asset, the split of the fair value between land and buildings, the economic life of the asset, whether or not to include renewal options in the lease term and the appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of the minimum lease payments. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 118 Notes to the 2 Basis of preparation continued consolidated Revenue recognition with respect to sale and leaseback transactions is dependent on management’s judgment of whether the Company transfers all risks and rewards to the buyer, does not maintain (or maintains only minor) continuing involvement in the property other than the lease financial statements payments and whether the transaction is established at fair value. Impairments (Notes 3, 8, 11, 12 and 13) continued Judgments and estimates are required, not only to determine whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired, but also whether indications exist that impairment losses previously recognized may no longer exist or may have decreased (impairment reversal). Company and multi-employer pension obligations (Notes 3 and 23) The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of assumptions that are determined on an actuarial basis. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate that should be used to determine the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension obligations. Other key assumptions comprise longevity and future salary and pension increases. Additional information is disclosed in Note 23. Provisions and contingencies (Notes 3, 24 and 34) The recognition of provisions requires estimates and judgment regarding the timing and the amount of outflow of resources. The main estimates are as follows: • Self-insurance program: estimates and assumptions include an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported, historical loss experience, projected loss development factors, estimated changes in claim reporting patterns, claim settlement patterns, judicial decisions and legislation. • Loyalty programs: estimated cost of benefits to which customers participating in the loyalty program are entitled, which includes assumptions on redemption rates. These estimates and assumptions apply to all loyalty programs, irrespective of whether they are accounted for as sales deferrals or provisions for future payments made at redemption. • Claims and legal disputes: management, supported by internal and external legal counsel, where appropriate, determines whether it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle an obligation. If this is the case, the best estimate of the outflow of resources is recognized. • Severance and termination benefits: the provisions relate to separation plans and agreements and use the best estimate based on information available to management of the cash flows that will likely occur. The amounts that are ultimately incurred may change as the plans are executed. • Onerous contracts: mainly relate to unfavorable lease contracts and include the excess of the unavoidable costs of meeting the contractual obligations over the benefits expected to be received under such contracts. Fair value measurements For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorized into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows: • Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company can access at the measurement date. • Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices). • Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 119 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies Consolidation consolidated The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial figures of the Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities over which financial statements the Company has control. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date that control continued commences until the date that control ceases. All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated upon consolidation. Unrealized losses on intra-group transactions are eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. Non-controlling interests are recorded, as appropriate, on the consolidated balance sheet, in the consolidated income statement, and in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the non-controlling shareholders’ share in the net assets and the income or loss of subsidiaries. Non-controlling shareholders’ interest in an acquired subsidiary is initially measured at the non-controlling interest’s proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognized. Ahold Delhaize does not have subsidiaries with non-controlling interests that are material to the Group. Foreign currency translation The financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are prepared in their functional currencies, which are determined based on the primary economic environment in which they operate. Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the transaction dates. At each balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the entity’s functional currency at the then prevailing rates. Exchange differences arising on the settlement and translation of monetary items are included in net income for the period. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are considered as assets and liabilities denominated in the functional currency of the foreign entity. Upon consolidation, the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the euro are translated into euros using the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the respective periods. Exchange rate differences arising during consolidation and on the translation of investments in subsidiaries are included in other comprehensive income and in equity, in the currency translation reserve. Intercompany loans to and from foreign entities for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future are considered to increase or decrease the net investment in that foreign entity; therefore the exchange rate differences relating to these loans are also included in other comprehensive income and in equity, in the currency translation reserve. On the disposal of a foreign operation resulting in loss of control, loss of joint control or loss of significant influence, the related cumulative exchange rate difference that was included in equity is transferred to the consolidated income statement. Segmentation Ahold Delhaize’s operating segments are its retail operating companies that engage in business activities from which they earn revenues and incur expenses and whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Management Board to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and to assess their performance. In establishing the reportable segments, certain operating segments with similar economic characteristics have been aggregated. As Ahold Delhaize’s operating segments offer similar products using complementary business models, and there is no discernible difference in customer bases, the Company’s policy on aggregating its operating segments into reportable segments is based on geography, functional currency and management oversight. The segments’ performance is evaluated against several measures, of which operating income is the most important. Intersegment sales are executed under normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 120 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Net sales consolidated Ahold Delhaize generates and recognizes net sales to retail customers at the point of sale in its stores and upon delivery of goods through its online financial statements channel. The Company also generates revenues from the sale of products to retail franchisees and affiliates that are recognized upon delivery. Ahold Delhaize recognizes fees to franchisees and affiliates as revenue as services are performed or the granted rights are used. Revenue from the continued sale of gift cards and gift certificates is recognized when the gift card or gift certificate is redeemed by the retail customer. Future discounts earned by customers in connection with bonus or loyalty cards and other Company-sponsored programs are deferred on the balance sheet at the time of the sale and subsequently recognized in the income statement when redeemed. Generally, net sales and cost of sales are recorded based on the gross amount received from the customer for products sold and the amount paid to the vendor for products purchased, excluding sales taxes and value-added taxes. However, for certain products or services, such as sales through bol.com’s seller platform, the sale of lottery tickets, third-party prepaid phone cards, stamps and public transportation tickets, Ahold Delhaize acts as an agent and consequently records the amount of commission income in its net sales. Cost of sales Cost of sales includes the purchase price of the products sold and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to the location and condition ready for sale. These costs include costs of purchasing; storing; rent; depreciation of property, plant and equipment; salaries; and transporting products to the extent that it relates to bringing the inventories to the location and condition ready for sale. Vendor allowances Ahold Delhaize receives various types of vendor allowances. The most common allowances vendors offer are (i) volume allowances, which are offinvoice or amounts billed back to vendors based on the quantity of products sold to customers or purchased from the vendor and (ii) promotional allowances, which relate to cooperative advertising and market development efforts. Volume allowances are recognized as a reduction of the cost of the related products as they are sold. Promotional allowances are recognized as a reduction of the cost of the related products when the Company has performed the activities specified in the contract with the vendor. If the contract does not specify any performance criteria, the allowance is recognized over the term of the contract. Vendor allowances are generally deducted from cost of sales, unless there is clear evidence that they should be classified as revenue or a reimbursement of costs. Ahold Delhaize recognizes vendor allowances only where there is evidence of a binding arrangement with the vendor, the amount can be estimated reliably and receipt is probable. The accounting for vendor allowances requires a number of estimates. First, the Company must estimate the allowances that are earned based on the fulfillment of its related obligations, many of which require management to estimate the volume of purchases that will be made during a period of time. Second, the Company needs to estimate the amount of related product that was sold and the amount that remains in ending inventories and accordingly allocate the allowance to cost of sales or inventories. Management makes this estimate based on the turnover of the inventories and allocates a portion of the related vendor allowance to ending inventories until such product is estimated to have been sold to customers. Selling expenses Selling expenses relate to our store and online operations and consist of employees’ salaries and wages, store expenses, rent income and rent expense or depreciation related to stores, advertising costs and other selling expenses. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses consist of support office employees’ salaries and wages, rent and depreciation of support offices, impairment losses and reversals, gains and losses on the sale of non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, restructuring costs, and other general and administrative expenses. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 121 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Share-based compensation consolidated The grant date fair value of equity-settled share-based compensation plans is expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straightfinancial statements line basis over the vesting periods of the grants. The cumulative expense recognized at each balance sheet date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest. No expense is recognized for awards continued that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition (e.g., total shareholder return). Those are treated as vested irrespective of whether or not the market condition is ultimately satisfied, provided that all non-market conditions (e.g., continued employment) are satisfied. Income taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in equity or other comprehensive income. Current tax expense is based on the best estimate of taxable income for the year, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and adjustments for current taxes payable (receivable) for prior years. Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are generally recognized for all temporary differences. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realized. Deferred tax assets, including deferred tax assets for tax loss carryforward positions and tax credit carryforward positions, are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which temporary differences, unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable income will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same fiscal authority. Current income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and when the Company intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The ultimate tax effects of some transactions can be uncertain for a considerable period of time, requiring management to estimate the related current and deferred tax positions. The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain tax positions when it is more likely than not that additional taxes will be due. These liabilities are presented as current income taxes payable, except in jurisdictions where prior tax losses are being carried forward to be used to offset future taxes that will be due; in these instances the liabilities are presented as a reduction to deferred tax assets. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case, the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. Non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the asset’s carrying amount or the fair value less costs of disposal. Depreciation or amortization of an asset ceases when it is classified as held for sale. Equity accounting ceases for an investment in a joint venture or associate when it is classified as held for sale; instead, dividends received are recognized in the consolidated income statement. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 122 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued consolidated A discontinued operation is a component of the Company that either has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of financial statements business or geographical area of operations. Results from discontinued operations that are clearly identifiable as part of the component disposed of and that will not be recognized subsequent to the disposal are presented separately as a single amount in the consolidated income statement. continued Results and cash flows from discontinued operations are reclassified for prior periods and presented in the financial statements so that the results and cash flows from discontinued operations relate to all operations that have been discontinued as of the balance sheet date for the latest period presented. Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset and borrowing costs incurred during construction. Where applicable, estimated asset retirement costs are added to the cost of an asset. Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the costs can be measured reliably. All other subsequent expenditures represent repairs and maintenance and are expensed as incurred. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the items of property, plant and equipment, taking into account the estimated residual value. Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, each such part is depreciated separately. The assets’ useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted if appropriate. The ranges of estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are: Land indefinite Buildings 30-40 years Certain structural components of buildings 10-20 years Finish components of buildings 5-10 years Machinery and equipment 3-15 years Other 5-10 years Depreciation of assets subject to finance leases and leasehold improvements is calculated on a straight-line basis over either the lease term (including renewal periods when renewal is reasonably assured) or the estimated useful life of the asset, whichever is shorter. Investment property Investment property consists of land and buildings held by Ahold Delhaize to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, or both. These properties are not used by the Company in the ordinary course of business. The Company often owns (or leases under a finance lease) shopping centers containing both an Ahold Delhaize and third-party retail units. In these cases, the third-party retail units generate rental income, but are primarily of strategic importance for operating purposes to Ahold Delhaize in its retail operations. The Company recognizes the part of an owned (or leased under a finance lease) shopping center that is leased to third-party retailers as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property. Land and buildings leased to franchisees are not considered to be investment property as they contribute directly to Ahold Delhaize’s retail operations. Investment property is measured on the same basis as property, plant and equipment. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 123 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Leases and sale and leaseback transactions consolidated Leases financial statements Ahold Delhaize is a lessee of land, buildings and equipment under operating and finance lease arrangements. The Company classifies its leases as finance leases when the lease agreement transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to Ahold Delhaize. For leases determined continued to be finance leases, the asset and liability are recognized based on their values at the inception of the lease at an amount equal either to the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term, whichever is lower. Lease payments are apportioned between interest charges and a reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining liability balance. Contingent rentals are expensed as incurred. Leases that do not qualify as finance leases are classified as operating leases, and the related lease payments are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term, including, as applicable, any rent-free period during which Ahold Delhaize has the right to use the asset. Payments made to Ahold Delhaize representing incentives to sign a new lease or representing reimbursements for leasehold improvements are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease as reductions to rental expense. For leases with renewal options where the renewal is reasonably assured, the lease term used to (i) determine the appropriate lease classification, (ii) compute periodic rental expense and (iii) depreciate leasehold improvements (unless their economic lives are shorter) includes the periods of expected renewals. Determining whether a lease agreement is a finance or an operating lease requires judgment on various aspects. These include the fair value of the leased asset, the split of the fair value between land and buildings, the economic life of the leased asset, whether or not to include renewal options in the lease term and the determination of an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of the minimum lease payments. Sale and leaseback The gain or loss on sale and operating leaseback transactions is recognized in the income statement immediately if (i) Ahold Delhaize does not maintain or maintains only minor continuing involvement in these properties, other than the required lease payments, and (ii) these transactions occur at fair value. Any gain or loss on sale and finance leaseback transactions is deferred and amortized over the term of the lease. In classifying the leaseback in a sale and leaseback transaction, similar judgments have to be made as described above under Leases. In some sale and leaseback arrangements, Ahold Delhaize sells a property and only leases back a portion of that property. These properties generally involve shopping centers that contain an Ahold Delhaize store as well as other stores leased to third-party retailers. In such situations, the Company recognizes a sale and the resulting profit on the portion of the shopping center that is not leased back to the extent that (i) the property is sold for fair value and (ii) the risks and rewards of owning stores that are not leased back to Ahold Delhaize have been fully transferred to the buyer. The leaseback of the Ahold Delhaize store and any gain on the sale of the Ahold Delhaize store is accounted for under the sale and leaseback criteria described above. In some sale and leaseback arrangements, Ahold Delhaize subleases the property to third parties (including franchisees) or maintains a form of continuing involvement in the property sold, such as earn-out provisions or obligations or options to repurchase the property. In such situations, the transaction generally does not qualify for sale and leaseback accounting, but rather is accounted for as a financing transaction (financing). The carrying amount of the asset remains on the balance sheet and the sale proceeds are recorded as a financing obligation. The financing obligation is amortized over the lease term. Once Ahold Delhaize’s continuing involvement ends, the sale is accounted for under the sale and leaseback criteria described above. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 124 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets consolidated Goodwill and impairment of goodwill financial statements Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the Company’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition, and is carried at cost less accumulated continued impairment losses. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of a business combination. Goodwill is allocated to a cash-generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) representing the lowest level within the Company at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is never larger than an operating segment before aggregation. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be impaired. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is assessed for impairment as part of the investment whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the cash-generating unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of a cash-generating unit’s fair value less cost to sell or its value in use. An impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill and then to the other assets of the cash-generating unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. On the partial or complete disposal of an operation, the goodwill attributable to that operation is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal. Other intangible assets Separately acquired intangible assets and internally developed software are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition (which is regarded as their cost). Customer, franchise, and affiliate relationships acquired in business acquisitions are stated at fair value determined using an income approach. Direct costs related to the development of software for internal use are capitalized only if the costs can be measured reliably, technological feasibility has been established, future economic benefits are probable, and the Company intends to complete development and to use the software. All other costs, including all overhead, general and administrative, and training costs, are expensed as incurred. Lease-related intangible assets, consisting primarily of favorable operating lease contracts acquired in business acquisitions, are measured at the present value of the amount by which the contract terms are favorable relative to market prices at the date of acquisition. Amortization is computed using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives, which are as follows: Lease-related intangibles Remaining expected duration of the lease Software 3-10 years Customer relationships 7-25 years Brand names indefinite Franchise and affiliate relationships 14-40 years Other 5-indefinite The useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted, if appropriate. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 125 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Investments in joint arrangements and associates consolidated Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations financial statements each investor has rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. Joint operations arise where Ahold Delhaize has rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and therefore the Company accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. continued Joint ventures arise where Ahold Delhaize has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and therefore the Company equity accounts for its interest. Associates are entities over which Ahold Delhaize has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity but is not control or joint control over those policies. Associates are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures and associates are measured initially at cost and subsequently adjusted for postacquisition changes in Ahold Delhaize’s share of the net assets of the investment (net of any accumulated impairment in the value of individual investments). Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial figures of joint ventures and associates to ensure consistency with the accounting policies of the Company. Unrealized gains on transactions between Ahold Delhaize and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Company’s stake in these investments. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. Impairment of non-current assets other than goodwill Ahold Delhaize assesses on a quarterly basis whether there is any indication that non-current assets may be impaired. If indicators of impairment exist, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the asset. If it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs. Individual stores are considered separate cashgenerating units for impairment testing purposes. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell or the asset’s value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. An impairment loss is recognized in the income statement for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. In subsequent years, Ahold Delhaize assesses whether indications exist that impairment losses previously recognized for non-current assets other than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of that asset is recalculated and, if required, its carrying amount is increased to the revised recoverable amount. The increase is recognized in operating income as an impairment reversal. An impairment reversal is recognized only if it arises from a change in the assumptions that were used to calculate the recoverable amount. The increase in an asset’s carrying amount due to an impairment reversal is limited to the depreciated amount that would have been recognized had the original impairment not occurred. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost consists of all costs of purchase, cost of conversion, and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their location and condition ready for sale, net of vendor allowances attributable to inventories. For certain inventories, cost is approximated using the retail method, in which the sales value of the inventories is reduced by the appropriate percentage of gross margin. The cost of inventories is determined using either the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method or the weighted average cost method, depending on their nature or use. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated marketing, distribution and selling expenses. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 126 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Financial instruments consolidated Financial assets and liabilities financial statements Financial assets and liabilities are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of a financial instrument. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets expire, or if the Company transfers the financial continued asset to another party and does not retain control or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the Company’s obligations specified in the contract expire or are discharged or cancelled. Purchases and sales of financial assets in the normal course of business are accounted for at settlement date (i.e., the date that the asset is delivered to or by the Company). At initial recognition, management classifies its financial assets as either (i) at fair value through profit or loss, (ii) loans and receivables, (iii) held to maturity or (iv) available-for-sale, depending on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value. For instruments not classified as at fair value through profit or loss, any directly attributable transaction costs are initially recognized as part of the asset value. Directly attributable transaction costs related to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are expensed when incurred. The fair value of quoted investments is based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active, or if the financial asset represents an unlisted security, the Company establishes fair value using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s-length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, and discounted cash flow analysis, making maximum use of market inputs. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured as described below. At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. Investments at fair value through profit or loss Investments at fair value through profit or loss are those investments that are either held for trading or designated as such by the Company. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it is acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Financial instruments held for trading are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognized in the income statement. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. They are included in current assets, except for loans and receivables with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. Held to maturity financial assets Held to maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and a fixed maturity that the Company has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. They are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. They are included in current assets, except for held to maturity financial assets with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 127 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets consolidated Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category of financial assets or not classified financial statements in any of the other categories. They are measured at fair value based on quoted market prices with changes therein recognized directly in equity until the investment is derecognized or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is continued transferred to the income statement. Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are carried at cost. At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired. Available-for-sale financial assets are included in non-current financial assets unless they are expected to be realized or are intended for sale or consumption within 12 months after the balance sheet date. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include all cash on hand balances, checks, debit and credit card receivables, short-term highly liquid cash investments, and time deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Time deposits and similar instruments with original maturities of more than three months but less than 12 months are classified as other current financial assets. Bank overdrafts are included in short-term borrowings. Loans and short-term borrowings Loans and short-term borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Loans and short-term borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized cost, unless they are designated as fair value hedges. Any difference between the proceeds and redemption value is recognized in the income statement over the period of the loans and short-term borrowings using the effective interest method. Loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Derivative financial instruments All derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. Gains and losses resulting from the fair value remeasurement are recognized in the income statement as fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments, unless the derivative qualifies and is effective as a hedging instrument in a designated hedging relationship. In order for a derivative financial instrument to qualify as a hedging instrument for accounting purposes, the Company must document (i) at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions and (ii) its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivative that is used in the hedging transaction is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. Derivatives that are designated as hedges are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized initially in the cash flow hedging reserve, a separate component of equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income statement. Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified into the income statement in the same period in which the related exposure impacts the income statement. When a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognized in the income statement. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss existing in equity is immediately recognized in the income statement. Fair value changes of derivative instruments that qualify for fair value hedge accounting treatment are recognized in the income statement in the periods in which they arise, together with any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortized in the income statement over the remaining period to maturity of the hedged item. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 128 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Reinsurance assets and liabilities consolidated Under Ahold Delhaize’s self-insurance program, part of the insurance risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement financial statements between unrelated companies. Reinsurance assets include estimated receivable balances related to reinsurance contracts purchased by the Company. Reinsurance liabilities represent the expected insurance risks related to reinsurance contracts sold by the Company. Reinsurance assets continued and liabilities are measured on a discounted basis using accepted actuarial methods. Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are recognized initially as a liability at fair value. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation or the amount initially recognized less cumulative amortization. Equity Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value of proceeds received. Own equity instruments that are bought back (treasury shares) are deducted from equity. Incremental costs that are directly attributable to issuing or buying back own equity instruments are recognized directly in equity, net of the related tax. No gain or loss is recognized in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issuance or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments. Cumulative preferred financing shares Cumulative preferred financing shares, for which dividend payments are not at the discretion of the Company, are classified as non-current financial liabilities and are stated at amortized cost. The dividends on these cumulative preferred financing shares are recognized as interest expense in the income statement, using the effective interest method. From the date when Ahold Delhaize receives irrevocable notification from a holder of cumulative preferred financing shares to convert these shares into common shares, the cumulative preferred financing shares are classified as a separate class of equity. Pension and other post-employment benefits The net assets and net liabilities recognized on the consolidated balance sheet for defined benefit plans represent the actual surplus or deficit in Ahold Delhaize’s defined benefit plans measured as the present value of the defined benefit obligations less the fair value of plan assets. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan. Defined benefit obligations are actuarially calculated on the balance sheet date using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields on high-quality corporate bonds (i.e., bonds rated AA or higher), denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have an average duration similar to the expected duration of the related pension liabilities. Defined benefit costs are split into three categories: • Service cost, past service cost, gains and losses on curtailment and settlements • Net interest expense or income • Remeasurement The first category is presented as labor costs within operating earnings. Past-service costs are recognized in the income statement in the period of plan amendment. Results from curtailments or settlements are recognized immediately. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 129 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued consolidated Past service years within the Dutch pension fund are calculated based upon a methodology that uses the maximum past service years based on accrued benefits or a participant’s actual date of hire. financial statements Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is presented within net financial expenses. continued Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest) are recognized immediately in the balance sheet with a charge or credit to other comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs. Remeasurements recorded in other comprehensive income are not recycled to the income statement. Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions. Post-employment benefits provided through industry multi-employer plans, managed by third parties, are generally accounted for under defined contribution criteria. For other long-term employee benefits, such as long-service awards, provisions are recognized on the basis of estimates that are consistent with the estimates used for the defined benefit obligations, however discounted using Ahold Delhaize’s cost of debt rate. For these, all actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the income statement immediately. Provisions Provisions are recognized when (i) the Company has a present (legal or constructive) obligation as a result of past events, (ii) it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and (iii) the amount can be reliably estimated. The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation. Provisions are discounted whenever the effect of the time value of money is significant. The provision for the Company’s self-insurance program is recorded based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. The provision includes expenses incurred in the claim settlement process that can be directly associated with specific claims. Other expenses incurred in the claim settlement process are expensed when incurred. The Company’s estimate of the required liability of such claims is recorded on a discounted basis, utilizing an actuarial method based upon various assumptions that include, but are not limited to, historical loss experience, projected loss development factors and actual payroll costs. Restructuring-related provisions for severance and termination benefits are recognized when the Company has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced to those affected by it. Onerous contract provisions are measured at the amount by which the unavoidable costs to fulfill agreements exceeds the expected benefits from such agreements. Changes in accounting policy In 2016, in conjunction with the merger and the alignment of accounting policies, the Company changed its policy of accounting for employee contributions to its defined benefit plans and they are now reflected as a reduction of service costs in the period in which the related service is rendered. Previously, employee contributions were attributed to the periods of future service when measuring the defined benefit obligation. This change is only applicable to the Company’s defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands, as other defined benefit plans do not receive employee contributions. The change in policy has been applied prospectively. The effect of this change in policy was to increase the pension provision balance by €28 million, through other comprehensive income. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 130 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Changes in presentation consolidated Presentation of amortization of favorable lease-related intangible assets financial statements As part of the purchase price allocation (PPA) of an acquisition, favorable lease-related intangible assets and unfavorable lease-related liabilities are identified. In the historical results of both Ahold and Delhaize, the unwinding of these liabilities were reported as part of rent expense, while the continued amortization of the intangible asset were reported as amortization expense. This resulted in a mismatch of the net PPA effect of similar items on the basis that they relate to either an asset or a liability. Ahold Delhaize’s historical information has therefore been restated so that the amortization of the favorable lease-related asset is no longer reported as depreciation and amortization expense but is instead reported as rent expense. Presentation of unfavorable lease liabilities Unfavorable lease-related liabilities recognized upon an acquisition have historically been presented as onerous contract provisions by Ahold Delhaize. However, because these liabilities do not have uncertainty with respect to amount and timing, a decision has been made to now present these as other liabilities instead of provisions. The adjustments to Ahold Delhaize’s 2015 comparative amounts for these changes in presentation are as follows: January 3, 2016 Changes in January 3, 2016 € million as reported presentation as restated Consolidated balance sheet Non-current liabilities Provisions 731 (92) 639 Other non-current liabilities 318 92 410 Current liabilities Provisions 260 (12) 248 Other current liabilities 1,573 12 1,585 2015 Changes in 2015 € million as reported presentation as restated Consolidated statement of cash flows Depreciation, amortization and impairments 1,043 (11) 1,032 Release of favorable and unfavorable leases — 2 2 Operating cash flows before changes in operating assets and liabilities 2,390 (9) 2,381 Changes in other non-current assets, other non-current liabilities and provisions (33) 9 (24) 2015 Changes in 2015 € million as reported presentation as restated Note 8 Expenses by nature Depreciation and amortization 1,004 (11) 993 Rent expenses and income – net 621 11 632 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 131 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued Cost alignment for online business consolidated In 2016, Ahold Delhaize changed the presentation of the income statement to align the presentation of costs across its online businesses. financial statements The change resulted in the following reclassifications within the 2015 income statement. 2015 Changes in 2015 continued € million as reported presentation as restated Net sales 38,203 — 38,203 Cost of sales (27,835) 75 (27,760) Gross profit 10,368 75 10,443 Selling expenses (7,722) (63) (7,785) General and administrative expenses (1,328) (12) (1,340) Total operating expenses (9,050) (75) (9,125) Operating income 1,318 — 1,318 New accounting policies effective for 2016 Amendments to IAS 1, “Disclosure initiative” The disclosure initiative clarifies existing disclosure requirements, which do not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28, “Investment entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception” These are narrow-scope clarifications of guidance, specifically related to investment entities. Because Ahold Delhaize is not an investment entity, nor does it have investments in an investment entity, these amendments do not have an effect on the consolidated financial statements. Narrow-scope amendments to IAS 27, “Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements” The amendments will allow entities to use the equity method to account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in their separate financial statements. These amendments do not have an effect on the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38, “Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortization” The amendments prohibit entities from using a revenue-based depreciation method for items of property, plant and equipment and introduce a rebuttable presumption that revenue is not an appropriate basis for amortization of an intangible asset. Currently the Company uses the straightline method for depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets, respectively. Accordingly, the application of these amendments do not have an effect on the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IFRS 11, “Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations” The amendments provide guidance on how to account for the acquisition of a joint operation that constitutes a business as defined in IFRS 3 “Business Combinations.” Based on Ahold Delhaize’s current financial position, the application of these amendments to IFRS 11 does not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle made a number of amendments to various IFRSs, which do not have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 132 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued New accounting policies not yet effective for 2016 consolidated The IASB issued several standards, or revisions to standards, that are not yet effective for 2016, but will become effective in coming years. financial statements IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments,” addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. Based on Ahold Delhaize’s current financial position, the Company anticipates that the application of IFRS 9 in the future may have an impact on amounts continued reported in respect of the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities. However, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9 until a detailed review has been completed. IFRS 9, as amended in July 2014, is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. IFRS 15, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance including IAS 18 “Revenue,” IAS 11 “Construction Contracts,” and the related Interpretations when it becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Under IFRS 15, an entity recognizes revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, i.e., when “control” of the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. More prescriptive guidance has been added in IFRS to deal with specific scenarios. Furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by IFRS 15. The Company has identified the following areas where policies will change, but none are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements: (1) timing of revenue recognition for online sales will change from delivery from warehouse to receipt by customers, and (2) anticipated product returns will need to be considered when recognizing sales at bol.com. IFRS 16, “Leases,” eliminates the current dual accounting model for lessees, which distinguishes between on-balance sheet finance leases and offbalance sheet operating leases. Instead, there is a single, on-balance sheet accounting model that is similar to current finance lease accounting. The Company anticipates that the application of IFRS 16 will have a significant effect on its reported assets and liabilities, and operating and financing expenses. However, due to the various transition options within the standard that are available to the Company, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 16 until a detailed review has been completed. IFRS 16 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Amendments to IAS 12, “Income Taxes,” were made to address diversity in practice surrounding the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealized losses on debt instruments measured at fair value, as well as provide additional guidance on how deductible temporary differences should be measured in situations when tax law limits the offsetting of certain types of losses against specific sources of taxable profits. The amendments to IAS 12 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017. The Company is in the process of evaluating the full impact of the amendments. Narrow-scope amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28, “Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture,” clarified an inconsistency between these standards with regard to the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture. Following the amendments, a full gain or loss is recognized when a transaction involves a business (whether it is housed in a subsidiary or not). A partial gain or loss is recognized when a transaction involves assets that do not constitute a business, even if these assets are housed in a subsidiary. The Company has yet to assess the amendments’ full impact. The amendments’ effective date has been postponed by the IASB and a new effective date has not been identified. Amendments to IAS 7, “Disclosure Initiative,” were made to require additional cash flow disclosures that will enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including changes arising from both cash flows and non-cash changes. The amendments to IAS 7 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017. The Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments will have a significant effect on the results of future consolidated financial statements, but they may alter the manner in which certain financial information is presented. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 133 Notes to the 3 Significant accounting policies continued consolidated Amendments to IFRS 2, “Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions,” were made to provide requirements on the accounting for the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payments; share-based financial statements payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations; and a modification to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment that changes the classification of the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled. The amendments to IFRS 2 apply continued prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. The Company has yet to assess the amendments’ full impact. Amendments to IFRS 4, “Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts,” were made to give all companies that issue insurance contracts the option to recognize in Other comprehensive income, rather than profit or loss, the volatility that could arise when IFRS 9 is applied before the new insurance contracts standard is issued; and companies whose activities are predominantly connected with insurance an optional temporary exemption from applying IFRS 9 until 2021. The amendments to IFRS 4 apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Based on Ahold Delhaize’s current business model, the Company does not anticipate that the application of these amendments to IFRS 4 will have a significant effect on the future consolidated financial statements. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective that are expected to have a material effect on the future consolidated financial statements. 4 Acquisitions Ahold Delhaize merger On July 23, 2016, Ahold and Delhaize announced the completion of their merger, which became effective on July 24, 2016. With this merger, Ahold Delhaize has 21 local brands in 11 countries and employs 370,000 associates in over 6,500 grocery and specialty stores. Key terms of the merger are: • The merger took place through a cross-border legal merger of Delhaize into Ahold; • Delhaize shareholders received 4.75 Ahold ordinary shares for each Delhaize ordinary share; • €1 billion was returned to Ahold shareholders via a capital return and a reverse stock split prior to completion of the merger; and • Ahold Delhaize is listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange and the Brussels Stock Exchange. The merger has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting under IFRS 3, with Ahold being identified as the acquirer. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 134 Notes to the 4 Acquisitions continued Purchase consideration consolidated The purchase consideration was €10,765 million. Goodwill recognized in the amount of €5,926 million, which at the date of this report is treated financial statements as non-deductible for tax purposes, represents expected synergies from the combination of the operations. The transaction is expected to be accretive to earnings in the first full year after completion, with all anticipated run-rate synergies to be fully realized in the third year after continued completion. One-off costs of €350 million will be required to achieve synergies. Purchase consideration € million Ordinary shares issued (i) 10,761 Amount attributable to purchase consideration in respect of replacement awards issued (ii) 4 Total purchase consideration 10,765 (i) Under the terms of the merger, Delhaize shareholders were offered 4.75 ordinary shares in the Company for each share held in Delhaize. On completion of the merger, 496,000,577 ordinary shares were issued. The fair value of the shares issued as part of the consideration paid was based on the published share price on July 23, 2016, of €21.695 per share. (ii) In accordance with the terms of the merger agreement, the Company exchanged certain equity-settled share-based payment awards held by employees of Delhaize (the acquiree’s awards) for equity-settled share-based payment awards of the Company (the replacement awards). The total value of the replacement awards is €9 million. The consideration for the business combination includes €4 million transferred to employees of Delhaize when the acquiree’s awards were substituted by the replacement awards, which relates to past service. The balance of €5 million will be recognized as post-acquisition compensation cost over the relevant service period. Since the merger date, Delhaize contributed net sales of €11,001 million and a net income of €239 million (representing the results of the Delhaize operating entities plus any remaining head office and other charges from the Delhaize entities) to the 2016 results. Assuming that the acquisition occurred on January 4, 2016, management reported on a pro forma basis consolidated net sales of €62,331 million through January 1, 2017, and consolidated pro forma net income of €1,078 million. The pro forma information is based on the historical Ahold and Delhaize quarters. The following main adjustments to the combined historical data were made to arrive at the pro forma information: i) exclusion of the performance of remedy stores and other divestments; ii) exclusion of merger transaction costs; iii) inclusion of purchase price allocation effects; iv) alignment of Global Support Office functions and related costs; and v) alignment of foreign exchange rates used in the translation of foreign group entities. Acquisition-related costs Ahold and Delhaize incurred transaction costs of €135 million for banking fees, legal fees and other professional fees, of which €62 million has been booked by Ahold and Delhaize in 2015 and €73 million in 2016. Transaction costs of €38 million (2015: €32 million) have been included in General and administrative expenses as Restructuring and related charges and other. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 135 Notes to the 4 Acquisitions continued consolidated Net assets acquired The following is a summary of the initial allocation of the fair value of the net assets acquired and the goodwill arising from the acquisitions during financial statements 2016. There were several measurement period adjustments recognized subsequent to the amounts initially recognized and reported in the third quarter of 2016. The measurement period adjustments presented below were retrospectively recognized as adjustments to the July 24, 2016, continued opening balance sheet. Delhaize Measurement initially reported period Delhaize per € million as of Closing Date adjustments Closing Date Other1 Total Goodwill 5,926 — 5,926 31 5,957 Other intangibles 4,311 — 4,311 8 4,319 Property, plant and equipment (including investment property) 5,104 (3) 5,101 14 5,115 Deferred tax assets 7 (3) 4 2 6 Other non-current assets 97 1 98 — 98 Inventories 1,498 — 1,498 2 1,500 Assets held for sale 111 — 111 — 111 Cash and cash equivalent 2,280 — 2,280 — 2,280 Receivables & other current assets 1,015 4 1,019 — 1,019 Loans (2,374) — (2,374) — (2,374) Finance lease liabilities (517) — (517) (4) (521) Provisions non-current (including pensions) (476) 6 (470) — (470) Deferred tax liabilities (1,427) 38 (1,389) — (1,389) Other non-current liabilities (236) — (236) (6) (242) Accounts payable (2,317) 2 (2,315) (1) (2,316) Bank overdrafts (993) — (993) — (993) Liabilities held for sale (37) — (37) — (37) Other current liabilities (1,207) (45) (1,252) — (1,252) Total purchase consideration 10,765 — 10,765 46 10,811 Ordinary shares issued (10,761) — (10,761) — (10,761) Replacement awards issued (4) — (4) — (4) Cash acquired (excluding restricted cash) (2,251) — (2,251) — (2,251) Acquisition of business, net of cash (2,251) — (2,251) 46 (2,205) 1 Represents other smaller acquisitions of stores in the Netherlands and the U.S. and follow up from the measurement of the A&P acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2015. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 136 Notes to the 4 Acquisitions continued consolidated The valuation techniques used for measuring the fair value of material assets acquired and liabilities assumed were as follows: financial statements • Property, plant and equipment: The fair value adjustments with respect to property, plant and equipment have been determined primarily through the combination of an income approach, which requires the estimation of the “income generating” capacity of the relevant assets and the return or continued yield that a market participant would apply to such assets; a cost approach, which requires the calculation of the depreciated replacement cost of the relevant assets; and a market approach, which requires the comparison of the subject assets to transactions involving comparable assets. • Other intangible assets: The fair values of brand names and contractual relationships have been determined primarily through an income approach, which requires an estimate or forecast of future expected cash flows through either a relief from royalty or multi-period excess earnings approach. • Other intangible assets – lease-related intangibles: The fair values of lease-related intangibles have been assessed through a market approach, which requires a comparison of contract and market prices. • Deferred tax assets and liabilities: Deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of the merger date represented the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and their tax bases. Deferred tax liabilities have been recognized in full except where the reversal of the temporary differences is within the control of the Company and these differences are not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets have been recognized based on recoverability of the temporary differences and considering the tax planning strategies expected to be adopted by the Company. • Inventory: The fair value of inventory is primarily the carrying value at the merger date on the basis that the carrying value of inventory at cost for a retailer represents the fair value that would be paid by a market participant in the retail sector. • Assets held for sale – remedy stores: In order to get approval from competition authorities in the U.S. and Belgium, the Company has agreed to sell certain stores as part of the merger (“remedy stores”). The remedy stores have been presented as assets held for sale on the opening balance sheet and the purchase price allocated to these stores is based on the expected sales consideration, less any incremental costs directly attributable to the sale in accordance with IFRS 5. • Loans: The fair value of debt was estimated primarily on the basis of “market-quoted rates” for the listed debt. • Provisions – contingent liabilities: The provisions assumed as part of the net assets of the business combination include the fair value of contingent liabilities related to certain legal disputes as well as lease guarantees provided to lessors on certain stores which have been assigned or sold. • The fair value of the contingent liability associated with the legal disputes is based on an assessment of the expected cash outflow and the probability of such an outflow. The timing associated with any settlement of these disputes is uncertain and therefore the expected cash outflow considering its probability has not been discounted. • The fair value of the contingent liability associated with lease guarantees provided on sold or assigned stores is based on an evaluation of the counterparty’s credit risk (i.e., the risk of the party on behalf of whom the guarantee is provided) and the re-let potential of the property linked to its location. • Other receivables and liabilities: Other receivables and liabilities such as trade payables and receivables, other current and non-current assets and liabilities, provisions (other than contingent liabilities) and accruals are valued at the carrying values in Delhaize’s books on the basis that the carrying value represented the fair value as of the merger date. The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in Delhaize’s books included a provision relating to uncertain trade receivables where collectibility was not assured and these provisions have been included in the fair value assessment as of the merger date. No incremental fair value adjustments have been made to the carrying value of trade receivables recorded in Delhaize’s books. If new information is obtained within one year of the date of acquisition about any additional provisions or facts and circumstances that would lead to adjustments to the above amounts that existed at the date of acquisition, the accounting for the acquisition will be revised. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 137 Notes to the 5 Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations Assets and liabilities held for sale consolidated January 1, January 3, financial statements € million 2017 2016 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 50 3 continued Total assets held for sale 50 3 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 9 — Assets held for sale and related liabilities at January 1, 2017, consist primarily of non-current assets and associated liabilities of stores (Ahold USA: €27 million with associated liabilities of €9 million, the Netherlands: €19 million). The balances at January 1, 2017, included property, plant and equipment, goodwill and associated liabilities of the remaining remedy stores to be divested (Ahold USA: €27 million, the Netherlands: €4 million). As part of the approval of the merger between Ahold and Delhaize Group by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, Ahold and Delhaize subsidiaries entered into agreements to sell 86 stores in the United States. The approval of the Belgian Competition Authority was conditional upon the divestment of 13 stores and a limited number of projects in Belgium. Of the 86 stores in the United States, Ahold USA divested eight out of 15 stores and Delhaize America divested all of the 71 stores. The divestment of remedy stores resulted in an €18 million gain at Ahold USA. As part of the purchase price allocation, the property, plant and equipment and associated liabilities of Delhaize America’s remedy stores were recognized at fair value. Therefore, the divestments resulted in an insignificant loss at Delhaize America. None of the 13 stores in Belgium (eight Albert Heijn stores and five Delhaize franchisee stores) have been divested yet. The Netherlands incurred an impairment charge of €6 million for the remedy stores held for sale. In addition, Ahold Delhaize completed the sale of pet specialist shop chain Tom & Co with an insignificant divestment loss. The remedy stores and Tom & Co do not represent discontinued operations. Discontinued operations Income (loss) from discontinued operations is specified as follows: € million 2016 2015 BI-LO / Bruno’s — 1 Other1 — 1 Results on divestments2 — 2 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes — 2 1 Includes adjustments to the results on various other discontinued operations and past divestments. 2 Results on divestments are after net income tax expense of nil and €1 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. See Note 28 for the reconciliation between results on divestments of discontinued operations and cash received. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 138 Notes to the 6 Segment reporting Reportable segments consolidated Ahold Delhaize’s retail operations are presented in five reportable segments. In addition, Other retail, consisting of Ahold Delhaize’s financial statements unconsolidated joint ventures JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A. (“JMR”) and P.T. Lion Super Indo, LLC (“Super Indo”), and Ahold Delhaize’s Global Support Office (previously called “Corporate Center”) are presented separately. The accounting policies used for the segments continued are the same as the accounting policies used for the consolidated financial statements as described in Note 3. All reportable segments sell a wide range of perishable and non-perishable food and non-food consumer products. Reportable segment Operating segments included in the Reportable segment Ahold USA Stop & Shop New England, Stop & Shop New York Metro, Giant Landover, Giant Carlisle and Peapod Delhaize America Food Lion and Hannaford The Netherlands Albert Heijn (including the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany), Etos, Gall & Gall and bol.com (including the Netherlands and Belgium) Belgium Delhaize (including Belgium and Luxembourg) Central and Southeastern Europe Albert (Czech Republic), Alfa Beta (Greece), Mega Image (Romania) and Delhaize Serbia (Republic of Serbia) Other Included in Other Other retail Unconsolidated joint ventures JMR (49%) and Super Indo (51%) Global Support Office Global Support Office staff (the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland and the United States) Following the merger with Delhaize, the number of reportable segments increased due to the addition of reportable segments that consist of the Delhaize businesses merged into the Company: Delhaize America and Belgium. The Albert (Czech Republic) operating segment on which we previously reported separately is now aggregated into the Central and Southeastern Europe reportable segment together with operating segments in Greece, Romania and Serbia. Net sales € million 2016 2015 Ahold USA 23,845 23,732 Delhaize America 7,065 — The Netherlands 13,101 12,699 Belgium 2,199 — Central and Southeastern Europe 3,485 1,772 Ahold Delhaize Group 49,695 38,203 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 139 Notes to the 6 Segment reporting continued Operating income consolidated € million 2016 2015 financial statements Ahold USA Delhaize America 818 218 878 — continued The Netherlands 578 557 Belgium 51 — Central and Southeastern Europe 125 11 Global Support Office (206) (128) Ahold Delhaize Group 1,584 1,318 Additions to property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets (including assets acquired through business combinations) € million 2016 2015 Ahold USA 1,925 770 Delhaize America 8,440 — The Netherlands 1,351 342 Belgium 3,086 — Central and Southeastern Europe 1,845 57 Global Support Office 128 3 Ahold Delhaize Group 16,775 1,172 Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets1 € million 2016 2015 Ahold USA 679 665 Delhaize America 222 — The Netherlands 288 272 Belgium 64 — Central and Southeastern Europe 95 53 Global Support Office 12 3 Ahold Delhaize Group 1,360 993 1. The 2015 figures have been restated for the amortization of favorable lease-related intangible assets that are now reported as part of the rent expense and income – net account as explained in Note 3. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 140 Notes to the 6 Segment reporting continued Net impairments of property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets consolidated € million 2016 2015 financial statements Ahold USA Delhaize America 78 2 20 — continued The Netherlands 21 19 Central and Southeastern Europe 3 — Ahold Delhaize Group1 104 39 1 The impairment amount for 2016 includes €8 million of impairments relating to assets held for sale. Non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, investment property, and intangible assets) January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Ahold USA 7,492 6,129 Delhaize America 8,593 — The Netherlands 3,476 2,460 Belgium 3,021 — Central and Southeastern Europe 2,354 615 Global Support Office 108 21 Ahold Delhaize Group 25,044 9,225 Additional segment information Segment results do not include significant non-cash items other than depreciation, amortization and impairment losses and reversals. Segment information joint ventures – Other retail (JMR and Super Indo) The information with respect to JMR and Super Indo is presented in Note 14. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 141 Notes to the 7 Net sales consolidated € million 2016 2015 Sales to retail customers 43,545 33,693 financial statements Sales and fees to franchisees and affiliates Online sales 3,931 1,991 2,751 1,646 continued Wholesale sales 91 — Other sales 137 113 Net sales 49,695 38,203 Net sales can be further analyzed as follows: Percentage of net sales 2016 2015 Food: perishable 46% 46% Food: non-perishable 36% 34% Non-food 12% 12% Pharmacy 4% 5% Gasoline 2% 3% Net sales 100% 100% 8 Expenses by nature The aggregate of cost of sales and operating expenses is specified by nature as follows: € million 2016 20151 Cost of product 34,846 26,597 Labor costs 7,196 5,704 Other operational expenses 3,852 2,938 Depreciation and amortization 1,360 993 Rent expenses and income – net 775 632 Impairment losses and reversals – net 104 39 (Gains) losses on the sale of assets – net (22) (18) Total expenses by nature 48,111 36,885 Comparative balances have been restated to conform to the current year’s presentation. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 142 Notes to the 9 Net financial expenses consolidated € million 2016 2015 Interest income 15 5 financial statements Interest expense Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans (273) (18) (235) (14) continued Gains (losses) on foreign exchange 67 (14) Fair value gains (losses) on financial instruments (86) (2) Other (246) (5) Other financial expenses (265) (21) Net financial expenses (541) (265) Interest income primarily relates to interest earned on cash and cash equivalents and short-term cash deposits and similar instruments. Interest expense primarily relates to financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (which include notes, finance lease liabilities, financing obligations and cumulative preferred financing shares), interest accretions to provisions, and amortization of the fair value allocation of the debt brought in through acquisitions (refer to Note 4). Net interest expense on defined benefit pension plans is caused by the Company’s pensions plans being in a liability position over 2016 and 2015. Gains (losses) on foreign exchange on financial assets and liabilities are presented as part of net financial expenses. The gains on foreign exchange in 2016 mainly resulted from the remaining GBP 250 million of the original GBP 500 million notes. The gains (losses) on foreign exchange are offset by fair value losses on financial instruments from derivatives, primarily related to the remaining GBP 250 million notes (an interest rate and a U.S. dollar cross-currency swap), which do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. Foreign exchange results arising from the purchase of goods for sale or goods and services consumed in Ahold Delhaize’s operations are included in cost of sales or in the appropriate element of operating expenses, respectively. In 2016, the Company recorded a net exchange gain (including the impact of foreign exchange hedging instruments) of €1 million in operating income (2015: loss of €1 million). In 2016, the line item Other consists mainly of the one-off finance cost of €243 million relating to the buying back the JPY 33,000 million notes, see Note 21. For more information on financial instruments, see Note 30. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 143 Notes to the 10 Income taxes Income taxes on continuing operations consolidated The following table specifies the current and deferred tax components of income taxes on continuing operations in the income statement: financial statements € million Current income taxes 2016 2015 continued Domestic taxes (the Netherlands) (45) (125) Foreign taxes United States (163) (165) Europe – Other (35) (1) Total current tax expense (243) (291) Deferred income taxes Domestic taxes (the Netherlands) 17 24 Foreign taxes United States (20) 50 Europe – Other (1) (7) Total deferred tax expense (4) 67 Total income taxes on continuing operations (247) (224) Effective income tax rate on continuing operations Ahold Delhaize’s effective tax rate in its consolidated income statement differed from the Netherlands’ statutory income tax rate of 25.0%. The following table reconciles the statutory income tax rate with the effective income tax rate in the consolidated income statement: 2016 2015 € million Tax rate € million Tax rate Income before income taxes 1,043 1,053 Income tax expense at statutory tax rate (261) 25.0% (263) 25.0% Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: Rate differential (local rates versus the statutory rate of the Netherlands) (6) 0.6% (26) 2.5% Deferred tax income (expense) related to recognition of deferred tax assets – net 7 (0.7)% 29 (2.8)% Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items 13 (1.2)% 36 (3.4)% Total income taxes (247) 23.7% (224) 21.3% Rate differential indicates the effect of Ahold Delhaize’s taxable income being generated and taxed in jurisdictions where tax rates differ from the statutory tax rate in the Netherlands. Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items include one-time transactions. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 144 Notes to the 10 Income taxes continued Income taxes on discontinued operations consolidated Current and deferred income tax related to discontinued operations amounted to a nil expense in 2016 and a €1 million expense in 2015 and has financial statements been included within the result from discontinued operations. The 2016 and 2015 current and deferred tax movements on discontinued operations are mainly related to the U.S. For further information, see Notes 5 and 34. continued Deferred income tax The significant components and annual movements of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of January 1, 2017, and January 3, 2016, are as follows: Recognized in Recognized in Acquisitions December 28, income January 3, income through business January 1, € million 2014 statement Other 2016 statement combinations Other 2017 Leases and financings 261 (7) 33 287 (13) 148 17 439 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 218 (5) 53 266 3 126 53 448 Provisions 118 (9) 42 151 (6) 70 4 219 Derivatives 34 — (3) 31 10 — (41) — Interest 18 (6) 2 14 (38) 171 7 154 Other 33 — (4) 29 (6) 32 (1) 54 Total gross deductible temporary differences 682 (27) 123 778 (50) 547 39 1,314 Unrecognized deductible temporary differences (4) — — (4) — (1) — (5) Total recognized deductible temporary differences 678 (27) 123 774 (50) 546 39 1,309 Tax losses and tax credits 272 (19) 30 283 (21) 465 8 735 Unrecognized tax losses and tax credits (115) 17 (13) (111) 15 (275) (2) (373) Total recognized tax losses and tax credits 157 (2) 17 172 (6) 190 6 362 Total net deferred tax asset position 835 (29) 140 946 (56) 736 45 1,671 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (359) 92 (17) (284) 53 (1,960) (64) (2,255) Inventories (125) (2) (17) (144) 4 (107) (10) (257) Derivatives — — — — — (40) 1 (39) Other (7) 6 1 — (5) (12) 1 (16) Total deferred tax liabilities (491) 96 (33) (428) 52 (2,119) (72) (2,567) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) 344 67 107 518 (4) (1,383) (27) (896) The column “Other” in the table above includes amounts recorded in equity, divestments and exchange rate differences, as well as reclassifications between deferred tax components and the application of tax losses and tax credits against current year income tax payables. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 145 Notes to the 10 Income taxes continued consolidated Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset on the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same fiscal authority. The deferred tax financial statements assets and liabilities are presented as non-current assets and liabilities on the balance sheet as follows: January 1, January 3, continued € million 2017 2016 Deferred tax assets 700 628 Deferred tax liabilities (1,596) (110) Net deferred tax assets (896) 518 As of January 1, 2017, Ahold Delhaize had operating and capital loss carryforwards of a total nominal amount of €4,245 million, mainly expiring between 2019 and 2034 (January 3, 2016: €2,110 million). The following table specifies the years in which Ahold Delhaize’s operating and capital loss carryforwards and tax credits are scheduled to expire: Does not € million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022-2026 2027-2031 After 2031 expire Total Operating and capital losses (nominal value) 78 97 501 58 154 577 1,022 437 1,321 4,245 Operating and capital losses (tax value) 10 15 106 18 23 30 52 18 420 692 Tax credits 6 7 7 4 6 5 — — 8 43 Tax losses and tax credits 16 22 113 22 29 35 52 18 428 735 Unrecognized tax losses and tax credits (5) (6) (88) (1) (6) (12) (9) (9) (237) (373) Total recognized tax losses and tax credits 11 16 25 21 23 23 43 9 191 362 Operating and capital loss carryforwards related to one jurisdiction may not be used to offset income taxes in other jurisdictions. Of the loss carryforwards, €2,506 million relates to U.S. state taxes, for which a weighted average tax rate of 5.14% applies. The majority of the abovementioned deferred tax assets relate to tax jurisdictions in which Ahold Delhaize has suffered a tax loss in the current or a preceding period. Significant judgment is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are realizable. Ahold Delhaize determines this on the basis of expected taxable profits arising from the reversal of recognized deferred tax liabilities and on the basis of budgets, cash flow forecasts and impairment models. Where utilization is not considered probable, deferred tax assets are not recognized. No deferred income taxes are recognized on undistributed earnings of Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiaries and joint ventures, as the undistributed earnings will not be distributed in the foreseeable future. The cumulative amount of undistributed earnings on which the Group has not recognized deferred income taxes was approximately €4,713 million at January 1, 2017. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 146 Notes to the 10 Income taxes continued Income taxes in equity and comprehensive income consolidated Current and deferred income taxes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive income are as follows: financial statements € million Share-based compensation 2016 7 2015 19 continued Cash flow hedges (41) (3) Currency translation differences in foreign interests — (1) Non-realized gains (losses) on financial investments available-for-sale 1 — Remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans 47 11 Total 14 26 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 147 Notes to the 11 Property, plant and equipment Buildings Under consolidated € million As of December 28, 2014 and land1 Other1 construction Total financial statements At cost 8,513 4,653 92 13,258 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (3,894) (3,214) — (7,108) continued Carrying amount 4,619 1,439 92 6,150 Year ended January 3, 2016 Additions 114 206 428 748 Transfers from under construction 182 227 (409) — Acquisitions through business combinations 116 19 — 135 Depreciation (455) (402) — (857) Impairment losses (15) (13) — (28) Impairment reversals 1 1 — 2 Assets classified to held for sale or sold (12) (4) (1) (17) Other movements 22 (29) — (7) Exchange rate differences 426 120 5 551 Closing carrying amount 4,998 1,564 115 6,677 As of January 3, 2016 At cost 9,609 5,368 115 15,092 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (4,611) (3,804) — (8,415) Carrying amount 4,998 1,564 115 6,677 Year ended January 1, 2017 Additions 183 431 568 1,182 Transfers from under construction 253 218 (471) — Acquisitions through business combinations2 3,425 1,332 187 4,944 Depreciation (593) (564) — (1,157) Impairment losses (55) (21) (1) (77) Impairment reversals 5 1 — 6 Assets classified to held for sale or sold (44) (26) (3) (73) Other movements (8) 5 (1) (4) Exchange rate differences 194 74 4 272 Closing carrying amount 8,358 3,014 398 11,770 As of January 1, 2017 At cost 13,640 7,231 399 21,270 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (5,282) (4,217) (1) (9,500) Carrying amount 8,358 3,014 398 11,770 1 Balances and the movements for the previous year were re-grouped to align with the current year classification. 2 Included €4,930 million for the fair value of the property, plant and equipment recognized in connection with Ahold and Delhaize merger (see Note 4). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 148 Notes to the 11 Property, plant and equipment continued consolidated Buildings and land includes stores, distribution centers, warehouses and improvements to these assets. “Other” property, plant and equipment mainly consists of furnishings, machinery and equipment, trucks, trailers and other vehicles. Assets under construction mainly consists of stores. financial statements The higher of the value in use or fair value less cost of disposal represents an asset’s recoverable amount. The value in use method involves estimating future cash flows. The present value of estimated future cash flows has been calculated using pre-tax discount rates ranging between continued 5.8% and 17.3% (2015: 6.3% – 12.7%). Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and is generally measured by using an income approach or a market approach. The income approach is generally applied by using discounted cash flow projections based on the assets’ highest and best use from a market participants’ perspective. The market approach requires the comparison of the subject assets to transactions involving comparable assets by using inputs such as bid or ask prices or market multiples. In 2016, Ahold Delhaize recognized net impairment losses of €71 million for property, plant and equipment (2015: €26 million). These were mainly related to Ahold USA (2016: €60 million, 2015: €17 million) and the Netherlands (2016: €6 million, 2015: €9 million) and were recognized for various operating and closed stores. In 2016, the fair value less cost of disposal was the recoverable amount in the determination of €40 million of the net impairment losses mainly relating to remedy and other divestment stores (2015: €2 million of the net impairment losses). As part of approval of the merger between Ahold and Delhaize Group by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, Ahold USA entered into agreements to sell 15 stores (‘’remedy stores,” see Note 5). In addition to remedy stores, Ahold USA intends to divest another 10 stores in the Richmond area (‘’other divestment stores’’). Ahold USA incurred net impairment charges of €17 million in total for the property, plant and equipment of the remedy stores before they were classified as held for sale and a €3 million impairment for the stores’ associated fixed assets to be abandoned. Impairments for the property, plant and equipment of the other divestment stores of Ahold USA amounted to €20 million. The impairments related to remedy and other divestment stores were mainly based on the bid prices received. The additions to property, plant and equipment include capitalized borrowing costs of €1 million (2015: €1 million). Generally, the capitalization rate used to determine the amount of capitalized borrowing costs is a weighted average of the interest rate applicable to the respective operating companies. This rate ranged between 1.8% and 10.6% (2015: 2.3% – 3.8%). Other movements mainly include transfers between asset classes and transfers to investment property. The carrying amount of land and buildings includes amounts related to assets held under finance leases and financings of €1,323 million and €210 million, respectively (January 3, 2016: €987 million and €218 million). In addition, the carrying amount of other property, plant and equipment includes an amount of €37 million (January 3, 2016: €6 million) relating to assets held under finance leases. Ahold Delhaize does not have legal title to these assets. Company-owned property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of €51 million (January 3, 2016: €48 million) has been pledged as security for liabilities, mainly for loans. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 149 Notes to the 12 Investment property consolidated € million 2016 2015 At the beginning of the year financial statements At cost Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 934 (354) 893 (333) continued Carrying amount 580 560 Additions 10 15 Acquisitions through business combinations1 171 — Depreciation (28) (25) Impairment losses and reversals – net (10) (3) Assets classified to held for sale or sold (15) (20) Transfers from property, plant and equipment and lease-related intangibles 1 4 Exchange rate differences 18 49 Closing carrying amount 727 580 At the end of the year At cost 1,119 934 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (392) (354) Carrying amount 727 580 1 Included €171 million for the fair value of the investment property recognized in connection with the merger between Ahold and Delhaize (see Note 4). A significant portion of the Company’s investment property comprises shopping centers containing both an Ahold Delhaize store and third-party retail units. The third-party retail units generate rental income, but are primarily of strategic importance to Ahold Delhaize in its retail operations. Ahold Delhaize recognizes the part of a shopping center leased to a third-party retailer as investment property, unless it represents an insignificant portion of the property. In 2016, Ahold Delhaize recognized net impairment losses of €10 million. These were related to Ahold USA (€10 million). The carrying amount of investment property includes an amount related to assets held under finance leases and financings of €35 million and €42 million (January 3, 2016: €25 million and €43 million), respectively. Ahold Delhaize does not have legal title to these assets. Company-owned investment property with a carrying amount of €93 million (January 3, 2016: €79 million) has been pledged as security for liabilities, mainly for loans. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 150 Notes to the 12 Investment property continued consolidated The fair value of investment property as of January 1, 2017, amounted to approximately €937 million (January 3, 2016: €772 million). Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and has generally been financial statements measured by using an income or market approach. Approximately 70% of Ahold Delhaize’s fair value measurements are categorized within Level 2. The most significant inputs into this valuation approach are observable market retail yields and tenant rents to calculate the fair value. continued The remaining fair value measurements which are categorized within Level 3 primarily include the fair value measurements based on the Company’s own valuation methods and the fair value for certain mixed-use properties and properties held for strategic purposes. For certain mixed-use properties and properties held for strategic purposes, Ahold Delhaize cannot determine the fair value of the investment property reliably. In such cases, the fair value is assumed to be equal to the carrying amount. Rental income from investment property included in the income statement in 2016 amounted to €76 million (2015: €70 million). Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance but excluding depreciation expense) arising from rental-income-generating and non-rentgenerating investment property in 2016 amounted to €35 million (2015: €34 million). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 151 Notes to the 13 Intangible assets Lease-related Customer Under consolidated € million As of December 28, 2014 Goodwill intangibles Software relationships Brand names Other development Total financial statements At cost 1,039 268 828 127 86 306 61 2,715 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (8) (186) (596) (60) — (102) — (952) continued Carrying amount 1,031 82 232 67 86 204 61 1,763 Year ended January 3, 2016 Additions — — 37 2 — 14 62 115 Transfers from under development — — 79 — — 7 (86) — Acquisitions through business combinations 174 43 — 6 — (64) — 159 Amortization — — (91) (6) — (14) — (111) Release of favorable leases — (11) — — — — — (11) Impairments and write-downs — (1) — — — (12) — (13) Impairment reversals — — — — — 3 — 3 Assets classified to held for sale or sold (6) — — — — — — (6) Other movements (3) 2 1 — — 3 — 3 Exchange rate differences 40 9 6 — — 9 2 66 Closing carrying amount 1,236 124 264 69 86 150 39 1,968 As of January 3, 2016 At cost 1,241 340 921 141 86 273 39 3,041 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (5) (216) (657) (72) — (123) — (1,073) Carrying amount 1,236 124 264 69 86 150 39 1,968 Year ended January 1, 2017 Additions — — 81 1 — 14 96 192 Transfers from under development — — 102 — — — (102) — Acquisitions through business combinations 5,957 157 208 78 3,196 658 22 10,276 Amortization — — (137) (10) (1) (24) (3) (175) Release of favorable leases — (21) — — — — — (21) Impairments (5) (2) (6) — — (2) — (15) Assets classified to held for sale or sold (9) (1) — — — — — (10) Other movements 3 — — — — (3) — — Exchange rate differences 213 9 6 3 97 2 2 332 Closing carrying amount 7,395 266 518 141 3,378 795 54 12,547 As of January 1, 2017 At cost 7,405 505 1,317 223 3,379 942 54 13,825 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (10) (239) (799) (82) (1) (147) — (1,278) Carrying amount 7,395 266 518 141 3,378 795 54 12,547 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 152 Notes to the 13 Intangible assets continued In connection with the merger of Ahold and Delhaize Group, Ahold Delhaize recognized €5,926 million of goodwill (see Note 4 for more details). consolidated Goodwill recognized on acquisitions in 2015 relates mainly to the acquisition of A&P stores in the United States (allocated to Stop & Shop New York financial statements Metro) and C1000 stores in the Netherlands (allocated to Albert Heijn). Goodwill acquired in business combinations is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs expected to benefit continued from that business combination. The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to CGUs within Ahold Delhaize’s reportable segments are as follows: Goodwill arising from January 1, January 3, € million 2016 business acquisitions 2017 2016 Reportable segment Cash-generating unit Ahold USA Stop & Shop New England 440 478 16 Stop & Shop New York Metro 363 507 124 Giant Carlisle 293 569 264 Giant Landover 332 357 9 Peapod — 25 24 Delhaize America Food Lion 1,035 1,082 — Hannaford 1,828 1,914 — The Netherlands Albert Heijn (including the Netherlands, Belgium 954 1,409 456 and Germany) bol.com (including the Netherlands and Belgium) — 201 201 Etos — 8 8 Gall & Gall — 1 1 Belgium Delhaize (including Belgium and Luxembourg) 404 404 — Central and Southeastern Europe Albert (Czech Republic) 37 171 133 Alfa Beta (Greece) 133 133 — Mega Image (Romania) 127 125 — Delhaize Serbia (Republic of Serbia) 11 11 — Ahold Delhaize Group 5,957 7,395 1,236 CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications that a particular CGU might be impaired. During the purchase price allocation, the fair value of Delhaize’s CGUs was determined based on their respective business enterprise values by discounting the projected cash flows of these CGUs. There were no significant changes to those projected cash flows after the merger date. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 153 Notes to the 13 Intangible assets continued consolidated The recoverable amount of each CGU is determined based on value in use calculations. Value in use is determined using discounted cash flow projections that generally cover a period of three years and are based on the financial plans approved by the Company’s management. Due to financial statements the expected continuation of high growth in the relevant online retail markets, we project cash flow for bol.com and Peapod over 10-year periods to better reflect the growth expectations in sales, profitability and cash generation after the first three-year projection period. The key assumptions continued for the value-in-use calculations relate to discount rate, sales growth and operating margin. The post-tax rates used to discount the projected cash flows reflect specific risks relating to relevant CGUs and are 6.1% for Ahold USA, 5.1% for The Netherlands, 9.5% for bol.com and 6.4% for the Czech Republic. The pre-tax discount rates are 10.2% for Ahold USA, 8.7% for Peapod, 6.8% for The Netherlands, 11.5% for bol.com and 7.9% for the Czech Republic. The value in use for the CGUs would be the same as that which would be derived from discounting pre-tax cash flows at these pre-tax discount rates. The sales growth rates and operating margins used to estimate future performance are based on past performance and our experience of growth rates and operating margins achievable in Ahold Delhaize’s main markets. The average annual compound sales growth rates applied in the projected periods ranged between 14.3% and 14.5% for the CGUs of our online business and between 1.6% and 3.1% for the other CGUs. The average operating margins applied in the projected periods ranged between 0.2% and 1.8% for the CGUs of our online business and between 2.6% and 5.2% for the other CGUs. Growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the explicit forecast period are set such that the return on invested capital never exceeds the weighted average cost of capital of the CGUs. Lease-related intangible assets consist primarily of favorable operating lease contracts acquired in business acquisitions. Customer relationships consist primarily of pharmacy scripts and customer lists recognized through the acquisition of bol.com in 2012. Brand names refer to the banner names as well as certain private label brands. Ahold Delhaize brands play an important role in the Company’s business strategy. Ahold Delhaize believes that there is currently no foreseeable limit to the period over which the brands (excluding private label brands) are expected to generate net cash inflows and therefore they are assessed to have an indefinite useful life. The assets are tested for impairment in accordance with the policies as stated in Note 3. “Other” mainly includes intangible assets related to relationships with franchisees and affiliates recognized in connection with Ahold Delhaize merger, location development rights, deed restrictions and similar assets. Included in “Other” is an intangible asset allocated to Stop & Shop New England with an indefinite useful life and a carrying value of €33 million (2015: €32 million). The useful life of this asset is assessed to be indefinite since it relates to the land portion of an owned location. Intangible assets under development relate mainly to software development. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 154 Notes to the 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates consolidated In 1992, Ahold Delhaize partnered with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. in the joint venture JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A. (“JMR”). Ahold Delhaize holds 49% of the shares in JMR and shares equal voting power on JMR’s board of directors with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. financial statements JMR operates food retail stores in Portugal under the brand name Pingo Doce. Ahold Delhaize holds 51% of the shares in P.T. Lion Super Indo, LLC (“Super Indo”). Super Indo operates supermarkets in Indonesia. JMR and Super Indo are joint ventures and are accounted for using the equity continued method. There are no quoted market prices available. Ahold Delhaize is also a partner in various smaller joint arrangements and associates that are individually not material to the Group. Changes in the carrying amount of Ahold Delhaize’s interest in joint ventures and associates are as follows: JMR Super Indo Other Total JMR Other Total € million 2016 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 Beginning of the year 181 — 31 212 173 33 206 Brought through acquisition — 51 — 51 — — — Share in income (loss) of joint ventures 22 4 8 34 24 (4) 20 Dividend (17) — (2) (19) (17) (4) (21) Share of other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 1 — 1 Other changes in equity of joint ventures (5) — — (5) — 3 3 Exchange rate differences — 1 — 1 — 3 3 End of the year 181 56 37 274 181 31 212 Share in income (loss) from continuing operations for Ahold Delhaize’s interests in all individually immaterial joint ventures was an income of €8 million (2015: €4 million loss) and nil for individually immaterial associates (2015: nil). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 155 Notes to the 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued consolidated Set out below is the summarized financial information for JMR and Super Indo (on a 100% basis). JMR JMR Super Indo financial statements January 1, January 3, January 1, € million 2017 2016 2017 Summarized balance sheet continued Current Cash and cash equivalents 56 51 59 Other current assets 360 336 45 Total current assets 416 387 104 Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) (210) (20) — Other current liabilities (979) (976) (67) Total current liabilities (1,189) (996) (67) Non-current Assets 1,178 1,151 57 Financial liabilities — (150) — Other liabilities (31) (29) (5) Total non-current liabilities (31) (179) (5) Net assets 374 363 89 Net assets attributable to the joint venture 368 369 89 Net assets attributable to non-controlling interest 6 (6) — JMR JMR Super Indo € million 2016 2015 2016 Summarized statement of comprehensive income Net sales 3,924 3,743 165 Depreciation and amortization (98) (99) (4) Interest expense (2) (9) — Income tax expense (21) (19) (2) Income from continuing operations 46 47 8 Net income 46 47 8 Net income attributable to the joint venture 44 48 8 Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interest 2 (1) — Other comprehensive income — 1 — Total comprehensive income attributable to the joint venture 44 49 8 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 156 Notes to the 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued consolidated The information presented below represents a reconciliation of the summarized financial information presented above to the carrying amount of JMR and Super Indo. financial statements € million JMR 2016 JMR 2015 Super Indo 2016 continued Opening net assets attributable to the joint venture 369 354 — Net assets acquired through business combinations — — 79 Net income 44 48 8 Other comprehensive income — 1 — Dividend (35) (34) — Transactions with non-controlling interest (10) — — Exchange differences — — 2 Closing net assets attributable to the joint venture 368 369 89 Interest in joint venture 49% 49% 51% Goodwill — — 11 Carrying value 181 181 56 Transactions with non-controlling interest relate to JMR’s acquisition of certain non-controlling interest in its Madeira retail operations. Commitments and contingent liabilities in respect of joint ventures and associates There are no contingent liabilities or significant restrictions relating to the Company’s interest in the joint ventures and associates. The commitments are presented in Note 34. 15 Other non-current financial assets January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Derivative financial instruments — 338 Reinsurance assets 145 135 Loans receivable 53 31 Other 18 12 Total other non-current financial assets 216 516 For more information on derivative financial instruments and fair values, see Note 30. Of the non-current loans receivable, €25 million matures between one and five years and €28 million after five years (January 3, 2016: €14 million between one and five years and €17 million after five years). The current portion of loans receivable of €12 million is included in Other receivables (January 3, 2016: €10 million) (see Note 17). Part of the self-insured risk is ceded under a reinsurance treaty, which is a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies. At the same time, Ahold Delhaize assumes a share of the reinsurance treaty risks that is measured by Ahold Delhaize’s participation percentage in the treaty. The participation percentage is the ratio of premium paid by Ahold Delhaize to the total premium paid by all treaty members. In connection with this pooling arrangement, the Company recognizes reinsurance assets and reinsurance liabilities (see also Notes 18, 22 and 26) on its balance sheet. There were no significant gains or losses related to this pooling arrangement during 2016 or 2015. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 157 Notes to the 16 Inventories consolidated January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Finished products and merchandise inventories 3,233 1,636 financial statements Raw materials, packaging materials, technical supplies and other 55 40 continued Total inventories 3,288 1,676 In 2016, €1,071 million has been recognized as a write-off of inventories in the income statement (2015: €793 million). The write-off of inventories is Ahold Delhaize’s best estimate based on significant assumptions applied to certain products measured using the retail method. 17 Receivables January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Trade receivables 952 416 Vendor allowance receivables 442 260 Other receivables 270 181 1,664 857 Provision for impairment (76) (20) Total receivables 1,588 837 The receivable balances are presented net of accounts payable subject to an enforceable netting arrangement between the Company and the counterparty. The total effect of netting as of January 1, 2017, is €230 million (January 3, 2016: €142 million). At January 1, 2017, the aging analysis of receivables was as follows: Past due Not past 0–3 3–6 6–12 > 12 € million Total due months months months months Trade receivables 952 736 121 25 29 41 Vendor allowance receivables 442 321 88 19 12 2 Other receivables 270 174 52 23 7 14 1,664 1,231 261 67 48 57 Provision for impairment (76) (11) (12) (5) (11) (37) Total receivables 1,588 1,220 249 62 37 20 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 158 Notes to the 17 Receivables continued consolidated At January 3, 2016, the aging analysis of receivables was as follows: Past due financial statements € million Total Not past due 0–3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months > 12 months continued Trade receivables 416 329 57 7 3 20 Vendor allowance receivables 260 214 40 4 1 1 Other receivables 181 107 43 22 5 4 857 650 140 33 9 25 Provision for impairment (20) — (2) (2) (2) (14) Total receivables 837 650 138 31 7 11 Receivables that were past due but not impaired relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. The concentration of credit risk with respect to receivables is limited, as the Company’s customer base and vendor base are large and unrelated. The Company does not hold any significant collateral on its receivables. Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal individual and collective impairment, based on the aging analysis performed as of January 1, 2017. For more information about credit risk, see Note 30. The changes in the provision for impairment were as follows: € million 2016 2015 Beginning of the year (20) (20) Acquisitions through business combinations (53) — Released (charged) to income (14) (11) Used 11 11 End of the year (76) (20) Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 159 Notes to the 18 Other current financial assets consolidated January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Derivative financial instruments – current portion 299 — financial statements Available-for-sale financial assets – current portion 175 — continued Short-term deposits and similar instruments 110 528 Reinsurance assets – current portion (see Note 15) 75 68 Other 18 — Total other current financial assets 677 596 The derivative financial instruments – current portion includes the interest and the cross-currency swaps related to GBP 250 notes (due March 2017) classified as current as per year-end (see Note 30). The Available-for-sale financial assets relate primarily to investments in U.S. Treasury bond funds which are held by one of the Company’s captive insurance companies (see Note 24). As of January 1, 2017, short-term deposits and similar instruments included short-term investments with a maturity at acquisition of between three and 12 months. Of the short-term deposits and similar instruments as of January 1, 2017, €10 million was restricted (January 3, 2016: €10 million). The restricted investments are held for insurance purposes for U.S. workers’ compensation and general liability programs. The line item “Other” includes cash collateral posted on net liability positions of derivative financial instruments. At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. In both 2016 and 2015, none of the financial assets were either past due or impaired. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 160 Notes to the 19 Cash and cash equivalents consolidated January 1, January 3, € million 2017 20161 Cash in banks and cash equivalents 3,718 1,557 financial statements Cash on hand 314 269 continued Total cash and cash equivalents 4,032 1,826 1 Balances for the prior year have been adjusted to align with the current year classification. Of the cash and cash equivalents as of January 1, 2017, €42 million was restricted (January 3, 2016: €7 million) and consisted of collateral in connection with third-party money transfer services provided at our stores (€29 million) as well as cash held in escrow accounts mainly related to pending litigation, obligations related to business disposals and construction activities. Cash and cash equivalents include €1,184 million (January 3, 2016: nil) held under a notional cash pooling arrangement. This cash amount was fully offset by an identical amount included under Other current financial liabilities. From an operational perspective, the balances in the cash pool are netted. However, in accordance with the guidance of IAS 32 regarding the offsetting of debit and credit balances for financial reporting purposes, these balances have to be presented on a gross basis on the balance sheet (see Notes 26 and 30). Ahold Delhaize’s banking arrangements allow the Company to fund outstanding checks when presented to the bank for payment. This cash management practice may result in a net cash book overdraft position, which occurs when the total issued checks exceed available cash balances within the Company’s cash concentration structure. Such book overdrafts are classified in accounts payable and amounted to €217 million and €216 million as of January 1, 2017, and January 3, 2016, respectively. No right to offset with other bank balances exists for these book overdraft positions. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 161 Notes to the 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders Shares and share capital consolidated Authorized share capital comprises the following classes of shares: financial statements € million January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 continued Common shares (2016: 1,921,000,000 of €0.01 par value each, and 2015: 1,171,000,000 of €0.01 par value each) 19 12 Cumulative preferred shares (2016: 2,250,000,000 of €0.01 par value each, and 2015: 30,000 of €500 par value each) 23 15 Total authorized share capital 42 27 In addition, Ahold Delhaize has cumulative preferred financing shares outstanding. These cumulative preferred financing shares are considered debt under IFRS until the date that Ahold Delhaize receives irrevocable notification from a holder of cumulative preferred financing shares to convert these shares into common shares. Upon this notification, the cumulative preferred financing shares are classified as a separate class of equity since they no longer meet the definition of a liability. For disclosures regarding Ahold Delhaize’s cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 22. Common shares and additional paid-in capital Changes in the number of common shares and the number of treasury shares were as follows: Number of common Number of common shares issued and fully Number of treasury shares outstanding paid (x 1,000) shares (x 1,000) (x 1,000) Balance as of December 28, 2014 894,373 71,776 822,597 Share buyback — 8,795 (8,795) Cancellation of treasury shares (60,000) (60,000) — Share-based payments — (4,669) 4,669 Balance as of January 3, 2016 834,373 15,902 818,471 Reverse stock split (49,081) (574) (48,507) Issuance of shares 496,001 — 496,001 Share-based payments — (6,311) 6,311 Balance as of January 1, 2017 1,281,293 9,017 1,272,276 Dividends on common shares On April 19, 2016, the General Meeting of Shareholders approved the dividend over 2015 of €0.52 per common share (€429 million in the aggregate). This dividend was paid on May 4, 2016. The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, proposes that a dividend of €0.57 per common share be paid in 2017 with respect to 2016. This dividend is subject to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been included as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2017. The payment of this dividend will not have income tax consequences for the Company. Share buyback and capital repayment and reverse stock split On February 26, 2015, the Company announced its decision to return €500 million to its shareholders by way of a share buyback program, to be completed over a 12-month period. Under this program, 8,795,407 of the Company’s own shares were repurchased in the first half of 2015. Shares were repurchased at an average price of €18.32 per share for a total amount of €161 million. As a result of the announcement that Ahold intended to merge with Delhaize, the share buyback program was terminated in 2015. Of the total shares repurchased, 60,000,000 were cancelled on July 7, 2015. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 162 Notes to the 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders continued consolidated On March 14, 2016, the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, including a capital repayment and reverse stock split, was approved at an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. The merger between Ahold and Delhaize became effective on July 24, 2016. financial statements On July 18, 2016, every 17 issued common shares were consolidated into 16 common shares, which reduced the total number of common shares outstanding by 48,507,004 shares. The capital repayment of €1.29 per remaining share, €1,001 million in the aggregate (excluding transaction continued costs) was paid on July 21, 2016. As consideration, Delhaize shareholders received 4.75 Ahold common shares for each issued and outstanding Delhaize common share, which increased the number of common shares outstanding by 496,000,577 shares. On January 9, 2017, the Company commenced the €1 billion share buyback program that was announced on December 7, 2016. The program is expected to be completed before the end of 2017. Share-based payments Share-based payments recognized in equity in the amount of €74 million (2015: €66 million) relate to the 2016 GRO share-based compensation expenses (see Note 32) and the associated current and deferred income taxes, as well as an amount attributable to the purchase consideration for replacement awards issued (see Note 4). Cumulative preferred shares The Company’s Articles of Association provide for the possible issuance of cumulative preferred shares. The Company believes that its ability to issue this class of shares could prevent, or at least delay, an attempt by a potential bidder to make a hostile takeover bid. However, according to Dutch law, a response device is limited in time and therefore cannot permanently block a take-over of the company concerned. Instead, it aims to facilitate an orderly process in which the interests of the continuity of the company, its shareholders and other stakeholders are safeguarded in the best way possible. Moreover, outside the scope of a public offer, but also under other circumstances, the ability to issue this class of shares may safeguard the interests of the Company and all stakeholders in the Company and resist influences that might conflict with those interests by affecting the Company’s continuity, independence or identity. No cumulative preferred shares were outstanding as of January 1, 2017, or during 2016 and 2015. In March 1989, the Company entered into an agreement with Stichting Ahold Continuïteit (SAC) as amended and restated in April 1994, March 1997, December 2001, and December 2003 (the Option Agreement). Pursuant to the Option Agreement, SAC was granted an option for no consideration to acquire cumulative preferred shares from the Company, from time to time until December 2018. The Option Agreement entitles SAC, under certain circumstances, to acquire cumulative preferred shares from the Company up to a total par value that is equal to the total par value of all issued and outstanding shares of Ahold Delhaize’s share capital, excluding cumulative preferred shares, at the time of exercising the option. In case the authorized share capital of the Company is amended during the term of the option, the Option Agreement provides for a corresponding change of the total par value of cumulative preferred shares under option. The holders of the cumulative preferred shares are entitled to one vote per share and a cumulative dividend expressed as a percentage of the amount called-up and paid-in to purchase the cumulative preferred shares. The percentage to be applied is the sum of (1) the average basic refinancing transaction interest rate as set by the European Central Bank – measured by the number of days during which that rate was in force in the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid – plus 2.1%, and (2) the average interest surcharge rate – measured by the number of days during which that rate was in force in the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid – that would be charged by the largest credit institution in the Netherlands (based on the balance sheet total as of the close of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year over which the dividend is paid). The minimum percentage to be applied is 5.75%. Subject to limited exceptions, any potential transfer of cumulative preferred shares requires the approval of the Management Board. Cumulative preferred shares can only be issued in a registered form. The Company may stipulate that only 25% of the par value will be paid upon subscription to cumulative preferred shares until payment in full is later required by the Company. SAC would then only be entitled to a marketbased interest return on its investment. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 163 Notes to the 20 Equity attributable to common shareholders continued consolidated SAC is a foundation organized under the laws of the Netherlands. Its purpose under its articles is to safeguard the interests of the Company and all stakeholders in the Company and to resist, to the best of its ability, influences that might conflict with those interests by affecting the Company’s financial statements continuity, independence or identity. SAC seeks to realize its objectives by acquiring and holding cumulative preferred shares and by exercising the rights attached to these shares, including the voting rights. The SAC board has four members, who are appointed by the board of SAC itself. continued If the board of SAC considers acquiring cumulative preferred shares or exercising voting rights on cumulative preferred shares, it will make an independent assessment and, pursuant to Dutch law, it must ensure that its actions are proportional and reasonable. If SAC acquires cumulative preferred shares, it will only hold them for a limited period of time. These principles are in line with Dutch law, which only allows response measures that are proportionate, reasonable and limited in time. In the case of liquidation, the SAC board will decide on the use of any remaining residual assets. Legal reserves In accordance with the Dutch Civil Code and statutory requirements in other countries, legal reserves have to be established in certain circumstances. Legal reserves are not available for distribution to the Company’s shareholders. The currency translation reserve, cash flow hedging reserve and other reserves include non-distributable amounts. Of the total equity as per January 1, 2017, of €16,276 million, an amount of €1,130 million is non-distributable (January 3, 2016: €579 million out of total equity of €5,622 million). See Note 10 to the parent company financial statements for more detail on the legal reserves. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 164 Notes to the 21 Loans and credit facilities consolidated The notes in the table below were issued by Ahold Delhaize or one of its subsidiaries, the latter of which are guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize unless otherwise noted. The amortization of the fair-value allocation to the debt acquired through business combinations is allocated to the respective financial statements maturity brackets (see Note 4). Outstanding Non-current portion Non-current portion continued notional redemption Current portion Total Current portion Total amount within Between After January 1, within Between After January 3, € million, unless otherwise stated January 1, 2017 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years 2017 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years 2016 GBP 500 notes 6.50%, due 20171 GBP 250 292 — — 292 — 334 — 334 USD 450 notes 6.50%, due 20172 USD 172 168 — — 168 — — — — EUR 400 notes 4.25%, due 20182 EUR 400 16 413 — 429 — — — — USD 300 notes 4.125%, due 20192 USD 130 3 127 — 130 — — — — USD 94 indebtedness 7.82%, due 2020 USD 28 10 17 — 27 9 26 — 35 EUR 400 notes 3.125%, due 20202 EUR 400 12 426 — 438 — — — — USD 71 indebtedness 8.62%, due 2025 USD 71 — 21 47 68 — 8 57 65 USD 71 notes 8.05%, due 20272 USD 71 2 8 81 91 — — — — USD 500 notes 6.875%, due 2029 USD 500 — — 475 475 — — 460 460 USD 271 notes 9.00%, due 20312 USD 271 5 23 333 361 — — — — JPY 33,000 notes LIBOR plus 1.5%, due 2031 — — — — — — — 253 253 USD 827 notes 5.70%, due 20402 USD 827 4 20 935 959 — — — — Deferred financing costs — (2) (2) (4) — (1) (2) (3) Total notes 512 1,053 1,869 3,434 9 367 768 1,144 Other loans 2 — 3 5 — 1 2 3 Financing obligations3 23 115 247 385 22 102 273 397 Mortgages payable4 2 15 9 26 — 2 7 9 Total loans 539 1,183 2,128 3,850 31 472 1,050 1,553 1 During 2005, the Company bought back GBP 250 million of the notes. The remaining notional redemption amount of GBP 250 million (€293 million) has been netted with €1 million as per January 1, 2017 (January 3, 2016: €6 million), representing an amount, amortized over the remaining terms of the notes, that relates to a hedging instrument that stopped qualifying for fair-value hedge accounting. The remaining notional amount of the GBP 250 million was swapped to U.S. dollar (see Note 30 for additional information). 2 Acquired through business combinations (refer to Note 4). 3 The weighted average interest rate for the financing obligations amounted to 7.6% in 2016 (2015: 7.6%). 4 Mortgages payable are collateralized by buildings and land. The weighted average interest rate for these mortgages payable amounted to 5.4% in 2016 (2015: 5.6%). On November 15, 2016, Ahold Delhaize executed a buyback and cancellation of the outstanding principal amount of its JPY33 billion floating rate notes, due May 2031 (“JPY notes”) and the unwinding of the associated yen / euro cross currency interest rate swap for a total consideration of €543 million. Together, the JPY notes and the swap represented a synthetic €299 million long-term liability at an annual interest rate of 7.065% (see Note 30 for additional information related to the JPY cross-currency swap). The buying back of the JPY notes resulted in a one-off finance cost of €243 million, before tax. This cost included a €213 million release from equity to the income statement relating to the unwinding of the swap for which hedge accounting was applied (refer to Note 9). The cost of buying back the JPY notes and unwinding the swap has been funded from available cash. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 165 Notes to the 21 Loans and credit facilities continued consolidated The fair values of financial instruments, corresponding derivatives, and the foreign exchange and interest rate risk management policies applied by Ahold Delhaize are disclosed in Note 30. financial statements The Company has a Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) program that had an aggregate of €293 million of outstanding notes as of January 1, 2017. The notes issued under the program include the remaining outstanding balance of GBP 500 million notes, maturing in 2017. The notes issued under continued the EMTN program contain customary restrictive covenants. During 2016, Ahold Delhaize was in compliance with these covenants. Credit facilities Ahold Delhaize has access to a €1.0 billion committed, unsecured, multi-currency and syndicated credit facility that was amended and extended in February 2015, whereby the Company reduced the size of the credit facility from €1.2 billion to €1.0 billion (providing for the issuance of $275 million in letters of credit). At the same time, the facility was extended to 2020 with two potential extensions after 12 and 24 months that would take the facility to 2021 and 2022 respectively. In February 2016, the first extension was successfully agreed with the lenders. In February 2017, the Company requested that the lenders consent to a second extension. The credit facility contains customary covenants and is subject to a financial covenant that requires Ahold Delhaize, in the event that its corporate rating from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s is lower than BBB / Baa2, respectively, not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 4.0:1. During 2016 and 2015, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. As of January 1, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under the facility. As of January 1, 2017, a standby letters of credit facility for a total amount of $226 million (€214 million) was issued and fully drawn to guarantee self-insurance-related obligations. Ahold Delhaize also has access to a total of €341 million in uncommitted credit facilities to cover working capital requirements, issuance of guarantees and letters of credit, of which €72 million was utilized as of January 1, 2017. 22 Other non-current financial liabilities January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Finance lease liabilities 1,761 1,290 Cumulative preferred financing shares 497 497 Derivative financial instruments 45 210 Reinsurance liabilities 153 145 Other 71 45 Total other non-current financial liabilities 2,527 2,187 For more information on derivative financial instruments and fair values see Note 30. The Company recognizes reinsurance liabilities on its balance sheet in connection with a pooling arrangement between unrelated companies (see Note 15). Other mainly consists of a pre-tax liability for the discounted amount of the remaining settlement liability of $37 million (€35 million), relating to a 2013 agreement with the New England Teamsters and Trucking Industry Pension Fund (NETTI) to settle Stop & Shop’s pension liabilities in the fund, and financial guarantees relating to stores previously sold to BI-LO and Aldi (see Note 34). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 166 Notes to the 22 Other non-current financial liabilities continued Finance lease liabilities consolidated Finance lease liabilities relating to continuing operations are payable as follows: financial statements January 1, 2017 Present January 3, 2016 Present continued Future minimum value of minimum Future minimum value of minimum lease Interest lease lease Interest lease € million payments portion payments payments portion payments Within one year 318 119 199 209 99 110 Between one and five years 1,083 352 731 790 306 484 After five years 1,370 340 1,030 1,110 304 806 Total 2,771 811 1,960 2,109 709 1,400 Current portion finance lease liabilities (see Note 26) 199 110 Non-current portion finance lease liabilities 1,761 1,290 Finance lease liabilities are principally for buildings. Terms range primarily from 10 to 25 years and include renewal options if it is reasonably certain, at the inception of the leases, that they will be exercised. At the time of entering into a finance lease agreement, the commitment is recorded at its present value using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if this is practicable to determine; if not, the operating company-specific interest rate applicable for long-term borrowings is used. As of January 1, 2017, the finance lease liabilities are recorded at their present value at a weighted average interest rate of 7.1% (January 3, 2016: 7.7%). Certain store leases provide for contingent additional rentals based on a percentage of sales and consumer price indices. Substantially all of the store leases have renewal options for additional terms. None of Ahold Delhaize’s leases impose restrictions on Ahold Delhaize’s ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt or enter into additional leasing arrangements. During 2016, interest expense on finance lease liabilities was €111 million (2015: €100 million). Total future minimum sublease income expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases as of January 1, 2017, is €111 million (January 3, 2016: €89 million, adjusted by €22 million from last year’s disclosure of €111 million). The total contingent rent expense recognized during the year on finance leases was €1 million expense (2015: €1 million expense). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 167 Notes to the 22 Other non-current financial liabilities continued Cumulative preferred financing shares consolidated Number financial statements of shares (x 1,000) € million Issued cumulative preferred financing shares (€0.01 par value each) 268,415 3 continued Authorized cumulative preferred financing shares (€0.01 par value each) 329,000 3 January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Paid-in capital issued cumulative preferred financing shares 3 3 Additional paid-in capital cumulative preferred financing shares 494 494 Balance as of year-end 497 497 The cumulative preferred financing shares were issued in four tranches. Dividends are paid on each preferred financing share at a percentage (financing dividend percentage) that differs per tranche. When a period of 10 years has lapsed after the issue date of a tranche, and every 10 years thereafter (reset date), the financing dividend percentage is reset. The current financing dividend percentage is 1.527% per year for the shares issued in June 1996, 6.08% per year for the shares issued in August 1998, 3.85% per year for the shares issued in October 2000, and 3.35% per year for the shares issued in December 2003. The nominal value plus additional paid-in capital per tranche is €71 million (June 1996 tranche), €46 million (August 1998 tranche), €320 million (October 2000 tranche) and €60 million (December 2003 tranche); in the aggregate €497 million. This amount is presented under “other non-current financial liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet as these cumulative preferred financing shares are considered debt under IFRS. The total number of votes that can be exercised by the cumulative preferred financing shares is approximately 75 million. This represents approximately 6% of the total number of votes that can be cast (this total being calculated as the sum of the outstanding cumulative preferred financing shares and the outstanding common shares). The cumulative preferred financing shares are convertible into common shares. The conversion conditions have been set so as to avoid any transfer of value from the common shares to the cumulative preferred financing shares. The maximum number of common shares to be received upon conversion of all outstanding cumulative preferred financing shares is approximately 90 million. The conversion features are similar for all tranches. Conversion is allowed for all shares in one tranche held by one investor but not for fractions of tranches held by one investor. Upon conversion, the holders of (depositary receipts of) cumulative preferred financing shares will receive a number of common shares that is calculated by dividing the value of the cumulative preferred financing shares on the day before the conversion date by the average share price of Ahold Delhaize common shares on the five trading days preceding the notification date, on the notification date, and on the four trading days following the notification date. The value of the cumulative preferred financing shares will be considered, for this purpose, to be equal to the lower of the nominal value plus the additional paid-in capital of the cumulative preferred financing shares (par value) or to the present value of the remaining preferred dividends until the first reset date plus the present value of the par value at the first reset date. Subject to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Company can redeem the cumulative preferred financing shares of a certain tranche, but not fractions of a tranche. Redemption of a tranche is subject to the approval of the holders of depositary receipts of that tranche, unless all (remaining) cumulative preferred financing shares are redeemed. Redemption takes place at the higher of the par value or the present value of the remaining preferred dividends plus the present value of the par value at the reset date. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 168 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits Defined benefit plans consolidated Ahold Delhaize has a number of defined benefit pension plans covering a substantial number of employees, former employees and retirees in the financial statements Netherlands, the United States, Belgium, Greece and Serbia. In the Netherlands, the Company has a career average plan covering all employees over the age of 21. The plan provides benefits to participants continued or beneficiaries upon retirement, death or disability. The assets of the plan, which are made up of contributions from Ahold Delhaize and the employees, are managed by Ahold Pensioenfonds, an independent foundation. The contributions are established in a funding agreement between Ahold Delhaize, employee representatives, and Ahold Pensioenfonds every five years based on the funding levels of the plan. The contributions are determined as a percentage of an employee’s pensionable salary. In the United States, the Company maintains a funded plan covering employees at Ahold USA. This plan is closed to new participants. The plan provides a life annuity benefit based upon final pay to participants or beneficiaries upon retirement, death or disability. The assets of the plan, which are made up of contributions from Ahold Delhaize, are maintained with various trustees. Contributions to the plan are required under the current funding policy if the prior year-end funding ratio falls below 100% as measured using regulatory interest rates without funding relief in order to avoid variable Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) premiums. In addition, the Company provides additional pension benefits for certain company executives and life insurance and medical care benefits for certain retired employees meeting age and service requirements at its U.S. subsidiaries, all of which the Company funds as claims are incurred. In Belgium, the Company sponsors plans for substantially all of its employees. The plans are funded by fixed monthly contributions from both the Company and employees. The contributions are adjusted annually according to the Belgian consumer price index; however, certain employees who were employed before 2005 were able to choose not to participate in the employee contribution part of the plan. The plans assure the employees a lump-sum payment at retirement based on the contributions made, and provide employees with death-in-service benefits. Belgian law prescribes a variable minimum guaranteed rate of return with Belgian 10-year government bonds as the underlying benchmark, and a collar of 1.75% and 3.75%. The Company substantially insures these returns with an external insurance company that receives and manages the contributions to the plans. According to the relevant legislation, a short-fall only needs to be compensated by the employer at the point in time when the employee either retires or leaves the Company. As these plans have defined benefit features (when the return provided by the insurance company can be below the legally required minimum return, in which case the employer has to cover the gap with additional contributions), the Company treats these plans as defined benefit plans. Additionally in Belgium, the Company maintains a plan covering company executives that provides lump-sum benefits to participants upon death or retirement based on a formula applied to the last annual salary of the participant before his or her retirement or death. The plan is subject to the legal requirement to guarantee a minimum return on the contributions. The assets of the plan, which are made up of the contributions, are managed through a fund that is administered by an independent insurance company, providing a minimum guaranteed return. The plan participant’s contributions are defined in the terms of the plan, while the annual contributions to be paid by the Company are determined based on the funding level of the plan and are calculated based on current salaries, taking into account the legal minimum funding requirement, which is based on the vested reserves to which employees are entitled upon retirement or death. The plan mainly invests in debt securities in order to achieve the required minimum return. The Company bears any risk above the minimum guarantee given by the insurance company. There are no asset ceiling restrictions. In Greece, the Company operates an unfunded defined benefit post-employment plan. This plan relates to retirement benefits prescribed by Greek law, consisting of lump-sum compensation payable in case of normal retirement or termination of employment. The amount of the indemnity is based on an employee’s monthly earnings and a multiple depending on the length of service and the status of the employee. There is no legal requirement to fund these plans with contributions or other plan assets. Employees participate in the plan once they have completed a minimum service period, generally one year. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 169 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued consolidated In Serbia, the Company has an unfunded defined benefit plan that provides a lump-sum benefit upon retirement of the employee, as prescribed by Serbian law. The benefit is based on a fixed multiple of the higher of the (i) average gross salary of the employee, (ii) average gross salary in the financial statements company or (iii) average gross salary in the country, each determined at the time the employee retires. There is no legal requirement to fund these plans with contributions or other plan assets. continued The pension plans expose the Company to actuarial risks such as: longevity risk, interest rate risk, currency risk, salary risk and investment risk. Longevity risk relates to the mortality assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation, where an increase in participants’ life expectancies will increase a plan’s liability. Interest rate risk relates to the discount rate used to value the defined benefit obligation, where a decrease in the discount rate will increase a plan’s liability; however this will be partially offset by an increase in the return on a plan’s investments in debt instruments. The pension plans may mitigate interest rate risk by entering into interest rate swap contracts. Currency risk relates to the fact that a plan holds investments that may not be denominated in the same currency as the plan’s obligations. The pension plans may mitigate currency risk by purchasing forward currency instruments. Salary risk relates to salary increase assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation, where an increase will result in a higher plan liability. See below for more details on the Company’s asset-liability matching strategy employed to manage its investment risk. Net defined benefit cost is comprised of the following components. The net interest (income) expense is presented within net financial expenses in the income statement and plan remeasurements are presented as other comprehensive income. All other components of net defined benefit cost are presented in the income statement as cost of sales, selling expenses, and general and administrative expenses, depending on the functional areas of the employees earning the benefits. € million 2016 2015 Service cost Current service cost 136 132 Net interest expense 18 14 Administrative cost 10 11 Termination benefits 1 — Components of defined benefit cost recorded in the income statement 165 157 Remeasurements recognized: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest (income) / cost (306) 228 (Gain) loss from changes in demographic assumptions 27 (13) (Gain) loss from changes in financial assumptions 473 (186) Experience (gains) losses (48) 24 Components of defined benefit cost recognized in other comprehensive income 146 53 Total net defined benefit cost 311 210 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 170 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued consolidated The changes in the defined benefit obligations and plan assets in 2016 and 2015 were as follows: The Netherlands United States Rest of world Total financial statements € million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Defined benefit obligations continued Beginning of the year 4,094 4,027 1,375 1,308 — — 5,469 5,335 Acquisitions through business combinations — — 67 — 297 — 364 — Current service cost 107 108 21 24 8 — 136 132 Interest expense 100 94 66 61 2 — 168 155 Termination benefits — — — — 1 — 1 — Contributions by plan participants 23 19 — — — — 23 19 Benefits paid (84) (82) (77) (72) (14) — (175) (154) (Gain) loss from changes in demographic assumptions 27 (12) — (1) — — 27 (13) (Gain) loss from changes in financial assumptions 405 (78) 94 (108) (26) — 473 (186) Experience (gains) losses (36) 18 (13) 6 1 — (48) 24 Exchange rate differences — — 59 157 — — 59 157 End of the year 4,636 4,094 1,592 1,375 269 — 6,497 5,469 Plan assets Fair value of assets, beginning of the year 3,977 3,993 1,103 1,057 — — 5,080 5,050 Acquisitions through business combinations — — — — 214 — 214 — Interest income 96 92 53 49 1 — 150 141 Company contribution 114 113 90 24 8 — 212 137 Contributions by plan participants 23 19 — — — — 23 19 Benefits paid (84) (82) (77) (72) (14) — (175) (154) Administrative cost (8) (8) (2) (3) — — (10) (11) Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest (income) expense 313 (150) 3 (78) (10) — 306 (228) Exchange rate differences — — 38 126 — — 38 126 Fair value of assets, end of the year 4,431 3,977 1,208 1,103 199 — 5,838 5,080 Funded status (205) (117) (384) (272) (70) — (659) (389) The total defined benefit obligation of €6,497 million as of January 1, 2017, includes €210 million related to plans that are wholly unfunded. These plans include pension plans in Greece and Serbia and other benefits (such as life insurance and medical care) and supplemental executive retirement plans in the United States. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 171 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued consolidated During 2016, Ahold Delhaize changed its policy of accounting for employee contributions to its defined benefit plan in the Netherlands. Previously, employee contributions were attributed to the periods of future service when measuring the defined benefit obligation; now they are considered to financial statements be a reduction of service costs in the period in which the related service is rendered. This change in policy increased the funded status of the plan by €28 million, which has been recognized in Other comprehensive income. continued Cash contributions From 2016 to 2017, Company contributions are expected to increase from €114 million in the Netherlands to €116 million, decrease from $100 million (€90 million) to $60 million (€57 million) for all defined benefit plans in the United States, and increase from €8 million to €14 million for all plans in the rest of the world. As of year-end 2016, the funding ratio, calculated in accordance with regulatory requirements, of the largest Dutch plan was 104%. Under the financing agreement with the Dutch pension fund, contributions are made as a percentage of employees’ salaries and shared between Ahold Delhaize and the employees. The agreement also allows for a reduction in premiums if certain funding conditions are met. In addition, Ahold Delhaize can be required to contribute a maximum amount of €150 million over a five-year period if the funding ratio is below 105%. Since the statutory funding ratio has dropped below the minimum required threshold, the Company and the Dutch pension fund are currently determining whether or not additional funding will be required under the financing agreement. The Ahold USA pension plan’s funding ratio at year-end 2016 was 116%, measured using regulatory interest rates allowed by the U.S. government as part of funding relief, which are higher than otherwise would be allowed. Under the current funding policy, a $35 million (€33 million) contribution is expected to be made to the Ahold USA pension plan in 2017. Actuarial assumptions The calculations of the defined benefit obligation and net defined benefit cost are sensitive to the assumptions set out below. These assumptions require a large degree of judgment. Actual experience may differ from the assumptions made. The assumptions required to calculate the actuarial present value of benefit obligations and the net defined benefit costs are determined per plan and are as follows (expressed as weighted averages): The Netherlands United States Rest of world Percent 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Discount rate 1.9 2.4 4.3 4.9 1.8 N/A Future salary increases 3.5 3.6 4.5 4.5 2.9 N/A Future pension increases 0.7 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 N/A Assumptions regarding longevity are based on published statistics and mortality tables. These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring at age 65: The Netherlands United States Rest of world Years 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners Male 21.2 21.0 20.2 20.1 N/A N/A Female 23.8 23.4 22.9 22.8 N/A N/A Longevity at age 65 for current members aged 50 Male 23.0 22.8 21.1 21.0 N/A N/A Female 25.6 25.1 23.7 23.7 N/A N/A Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 172 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued consolidated The following table summarizes how the effect on the defined benefit obligations at the end of the reporting period would have increased (decreased) as a result of a 0.5% change in the respective assumptions. financial statements € million Discount rate The Netherlands United States Rest of world Total continued 0.5% increase (524) (93) (20) (637) 0.5% decrease 622 104 23 749 Future salary increases 0.5% increase 78 8 10 96 0.5% decrease (74) (7) (9) (90) Future pension increases 0.5% increase 574 N/A N/A 574 0.5% decrease (490) N/A N/A (490) Life expectancy 1 year increase at age 65 156 49 1 206 The above sensitivity analyses have been based on a change in each respective assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In reality, one might expect interrelationships between the assumptions, especially between discount rate and future salary increases as both depend to a certain extent on expected inflation rates. The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses did not change compared to the previous period. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 173 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Plan assets consolidated The pension plan asset allocation differs per plan. On a weighted average basis, the allocation of plan assets was as follows: financial statements € million 2016 The Netherlands 2015 2016 United States 2015 2016 Rest of world 2015 continued Equity instruments: Consumer goods 196 211 32 47 — — Financial services 214 236 60 68 — — Telecommunications and information 90 94 68 72 — — Energy and utilities 62 55 22 23 — — Industry 101 90 21 32 — — Other 5 4 51 51 — — Debt instruments: Government 1,177 1,051 152 140 — — Corporate bonds (investment grade) 1,238 1,276 344 185 — — Corporate bonds (non-investment grade) 13 13 44 41 — — Other — — — 60 — — Real estate: Retail 20 24 — — — — Offices 18 40 — — — — Residential 11 15 — — — — Other — — 48 42 — — Investment funds 917 665 341 331 — — Derivatives: Interest rate swaps 9 96 — — — — Forward foreign exchange contracts (37) (15) — — — — Cash and cash equivalents 403 131 25 11 — — Other (6) (9) — — 199 — Total 4,431 3,977 1,208 1,103 199 — Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices in active markets. Derivatives can be classified as level 2 instruments, and real estate and some investment funds as level 3 instruments based on the definitions in IFRS 13, “Fair Value Measurement.” It is the policy of the Dutch pension plan to use interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk. Foreign currency exposures are hedged by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts. The other instruments in the rest of the world represent funds administered by independent insurance companies, providing a minimum guaranteed return. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 174 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued consolidated In the Netherlands, the plan assets are managed by outside investment managers following investment strategies based on the composition of the plan liabilities. With the aid of asset liability management modeling, analyses are made of possible future economic scenarios and investment financial statements portfolios. Based on these analyses, investment strategies are determined to produce optimal investment returns at acceptable funding ratio risk levels. Less favorable years can be part of these scenarios. Currently, the strategic targets for asset allocation of the Dutch pension plan are: 40% continued variable yield and 60% fixed income. To partially hedge against interest rate risk exposure on the pension liabilities, the Dutch pension plan uses interest rate swap contracts. In the United States, the plan assets are managed by outside investment managers and rebalanced periodically. The committees for the various U.S. plans establish investment policies and strategies and regularly monitor the performance of the assets, including the selection of investment managers, setting long-term strategic targets and monitoring asset allocations. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, subject to variation from time to time or as circumstances warrant. Occasionally, the committees may approve allocations above or below a target range. Pension plan assets are invested in a trust intended to comply with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended, and applicable fiduciary standards. The long-term investment objective for the plan’s assets is to maintain an acceptable funding ratio of the plan’s assets and liabilities without undue exposure to risk. Currently, the strategic targets are: 35% equity securities, 55% debt securities and 10% other investments. In 2016, the Dutch plan had €1.2 million of plan assets invested in Ahold Delhaize’s financial instruments (2015: €0.8 million). In 2016 or 2015, the U.S. plans did not have any plan assets invested in Ahold Delhaize financial instruments. The actual return on plan assets in 2016 was 10.7% for the Dutch plan (2015: negative 1.3%) and 6.1% for the Ahold USA pension plan (2015: negative 2.7%). Benefit maturities The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations of the plans in the Netherlands, U.S., and the rest of world are 25.6, 13.5, and 16.5 years, respectively. The expected schedule of benefit payments for the plans are as follows. € million The Netherlands United States Rest of world Total Amount due within one year 84 86 3 173 Amount due between two and five years 343 351 31 725 Amount due between six and ten years 525 486 51 1,062 Defined contribution plans The Company operates defined contribution plans in the Netherlands, United States, Belgium, Greece and the Czech Republic. As mentioned above, the defined contribution plans in Belgium are accounted for as defined benefit plans due to the guaranteed return elements of the plans. The largest defined contribution plans exist in the United States, where the Company sponsors profit-sharing retirement plans that include a 401(k) feature that permits participating employees to make elective deferrals of their compensation and requires the Company to make matching contributions. During 2016 and 2015, the Company contributed €63 million and €37 million, respectively, to its defined contribution plans. These contributions were recognized as an expense in the income statement and related entirely to continuing operations in 2016 and 2015. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 175 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Multi-employer plans consolidated A significant number of union employees in the United States are covered by multi-employer plans based on obligations arising from collective financial statements bargaining agreements. These plans provide retirement and other benefits to participants based on their service to contributing employers. The benefits are paid from assets held in trust for that purpose. Trustees are appointed in equal number by employers and unions and they are continued typically responsible for oversight of the investment of the assets and administration of the plan. Contribution rates and benefit levels are generally determined through the collective bargaining process between the participating employers and unions. None of the Company’s collective bargaining agreements require that a minimum funding requirement exists for these plans. Most of these plans are defined contribution plans. All plans that are defined benefit plans, on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided, are accounted for as defined contribution plans because there is insufficient information available to account for these plans as defined benefit plans. These plans are generally flat dollar benefit plans. Ahold Delhaize is only one of several employers participating in each of these plans and there is no reliable basis to accurately determine Ahold Delhaize’s share of plan obligations and assets following defined benefit accounting principles. Furthermore, the financial statements of the multi-employer plans are drawn up on the basis of other accounting policies than those applied by Ahold Delhaize. Consequently, these multi-employer plans are not included in the Company’s balance sheet. The risks of participating in multi-employer plans are different from the risks of single employer plans. Ahold Delhaize’s contributions may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers. Ahold Delhaize may become obligated for a plan’s unfunded obligations if other participating employers cease to participate in the plan. Similarly, if a number of employers cease to have employees participating in the plan, Ahold Delhaize could be responsible for an increased share of the plan’s deficit. If Ahold Delhaize withdraws from a plan, it may be required to pay the plan an amount based on the underfunded status of the plan, referred to as a withdrawal liability. Defined benefit plans Ahold Delhaize participates in 11 multi-employer pension plans that are defined benefit plans on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided. The following table presents the Company’s estimate of its proportionate share of each plan’s deficit or surplus. Ahold Delhaize’s participation is the relative amount of its contributions during the year in relation to the total amount of contributions made to the plan. The estimate of the Company’s net proportionate share of the plans’ deficits is based on the latest available information received from these plans, such as the plans’ measurement of plan assets and the use of discount rates between 6.5% and 8.0%. The information received has been updated for market trends and conditions through the end of 2016, and does not represent Ahold Delhaize’s direct obligation. While this is our best estimate, based upon information available to us, it is imprecise and not necessarily reliable. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 176 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued consolidated January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 Ahold Delhaize’s financial statements Ahold Delhaize’s proportionate Date of Ahold proportionate Plan Ahold share of € million, except Ahold Delhaize’s latest Annual Plan Delhaize’s share of Annual deficit / Delhaize’s deficit / participation percentages information contributions deficit participation deficit contributions (surplus) participation (surplus) continued FELRA & UFCW Food Pension Fund Jan. 1, 2015 22 1,149 58.3% 669 27 1,080 60.4% 652 Mid-Atlantic UFCW & Participating Employers Pension Fund Jan. 1, 2015 11 1 61.1% 1 7 3 63.3% 2 New England Teamsters & Trucking Industry Pension Oct. 1, 2015 6 – 2.9% – 6 – 3.1% — UFCW Local 1262 & Employers Pension Fund Jan. 1, 2015 7 140 23.1% 32 7 206 19.4% 40 United Food & Commercial Workers International Union – Industry Pension Fund July 1, 2015 19 17 21.7% 4 19 (201) 22.1% (44) UFCW Local 1500 Pension Plan Jan. 1, 2016 10 172 30.5% 52 8 171 27.1% 46 Warehouse Employees’ Union Local 730 Pension Trust Fund Jan. 1, 2015 3 113 82.6% 93 3 110 83.5% 92 Other plans Jan. 1, 2016 5 7,321 0.9% 14 7 6,477 0.8% 16 Total 83 8,913 865 84 7,846 804 During 2015, Stop & Shop reached an agreement with UFCW Local #338 whereby Stop & Shop was allowed to withdraw from the pension plan. The withdrawal occurred in September and resulted in a $12 million (€11 million) withdrawal liability. The settlement of the liability will be made in installments, with $6 million paid at the time of withdrawal and the second and third installments, of $3 million each, paid in May and October of 2016. If the underfunded liabilities of the multi-employer pension plans are not reduced, either by improved market conditions or collective bargaining changes, increased future payments by the Company and the other participating employers may result. However, all future increases will be subject to the collective bargaining process. In 2017, the Company expects its contributions to increase to €88 million. Moreover, if the Company were to exit certain markets or otherwise cease making contributions to these funds, the Company could trigger a substantial withdrawal liability. Any adjustment for withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a liability exists and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Except for the UFCW Local #338 withdrawal liability payment mentioned above, no other withdrawal payments were incurred or included in the 2016 and 2015 contributions disclosed above. Ahold Delhaize’s risk of increased contributions and withdrawal liabilities may be greater if any of the participating employers in an underfunded multi-employer plan withdraw from the plan or, due to insolvency, are not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the underfunded liabilities associated with their participants in the plan. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 177 Notes to the 23 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued Defined contribution plans consolidated Ahold Delhaize also participates in 41 multi-employer plans that are defined contribution plans on the basis of the terms of the benefits provided. financial statements The majority of these plans provide health and welfare benefits. The Company contributed €276 million and €270 million to multi-employer defined contribution plans during both 2016 and 2015, respectively. These contributions are recognized as an expense in the consolidated income continued statement and related entirely to continuing operations in 2016 and 2015. These plans vary significantly in size, with contributions to the three largest plans representing 53% of total contributions. 24 Provisions The table below specifies the changes in total provisions (current and non-current): SelfClaims Severance and insurance Loyalty and legal termination Onerous € million program programs disputes benefits contracts1 Other Total As of January 3, 2016 Current portion 172 14 9 26 23 4 248 Non-current portion 500 24 2 3 66 44 639 Carrying amount 672 38 11 29 89 48 887 Year ended January 1, 2017 Additions charged to income 224 16 5 50 11 11 317 Acquisitions through business combinations 169 — 75 67 86 28 425 Used during the year (206) (21) (8) (60) (37) (2) (334) Released to income (11) (2) (4) (6) (13) (2) (38) Interest accretion 10 — 1 — 5 — 16 Effect of changes in discount rates (3) — — — (1) — (4) Other movements — — — 3 — 1 4 Exchange rate differences 30 — 1 2 6 2 41 Closing carrying amount 885 31 81 85 146 86 1,314 As of January 1, 2017 Current portion 261 15 3 51 32 21 383 Non-current portion 624 16 78 34 114 65 931 1 Balances for the prior year have been adjusted as a result of the change in presentation of unfavorable lease-related liabilities recognized upon an acquisition. Historically these liabilities have been presented as onerous contract provisions, however, because these liabilities do not have uncertainty with respect to amount and timing, they are now being presented as other liabilities (see Notes 3 and 25). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 178 Notes to the 24 Provisions continued consolidated Maturities of total provisions as of January 1, 2017, are as follows: SelfClaims Severance and financial statements insurance Loyalty and legal termination Onerous € million program programs disputes benefits contracts Other Total Amount due within one year 261 15 3 51 32 21 383 continued Amount due between one and five years 419 16 48 29 67 27 606 Amount due after five years 205 — 30 5 47 38 325 Total 885 31 81 85 146 86 1,314 Self-insurance program Ahold Delhaize is self-insured for certain potential losses, mainly relating to general liability, vehicle liability, workers’ compensation and property losses relating to its subsidiaries. The maximum self-insurance retention per occurrence, including defense costs, is $3 million (€3 million) for general liability, $5 million (€5 million) for commercial vehicle liability, $5 million (€5 million) for workers’ compensation, and $17.5 million (€17 million) for property losses. Ahold Delhaize purchased a stop-loss coverage of $50 million (€48 million) for property losses to limit the aggregate exposure for named windstorms through June 1, 2017. A portion of this risk is reinsured to third parties, see Note 15. Measurement of the provision for the self-insurance program requires significant estimates. These estimates and assumptions include an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported, historical loss experience, projected loss development factors, estimated changes in claim reporting patterns, claim settlement patterns, judicial decisions and legislation. Loyalty programs This provision relates to a third-party customer loyalty program in the Netherlands and reflects the estimated cost of benefits to which customers participating in the loyalty program are entitled. Claims and legal disputes The Company is a party to a number of legal proceedings arising out of its business operations. Such legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties. Management, supported by internal and external legal counsel, where appropriate, determines whether it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle an obligation. If this is the case, the best estimate of the outflow of resources is recognized. Severance and termination benefits This provision relates to payments to employees whose employment with the Company has ended, either as part of a restructuring or a voluntary separation plan. The current year additions to the provision relate mainly to benefits offered to employees affected by the anticipated exit of the Richmond Virginia market and the reorganization of warehousing activities within Ahold USA, as well as the elimination of positions within the Global Support Office as a result of the merger. Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions relate to unfavorable contracts where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contracts exceed the benefits expected to be received. Other Other provisions include long-term incentives, jubilee payments, asset retirement obligations, provisions for environmental risks, and supplemental medical benefits. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 179 Notes to the 25 Other non-current liabilities consolidated January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Step rent accruals 295 276 financial statements Unfavorable lease obligations 239 92 continued Deferred income 20 25 Other 24 17 Total other non-current liabilities 578 410 Step rent accruals relate to the equalization of rent payments from lease contracts with scheduled fixed rent increases throughout the life of the contract. Unfavorable lease obligations are recognized as part of a business combination and represent the present value of the excess of contracted rent payments over the market rents as measured on the date of the acquisition. The obligation is released to rent expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the lease. Historically these liabilities have been presented as onerous contract provisions, however, because these liabilities do not have uncertainty with respect to amount and timing, they are now being presented as other liabilities (see Notes 3 and 24). Deferred income predominantly represents the non-current portions of deferred income on vendor allowances and deferred gains on sale and leaseback transactions. 26 Other current financial liabilities January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Finance lease liabilities – current portion (see Note 22) 199 110 Interest payable 59 29 Short-term borrowings 57 52 Bank overdrafts 1,196 — Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares 20 22 Reinsurance liabilities – current portion (see Note 15) 81 76 Loans – current portion (see Note 21) 539 31 Derivative financial instruments 18 — Other 9 10 Total other current financial liabilities 2,178 330 Other in 2015 mainly includes multi-employer union pension withdrawal liabilities. Bank overdrafts includes an amount of €1,184 million which relates to the overdraft position of a notional cash pooling arrangement. This bank overdraft is fully offset by an identical amount included under Cash and cash equivalents (refer to Note 19 and Note 30). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 180 Notes to the 27 Other current liabilities consolidated January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Accrued expenses 1,169 770 financial statements Compensated absences 494 297 continued Payroll taxes, social security and VAT 469 251 Deferred income 36 138 Gift card and deposit liabilities 136 104 Other 47 25 Total other current liabilities 2,351 1,585 The deferred income balance as of January 3, 2016, includes the unearned portion of premiums billed on January 1, 2016, related to the Company’s reinsurance treaty. Other mainly includes the current portion of unfavorable lease obligations and step rent accruals. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 181 Notes to the 28 Cash flow consolidated The following table presents the reconciliation between the cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of cash flows and as presented on the balance sheet: financial statements € million January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 continued Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of cash flows 3,990 1,819 Restricted cash 42 7 Cash and cash equivalents as presented on the balance sheet 4,032 1,826 The following table presents additional cash flow information: € million 2016 2015 Non-cash investing activities Accounts payable at year-end related to purchased non-current assets 240 119 Assets acquired under finance leases from continuing operations 71 55 Non-cash financing activities Finance lease liabilities originated from continuing operations (71) (55) Acquisition of businesses (see Note 4) Total purchase consideration (10,811) (150) Ordinary shares issued 10,761 — Replacement awards issued 4 — Cash acquired 2,251 — Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 2,205 (150) Divestments of businesses Proceeds from divestment of stores in the Netherlands — 6 Net cash flows related to BI-LO / Bruno’s (4) (6) Divestment of businesses (4) — Cash divested — — Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested (4) — Reconciliation between results on divestments of discontinued operations and cash (paid) received Result on divestments of discontinued operations before income taxes — 3 Net assets (liabilities) divested — 6 Changes in accounts receivable / payable and provisions – net (4) (9) Divestment of businesses (4) — Cash divested — — Divestment of businesses, net of cash divested (4) — Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 182 Notes to the 29 Earnings per share consolidated The calculation of basic and diluted net income per share attributable to common shareholders is based on the following data: 2016 2015 financial statements Earnings (€ million) Net income attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of basic earnings per share 830 852 continued Effect of dilutive potential common shares – reversal of preferred dividend1 — 23 Net income attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 830 875 Number of shares (in millions) Weighted average number of common shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 1,022 820 Effect of dilutive potential common shares: Share options and conditional shares 9 12 Cumulative preferred financing shares1 — 25 Weighted average number of common shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 1,031 857 1 In 2016 the effect of the preferred financing shares is anti-dilutive. The preferred dividend in 2016 is €21 million and the number of cumulative preferred financing shares outstanding is 25 million. The calculation of the basic and diluted income from continuing operations per share attributable to common shareholders is based on the same number of shares as detailed above and the following earnings data: € million 2016 2015 Income from continuing operations 830 849 Non-controlling interests — (1) Income from continuing operations, attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of basic earnings per share 830 850 Effect of dilutive potential common shares – reversal of preferred dividend1 — 23 Income from continuing operations, attributable to common shareholders for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 830 873 1 In 2016 the effect of the preferred financing shares is anti-dilutive. The preferred dividend in 2016 is €21 million and the number of cumulative preferred financing shares outstanding is 25 million. Basic and diluted income per share from discontinued operations attributable to common shareholders amounted both to nil for 2016 and 2015. They are based on the income from discontinued operations attributable to common shareholders of nil (2015: income of €2 million) and the denominators detailed above. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 183 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments Financial risk management consolidated The Treasury function provides a centralized service to the Company for funding, foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity and counterparty risk financial statements management. Treasury operates within a framework of policies and procedures that is reviewed regularly. The Treasury function does not operate as a profit center and manages the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs. Ahold Delhaize’s Management Board has continued overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Treasury risk management framework. Ahold Delhaize’s management reviews material changes to Treasury policies and receives information related to Treasury activities. In accordance with its Treasury policies, Ahold Delhaize uses derivative instruments solely for the purpose of hedging exposures. These exposures are mainly connected with the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Company’s operations and its sources of finance. Ahold Delhaize does not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The transaction of derivative instruments is restricted to Treasury personnel only and Ahold Delhaize’s Internal Control department reviews the Treasury internal control environment regularly. Relationships with credit rating agencies and monitoring of key credit ratios are also managed by the Treasury department. Currency risk Ahold Delhaize operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from currency exposures, primarily with respect to the U.S. dollar. Since Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiaries primarily purchase and sell in local currencies, the Company’s exposure to exchange rate movements in its commercial operations is naturally limited. The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange risks due to exchange rate movements in connection with the translation of its foreign subsidiaries’ income, assets and liabilities into euros for inclusion in its consolidated financial statements. Translation risk related to Ahold Delhaize’s foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is not actively hedged; however, the Company aims to minimize this exposure by funding its foreign operations in their functional currency, wherever feasible. To protect the value of future foreign currency cash flows, including loan and interest payments, lease payments, dividends and firm purchase commitments, and the value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency, Ahold Delhaize seeks to mitigate its foreign currency exchange exposure by borrowing in local currency and entering into various financial instruments, including forward contracts and currency swaps. It is Ahold Delhaize’s policy to cover foreign exchange transaction exposure in relation to existing assets, liabilities and firm purchase commitments. Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Assuming the euro had strengthened (weakened) by 10% against the U.S. dollar compared to the actual 2016 rate, with all other variables held constant, the hypothetical result on income before income taxes would have been a decrease (increase) of nil (2015: €6 million), as a result of foreign exchange losses on the translation of U.S. dollar-denominated cash and cash equivalents. Interest rate risk Ahold Delhaize’s outstanding debt position is exposed to changes in interest rates. To manage interest rate risk, Ahold Delhaize has an interest rate management policy aimed at reducing volatility in its interest expense and maintaining a target percentage of its debt in fixed rate instruments. As of January 1, 2017, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps, the entirety of Ahold Delhaize’s long-term debt was at fixed rates of interest (2015: 99%). Interest rate sensitivity analysis The total interest expense recognized in the 2016 income statement related to the variable rates of long-term debt, net of swaps, amounted to €2 million (2015: €3 million). An increase (decrease) in market interest rates by 25 basis points, with all other variables (including foreign exchange rates) held constant, would have resulted in a loss (gain) of nil (2015: nil). In addition, a similar increase (decrease) in market interest rates would have resulted in a fair-value gain of €1 million or a loss of nil, respectively (2015: a loss of nil or a gain of €2 million, respectively) on derivative hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 184 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued consolidated The total interest income recognized in the 2016 income statement amounted to €15 million (2015: €5 million), mainly related to variable rate money market fund investments and deposits. The Company estimates that with a possible increase (decrease) of euro and U.S. dollar market interest financial statements rates of 25 basis points with all other variables (including foreign exchange rates) held constant, this would have resulted in a gain of €5 million or a loss of €5 million, respectively (2015: gain of €4 million or a loss of €4 million). continued The above sensitivity analyses are for illustrative purposes only as, in practice, market rates rarely change in isolation from other factors that also affect Ahold Delhaize’s financial position and results. Credit risk Ahold Delhaize has no significant concentrations of credit risk. Sales to retail customers are made in cash, checks and debit cards, or via major credit cards. Sales to franchisees are done on credit. The concentration of credit risk with respect to receivables is limited, as the Company’s customer base and vendor base are large and unrelated. As a result, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal individual and collective impairment, based on an aging analysis performed as of January 1, 2017. For further discussion on Ahold Delhaize’s receivables, see Notes 15 and 17. Financial transactions are predominantly entered into with investment grade financial institutions. The Company requires a minimum short-term rating of A1/P1 and a minimum long-term rating of A3/Afor its deposit and investment products. The Company may deviate from this requirement from time to time for operational reasons. With respect to credit risk, derivative contracts with counterparties are entered into primarily under the standard terms and conditions of the International Swap and Derivatives Association (ISDA). Ahold Delhaize has policies that limit the amount of counterparty credit exposure to any single financial institution or investment vehicle and actively monitors these exposures. Counterparty risk is measured by adding nominal value of cash, short-term deposits and marketable securities, and the mark-to-market of derivative instruments, netted with the collateral posted, if any. As a result, the highest exposure to a single financial counterparty on January 1, 2017, amounted to €299 million (January 3, 2016: €338 million). Offsetting of financial instruments The Group has several financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to offsetting or enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. Cash pool The Company has implemented a cash pool system, allowing a more efficient management of the daily working capital needs of the participating operating entities. The settlement mechanism of the cash pool is provided by an external financial counterparty. The cash pool system provides that the Company is exposed to a single net amount with that financial counterparty rather than the gross amount of several current accounts and bank overdraft balances with multiple financial counterparties. From an operational perspective the balances in the cash pool are netted. However, in accordance with the guidance of IAS 32 regarding the offsetting of debit and credit balances for financial reporting purposes, these balances have to be presented on a gross basis on the balance sheet (see Notes 19 and 26). ISDA Master Agreements for Derivatives The Company has several ISDA agreements in connection with its derivative transactions. In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each counterparty on a single day in respect of all outstanding transactions in the same currency are aggregated into a single net amount that is payable by one party to the other. Under certain circumstances, e.g., when a credit event such as default occurs, all outstanding transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable in settlement of all transactions. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 185 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued consolidated The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the balance sheet. This is because the Company does not currently have a legally enforceable right to offset recognized amounts, because the right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of a future event such as a financial statements default. ISDAs are considered to be master netting arrangements for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes. The following table shows the maximum exposure of the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to offset or continued enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. Amounts not offset in the balance sheet but subject to master netting arrangements (or similar) Financial instruments that Net amounts Gross amounts in are offset in the presented in the Financial assets/ Cash collateral € million the balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet liabilities received/pledged Net exposure Assets Derivative financial assets 299 — 299 — — 299 Cash and cash equivalents 1,218 — 1,218 — 1,184 34 Total 1,517 — 1,517 — 1,184 333 Liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 63 — 63 — 17 46 Bank overdrafts 1,184 — 1,184 — 1,184 — Total 1,247 — 1,247 — 1,201 46 Liquidity risk Ahold Delhaize views available cash balances and funds from operating activities as its primary sources of liquidity, complemented with access to external sources of funds when deemed to be required. Ahold Delhaize manages short-term liquidity based on projected cash flows. As of January 1, 2017, the Company’s liquidity position primarily consisted of €3,133 million of cash (including short-term deposits and similar instruments and current portion of assets available-for-sale, adjusted for cash held under a notional cash pooling arrangement), and the fully undrawn €1 billion revolving credit facility. Based on the current operating performance and liquidity position, the Company believes that cash provided by operating activities and available cash balances will be sufficient for working capital, capital expenditures, interest payments, dividends and scheduled debt repayment requirements for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. The following tables summarize the expected maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities (including derivatives) as of January 1, 2017, and January 3, 2016, respectively, based on contractual undiscounted payments. All financial liabilities held at the reporting date, for which payments are already contractually agreed, have been included. Amounts in foreign currency have been translated using the reporting date closing rate. Cash flows arising from financial instruments carrying variable interest payments have been calculated using the forward curve interest rates as of January 1, 2017, and January 3, 2016, respectively. Refer to Note 34 for the liquidity risk related to guarantees. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 186 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Year ended January 1, 2017 consolidated Contractual cash flows financial statements € million Net carrying amount Within 1 year Between 1 and 5 years After 5 years Total continued Non-derivative financial liabilities Notes (3,434) (640) (1,471) (2,986) (5,097) Other loans (5) (2) — (3) (5) Financing obligations (385) (51) (191) (180) (422) Mortgages payable (26) (3) (19) (12) (34) Finance lease liabilities (1,960) (318) (1,083) (1,370) (2,771) Cumulative preferred financing shares1 (497) (19) (64) (12) (95) Accounts payable (5,389) (5,389) — — (5,389) Short-term borrowings (1,253) (1,253) — — (1,253) Reinsurance liabilities (234) (84) (135) (23) (242) Other (89) (14) (7) (56) (77) Derivative financial liabilities Cross-currency swaps and foreign currency derivatives (63) (26) (19) (62) (107) 1 Cumulative preferred financing shares have no maturity. For the purpose of the table above, the future dividend cash flows were calculated until the coupon reset date of each of the four share-series (2018, 2020, 2023 and 2026). No liability redemption was assumed. Actual cash flows may differ, see Note 22. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 187 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Year ended January 3, 2016 consolidated Contractual cash flows financial statements € million Net carrying amount Within 1 year Between 1 and 5 years After 5 years Total continued Non-derivative financial liabilities Notes (1,144) (75) (565) (1,119) (1,759) Other loans (3) — (2) (2) (4) Financing obligations (397) (52) (194) (217) (463) Mortgages payable (9) (1) (4) (7) (12) Finance lease liabilities (1,400) (209) (790) (1,110) (2,109) Cumulative preferred financing shares1 (497) (22) (66) (18) (106) Accounts payable (2,800) (2,800) — — (2,800) Short-term borrowings (52) (52) — — (52) Reinsurance liabilities (221) (78) (128) (22) (228) Other (61) (16) (7) (56) (79) Derivative financial liabilities Cross-currency swaps and foreign currency derivatives (210) (18) (69) (202) (289) 1 Cumulative preferred financing shares have no maturity. For the purpose of the table above, the future dividend cash flows were calculated until the coupon reset date of each of the four share-series (2016, 2018, 2020 and 2023). No liability redemption was assumed. Credit ratings Maintaining investment grade credit ratings is a cornerstone of Ahold Delhaize’s strategy because such ratings serve to lower the cost of funds and facilitate access to a variety of lenders and markets. Ahold Delhaize’s current credit ratings from the solicited rating agencies are as follows: • Standard & Poor’s: corporate credit rating BBB, with a stable outlook as of June 2009 (previous rating BBB– assigned in 2007). • Moody’s: issuer credit rating Baa2 as of August 2015 (previous rating Baa3 assigned in 2007). The outlook was revised from stable to positive in August 2016. Capital risk management The Company’s primary objective in terms of managing capital is the optimization of its debt and equity balances in order to sustain the future development of the business, maintain a solid investment grade credit rating and maximize shareholder value. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 188 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued consolidated Ahold Delhaize may balance its overall capital structure in a number of ways, including through the payment of dividends, capital repayment, new share issues and share buybacks as well as the issuance of new debt or the redemption of existing debt. financial statements Financial instruments Fair values of financial instruments continued The following table presents the fair values of financial instruments, based on Ahold Delhaize’s categories of financial instruments, including current portions, compared to the carrying amounts at which these instruments are included on the balance sheet: January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair € million amount value amount value Loans receivable 66 75 42 49 Trade and other (non-)current receivables 1,600 1,600 832 832 Reinsurance assets 220 220 203 203 Total loans and receivables 1,886 1,895 1,077 1,084 Cash and cash equivalents 4,032 4,032 1,826 1,826 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 110 110 528 528 Derivatives 299 299 338 338 Available-for-sale 186 186 6 6 Total financial assets 6,513 6,522 3,775 3,782 Notes (3,434) (3,442) (1,144) (1,359) Other loans (5) (5) (3) (3) Financing obligations (385) (366) (397) (395) Mortgages payable (26) (29) (9) (10) Finance lease liabilities (1,960) (2,396) (1,400) (1,798) Cumulative preferred financing shares (497) (549) (497) (554) Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares (20) (20) (22) (22) Accounts payable (5,389) (5,389) (2,800) (2,800) Short-term borrowings (1,253) (1,253) (52) (52) Interest payable (59) (59) (29) (29) Reinsurance liabilities (234) (234) (221) (221) Other (89) (97) (61) (71) Total non-derivative financial liabilities (13,351) (13,839) (6,635) (7,314) Derivatives (63) (63) (210) (210) Total financial liabilities (13,414) (13,902) (6,845) (7,524) Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 189 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued consolidated Of Ahold Delhaize’s categories of financial instruments, only derivatives, assets available-for-sale and reinsurance assets (liabilities) are measured and recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. These fair value measurements are categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. financial statements The Company uses inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices). The fair value of derivative instruments is measured by using either a market or income approach (mainly present value continued techniques). Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates that match the maturity of the contracts. Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of expected future cash flows. Expected future cash flows are discounted by using the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates. To the extent that no cash collateral is contractually required, the valuation of Ahold Delhaize’s derivative instruments is adjusted for the credit risk of the counterparty, called Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA), and adjusted for Ahold Delhaize’s own credit risk, called Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA). The CVA / DVA calculations have been added to the fair value of Ahold Delhaize’s interest and cross-currency swaps. The valuation technique for the CVA / DVA calculation is based on relevant observable market inputs. No CVA / DVA adjustments are made to the valuation of certain derivative instruments, for which both Ahold Delhaize and its counterparties are required to post or redeem cash collaterals if the value of a derivative exceeds a threshold defined in the contractual provisions. Such cash collaterals materially reduce the impact of both the counterparty and Ahold Delhaize’s own non-performance risk on the value of the instrument. The portion of outstanding derivatives that was collateralized is specified as follows: € million January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 63 — Total net derivative liabilities subject to collateralization 63 — Collateralized amount 17 — The carrying amount of trade and other (non-)current receivables, cash and cash equivalents, accounts payable, short-term deposits and similar instruments, and other current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values because of the short-term nature of these instruments and, for receivables, because of the fact that any recoverability loss is reflected in an impairment loss. The fair values of quoted borrowings for which an active market exists are based on year-end quoted prices. The fair value of other non-derivative financial assets and liabilities that are not traded in an active market are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses based on market rates prevailing at year-end. The fair value of the cumulative preferred financing shares is measured as the present value of expected future cash flows. Such cash flows include the dividend payments and the payments of the nominal value plus paid in capital. Expected future cash flows are discounted by using the yield curves derived from quoted interest rates and Credit Default Swap rates that match the maturity of the contracts. The conditions for redemption and conversion of the cumulative preferred financing shares are disclosed in Note 22. The accrued interest is included in other current financial liabilities (see Note 26) and not in the carrying amounts of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities. Short-term deposits and similar instruments (€110 million) contain short-term liquid investments that are considered part of Ahold Delhaize’s cash management financial assets. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 190 Notes to the 30 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Derivatives consolidated Fair values, notional amounts, maturities and the qualification of derivative financial instruments for accounting purposes are presented in the financial statements table below: January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 continued Fair value Notional Fair value Notional € million Maturity Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities amount Forward foreign currency contracts1 Within 1 year 1 — 85 — — 83 Cross-currency swap2 After 5 years — — — — (210) 253 Total cash flow hedges 1 — 85 — (210) 336 Interest rate swaps3 Within 1 year 15 — 293 — — — Cross-currency swaps3,4 Within 1 year 283 (18) 557 — — — Interest rate swap3 Between 1 to 5 years — — — 29 — 340 Cross-currency swap3,4 Between 1 to 5 years — — — 309 — 340 Cross-currency swaps After 5 years — (45) 216 – – – Total derivatives – no hedge accounting treatment 298 (63) 773 338 — 340 Total derivative financial instruments 299 (63) 858 338 (210) 676 1 Foreign currency forwards designated as cash flow hedges are used to hedge the future cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. 2 Cross-currency swap accounted for as a cash flow hedge used to hedge currency and cash flow risk on floating debt denominated in foreign currency, related to JPY 33,000 million notes (see Note 21 for additional information). The yen-euro currency swap was unwound on November 15, 2016. 3 Interest rate swap and cross-currency swap relate to the same notional amount of GBP 250 million. 4 As of January 1, 2017, the valuation of the GBP 250 million cross-currency swap, related to the GBP 250 million notes (see Note 21 for additional information) includes the impact of the mark‑to-market valuation of an embedded credit clause in the amount of nil. The volatility in the financial markets resulted in a gain of nil related to this credit clause in the year 2016 (2015: nil). Ahold Delhaize is required under these swap contracts to redeem the U.S. dollar notional amount through semi-annual installments that commenced in September 2004. $342 million has been paid down as of January 1, 2017. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 191 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions Compensation of key management personnel consolidated Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the financial statements Company as a whole. The Company considers all members of the Executive Committee (ExCo) and the Supervisory Board to be key management personnel as defined in IAS 24 “Related parties.” At the end of 2016, the ExCo consisted of the Management Board and four other members. continued The total compensation of key management personnel in 2016 amounts to €24,969 thousand (2015: €26,157 thousand). This includes an estimate of additional wage tax relating to Board members leaving the Company due in accordance with Dutch tax laws in the amount of €0.1 million (2015: €5.1 million). (Service) Agreements with individual Management Board members Dick Boer In 2016, the Company provided Dick Boer with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of €1,000 thousand was increased by 1.75% to €1,017 thousand effective March 28, 2016. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Unless Dick Boer’s employment agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2019. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for reasons other than cause or because he is not reappointed by shareholders, Dick Boer is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Dick Boer with a notice period of six months. Dick Boer participates in the company’s Dutch pension plan. Frans Muller In 2016, the Company provided Frans Muller with an annual base salary of €1,007 thousand, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, Frans Muller receives a temporary housing allowance of €7,500 net per month as well as school fees. Effective October 5, 2016, Frans Muller has received a temporary expat allowance related to his interim role at Delhaize America. Unless Frans Muller’s service agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. If the Company terminates his service agreement for reasons other than cause or because he is not reappointed by shareholders, Frans Muller is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His service agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Frans Muller with a notice period of six months. Frans Muller participates in the Company’s Belgian pension plan and will transition into the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Jeff Carr In 2016, the Company provided Jeff Carr with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of €666 thousand was increased by 1.75% to €678 thousand effective March 28, 2016. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, Jeff Carr receives a housing allowance of €7,000 net per month. Unless Jeff Carr’s employment agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for reasons other than cause or because he is not reappointed by shareholders, Jeff Carr is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Jeff Carr with a notice period of six months. Jeff Carr participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 192 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Pierre Bouchut consolidated In 2016, the Company provided Pierre Bouchut with an annual base salary of €641 thousand, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and financial statements participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Unless Pierre Bouchut’s employment agreement continued is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for reasons other than cause or because he is not reappointed by shareholders, Pierre Bouchut is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Pierre Bouchut with a notice period of six months. Pierre Bouchut participates in the Company’s Belgian pension plan. Kevin Holt In 2016, the Company provided Kevin Holt with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of $763 thousand was increased to $925 thousand effective October 1, 2016, following his appointment as COO of Ahold USA. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, Kevin Holt is entitled to receive a housing allowance up to $7,500 net per month. Unless Kevin Holt’s employment agreement is otherwise terminated, he will be eligible for reappointment at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2020. If the Company terminates his employment agreement for reasons other than cause or because he is not reappointed by shareholders, Kevin Holt is entitled to a severance payment equal to one year’s base salary. His employment agreement may be terminated by the Company with a notice period of 12 months and by Kevin Holt with a notice period of six months. Kevin Holt participates in the Company’s U.S. pension plan. James McCann In 2016, the Company provided James McCann with an annual base salary, participation in the annual cash incentive plan and participation in the Company’s equity-based long-term incentive plan (GRO – see Note 32). The annual base salary of €666 thousand was increased by 1.75% to €678 thousand effective March 28, 2016. The at-target payout under the annual cash incentive plan is 100% of base salary and is capped at 150% in the event of extraordinary performance. Furthermore, James McCann receives a housing allowance of $10,000 net per month. James McCann participates in the Company’s Dutch pension plan. On October 5, 2016, it was announced that James McCann has resigned as COO of Ahold USA and as a member of Ahold Delhaize’s Management Board. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of April 30, 2017, without any severance payment due. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 193 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the Management Board by member consolidated Direct remuneration Deferred remuneration financial statements € thousand Base salary1 EIP2 Other3 Total direct remuneration Share-based compensation5 Pensions6 Total remuneration7 continued Dick Boer 2016 1,013 1,271 297 2,581 2,063 70 4,714 2015 1,000 1,350 305 2,655 1,607 67 4,329 Frans Muller 2016* 446 323 192 961 1,168 163 2,292 2015 — — — — — — — Jeff Carr 2016 675 773 297 1,745 1,026 31 2,802 2015 666 899 307 1,872 835 29 2,736 Pierre Bouchut 2016* 280 184 113 577 684 72 1,333 2015 — — — — — — — Kevin Holt 2016* 329 252 15 596 221 60 877 2015 — — — — — — — Total 2016 2,743 2,803 914 6,460 5,162 396 12,018 Total 2015 1,666 2,249 612 4,527 2,442 96 7,065 * For the members appointed to the Management Board in 2016, the 2016 remuneration reflects a partial year. Remuneration of the former members of the Management Board Direct remuneration Deferred remuneration Total direct Share-based Total € thousand Base salary1 EIP2 Other3,4 remuneration compensation5 Pensions6 remuneration7 James McCann4 2016 514 590 2,501 3,605 421 31 4,057 2015 666 899 1,176 2,741 1,010 30 3,781 Lodewijk Hijmans van den Bergh 2016 — — — — — — — 2015 91 122 108 321 190 5 516 Total 2016 514 590 2,501 3,605 421 31 4,057 Total 2015 757 1,021 1,284 3,062 1,200 35 4,297 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 194 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the Executive Committee including Management Board consolidated The table below specifies the remuneration of the ExCo, comprising the Management Board members, the former members of the Management financial statements Board, as listed above and the additional ExCo members who were not part of the Management Board. € thousand 2016 2015 continued Base salary 5,121 4,241 EIP2 5,535 5,724 Other3, 4 4,436 4,672 Share-based compensation5 7,544 5,230 Pensions6 616 302 Total remuneration 23,252 20,169 1 Base salary represents the base salaries paid in 2016. Frans Muller, Pierre Bouchut and Kevin Holt were appointed as members of the Management Board effective July 24, 2016. The 2016 base salary for them reflects a partial year. 2 The ExCo incentive Plan (EIP) represents accrued annual cash incentives to be paid in the following year based on an overall weighted EIP. For an explanation of the Company’s remuneration policy, see Remuneration under the Governance section of this report. For Dick Boer, Jeff Carr and James McCann, the EIP for the year 2016 has been determined pro rata for the period up to the merger and after the merger became effective. Frans Muller, Pierre Bouchut and Kevin Holt were appointed as members of the Management Board effective July 24, 2016. For them, the 2016 EIP reflects a partial year and has been determined pro rata for the period after the merger became effective. The overall 2016 performance multiplier was 108%. The individual EIP amounts also include the component linked to individual performance. In recognition of outstanding leadership leading up to and since the completion of the merger, the Supervisory Board increased the EIP payout for Dick Boer by 11% for 2016, in line with the parameters of the Company’s Remuneration Policy. 3 “Other” mainly includes gross allowances for net pension, tax compensation (tax equalization charges for expatriates), allowances for housing expenses for certain individuals, relocation costs, international school fees, employer’s contributions to social security plans, benefits in kind such as tax advice, medical expenses, and the associated tax gross up. Included in “Other” for Dick Boer in 2016 is a negative amount of €7.6 thousand, an amount reclaimed by the Company in accordance with Dutch law in respect of a share sale before the closing of the merger. 4 James McCann, Chief Operating Officer of Ahold USA and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down on October 5, 2016. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of April 30, 2017, without any severance payment due. Outstanding shares under the GRO plan will vest over the term of employment in accordance with the applicable plan rules. Unvested shares outstanding at the termination date will be forfeited. An estimate of the remuneration costs relating to the period after October 5, 2016, until April 30, 2017, was recognized in 2016 in “Other” €1,131 thousand and in “Share-based compensation” a net reversal of costs of €119 thousand. Additionally included in “Other” for James McCann in 2016 is tax compensation of €893 thousand (2015: €805 thousand). 5 The fair value of each year’s grant is determined on the grant date and expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The expense for 2016 reflects this year’s portion of the share grants over the previous five years (2012 to 2016). The share-based compensation expense also includes the expense related to the shares under the special purpose plan as described in Note 32. Under this program, 105,000 shares were granted in 2013 to ExCo members who were not part of the Management Board, of which the last tranche vested in 2015 (2015: 35,000). The total share-based compensation expense in 2016 for these ExCo members is €1,961 thousand (2015: €1,588 thousand) of which nil (2015: €46 thousand) relates to the special purpose plan and €1,961 thousand (2015: €1,542 thousand) to the grants under the GRO program. 6 Pension costs are the total net periodic pension costs of the applicable pension plans. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 195 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Remuneration of the Supervisory Board members consolidated € thousand 2016 2015 financial statements Mats Jansson (appointed in 2016) Jan Hommen (appointed in 2013) 115 177 122 — continued Jacques de Vaucleroy (appointed in 2016) 80 — Jack Stahl (appointed in 2016) 76 — Ben Noteboom (reappointed in 2013) 133 103 Bill McEwan (appointed in 2016) 71 — Rob van den Bergh (reappointed in 2015) 132 127 Stephanie Shern (reappointed in 2013) 140 127 Mark McGrath (reappointed in 2016) 160 131 René Hooft Graafland (appointed in 2014) 127 114 Mary Anne Citrino (appointed in 2016) 136 — Johnny Thijs (appointed in 2016) 55 — Patrick De Maeseneire (appointed in 2016) 59 — Dominique Leroy (appointed in 2016) 58 — Derk Doijer (resigned in July 2016) 56 116 Judith Sprieser (resigned in July 2015) — 63 Total 1,575 903 The Supervisory Board remuneration for 2016 is in accordance with the Supervisory Board remuneration policies applicable in 2016. Up to the date of the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, the Ahold remuneration policy applied. This policy was adopted at the General Meeting of Shareholders on April 16, 2014. Ahold Delhaize’s remuneration policy, adopted at the General Meeting of Shareholders on April 19, 2016, applies as of July 24, 2016 – the first calendar day after the merger of Ahold and Delhaize was finalized. For the members who were appointed or resigned in 2016, the remuneration for 2016 reflects a partial year. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 196 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Shares and other interests in Ahold Delhaize consolidated As of January 1, 2017, Management Board members held the following shares and other interests in Ahold Delhaize: financial statements Common shares subject to additional Other Total continued holding common common Number of shares requirement1 shares shares Dick Boer 152,435 249,112 401,547 Frans Muller2 — 47,642 47,642 Jeff Carr 86,952 26,013 112,965 Pierre Bouchut — 442,049 442,049 Kevin Holt — — — Total 239,387 764,816 1,004,203 1 In line with best practice II.2.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code 2008 and the Management Board remuneration policy, shares granted and vested under the GRO program to Management Board members should be retained for a period of at least five years after grant, except to finance tax payable at the vesting date, or at least until the end date of resignation from the Management Board, if this period is shorter. 2 Additionally, 9,579 shares are held by Frans Muller in the form of American Depository Receipts. As of January 1, 2017, Jacques de Vaucleroy held 829,023 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Ben Noteboom held 15,637 Ahold Delhaize common shares, Bill McEwan held 7,125 Ahold Delhaize American Depository Receipts, Rob van den Bergh held 13,031 Ahold Delhaize common shares and Johnny Thijs held 5,673 Ahold Delhaize common shares. None of the other Supervisory Board members held Ahold Delhaize shares. Ahold Delhaize does not provide loans or advances to members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board. There are no loans or advances outstanding. Ahold Delhaize does not issue guarantees to the benefit of members of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board. No such guarantees are outstanding. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 197 Notes to the 31 Related party transactions continued Trading transactions consolidated Ahold Delhaize has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course of its business. financial statements These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements. Transactions were conducted at market prices. During 2016 and 2015, the Company entered into the following transactions with unconsolidated related parties: continued For the year ended January 1, 2017 Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases from receivable from payable to Commitments to € million related parties related parties related parties related parties related parties Stationsdrogisterijen 17 — — 7 — JMR 5 — 1 — — Cathedral Commons — 1 — — 25 Other 2 4 11 1 14 Total 24 5 12 8 39 For the year ended January 3, 2016 Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases from receivable from payable to Commitments to € million related parties related parties related parties related parties related parties Stationsdrogisterijen 17 — — 6 — JMR 5 — 1 — — Cathedral Commons — 1 — — 26 Other 4 3 11 — 16 Total 26 4 12 6 42 These unconsolidated related parties consist of: • Stationsdrogisterijen C.V., a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the health and beauty care retail business. • JMR, a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the retail business (see Note 14). • Cathedral Commons Partners, LLC, a real estate joint venture of Ahold Delhaize. • Super Indo, a joint venture of Ahold Delhaize in the retail business (see Note 14), included in “Other”. • “Other,” which includes mainly real estate joint ventures in which Ahold Delhaize has an interest, holding properties operated by Ahold Delhaize and Loyalty Management Nederland B.V., an associate of Ahold Delhaize that renders services relating to the management of customer loyalty programs to certain Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries in the Netherlands. • Ahold Delhaize participates in Coopernic and AMS, which are cooperative European purchase alliances towards third-party vendors. Receivable and payable positions occur with these buying alliances. These transactions are considered to reflect the results of the negotiated purchasing terms with the third-party vendors. As such, these transactions are not shown in the table above of related party transactions. Furthermore, the Company’s post-employment benefit plans in the Netherlands and the United States are considered related parties. For more information on these plans, see Note 23. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 198 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation consolidated In 2016, Ahold Delhaize’s share-based compensation program consisted of a share grant program called Global Reward Opportunity (GRO). Total 2016 GRO share-based compensation expenses were €61 million (2015: €47 million). Ahold Delhaize’s share-based compensation programs financial statements are equity-settled. The fair value of the shares granted under the GRO program in 2016 at grant date was €97 million, of which €7 million related to Management continued Board members. The fair value is expensed over the vesting period of the grants adjusted for expected annual forfeitures of 5% (2015: 5%), excluding Management Board members. For the share-based compensation expenses allocable to the individual Management Board members, see Note 31. The fair value of the shares granted under a one-time retention incentive award (refer to Other awards in the paragraph below) was €29 million and is expensed over the vesting period. GRO program Main characteristics A revised GRO program was introduced in 2016. The performance shares granted under this program vest on the day after the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in the third year after the grant, subject to certain performance conditions. The revised GRO program employs two financial measures: Return on Capital (RoC) and Total Shareholder Return (TSR), as well as non-financial performance measures related to sustainable retailing targets. The total GRO award is comprised of three portions of shares. The first 40% is linked to a three-year RoC target. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest may range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. Another 40% is linked to TSR (share price growth and dividends paid over the performance period), with performance at vesting benchmarked against the TSR performance of a peer group comprised of 14 companies (refer to the Remuneration section for the composition of the peer group). The number of shares that vest depends on the Company’s relative ranking in the peer group and may range between zero and a maximum of 175% of the number of shares granted (refer to table below for the vesting percentages based on Ahold Delhaize’s ranking within the peer group). For the remaining 20% of the total GRO share award, the performance at vesting is measured using sustainable retailing targets. This measure relates to the Company’s sustainable retailing strategic ambitions. The targets set under this non-financial performance measure are both qualitative and quantitative. Depending on performance, the number of shares that eventually vest can range between zero and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. The table below indicates the percentage of shares that could vest based on Ahold Delhaize’s TSR ranking within the peer group: 2016 GRO program rank 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 All participants 175% 150% 125% 110% 100% 80% 50% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Treatment outstanding performance shares Shares awarded in previous years under the Ahold GRO program (to former Ahold Management Board members and associates) and the Delhaize European long‑term incentive plan (to former Delhaize Management Board members) have been rolled over in the (new) Ahold Delhaize’s longterm equity‑based program (2016 GRO). Outstanding (non-vested) performance share awards remaining from the Ahold GRO plan have been split into two parts. One part, which is related to the full performance years prior to the year of the merger (2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, where applicable), has been assessed against the performance of Ahold as a standalone company, on the basis of the existing performance measures. Based on the performance realized in those years, this part of the award has been assessed on the basis of the applicable share programs and converted into restricted Ahold Delhaize shares. These restricted shares are not subject to additional performance criteria, but will be subject to the remaining vesting period and continued employment. The other part, which is related to the performance during the year of the merger (2016) and beyond, will be assessed against the financial measures of Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based plan. The outstanding conditional shares will continue to be subject to the remaining vesting period and continued employment. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 199 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued consolidated Outstanding (non-vested) performance shares awarded under the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan have similarly been converted into Ahold Delhaize restricted shares and shares which are subject to meeting the performance measures of the Ahold Delhaize GRO plan. financial statements Shares granted in 2014 and 2015 converted in 2016 Under the 2013-2015 GRO program, shares were granted over a three-year period. The program consisted of three components: one with a continued performance hurdle at grant (conditional share grant) and two components with a performance hurdle at vesting (performance share grants). The size of the conditional share grant was subject to the Executive Incentive Plan Multiplier of the preceding year. Half of the performance share grant was linked to a three-year RoC target. Dependent on RoC performance, the number of shares that eventually vested could range between 0% and a maximum of 150% of the number of shares granted. For the other half of the performance share grant, the performance at vesting was measured using the TSR ranking. The table below indicates the percentage of shares with a TSR performance measure under the 2013-2015 GRO program that could vest based on Ahold’s ranking within the peer group: 2013-2015 GRO program rank 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Vice President and up 175% 150% 125% 100% 75% 50% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Other participants 150% 135% 120% 105% 90% 75% 60% 45% 30% 15% 7.5% 0% As of the end of 2015, for the performance years 2014-2015, Ahold held the third position with respect to the 2014 share grant and the second position with respect to the 2015 share grant. Based on these rankings the TSR performance shares were converted into restricted shares. The 2014 grant used a percentage of 125% for Vice President and up and 120% for other participants, and the 2015 grant used a percentage of 150% for Vice President and up and 135% for other participants. The remaining portion (one year for the 2014 grant and two years for the 2015 grant) will be assessed against the TSR performance of the 2016 GRO plan. Ahold’s RoC performance as of the end of 2015 was 93% of target with respect to the 2014 year share grant and 100% of target with respect to the 2015 share grant. The RoC performance shares were converted into restricted shares using these vesting percentages. The remaining portion (one year for the 2014 grant and two years for the 2015 grant) will be assessed against Ahold Delhaize’s RoC performance. Shares granted in 2012 converted in 2016 Under the 2006-2012 GRO program, Ahold shares were granted through a mid-term (three-year) and a long-term (five-year) program. For participants other than the Management Board members, the mid-term component of the program contained a matching share feature. For every five shares a participant held for an additional two years after the vesting date, the participant receives one additional share. Under the 2006-2012 GRO program, the shares granted through the long-term component were subject to a performance condition. The number of shares that ultimately vest depends on Ahold’s performance compared to other retail companies, measured over a five-year period using TSR. The table below indicates the percentage of shares that could vest based on Ahold’s ranking within the peer group: 2006-2012 GRO program rank 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Management Board 150% 130% 110% 90% 70% 50% 25% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Other participants 150% 135% 120% 105% 90% 75% 60% 45% 30% 15% 7.5% 0% As of the end of 2015, Ahold held the second position among the peer group for the performance years 2012-2015. Based on this TSR ranking, the performance shares for the 2012 five-year share grant were converted into restricted shares using the measure of 130% for Management Board members and 135% for other participants. The remaining portion of the 2012 five-year grant, which is related to the Company’s performance in 2016, will be assessed against the TSR performance measure of the 2016 GRO plan. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 200 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued consolidated Remaining unvested shares granted under the 2006-2012 and the 2013-2015 GRO program will vest on the day after the publication of Ahold Delhaize’s full-year results in the third year (three-year programs) or fifth year (five-year programs) after the grant, subject to performance financial statements conditions and provided the participant is still employed by Ahold Delhaize. Remaining unvested shares granted to Management Board members will vest on the day after the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in the third year (mid-term component) or fifth year (long-term component) continued after the grant, subject to performance conditions and continued employment. Other awards A limited number of shares were granted to other ExCo members and other employees in 2014 and 2015 under a special purpose plan. This program consists of unconditional and conditional shares. The unconditional shares vest immediately on the award date. The conditional shares vest in two tranches. Half of the conditional shares vest on the day after the publication of Ahold Delhaize’s full-year results in the first year and half in the second year after the grant. Also, a number of shares were granted to a select group of senior management (excluding the Management Board and ExCo members) in 2016 under a one-time retention incentive award. The vesting of these individual share awards is contingent upon the realization of the merger implementation. These performance shares will vest in two installments of 50% each of the granted shares. The first installment will vest 12 months after the date of grant. The second installment will vest 24 months after the date of grant. To underline the retention function of this award, an additional holding period of 12 months applies from the date of vesting. Shares vesting in 2017 In 2017, the 2012 five-year GRO and the 2014 GRO grant will vest. The GRO shares vesting will comprise both conditional shares as well as performance shares based on the Company’s TSR and RoC performance. Part of the TSR and RoC performance share grants were already converted into restricted shares in 2016 (see Shares granted in 2012 converted in 2016 and Shares granted in 2014 and 2015 converted in 2016 above) and are not subject to additional performance criteria. For the remaining portion of the performance shares, 2016 TSR and RoC performance was assessed. As of the end of 2016, Ahold Delhaize ranked second in the TSR peer group with respect to the 2012 five-year share grant and first with respect to the 2014 grant. Based on these TSR rankings and applying the 2016 GRO vesting table, the vesting percentage for the 2012 grant was 150% and for the 2014 grant 175%. At the end of each reporting period, Ahold Delhaize revises its estimates of the number of shares that are expected to vest based on the nonmarket vesting conditions (RoC and sustainable retailing performance). Ahold Delhaize recognizes the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. The final vesting percentage for the portion of the 2014 shares dependent on Ahold Delhaize’s RoC performance is 117%. On April 13, 2017, a maximum of 0.3 million shares granted in 2014 to members of the Management Board under the Ahold GRO plan and 0.2 million performance shares granted in 2012 to members of the Management Board under the five-year component of the Ahold GRO plan are expected to vest. On May 26, 2017, a maximum of 0.2 million shares granted in 2014 to members of the Management Board under the Delhaize European long-term incentive plan are expected to vest. Except to finance taxes and social security charges due on the vesting date, members of the Management Board cannot sell shares for a period of at least five years following the grant date, or until the date of resignation from the Management Board, if this period is shorter. On March 2, 2017, a maximum of 3.3 million shares granted in 2014 to Ahold Delhaize associates under the Ahold GRO plan, 2.7 million performance shares granted in 2012 to Ahold Delhaize associates under the five-year component of the Ahold GRO plan and 0.1 million matching shares granted in 2012 to Ahold Delhaize associates under the three-year component of the Ahold GRO plan are expected to vest. Vesting is subject to the participant being employed by the Company on the applicable vesting date. As of vesting date, participants are allowed to sell all or part of the shares vested, subject to insider trading restrictions as applicable from time to time. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 201 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued consolidated In addition, a maximum number of 0.7 million shares granted in 2016 to Ahold Delhaize associates under the one-time retention plan are expected to vest in November 2017, provided the performance conditions are met. financial statements The Company will use treasury shares for the delivery of the vested shares. continued The following table summarizes the status of the GRO program during 2016 for the individual Management Board members and for all other employees in the aggregate. Fair value Outstanding per share at the Outstanding Minimum Maximum at the beginning of Performance at the end of number of number of grant date Incremental 2016 Granted1 adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited Converted4 2016 shares5 shares6 (€) fair value7 Dick Boer Five-year 2011 grant 65,965 — 6,596 72,561 — — — — — 6.00 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant 73,026 — — — — (73,026) — — — 7.81 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant – Restricted — — 17,526 — — 58,421 75,947 75,947 75,947 7.81 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant – Performance — — — — — 14,605 14,605 — 25,558 7.81 2.60 2013 TSR grant 63,221 — — 63,221 — — — — — 7.76 0.00 2013 RoC grant 63,221 — (25,289) 37,932 — — — — — 10.52 0.00 2013 Conditional grant 25,757 — — 25,757 — — — — — 10.52 0.00 2014 TSR grant 49,844 — — — — (49,844) — — — 11.20 0.00 2014 Restricted (TSR) — — 8,308 — — 33,229 41,537 41,537 41,537 11.20 0.00 2014 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 16,615 16,615 — 29,076 11.20 0.25 2014 RoC grant 49,844 — — — — (49,844) — — — 12.40 0.00 2014 Restricted (RoC) — — (2,326) — — 33,229 30,903 30,903 30,903 12.40 0.00 2014 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 16,615 16,615 — 24,922 12.40 0.00 2014 Conditional grant 32,860 — — — — — 32,860 32,860 32,860 12.40 0.00 2015 TSR grant 54,336 — — — — (54,336) — — — 14.66 0.00 2015 Restricted (TSR) — — 9,056 — — 18,112 27,168 27,168 27,168 14.66 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 36,224 36,224 — 63,392 14.66 0.00 2015 RoC grant 54,336 — — — — (54,336) — — — 18.14 0.00 2015 Restricted (RoC) — — — — — 18,112 18,112 18,112 18,112 18.14 0.00 2015 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 36,224 36,224 — 54,336 18.14 0.00 2015 Conditional grant 14,383 — — — — — 14,383 14,383 14,383 18.14 0.00 2016 TSR grant — 48,680 — — — — 48,680 — 85,190 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant — 48,680 — — — — 48,680 — 73,020 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable retailing grant — 24,340 — — — — 24,340 — 36,510 20.15 0.00 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 202 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued consolidated Fair value Outstanding per share at the Outstanding Minimum Maximum at the financial statements beginning of 2016 Granted1 Performance adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited Converted4 at the end of number of number of 2016 shares5 shares6 grant date Incremental (€) fair value7 Frans Muller continued 2014 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 13,197 13,197 — 23,094 21.23 8.56 2014 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 13,197 13,197 — 19,795 21.23 0.00 2014 Restricted — — — — — 79,183 79,183 79,183 79,183 21.23 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 18,026 18,026 — 31,545 20.67 2.21 2015 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 18,026 18,026 — 27,039 20.67 0.00 2015 Restricted — — — — — 27,040 27,040 27,040 27,040 20.67 0.00 2016 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 30,162 30,162 — 52,783 20.44 0.00 2016 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 30,162 30,162 — 45,243 20.21 0.00 2016 Performance (Sustainability) — — — — — 15,082 15,082 — 22,623 20.21 0.00 2016 TSR grant — 41,035 — — — — 41,035 — 71,811 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant — 41,035 — — — — 41,035 — 61,552 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable retailing grant — 20,518 — — — — 20,518 — 30,777 20.15 0.00 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 203 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued consolidated Fair value Outstanding per share at the Outstanding Minimum Maximum at the financial statements beginning of 2016 Granted1 Performance adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited Converted4 at the end of number of number of 2016 shares5 shares6 grant date Incremental (€) fair value7 Jeff Carr continued Five-year 2011 grant 50,388 — 5,038 55,426 — — — — — 5.80 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant 45,405 — — — — (45,405) — — — 7.81 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant – Restricted — — 10,897 — — 36,324 47,221 47,221 47,221 7.81 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant – Performance — — — — — 9,081 9,081 — 15,891 7.81 2.60 2013 TSR grant 29,539 — — 29,539 — — — — — 7.76 0.00 2013 RoC grant 29,539 — (11,816) 17,723 — — — — — 10.52 0.00 2013 Conditional grant 16,247 — — 16,247 — — — — — 10.52 0.00 2014 TSR grant 24,614 — — — — (24,614) — — — 11.20 0.00 2014 Restricted (TSR) — — 4,103 — — 16,409 20,512 20,512 20,512 11.20 0.00 2014 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 8,205 8,205 — 14,358 11.20 0.25 2014 RoC grant 24,614 — — — — (24,614) — — — 12.40 0.00 2014 Restricted (RoC) — — (1,148) — — 16,409 15,261 15,261 15,261 12.40 0.00 2014 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 8,205 8,205 — 12,307 12.40 0.00 2014 Conditional grant 21,907 — — — — — 21,907 21,907 21,907 12.40 0.00 2015 TSR grant 21,309 — — — — (21,309) — — — 14.66 0.00 2015 Restricted (TSR) — — 3,552 — — 7,103 10,655 10,655 10,655 14.66 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 14,206 14,206 — 24,860 14.66 0.00 2015 RoC grant 21,309 — — — — (21,309) — — — 18.14 0.00 2015 Restricted (RoC) — — — — — 7,103 7,103 7,103 7,103 18.14 0.00 2015 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 14,206 14,206 — 21,309 18.14 0.00 2015 Conditional grant 9,589 — — — — — 9,589 9,589 9,589 18.14 0.00 2016 TSR grant — 24,168 — — — — 24,168 — 42,294 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant — 24,168 — — — — 24,168 — 36,252 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable retailing grant — 12,084 — — — — 12,084 — 18,126 20.15 0.00 Pierre Bouchut 2014 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 12,131 12,131 — 21,229 21.23 8.56 2014 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 12,131 12,131 — 18,196 21.23 0.00 2014 Restricted — — — — — 72,784 72,784 72,784 72,784 21.23 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 15,534 15,534 — 27,184 20.67 2.21 2015 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 15,534 15,534 — 23,301 20.67 0.00 2015 Restricted — — — — — 23,301 23,301 23,301 23,301 20.67 0.00 2016 TSR grant — 19,585 — — — — 19,585 — 34,273 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant — 19,585 — — — — 19,585 — 29,377 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable retailing grant — 9,793 — — — — 9,793 — 14,689 20.15 0.00 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 204 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued consolidated Fair value Outstanding per share at the Outstanding Minimum Maximum at the financial statements beginning of 2016 Granted1 Performance adjustment2 Vested3 Forfeited Converted4 at the end of number of 2016 shares5 number of shares6 grant date Incremental (€) fair value7 Kevin Holt continued 2016 TSR grant — 27,416 — — — — 27,416 — 47,978 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant — 27,416 — — — — 27,416 — 41,124 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable retailing grant — 13,708 — — — — 13,708 — 20,562 20.15 0.00 James McCann8 Five-year 2011 grant 50,388 — 5,038 55,426 — — — — — 5.80 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant 45,405 — — — — (45,405) — — — 7.81 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant – Restricted — — 10,897 — — 36,324 47,221 47,221 47,221 7.81 0.00 Five-year 2012 grant – Performance — — — — — 9,081 9,081 — 15,891 7.81 2.60 2013 TSR grant 42,147 — — 42,147 — — — — — 7.76 0.00 2013 RoC grant 42,147 — (16,859) 25,288 — — — — — 10.52 0.00 2013 Conditional grant 17,171 — — 17,171 — — — — — 10.52 0.00 2014 TSR grant 33,229 — — — — (33,229) — — — 11.20 0.00 2014 Restricted (TSR) — — 5,538 — — 22,153 27,691 27,691 27,691 11.20 0.00 2014 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 11,076 11,076 — 19,383 11.20 0.25 2014 RoC grant 33,229 — — — — (33,229) — — — 12.40 0.00 2014 Restricted (RoC) — — (1,551) — — 22,153 20,602 20,602 20,602 12.40 0.00 2014 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 11,076 11,076 — 16,614 12.40 0.00 2014 Conditional grant 21,907 — — — — — 21,907 21,907 21,907 12.40 0.00 2015 TSR grant 28,766 — — — — (28,766) — — — 14.66 0.00 2015 Restricted (TSR) — — 4,794 — — 9,589 14,383 14,383 14,383 14.66 0.00 2015 Performance (TSR) — — — — — 19,177 19,177 — 33,559 14.66 0.00 2015 RoC grant 28,766 — — — — (28,766) — — — 18.14 0.00 2015 Restricted (RoC) — — — — — 9,589 9,589 9,589 9,589 18.14 0.00 2015 Performance (RoC) — — — — — 19,177 19,177 — 28,765 18.14 0.00 2015 Conditional grant 9,589 — — — — — 9,589 9,589 9,589 18.14 0.00 2016 TSR grant — 27,620 — — — — 27,620 — 48,335 20.46 0.00 2016 RoC grant — 27,620 — — — — 27,620 — 41,430 20.15 0.00 2016 Sustainable retailing grant — 13,810 — — — — 13,810 — 20,715 20.15 0.00 Subtotal Management Board members 1,193,997 471,261 32,354 458,438 — 395,490 1,634,664 726,448 2,192,716 1 Represents the number of shares originally granted for the 2016 grant. 2 Represents the adjustment to the number of shares granted resulting from the TSR ranking and RoC performance. 3 The vesting date of the five-year 2011 grant and the three-year 2013 grant was April 20, 2016. The Euronext share price was €19.84 on April 20, 2016. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 205 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued consolidated 4 Represents the conversion of shares, awarded in years prior to the merger, into restricted shares (conversion before applying the performance adjustment) and performance shares. The outstanding awards remaining from past grants have been split into two parts as explained in the section Treatment of outstanding performance shares. financial statements 5 For the conditional and restricted shares, the minimum number of shares that could potentially vest equals the number of outstanding shares. For the TSR performance grants, the minimum number of shares that could potentially vest would be nil if Ahold Delhaize’s ranking was eight or lower (as explained in the section Main characteristics above). For the RoC and Sustainability performance grants, the minimum number of shares that could potentially vest equals nil (as explained in the section Main characteristics above). continued 6 For the conditional and restricted shares, the maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals the number of outstanding shares. For the TSR performance grants, the maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals 175% of outstanding shares if Ahold Delhaize’s ranking is one. For the RoC performance grants and for the Sustainable retailing performance grants the maximum number of shares that could potentially vest equals 150% of outstanding shares, (as explained in the section Main characteristics above). 7 Represents the incremental fair value for the shares converted in 2016. 8 James McCann, Chief Operating Officer of Ahold USA and member of the Management Board and Executive Committee, stepped down on October 5, 2016. His employment relationship with Ahold Delhaize will terminate as of April 30, 2017. Outstanding shares under the GRO plan will vest over the term of employment in accordance with the applicable plan rules. Unvested shares outstanding at the termination date will be forfeited. Outstanding Outstanding at the beginning Performance at the end of 2016 Granted 1,2 adjustment3 Vested 4 Forfeited Converted 5 of 2016 Other employees 2011 grant 1,935,302 95,323 385,773 2,412,936 3,462 — — 2012 grant 2,114,613 — 577,609 68,525 99,941 — 2,523,756 2013 grant 3,527,569 — (459,969) 3,029,244 38,356 — — 2014 grant6 3,112,251 — 105,769 94,282 152,773 34,314 3,005,279 2015 grant7 2,970,642 — 160,657 75,102 175,005 21,242 2,902,434 2016 grant — 4,364,099 — — 96,127 — 4,267,972 2016 retention award — 1,442,170 — — — — 1,442,170 Subtotal Management Board members 1,193,997 471,261 32,354 458,438 — 395,490 1,634,664 Total number of shares 14,854,374 6,372,853 802,193 6,138,527 565,664 451,046 15,776,275 1 For the five-year 2011 grant, the number of shares allocated in 2016 represents the actual number of matching shares related to the 2011 grant. 2 The grant date fair value of the matching shares is expensed over the five-year vesting period. This table presents the matching shares as awarded in the year of vesting. The total number of matching shares granted up to and outstanding at the end of the 2016 is 104,428 (2015: 219,328). 3 Represents the adjustment to the number of shares granted resulting from the TSR ranking and RoC performance. 4 The vesting date of the five-year 2011 grant, the matching shares related to the 2011 grant and the 2013 grant was March 3, 2016. The Euronext share price was €20.36 on March 3, 2016. 5 Represents the conversion of shares, awarded in years prior to the merger, into restricted shares (conversion before applying the performance adjustment) and performance shares. The outstanding awards remaining from past grants have been split into two parts as explained in the section Treatment of outstanding performance shares. The incremental fair value for the 2012 grant is €1.39 for all other employees, for the 2014 performance TSR grant the incremental fair value is €0.25 for VP and up, and €2.26 for all other employees. For all other converted grants, there is no incremental fair value. 6 The 2014 grant includes the special purpose plan as described above. Under this program, 21,000 shares were granted in 2014, of which 7,000 vested in 2014, 7,000 vested in 2015, 3,000 were cancelled in 2015 and 4,000 vested in 2016. 7 The 2015 grant includes the special purpose plan as described above. Under this program, 61,200 shares were granted in 2015, of which 20,400 vested in 2015 and 24,400 vested in 2016. At the end of 2016, 16,400 shares under this program were outstanding and will vest in 2017. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 206 Notes to the 32 Share-based compensation continued consolidated Valuation model and input variables The weighted average fair value of the shares granted in 2016, for all eligible participants including Management Board members, amounted to financial statements €20.44, €20.13 and €20.13 per share for TSR performance shares, RoC performance shares and Sustainability performance shares, respectively (2015: conditional shares €18.15, TSR performance shares €15.71 and RoC performance shares €18.17). The fair values of the RoC and Sustainable continued retailing performance shares are based on the Black-Scholes model. The fair values of the TSR performance shares are determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, which considers the likelihood of Ahold Delhaize’s TSR ending at various ranks as well as the expected share price at each rank. The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the fair values were as follows: 2016 2015 Opening share price at grant date 21.70 19.65 Risk-free interest rate (0.6)% (0.2)% Volatility 22.2% 18.5% Assumed dividend yield 2.7% 2.7% Expected volatility has been determined based on historical volatilities for a period of three years. The incremental fair values of the shares converted in 2016 in the (new) Ahold Delhaize’s long-term equity-based program has been determined by using the same models as described above. The most important assumptions used in the valuations of the incremental fair values were as follows: 2015 2014 2012 Opening share price at grant date 21.70 21.70 21.70 Risk-free interest rate (0.6)% (0.6)% (0.6)% Volatility 22.2% 22.2% 22.2% Assumed dividend yield 2.7% 2.6% 2.6% Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 207 Notes to the 33 Operating leases Ahold Delhaize as lessee consolidated Ahold Delhaize leases a significant number of its stores, as well as distribution centers, offices and other assets, under operating lease financial statements arrangements. The aggregate amounts of Ahold Delhaize’s minimum lease commitments payable to third parties under non-cancellable operating lease contracts are as follows: continued January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Within one year 1,171 842 Between one and five years 3,462 2,704 After five years 2,856 2,594 Total 7,489 6,140 Certain store leases provide for contingent additional rentals based on a percentage of sales and consumer price indices. Substantially all of the store leases have renewal options for additional terms. None of Ahold Delhaize’s leases impose restrictions on Ahold Delhaize’s ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt or enter into additional leasing arrangements. The annual costs of Ahold Delhaize’s operating leases from continuing operations, net of sublease income, are as follows: € million 2016 2015 Minimum rentals 1,004 823 Contingent rentals 11 17 Sublease income (136) (128) Total 879 712 In addition to the operating lease commitments disclosed above, Ahold Delhaize has signed lease agreements for properties under development of which it has not yet taken possession. The total future minimum lease payments for these agreements amount to approximately €173 million (2015: €109 million). These lease contracts are subject to conditions precedent to the rent commencement date. Ahold Delhaize as lessor Ahold Delhaize rents out its investment properties (mainly retail units in shopping centers containing an Ahold Delhaize store) and also (partially) subleases various other properties that are leased by Ahold Delhaize under operating leases. The aggregate amounts of the related future minimum lease and sublease payments receivable under non-cancellable lease contracts are as follows: January 1, January 3, € million 2017 20161 Within one year 241 211 Between one and five years 593 542 After five years 296 314 Total 1,130 1,067 1 Total adjustment of €22 million from last year’s disclosure of €1,089 million. The total contingent rental income recognized during the year on all leases where Ahold Delhaize is the lessor was €3 million (2015: €2 million). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 208 Notes to the 34 Commitments and contingencies Capital investment commitments consolidated As of January 1, 2017, Ahold Delhaize had outstanding capital investment commitments for property, plant and equipment and investment financial statements property, and for intangible assets of approximately €264 million and €30 million, respectively (January 3, 2016: €228 million and €9 million, respectively). Ahold Delhaize’s share in the capital investment commitments of its unconsolidated joint ventures JMR and Super Indo amounted continued to €7 million as of January 1, 2017 (January 3, 2016: €5 million). Purchase commitments Ahold Delhaize enters into purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of business. Ahold Delhaize has purchase contracts with some vendors for varying terms that require Ahold Delhaize to buy services and predetermined volumes of goods and goods not-for-resale at fixed prices. As of January 1, 2017, the Company’s purchase commitments were approximately €1,086 million (January 3, 2016: €821 million). Not included in the purchase commitments are those purchase contracts for which Ahold Delhaize has received advance vendor allowances, such as upfront signing payments in consideration of its purchase commitments. These contracts generally may be terminated without satisfying the purchase commitments upon the repayment of the unearned portions of the advance vendor allowances. The unearned portion of these advance vendor allowances is recorded as a liability on the balance sheet. Contingent liabilities Guarantees Guarantees to third parties issued by Ahold Delhaize can be summarized as follows: January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Lease guarantees 902 495 Lease guarantees backed by letters of credit 60 68 Corporate and buyback guarantees 34 36 Total 996 599 The amounts included in the table above are the maximum undiscounted amounts the Group could be forced to settle under the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount, if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. As part of the divestment of U.S. Foodservice in 2007, Ahold Delhaize received an irrevocable standby letter of credit for $216 million (€163 million), which was reduced to $64 million (€60 million) as of January 1, 2017 (2015: $73 million (€68 million)). Ahold Delhaize is contingently liable for leases that have been assigned to third parties in connection with facility closings and asset disposals. Ahold Delhaize could be required to assume the financial obligations under these leases, if any of the assignees are unable to fulfill their lease obligations. The lease guarantees are based on the nominal value of future minimum lease payments of the assigned leases, which extend through 2040. The amounts of the lease guarantees exclude the cost of common area maintenance and real estate taxes; such amounts may vary in time, per region, and per property. Of the €902 million in the undiscounted lease guarantees, €184 million relates to the BI-LO / Bruno’s divestment, €204 million to the Sweetbay, Harveys, and Reid’s divestment, €144 million to the Bottom Dollar Food divestment and €161 million to the Tops divestment. On a discounted basis the lease guarantees amount to €786 million and €437 million as of January 1, 2017, and January 3, 2016, respectively. BI-LO / Bruno’s divestment On February 5, 2009, and March 23, 2009, Bruno’s Supermarkets, LLC and BI-LO, LLC, respectively, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the filings). As a result of the filings, Ahold Delhaize has made an assessment of its potential obligations under the lease guarantees based upon the remaining initial term of each lease, an assessment of the possibility that Ahold Delhaize would have to pay under a guarantee and any potential remedies that Ahold Delhaize may have to limit future lease payments. Consequently, in 2009, Ahold Delhaize recognized provisions of €109 million and related tax benefit offsets of €47 million within results on divestments. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 209 Notes to the 34 Commitments and contingencies continued consolidated On May 12, 2010, the reorganized BI-LO exited bankruptcy protection and BI-LO assumed 149 operating locations that are guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. During the BI-LO bankruptcy, BI-LO rejected a total of 16 leases that are guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize and Ahold Delhaize also financial statements took assignment of 12 other BI-LO leases with Ahold Delhaize guarantees. Based on the foregoing developments, Ahold Delhaize recognized a reduction of €23 million in its provision, after tax, within results on divestments in the first half of 2010. Since the end of the second quarter continued of 2010, Ahold Delhaize has entered into settlements with a number of landlords relating to leases of former BI-LO or Bruno’s stores that are guaranteed by Ahold Delhaize. At the end of 2016, the remaining provision relating to BI-LO and Bruno’s was €15 million (2015: €19 million) with a related tax benefit offset of €6 million (2015: €8 million). This amount represents Ahold Delhaize’s best estimate of the discounted aggregate amount of the remaining lease obligations and associated charges, net of known mitigation offsets, which could result in cash outflows for Ahold Delhaize under the various lease guarantees. Ahold Delhaize continues to monitor any developments and pursue its mitigation efforts with respect to these lease guarantee liabilities. Sweetbay, Harveys, Reid’s and Bottom Dollar Food Divestment As a result of the merger, Ahold Delhaize has made an assessment of its potential obligations under lease guarantees considering the remaining term of each lease, re-let potential of the property if the acquirer were to default on the lease, and the credit position of the counter party. Ahold Delhaize recognized a liability of €20 million which represents the estimated fair value of the lease guarantees. Other Ahold Delhaize has provided corporate guarantees to certain suppliers of its franchisees or non-consolidated entities. Ahold Delhaize would be required to perform under the guarantee, if the franchisee or non-consolidated entity failed to meet its financial obligations, as described in the guarantee. Buyback guarantees relate to Ahold Delhaize’s commitment to repurchase stores or inventory from certain franchisees at predetermined prices. The buyback guarantees reflect the maximum committed repurchase value under the guarantees. The last of the corporate and buyback guarantees expire in 2022. Representations and warranties as part of the sale of Ahold Delhaize’s operations Ahold Delhaize has provided, in the relevant sales agreements, customary representations and warranties including, but not limited to, completeness of books and records, title to assets, schedule of material contracts and arrangements, litigation, permits, labor matters, and employee benefits and taxes. These representations and warranties will generally terminate, depending on their specific features, a number of years after the date of the relevant transaction completion date. The most significant sales of operations are described below. In addition, specific, limited representations and warranties exist for a number of Ahold Delhaize’s smaller divestments. The aggregate impact of claims, if any, under such representations and warranties is not expected to be material. Disco Ahold Delhaize is required to indemnify the buyers of Disco S.A. (Disco) and Disco for certain claims made by alleged creditors of certain Uruguayan and other banks, with a contingent liability cap of €15 million. Ahold Delhaize assesses its likelihood to be liable up to the amount of the contingent liability gap to be remote. The cap does not include Ahold Delhaize’s indemnification obligation relating to the Uruguayan litigation described in the Legal proceedings section of this Note. Ahold Delhaize’s indemnification obligation relating to this litigation is not capped at a certain amount nor restricted to a certain time period. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 210 Notes to the Bradlees In 1992, Stop & Shop spun off Bradlees Stores, Inc. (Bradlees) as a public company (the Bradlees Spin-off). In connection with the Bradlees Spin-off, consolidated Stop & Shop assigned to Bradlees certain commercial real property leases. Pursuant to a 1995 reorganization of Bradlees and a subsequent winddown and liquidation of Bradlees following a bankruptcy protection filing in 2000 (collectively, the Bradlees Bankruptcies), a number of such real financial statements property leases were assumed and assigned to third parties. Pursuant to applicable law, Stop & Shop may be contingently liable to landlords under certain of the leases assigned in connection with the Bradlees Spin-off and subsequently assumed and assigned to third parties in connection with continued the Bradlees Bankruptcies. Ahold USA BI-LO / Bruno’s In connection with the sale of BI-LO and Bruno’s, Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to landlords under guarantees of some 200 BI-LO or Bruno’s operating or finance leases that existed at the time of the sale, in the event of a future default by the tenant under such leases. As a result of the bankruptcy filings by BI-LO and Bruno’s during 2009, a provision was recognized in 2009. BI-LO exited bankruptcy in May 2010 and the Company has re-evaluated its estimate of liability. For more information, refer to the Guarantees section of this Note. Tops Markets, LLC In connection with the sale of Tops in 2007, Ahold Delhaize has certain post-closing indemnification obligations under the sale agreement that the Company believes are customary for transactions of this nature. Ahold Delhaize retained liabilities in the sale, including contingent liability for 45 leases that carry Ahold Delhaize guarantees. Additionally, Ahold Delhaize retained liabilities related to stores previously sold, including guarantees on five Tops stores in eastern New York state, as well as liabilities related to the Tops convenience stores and the stores in northeast Ohio as outlined under Tops convenience stores. Tops convenience stores: Wilson Farms and Sugarcreek Pursuant to applicable law, Tops may be contingently liable to landlords under 186 leases assigned in connection with the sale of the Tops’ Wilson Farms and Sugarcreek convenience stores, in the event of a future default by the tenant under such leases. Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to landlords under the guarantees of 77 of these leases in the same event. Tops northeast Ohio stores Tops closed all of its locations in northeast Ohio prior to year-end 2006. As of January 1, 2017, 33 of the total 55 closed locations in northeast Ohio have been sold or are now subleased or partially subleased. An additional 19 leases have been terminated. Three stores continue to be marketed. In connection with the store sales, Tops and Ahold Delhaize have certain post-closing indemnification obligations under the sale agreements, which Ahold Delhaize believes are customary for transactions of this nature. Pursuant to applicable law, Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable to landlords under guarantees of 14 of such leases in the event of a future default by the tenant under such leases. If Ahold Delhaize is able to assign the leases for the remaining northeast Ohio stores, then pursuant to applicable law, Ahold Delhaize also may be contingently liable to landlords under guarantees of certain of such remaining leases in the event of a future default by the tenant under such leases. Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s and Bottom Dollar Food As part of Ahold Delhaize’s divestment of Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s and Bottom Dollar Food, Ahold Delhaize has provided guarantees for a number of existing operating and finance lease contracts, which extend through 2037. At of January 1, 2017, Ahold Delhaize may be contingently liable for 99 leases related to the Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s divestment and 38 leases related to the Bottom Dollar Food divestment. In the event of a future default of the buyer, Ahold Delhaize will be obligated under the terms of the contracts to the landlords. The leases guaranteed are in respect of two specific buyers. The Sweetbay, Harveys and Reid’s stores were sold to BI-LO and the Bottom Dollar Food stores were sold to Aldi. For more information, refer to the Guarantees section of this Note. Tom & Co On July 29, 2016, Ahold Delhaize completed the divestment of pet specialist chain shop Tom & Co. As part of the transaction, Ahold Delhaize granted indemnities to the purchaser of all divested stores, which Ahold Delhaize believes are customary for transactions of this nature. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 211 Notes to the 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Divestment of remedy stores in Belgium consolidated In March 2016, Ahold Delhaize received approval from the Belgian Competition Authority (BCA) for the merger between Ahold and Delhaize. financial statements The approval is conditional upon the divestment of a limited number of stores in Belgium to address competition concerns raised by BCA. The divestment process is ongoing. To date, no divestments have been made. Until all requirements imposed by the BCA have been met, Albert continued Heijn and Delhaize stores in Belgium will continue to operate separately. See also Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Divestment of remedy stores in the U.S. In July, 2016, as a condition of receiving regulatory clearance for their merger from the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Ahold and Delhaize entered into a consent agreement (“Consent Agreement”) with the FTC that required Ahold and Delhaize to divest stores in seven states in order to prevent the merger from being anti-competitive. In connection with the Consent Agreement, Ahold and Delhaize subsidiaries entered into agreements with seven buyers to sell a total of 86 stores (81 of these stores are required divestitures under the Consent Agreement), including 73 leased stores and 13 owned stores. As of January 1, 2017, Ahold Delhaize had completed all of the required divestitures, except for the sale of seven stores in Richmond, Virginia, which are scheduled to be sold to Publix North Carolina LP by July 2017. With respect to the 73 leased stores, the store sales involve the applicable Ahold Delhaize subsidiary assigning each store lease to the buyer. Pursuant to applicable law, the Ahold Delhaize subsidiary assigning each of the 73 leases may be contingently liable to the landlord under such lease, in the event of a future default by the tenant under such lease. Any other Ahold Delhaize subsidiary that previously held the tenant’s interest in such lease may also be liable in such event. In addition, Ahold Delhaize or Ahold Delhaize subsidiaries also may be contingently liable to landlords under the guarantees of 13 of the 73 leases in the same event. See also Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Income tax Because Ahold Delhaize operates in a number of countries, its income is subject to taxation in differing jurisdictions and at differing tax rates. Significant judgment is required in determining the consolidated income tax position. We seek to organize our affairs in a sustainable manner, taking into account the applicable regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result of Ahold Delhaize’s multi-jurisdictional operations, it is exposed to a number of different tax risks including, but not limited to, changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws. The authorities in the jurisdictions where Ahold Delhaize operates may review the Company’s tax returns and may disagree with the positions taken in those returns. While the ultimate outcome of such reviews is not certain, Ahold Delhaize has considered the merits of its filing positions in its overall evaluation of potential tax liabilities and believes it has adequate liabilities recorded in its consolidated financial statements for exposures on these matters. Based on its evaluation of the potential tax liabilities and the merits of Ahold Delhaize’s filing positions, it is unlikely that potential tax exposures over and above the amounts currently recorded as liabilities in its consolidated financial statements will be material to its financial condition or future results of operations. Legal proceedings Ahold Delhaize and certain of its former or current subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include litigation as a result of divestments, tax, employment, and other litigation and inquiries. The legal proceedings discussed below, whether pending, threatened or unasserted, if decided adversely or settled, may result in liability material to Ahold Delhaize’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Ahold Delhaize may enter into discussions regarding the settlement of these and other proceedings, and may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best interest of Ahold Delhaize’s shareholders. In accordance with IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities, and Contingent Assets,” Ahold Delhaize has recognized provisions with respect to these proceedings, where appropriate, which are reflected on its balance sheet. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 212 Notes to the 34 Commitments and contingencies continued Albert Heijn Franchising consolidated The Vereniging Albert Heijn Franchisenemers (an association of Albert Heijn franchisees or VAHFR) has asserted claims against an Ahold Delhaize financial statements subsidiary, Albert Heijn Franchising BV (AHF), for the years 2008 through 2012, the alleged value of which exceeds €200 million in aggregate. AHF and the VAHFR have had ongoing discussions for a number of years about the resolution of certain cost items under individual franchise continued agreements. On December 24, 2014, AHF and other legal entities within the Ahold Delhaize Group of companies received a writ in which VAHFR and 242 individual claimants would initiate proceedings as of April 15, 2015, before the District Court of Haarlem with respect to these discussions. On November 16, 2016, the court issued a judgment rejecting all claims of the VAHFR and the individual claimants. On February 13, 2017 VAHFR and 240 individual franchisers filed a formal appeal, which is to be substantiated, against the judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the years from 2010 onwards are still to be settled. Ahold Delhaize has an existing provision of €30 million with regard to the settlement of costs with individual franchisees for the entire period up to and including 2016. Uruguayan litigation Ahold Delhaize, together with Disco and Disco Ahold International Holdings N.V. (DAIH), is a party to one lawsuit in Uruguay related to Ahold Delhaize’s 2002 acquisition of Velox Retail Holdings’ shares in the capital of DAIH. The two other related lawsuits in Uruguay were finally decided in favor of Ahold Delhaize in 2013. The damages alleged by the plaintiffs, alleged creditors of certain Uruguayan and other banks, amount to approximately $62 million (€59 million) plus interest and costs. As part of the sale of Disco to Cencosud in 2004, Ahold Delhaize indemnified Cencosud and Disco against the outcome of these legal proceedings. The one remaining lawsuit is ongoing. Ahold Delhaize continues to believe that the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit and will continue to vigorously oppose such claims. Greek litigation In a shareholders’ matter related to Alfa Beta Vassilopoulos S.A. (“AB”), Ahold Delhaize’s wholly-owned subsidiary in Greece, Ahold Delhaize was notified in 2011 that some former shareholders of AB, who together held 7% of AB shares, filed a claim with the Court of First Instance of Athens challenging the price paid by Ahold Delhaize during the squeeze-out process that was approved by the Hellenic Capital Markets Commission. They have also filed a separate claim for compound interest. Ahold Delhaize believes that the squeeze-out transaction has been executed and completed in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements and against a fair price, and vigorously defends itself against these claims. A decision on the merits of the matter by the Court of First Instance is expected to occur in the course of 2017. Other legal proceedings In addition to the legal proceedings described previously in this Note, Ahold Delhaize and its former or current subsidiaries are parties to a number of other legal proceedings arising out of their business operations. Ahold Delhaize believes that the ultimate resolution of these other proceedings will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Ahold Delhaize’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Such other legal proceedings, however, are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcome of individual matters is unpredictable. It is possible that Ahold Delhaize could be required to make expenditures, in excess of established provisions, in amounts that cannot reasonably be estimated. 35 Subsequent events There have been no significant subsequent events. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 213 Notes to the 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates consolidated The following are Ahold Delhaize’s significant subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as of January 1, 2017: Consolidated subsidiaries financial statements Unless otherwise indicated, these are, directly or indirectly, wholly or virtually wholly owned subsidiaries. Subsidiaries not important to providing an insight into the Ahold Delhaize Group as required under Dutch law are omitted from this list. With respect to the separate financial statements of continued the Dutch legal entities included in the consolidation, the Company availed itself of the exemption laid down in section 403, subsection 1 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Pursuant to said section 403, Ahold Delhaize has assumed joint and several liabilities for the debts arising out of the legal acts of a number of subsidiaries in the Netherlands, which form part of the consolidation. The names of the subsidiaries for which Ahold Delhaize has issued 403 declarations are open for inspection at the trade register as managed by the Netherlands Chamber of Commerce. Retail trade Europe Albert Heijn B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands Albert Heijn Franchising B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands Gall & Gall B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands Etos B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands bol.com B.V., Utrecht, the Netherlands Alfa Beta Vassilopoulos S.A., Athens, Greece Delhaize Le Lion / De Leeuw Comm. VA, Brussels, Belgium Delhaize Serbia d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade, Serbia Mega Image S.R.L., Bucharest, Romania AHOLD Czech Republic a.s., Prague, Czech Republic Albert Heijn België N.V. / SA, Schoten, Belgium Ahold Germany GmbH, Mettmann, Germany Delhaize Luxembourg S.A. Kehlen, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg Retail trade United States The Stop & Shop Supermarket Company LLC, Boston, Massachusetts Food Lion LLC, Salisbury, Maryland Giant Food Stores LLC, Carlisle, Pennsylvania Giant of Maryland LLC, Landover, Maryland Hannaford Bros. Co., LLC, Scarborough, Maine Peapod LLC, Skokie, Illinois Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 214 Notes to the 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Other consolidated Ahold Delhaize Coffee Company B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands financial statements Ahold Europe Real Estate & Construction B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands continued Ahold Finance Company N.V., Zug, Switzerland Ahold Financial Services LLC, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, United States Ahold Finance U.S.A., LLC, Zaandam, the Netherlands Ahold Insurance N.V., Willemstad, Curaçao Ahold International Sàrl, Zug, Switzerland Ahold Information Services Inc., Greenville, South Carolina, United States Ahold Lease U.S.A. Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, United States Ahold Licensing Sàrl, Geneva, Switzerland Ahold Nederland B.V., Zaandam, the Netherlands Ahold U.S.A. Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, United States American Sales Company LLC, Lancaster, New York, United States CUW B.V., Willemstad, Curaçao Delhaize America LLC, Salisbury, Maryland, United States Delhaize Griffin N.V. / SA, Brussels, Belgium Delhaize The Lion Coordination Center N.V. / SA, Brussels, Belgium Delhaize “The Lion” Nederland B.V., Delft, The Netherlands Delhaize US Holding Inc., Salisbury, Maryland, United States DZA Brands LLC, Salisbury, Maryland, United States Lion Lux Finance Sàrl, Kehlen, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg Lion Retail Holding Sàrl, Kehlen, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg MAC Risk Management Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, United States The MollyAnna Company, Montpelier, Vermont, United States Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 215 Notes to the 36 List of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Joint ventures and associates (unconsolidated) consolidated JMR – Gestão de Empresas de Retalho, SGPS, S.A., Lisbon, Portugal (49% owned by Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiary Ahold International Sàrl) financial statements Jerónimo Martins Retail Services S.A., Klosters, Switzerland (49% owned by Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiary Ahold International Sàrl) continued P.T. Lion Super Indo LLC, Jakarta, Indonesia (51% owned by Ahold Delhaize’s subsidiary Delhaize “The Lion” Nederland B.V.) Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 216 Parent company € million Note 2016 2015 financial statements Intercompany head office and other recharges 88 92 General and administrative expenses (124) (87) Income statement Total operating expenses 2 (124) (87) Operating (loss) income (36) 5 Interest expense (40) (44) Other financial expenses (310) (38) Net financial expenses (350) (82) Income before income taxes (386) (77) Income taxes 5 96 28 Income from subsidiaries and investments in joint ventures after income taxes 7 1,120 901 Net result after tax 830 852 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 217 Parent company Before appropriation of current year result. financial statements € million Note January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 Assets Balance sheet Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets 6 18 2 18 1 Deferred tax assets 5 6 48 Financial assets 7 20,940 9,534 Total non-current assets 20,966 9,601 Receivables 8 46 48 Other current financial assets 9 400 214 Cash and cash equivalents 201 336 Total current assets 647 598 Total assets 21,613 10,199 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity Issued and paid-in share capital 13 8 Additional paid-in capital 15,802 6,059 Currency translation reserve 754 346 Cash flow hedging reserve (2) (123) Reserve participations 363 225 Accumulated deficit (1,484) (1,745) Net income 830 852 Shareholders’ equity 10 16,276 5,622 Provisions 11 6 28 Loans 12 2,819 2,844 Cumulative preferred financing shares 497 497 Other non-current liabilities 13 1 549 Total non-current liabilities 3,317 3,890 Current liabilities 14 2,014 659 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 21,613 10,199 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these parent company financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 218 Notes to the 1 Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation parent company Ahold Delhaize’s parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. financial statements In accordance with subsection 8 of section 362, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the recognition and measurement principles applied in these parent company financial statements are the same as those applied in the consolidated financial statements (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method accounting policies as described in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for investments in joint arrangements and associates. 2 Expenses by nature The operating expenses are specified by nature as follows: € million 2016 2015 Labor costs (26) (25) Other operational expenses (95) (59) Depreciation and amortization (3) (3) Total expenses by nature (124) (87) The increase in other operational expenses are mainly attributable to merger-related expenses. 3 Employees The average number of employees of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. in full-time equivalents during 2016 was six (2015: seven), of whom none were employed outside the Netherlands. During 2015, substantially all employees of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. were transferred to a subsidiary. The current employees of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. consist primarily of members of the Executive Committee including the Management Board. Salaries, social security charges and pension expenses amounted to €18 million, €0.8 million and €0.1 million, respectively, for 2016 (2015: expenses of €17 million, €6 million and €0.3 million, respectively). For information on the parent company’s defined benefit pension plan, the remuneration of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board and the parent company’s share-based compensation plans, see Notes 23, 31 and 32, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. The net pension liability and the net pension expense are calculated on the basis of the parent company’s active employees only. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 219 Notes to the 4 Auditor fees parent company Expenses for services provided by the parent company’s independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. (PwC) and its member firms and affiliates to Ahold Delhaize and its subsidiaries in 2016 and in 2015, are specified as follows: financial statements € thousand PwC Member firms / affiliates Total 2016 PwC Member firms / affiliates Total 2015 continued Audit fees 4,152 5,357 9,509 2,120 2,422 4,542 Audit-related fees 308 86 394 5,549 1,537 7,086 Tax advisory fees – 83 83 — 5 5 Total 4,460 5,526 9,986 7,669 3,964 11,633 The audit fees listed above relate to the procedures applied to the Company and its consolidated group entities by accounting firms and external auditors as referred to in Section 1, subsection 1 of the Audit Firms Supervision Act (“Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties – Wta”) as well as by Dutch and foreign-based accounting firms, including their tax services and advisory groups. These audit fees relate to the audit of the financial statements, regardless of whether the work was performed during the financial year. The audit-related fees in 2015 mainly relate to assurance services provided by PwC in connection with the merger between Ahold and Delhaize. 5 Income taxes The following table specifies the current and deferred tax components of income taxes in the income statement: € million 2016 2015 Current income taxes – the Netherlands 97 22 Deferred income taxes – the Netherlands (1) 6 Total income taxes 96 28 Effective income tax rate The following table reconciles the statutory income tax rate with the effective income tax rate in the income statement: 2016 2015 € million Tax rate € million Tax rate Income before income taxes (386) (77) Income tax expense at statutory tax rate 97 25.0% 19 25.0% Adjustments to arrive at effective income tax rate: Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items (1) (0.1)% 9 11.4% Total income taxes 96 24.9% 28 36.4% “Reserves, (non-)deductibles and discrete items” include one-time transactions. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 220 Notes to the 5 Income taxes continued Deferred income tax parent company The significant components and annual movements of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of January 1, 2017, and January 3, 2016, financial statements are as follows: Recognized in Recognized in continued € million December 28, 2014 income statement Other January 3, 2016 income statement Other January 1, 2017 Derivatives and loans 46 (1) (3) 42 — (41) 1 Blended rate deferred tax fiscal unity — 6 — 6 (1) — 5 Other (1) 1 — — — — — Total gross deductible temporary differences 45 6 (3) 48 (1) (41) 6 Tax losses and tax credits — — — — — — — Total net deferred tax asset position 45 6 (3) 48 (1) (41) 6 Total deferred tax liabilities — — — — — — — Net deferred tax assets 45 6 (3) 48 (1) (41) 6 The column “Other” in the table above includes amounts recorded in equity. Income taxes in equity and comprehensive income Current and deferred income taxes recognized in and transferred from equity and comprehensive income are as follows: € million 2016 2015 Cash flow hedges (41) (3) Total (41) (3) Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 221 Notes to the 6 Intangible assets parent company € million Software As of January 3, 2016 financial statements At cost Accumulated amortization and impairment losses 23 (5) continued Carrying amount 18 Year ended January 1, 2017 Additions 2 Amortization (2) Closing carrying amount 18 As of January 1, 2017 At cost 25 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses (7) Carrying amount 18 7 Financial assets January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Investments in subsidiaries 20,728 9,064 Loans receivable from subsidiaries 210 129 Other derivatives external — 338 Deferred financing cost 2 3 Total financial assets 20,940 9,534 For more information on derivatives, see Note 15 to these parent company financial statements. € million 2016 2015 Beginning of year 9,064 8,876 Share in income 1,120 901 Acquisitions 10,765 — Dividends (436) (3,469) Intercompany transfers 33 2,351 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) and other changes in equity (158) (54) Transfers (to) from loans receivable (54) 4 Transfers (to) from provisions (15) 5 Exchange rate differences 409 450 End of year 20,728 9,064 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 222 Notes to the 7 Financial assets continued parent company Intercompany transfers include capital contributions and capital repayments. For a list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, see Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. financial statements Loans receivable continued € million 2016 2015 Beginning of year 129 258 Intercompany transfers 27 (125) Transfers from (to) investments 54 (4) End of year 210 129 Current portion — — Non-current portion of loans 210 129 The loans receivable are related to loans with subsidiaries. 8 Receivables January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Receivables from subsidiaries 37 38 Receivables from joint ventures 1 1 Prepaid expenses 7 7 Other receivables 1 2 Total receivables 46 48 9 Other current financial assets January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 100 213 Other derivatives external 299 — Other 1 1 Total other current financial assets 400 214 As per January 1, 2017, short-term deposits and similar instruments included short-term investments with a remaining maturity at acquisition between three and twelve months. For more information on derivatives, see Note 15 to these parent company financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 223 Notes to the 10 Shareholders’ equity parent company The shareholders’ equity in the parent company financial statements equals the equity attributable to common shareholders presented in the consolidated financial statements, except that legal reserve participations and accumulated deficit are presented separately. financial statements The currency translation reserve, cash flow hedging reserve and reserve participations are legal reserves that are required by Dutch law. The reserve participations include the increases in net asset value of joint ventures and associates since their first inclusion, less any amounts that continued can be distributed without legal restrictions. If the currency translation reserve or the cash flow hedging reserve has a negative balance, distributions to the Company’s shareholders are restricted to the extent of the negative balance. Of the total equity as per January 1, 2017, €16,276 million, an amount of €1,130 million is non‑distributable (January 3, 2016: €579 million out of total equity of €5,622 million). For more information on the dividends on common shares, see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. The movements in equity can be specified as follows: Legal reserves Other reserves Equity Additional Currency Cash flow including attributable Share paid-in translation hedging Reserve accumulated to common € million capital capital reserve reserve participations deficit1 shareholders Balance as of December 28, 2014 9 6,844 (103) (132) 210 (1,984) 4,844 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — — 852 852 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 449 9 — (41) 417 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders — — 449 9 — 811 1,269 Dividends — — — — — (396) (396) Share buyback — — — — — (161) (161) Cancellation of treasury shares (1) (785) — — — 786 — Share-based payments — — — — — 66 66 Other changes in reserves — — — — 15 (15) — Balance as of January 3, 2016 8 6,059 346 (123) 225 (893) 5,622 Net income attributable to common shareholders — — — — — 830 830 Other comprehensive income (loss) — — 408 121 — (105) 424 Total comprehensive income attributable to common shareholders — — 408 121 — 725 1,254 Dividends — — — — — (429) (429) Issuance of shares 5 10,756 — — — — 10,761 Capital repayment — (1,013) — — — 12 (1,001) Share-based payments — — — — — 74 74 Share in joint venture’s transactions with non-controlling interests — — — — — (5) (5) Other changes in reserves — — — — 138 (138) — Balance as of January 1, 2017 13 15,802 754 (2) 363 (654) 16,276 1 Accumulated deficit includes the remeasurements of defined benefit plans. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 224 Notes to the 11 Provisions parent company January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Provision for negative equity subsidiaries 4 19 financial statements Other provisions 2 9 continued Total provisions 6 28 As of January 1, 2017, nothing is expected to be utilized within one year (January 3, 2016: €8 million). 12 Loans January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 Non-current Current Non-current Current € million portion portion portion portion JPY 33,000 notes LIBOR plus 1.5%, due May 2031 — — 253 — Long-term loans from subsidiaries 2,819 138 2,591 — Total loans 2,819 138 2,844 — The long-term loans from subsidiaries mature in 2018 (€1,500 million), 2019 (€391 million), 2022 (€471 million) and 2029 (€457 million). For more information on the external loans, see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. For information on the cumulative preferred financing shares, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. 13 Other non-current liabilities January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Hedging derivatives external — 210 Other derivatives intercompany — 338 Other 1 1 Total other non-current liabilities 1 549 For more information on derivatives, see Note 15 to these parent company financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 225 Notes to the 14 Current liabilities parent company January 1, January 3, € million 2017 2016 Short-term borrowings from subsidiaries 1,502 580 financial statements Other derivatives intercompany 300 — continued Loans – current portion 138 — Dividend cumulative preferred financing shares 20 22 Income tax payable 8 16 Payables to subsidiaries 14 6 Payables to joint ventures 2 2 Interest payable — 1 Other current liabilities 30 32 Total current liabilities 2,014 659 The current liabilities are liabilities that mature within one year. For more information on derivatives, see Note 15 to these parent company financial statements. 15 Derivatives The parent company regularly enters into derivative contracts with banks to hedge foreign currency and interest exposures of the parent company or its subsidiaries. Derivative contracts that are entered into to hedge exposures of subsidiaries are generally mirrored with intercompany derivative contracts with the subsidiaries that are exposed to the hedged risks on substantially identical terms as the external derivative contracts. In these parent company financial statements, the external derivative contracts and the intercompany derivative contracts are presented separately on the balance sheet. In situations where the external derivative contract qualifies for hedge accounting treatment in the consolidated financial statements, the external derivative contract and the intercompany derivative contract are presented as “Hedging derivatives external” and “Hedging derivatives intercompany,” respectively. In situations where the external derivative contract does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in the consolidated financial statements, the external derivative contract and the intercompany derivative contract are presented as “Other derivatives external” and “Other derivatives intercompany,” respectively. Fair value movements of external derivative contracts that were entered into to hedge the exposures of subsidiaries are recorded directly in income, where they effectively offset the fair value movements of the mirroring intercompany derivatives that are also recorded directly in income. Details of these derivative contracts, other financial instruments and the parent company’s risk management strategies are included in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements and in the tables presented below. Non-current derivatives – assets € million 2016 2015 Beginning of year 338 310 Fair value changes (25) 28 Reclassification of current portion (313) — End of year — 338 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 226 Notes to the 15 Derivatives continued Current derivatives – assets parent company € million 2016 2015 financial statements Beginning of year Reclassification of current portion from non-current 313 — — — continued Fair value changes (14) — End of year 299 — Non-current derivatives – liabilities Hedging Other derivatives derivatives € million external intercompany 2016 2015 Beginning of year 210 338 548 561 Fair value changes 19 (25) (6) (13) Unwinding of cross-currency swap (229) — (229) — Reclassification of current portion — (313) (313) — End of year — — — 548 Fair value changes include exchange rate differences and installments paid on a cross-currency swap that was entered into on behalf of one of the parent company’s subsidiaries. The cross-currency swap, accounted for as a cash flow hedge, was used to hedge currency and cash flow risk on floating debt denominated in foreign currency, related to the JPY 33,000 notes. The yen-euro currency swap was unwound on November 15, 2016. Current derivatives – liabilities € million 2016 2015 Beginning of year — — Reclassification of current portion from non-current 313 — Fair value changes (13) — End of year 300 — 16 Related party transactions Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. has entered into arrangements with a number of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies in the course of its business. These arrangements relate to service transactions and financing agreements and were conducted at market prices. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 227 Notes to the 17 Commitments and contingencies parent company Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., as the parent company, is party to a cross guarantee agreement dated as of May 21, 2007 with, amongst others, Delhaize US Holding, Inc., substantially all of Delhaize US Holding, Inc.’s subsidiaries and Delhaize Le Lion / De Leeuw Comm. VA, under which each financial statements party guarantees fully and unconditionally, jointly and severally the financial indebtedness of the other parties to the agreement, pro rata based on its net worth as of May 21, 2007 or as of the date of its accession to the agreement. continued Notes and loans issued by certain subsidiaries are guaranteed by the parent company, as disclosed in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. The parent company also guarantees certain lease obligations and other obligations of subsidiaries. Guarantees issued by the parent company regarding the financial obligations of third parties and non-consolidated entities, other than under the cross guarantee mentioned above, amount to €513 million as of January 1, 2017, (January 3, 2016: €567 million). In addition, the Company has provided a guarantee as of July 30, 2010 for Ahold Finance U.S.A., LLC’s outstanding current obligations to third parties. As part of the divestment of U.S. Foodservice in 2007, Ahold Delhaize received an irrevocable standby letter of credit for $216 million (€163 million), which was reduced to $64 million (€60 million) as of January 1, 2017. Under customary provisions, the parent company guarantees certain representations and warranties made in agreements of asset disposals. Guarantees and legal proceedings are further disclosed in Note 34 to the consolidated financial statements. The parent company forms a fiscal unity with Ahold Delhaize’s major Dutch subsidiaries for Dutch corporate income tax and Dutch VAT purposes and, for that reason, it is jointly and severally liable for the Dutch corporate income tax liabilities and Dutch VAT liabilities of the whole fiscal unity. Assumptions of liability pursuant to section 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code are disclosed in Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. 18 Distribution of profit Articles of Association provisions governing the distribution of profit The holders of common shares are entitled to one vote per share and to participate in the distribution of dividends and liquidation proceeds. Pursuant to section 39 of the Articles of Association, a dividend will first be declared out of net income on cumulative preferred shares and cumulative preferred financing shares. Any net income remaining after reservations deemed necessary by the Supervisory Board, in consultation with the Management Board, will then be available for distribution to the common shareholders subject to approval at the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, may propose that the General Meeting of Shareholders make distributions wholly or partly in the form of common shares. Amounts of net income not paid in the form of dividends will be added to the accumulated deficit. In the financial statements, the dividend on cumulative preferred financing shares is included in the income statement. Consequently, net income according to the parent company income statement is fully attributable to common shareholders. Distribution of profit The Management Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, proposes that a final dividend of €0.57 per common share be paid in 2017 with respect to 2016 (2015: €0.52). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 228 Notes to the 19 Subsequent events For information regarding subsequent events, see Note 35 to the consolidated financial statements. parent company Zaandam, the Netherlands financial statements February 28, 2017 continued Management Board Dick Boer Frans Muller Jeff Carr Pierre Bouchut Kevin Holt Supervisory Board Mats Jansson (Chairman) Jan Hommen (Vice Chairman) Jacques de Vaucleroy (Vice Chairman) Jack Stahl Ben Noteboom Bill McEwan Rob van den Bergh Stephanie Shern Mark McGrath René Hooft Graafland Mary Anne Citrino Johnny Thijs Patrick De Maeseneire Dominique Leroy Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 229 Other information Independent auditor’s report To: the General Meeting and Supervisory Board of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. Report on the financial statements for the year ended January 1, 2017 Our opinion In our opinion: • the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. as at January 1, 2017 and of its result and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and • the accompanying parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. as at January 1, 2017 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. What we have audited We have audited the accompanying financial statements for the financial year ended January 1, 2017 of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V., Zaandam (‘the Company’). The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. and its subsidiaries (together: ‘the Group’) and the parent company financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise: • the consolidated balance sheet as at January 1, 2017; • the following statements for the financial year ended January 1, 2017: the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows; and • the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The parent company financial statements comprise: • the parent company balance sheet as at January 1, 2017; • the parent company income statement for the year then ended; • the notes, comprising a summary of accounting policies and other explanatory information. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is EU-IFRS and the relevant provisions of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the consolidated financial statements and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for the parent company financial statements. The basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ of our report. Independence We are independent of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assuranceopdrachten’ (ViO) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA). We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 230 Other information Our audit approach continued Overview and context Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is an international food retail group. The Group comprises of several components and therefore we considered our group audit scope and approach as set out in ‘The scope of our group audit’ section. We paid specific attention to the areas of focus driven by the operations of the Company as set out below. We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we assessed the areas where the Management Board made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain (see Note 2 to the financial statements). Our audit and the determination of key audit matters was shaped by the Company’s retail business activities, which were expanded as a result of the merger with Delhaize. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Management Board that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. We ensured that the audit teams both at group and at component levels included the appropriate skills and competencies which are needed for the audit of a retail company. The Group’s operations utilize a range of legacy IT systems. The adequacy and effective operation of controls over these systems is an important element of the integrity of financial reporting within the Group. We utilized IT specialists in our audit to evaluate the adequacy and effective operation of these controls. Furthermore, we included specialists in areas requiring valuation, tax and actuarial (including pension accounting) expertise. The outlines of our audit approach were as follows: Materiality Overall materiality: €66 million which represents 5% of adjusted income before income taxes. Audit scope We conducted audit work at 11 components. Each component is audited by local engagement teams that are based in the USA, the Netherlands, Belgium, Greece, Switzerland, the Czech Republic and Curacao. Site visits were conducted in five countries: USA, Netherlands, Belgium, Greece and Switzerland. Our audit coverage is 91% of consolidated net sales, 84% of total assets and 85% of income before income taxes. Key audit matters Accounting for the Ahold Delhaize merger Recognition of vendor allowances Impairment testing of store assets Employee benefit plan measurement Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 231 Other information Materiality The scope of our audit is influenced by the application of materiality which is further explained in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of continued the financial statements’. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality €66 million (2015: €52 million). How we determined it 5% of adjusted income before income taxes. Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, based on our analysis of the common information needs of users of the financial statements. On this basis we believe that income before income taxes is an important metric for the financial performance of the Company. In 2016, we adjusted income before income taxes to exclude the effect of one-off items from our benchmark. Adjusted income before income taxes therefore excludes non-recurring exceptional items of €243 million related to the extinguishment of the JPY notes as disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements and €38 million of merger transaction cost as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements. Our 2016 materiality mainly increased as a result of the Group’s merger with Delhaize. Component materiality To each component in our audit scope, we, based on our judgement, allocate materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range of materiality allocated across components was between €65 and €8 million. We also take misstatements and/or possible misstatements into account that, in our judgement, are material for qualitative reasons. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above €3.3 million (2015: €2.6 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 232 Other information The scope of our group audit Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. is the parent company of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated continued financial statements of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. Five components were subject to audits of their complete financial information as those components are individually significant to the Group. These components include the retail operations at Ahold USA, Delhaize America, and the Netherlands, Delhaize Belgium as well as the Global Support Office activities in the Netherlands (which includes financing activities in Switzerland). We further performed certain audit procedures at the Czech Republic and Greek retail operations, the Global Support Office activities in the USA, bol.com and at the insurance captives located in the USA, Ireland and Curacao in order to achieve appropriate coverage on financial statement line items in the consolidated financial statements. In total, in performing these procedures, we achieved the following coverage on the financial line items: Net sales 91% Total assets 84% Income before income taxes 85% None of the remaining components represented more than 2% of total Group revenue or 5% of total Group assets. For those remaining components we performed, among other things, analytical procedures to corroborate our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatements within those components. The Global Support Office activities in the Netherlands (which includes financing activities in Switzerland), Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the group engagement team at the Company’s head office. This included procedures performed over derivative financial instruments, goodwill impairment analyses, accounting for the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, Management Board remuneration including share based payments and Group finance’s resolution of complex accounting matters. For all other components we used component auditors who are familiar with the local laws and regulations to perform the audit work. Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. The group engagement team directed the planning, reviewed the results of the work undertaken by component auditors and assessed and discussed the findings with the component auditors during conference calls and site visits. In the current year, the group engagement team visited local management and the component auditors at the new Delhaize in scope locations in Belgium, the USA and Greece as well as the Ahold significant locations in the USA, the Netherlands and Switzerland. By performing the procedures above at components, combined with additional procedures at group level, we have obtained sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the group as a whole to provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board, but they are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters that were identified by our audit and that we discussed. We described the key audit matters and included a summary of the audit procedures we performed on those matters. The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not provide a separate opinion on these matters or on specific elements of the financial statements. Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 233 Other information The context of our audit is set by the Group’s major activities in 2016. The most significant event of the last twelve months has been the completion of the Group’s merger with Delhaize. This has therefore become a new key audit matter for our audit in 2016 given the number of significant continued management estimates and judgements required to account for the transaction and the broad range of financial statement line items that are impacted. The remaining key audit matters are consistent with prior year in view of their magnitude and the significant estimates and assumptions involved. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Accounting for the Ahold Delhaize merger and alignment Our procedures on the business combination included the following: of accounting policies Note 4 On July 23, 2016 the Group completed the merger between An assessment of the process that management has undertaken to determine Ahold and Delhaize. As indicated in Note 4 to the financial the allocation of the purchase price including but not limited to understanding statements, the merger is accounted for as a business the scope of work, assessing the qualifications and competence of the valuation combination, which required significant and complex experts engaged by the Group and evaluating the process and oversight judgments from management, including but not limited to performed by Group finance on harmonising the accounting policies. the determination of the fair values of assets acquired and Understanding and evaluating the design and testing the operating effectiveness liabilities assumed at the acquisition date (i.e. an allocation of controls related to key inputs and key outputs of the group’s purchase price of the purchase price of €10.8 billion as defined by IFRS 3). allocation process. The recognition, measurement and disclosure of Ahold’s Auditing the fair value measurements prepared by management and their merger with Delhaize in the 2016 financial statements was valuation experts including assessing the key valuation assumptions used (such considered a key audit matter due to its magnitude and as WACC rates, property values and future growth rates). We validated and/ the level of judgment required in choosing appropriate or benchmarked key data inputs used in the valuation model such as churn assumptions, for example in the valuation of brands, assumptions for the valuation of franchise and affiliate intangibles and lease and franchisee relationships, store properties, favourable and property data. unfavourable lease rights and the allocation of goodwill to new and existing cash generating units. In addition the An assessment of the accounting policy alignment including reading the material related accounting policy alignment and its consistent accounting policies of Delhaize, evaluating the completeness of management’s application at the Delhaize components, could result in own analysis of the accounting policy differences, planning and directing our material measurement period adjustments or inconsistencies, component auditors to perform specific procedures over the policy alignment and if not timely identified. testing the valuation of adjustments recorded where alignment was required. Planning and directing the audit of the closing balance sheet of Delhaize which was used as an input in the purchase price allocation. Furthermore, we assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures included in Note 4 to the financial statements. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 234 Other information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter continued Recognition of vendor allowance Note 17 The Group receives various types of vendor allowances, Our procedures included evaluating the design and testing the operating as further disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements. effectiveness of management’s controls around the completeness and accuracy These allowances are a significant component in cost of sales. of the contractual agreements recognized in the accounting system. The vendor allowance receivable at January 1, 2017 amounts to €442 million (Note 17). Furthermore we challenged management’s assumptions used in determining the unrealized vendor allowances through discussions with management and We considered this to be a key audit matter because the performing the following specific substantive procedures. On a sample basis we recognition of vendor allowance income and receivables agreed the recorded amounts to contractual evidence and confirmed the related requires judgement from management, for example positions and terms with the vendors. In addition, to evaluate the reliability of concerning the nature and level of fulfilment of the management’s estimates, we performed a retrospective review of subsequent Company’s obligations under the vendor agreements, collections on prior period vendor allowance receivables. Finally we tested cut-off estimates with respect to purchase or sales volumes to through assessing the obligation fulfilment of vendor allowance income recorded support income recognition. during a period before and after year-end. Impairment testing of store assets Note 11 Our audit procedures included, amongst others, an evaluation of the Group’s The Group operates retail stores in Europe and the USA. policies and procedures to identify triggering events for potential impairment The associated store and related assets are important to of assets related to underperforming stores by assessing management’s review our audit due to the material carrying value of those assets of the financial performance on a store by store basis. (Note 11) as well as the judgment involved in the identification of any impairment triggers and subsequent assessment of We challenged management’s assumptions underlying the impairment calculation the recoverability of the invested amounts. Such judgement for those stores where a triggering event was identified and corroborated them focuses predominantly on future store performance, which is, by comparing them to internal forecasts and long term strategic plans that amongst others, dependent on the expected store traffic, were approved by management as well as historic trend analyses to determine basket size and the competitive landscape in local markets. management’s ability to reliably estimate such assumptions. We also tested the Management assesses, on a quarterly basis, whether there applied discount rate calculated by the Group. are triggering events indicating potential impairment. Furthermore, we assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures included in In 2016 management recognized a total net impairment loss Note 11 to the financial statements. of €71 million. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 235 Other information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter continued Employee benefit plan measurement Note 23 The Group has defined benefit plans, primarily in the Our procedures included understanding and evaluating the design and testing Netherlands and in the USA, giving rise to defined benefit the operating effectiveness of controls related to key inputs and key outputs of obligations of €4.6 billion and €1.6 billion, respectively the Group’s pension process. (Note 23). We considered this to be a key audit matter We tested the actuarial and demographic assumptions and valuation because of the magnitude of the amounts, management’s methodologies used by management to determine the Group’s various pension judgement applied (for example around salary increases, obligations. We assessed whether the key actuarial assumptions are reasonable inflation, discount rates and mortality rates) and technical and consistently applied. We tested payroll data, through a combination of expertise required to determine these amounts. controls and test of details, and reconciled the membership census data used in The group also has a significant number of union employees the actuarial models to the payroll data. in the USA whose pension benefits are covered by multiIn addition, we evaluated the potential exposure under the multi-employer plans employer plans (we also refer to the risk factor on pension in the USA as disclosed in Note 23. We reconciled the related inputs used by plan funding on page 170 of the annual report). In Note management to determine the Group’s possible proportionate share of the total 23 management has disclosed a calculation, which is based net deficit in these plans to supporting documentation such as the latest available on different assumptions and leads to an estimate of the plan information and actuarial calculations. group’s possible proportionate share of the total net deficit in these plans. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 236 Other information Report on the other information included in the annual report continued In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the annual report contains other information that consists of: • the Management Report as defined on page 108 of the Annual Report; • the other information included in the overview, business review, governance and investors sections; and • the other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Based on the procedures performed as set out below, we conclude that the other information: • is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements; • contains all information that is required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained in our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing our procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of such procedures were substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. The Management Board is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the Management Report and the other information pursuant to Part 9 Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Our appointment We were appointed as auditors of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. by the Supervisory Board following the passing of a resolution by the shareholders at the annual meeting held on April 17, 2013. The appointment has been renewed annually by shareholders representing a total period of uninterrupted engagement appointment of 4 years. Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements The Management Board is responsible for: • the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and for • such internal control as the Management Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Management Board is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Management Board should prepare the financial statements using the going-concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Management Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 237 Other information Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements continued Our responsibility is to plan and perform an audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high but not absolute level of assurance which makes it possible that we may not detect all misstatements. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. A more detailed description of our responsibilities is set out in the appendix to our report. Amsterdam, February 28, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. D. van Ameijden RA Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 238 Appendix to our auditor’s report on the financial statements for the year ended January 1, 2017 of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. In addition to what is included in our auditor’s report we have further set out in this appendix our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and explained what an audit involves. The auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our audit consisted, among other things of the following: • Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the intentional override of internal control. • Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. • Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the management board. • Concluding on the appropriateness of the management board’s use of the going concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, concluding whether a material uncertainty exists related to events and/or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report and are made in the context of our opinion on the financial statements as a whole. However, future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Considering our ultimate responsibility for the opinion on the company’s consolidated financial statements we are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. In this context, we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures for components of the group to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole. Determining factors are the geographic structure of the group, the significance and/or risk profile of group entities or activities, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review of financial information or specific balances was considered necessary. We communicate with the supervisory board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We provide the supervisory board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the supervisory board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 239 Investors Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 240 Share performance The case for investing in Ahold Delhaize By purchasing Ahold Delhaize shares, investors gain a stake in one of the world’s largest retail groups, operating strong local consumer brands in the United States and Europe with: • Strong free cash flow generation with disciplined capital allocation • Funding growth in key channels: supermarkets, eCommerce and smaller formats • Good track record in cost management, including €500 million of net synergies expected in 2016-2019 • Experienced management with a broad set of skills • Strong balance sheet with attractive returns to shareholders Share performance in 2016¹ On December 30, 2016, the closing price of an Ahold Delhaize ordinary share on Euronext Amsterdam was €20.03, a 2.8% increase compared to €19.48 on December 31, 2015. During the same period, the Euro STOXX 50 index increased by 0.7% and the AEX index increased by 9.4%. In 2016, Ahold Delhaize shares traded on Euronext Amsterdam at an average closing price of €20.14 and an average daily trading volume of 3.9 million shares. Ahold Delhaize’s market capitalization was €25.5 billion at year-end 2016. During 2016, the highest closing price for Ahold Delhaize’s shares in Amsterdam was €22.09 on September 2, 2016, and the lowest was €18.11 on December 1, 2016. On December 30, 2016, the closing price of Ahold Delhaize’s ADR was $20.99, 0.7% lower than the closing price on December 31, 2015 ($21.14). In the same period, the Dow Jones index increased by 13.4%. In 2016, the average daily trading volume of Ahold Delhaize American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) was 138,451. 1 2015 numbers refer to Ahold only. Ahold Delhaize share price € 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 5 10 15 20 25 Range Year-end price 2012-2015 numbers refer to Ahold only Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 241 Share performance Performance of Ahold Delhaize’s common shares on Euronext Amsterdam continued 2016 2015 Closing common share price at calendar year-end (in €) 20.03 19.48 Average closing common share price (in €) 20.14 17.87 Highest closing common share price (in €) 22.09 20.68 Lowest closing common share price (in €) 18.11 14.32 Average daily trading volume 3,889,901 3,629,771 Market capitalization (€ million) 25,484 15,944 Source: Bloomberg Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 242 Shareholder structure Share capital During 2016, Ahold Delhaize’s issued share capital outstanding increased by approximately 454 million common shares to 1,272 million common shares, mainly related to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize Group. Following the merger, Delhaize shareholders received 4.75 Ahold ordinary shares for each issued and outstanding Delhaize common share, which increased the number of common shares outstanding by 496 million shares. This was partly offset by the reverse stock split of 48.5 million shares on July 18, 2016, and the use of 6.3 million treasury shares for share-based compensation. The common shares issued increased by 447 million to 1,281 million at the end of 2016. The difference between the common shares outstanding and common shares issued are the treasury shares. As of January 1, 2017, there were 9 million shares held in treasury, the majority held by Ahold Delhaize to cover the equity-based long-term incentive plan. Ahold Delhaize’s authorized share capital as of January 1, 2017, was comprised of the following: • 1,921,000,000 common shares at €0.01 par value each • 329,000,000 cumulative preferred financing shares at €0.01 par value each • 2,250,000,000 cumulative preferred shares at €0.01 par value each Shareholders by region³: Percent February 2017 February 2016² North America 20.0 21.9 UK / Ireland 17.7 21.6 France 8.6 6.6 Rest of Europe 8.1 7.2 Rest of the world 4.3 5.0 Germany 4.0 4.8 The Netherlands1 3.8 5.1 Norway 2.3 3.7 Undisclosed1 31.2 24.1 1 The Netherlands excludes the percentage of shareholdings of all retail holdings and treasury shares, which are included in Undisclosed. 2 2016 numbers refer to Ahold only. 3 Source: CMi2i. For additional information about Ahold Delhaize’s share capital, see Notes 20 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements. Ahold Delhaize is a public limited liability company registered in the Netherlands with a listing of shares (symbol: AD) on Euronext’s Amsterdam Stock Exchange (AEX) and Euronext Brussels. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 243 Shareholder structure American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) continued Ahold Delhaize’s shares trade in the United States on the over-the-counter (OTC) market (www.otcmarkets.com) in the form of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) (ticker: ADRNY). The ratio between Ahold Delhaize ADRs and the ordinary Netherlands (euro denominated) shares is 1:1, i.e., one ADR represents one Ahold Delhaize ordinary share. Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (the Depositary) acts as the depositary bank for Ahold Delhaize’s ADR program. Please also see Contact information for details on how to contact Deutsche Bank regarding the ADR program. Security codes Common shares: Ticker: AD Bloomberg code: AD NA ISIN code: NL0011794037 CUSIP: N0074E105 American Depositary Receipts (ADR): Ticker: ADRNY Bloomberg code: ADRNY US ISIN code: US5004675014 CUSIP: 500467501 Structure: Sponsored Level I ADR Exchange: OTC Ratio (DR:ORD): 1:1 Other codes: Reuters code: AD.AS Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 244 Shareholder returns For the 2015 financial year, a cash dividend of €0.52 per common share was approved by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 19, 2016, and paid on May 4, 2016. The announced common dividend of €0.57 for the financial year 2016 is up 9.6% from last year and will be proposed to shareholders at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 12, 2017. The payout ratio of 48% is within our dividend policy range of 40-50% of pro forma underlying income from continuing operations. Shareholders KPIs 2012-2016 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Dividend per common share 0.57 0.52 0.48 0.47 0.44 Dividend yield 2.8% 2.7% 3.3% 3.6% 4.3% Payout ratio* 48% 49% 51% 51% 50% Total shareholder return 5.5% 41.1% 6.4% 35.8% 13.8% 2016 dividend subject to the approval of the annual General Meeting of Shareholders 2012-2015 numbers refer to Ahold only * Dividend payout ratio for 2016 is based on underlying income from continuing operations (on a pro forma basis). In 2015 this was based on a payout ratio of adjusted income from continuing operations. Dividends on cumulative preferred financing shares Ahold Delhaize paid an annual dividend on cumulative preferred financing shares in 2016 and plans to pay dividends on these shares in 2017 as required by the terms of the shares. Capital repayment and reverse stock split As part of the merger announcement, approximately €1 billion was returned to Ahold shareholders through a capital return and reverse stock split prior to the merger completion. The capital repayment, announced on June 24, 2015, was approved by Ahold’s shareholders on March 14, 2016. On July 15, 2016, the reverse stock split became effective by way of a consolidation of every 17 issued Ahold common shares into 16 common shares and a capital repayment of €1.29 per remaining share (equal to about €1.21 per old share) on July 21, 2016. For shareholders who held shares through Euroclear Nederland, the ex-date on Euronext Amsterdam was July 18, 2016. For holders of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), the ex-date was July 15, 2016. The record date for the capital repayment was fixed at the close of trading hours on July 19, 2016. Share buyback On December 7, 2016, Ahold Delhaize announced its decision to return €1 billion to its shareholders by way of a share buyback program, which is expected to be completed before the end of 2017. Maintaining a balanced approach between funding growth in key channels and returning excess liquidity to shareholders is part of Ahold Delhaize’s financial framework to support its Better Together strategy. The purpose of the program is to reduce Ahold Delhaize’s capital, by cancelling all or part of the common shares acquired through the program. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 245 Key dates Key dates 2017 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders April 12 Ex-dividend date* April 18 Dividend record date April 19 Payment date April 26 Announcement of first quarter 2017 results May 10 Announcement of half year 2017 results August 9 Announcement of third quarter 2017 results November 8 *Ex-dividend date for the ADRs will be on April 17, 2017 AGM 2017 This year’s annual General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at Theater Amsterdam in the Netherlands, on April 12, 2017. The meeting will start at 2.00 pm (CET). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 246 Five-year overview Results, cash flow and other information € million, except per share data, exchange rates and percentages 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Net sales 49,695 38,203 32,774 32,615 32,682 Net sales growth at constant exchange rates1 32.3% 2.3% 0.8% 2.0% 3.6% Operating income 1,584 1,318 1,250 1,239 1,336 Underlying operating margin 3.8% 3.8% 3.9% 4.2% 4.3% Net interest expense (276) (244) (222) (242) (207) Income from continuing operations 830 849 791 805 869 Income (loss) from discontinued operations – 2 (197) 1,732 46 Net income 830 851 594 2,537 915 Net income per common share (basic) 0.81 1.04 0.68 2.48 0.88 Net income per common share (diluted) 0.81 1.02 0.67 2.39 0.85 Income from continuing operations per common share (basic) 0.81 1.04 0.90 0.79 0.84 Income from continuing operations per common share (diluted) 0.81 1.02 0.88 0.77 0.81 Dividend per common share 0.57 0.52 0.48 0.47 0.44 Free cash flow 1,441 1,184 1,055 1,109 1,051 Net cash from operating, investing and financing activities 2,114 73 (1,005) 681 (511) Capital expenditures (including acquisitions)2 16,775 1,172 1,006 843 1,876 Capital expenditures as % of net sales 33.8% 3.1% 3.1% 2.6% 5.7% Regular capital expenditures 1,377 811 740 830 929 Regular capital expenditures as % of net sales 2.8% 2.1% 2.3% 2.5% 2.8% Average exchange rate (€ per $) 0.9038 0.9001 0.7529 0.7533 0.7782 1 Net sales growth in 2016 and 2015 is adjusted for the impact of week 53 in 2015. 2 The amounts represent additions to property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets. The amounts include assets acquired through business combinations and exclude discontinued operations. Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 247 Five-year overview Balance sheet and other information January 1, January 3, December 28, December 29, December 30, continued € million, except for number of stores and otherwise indicated 2017 2016 2014 2013 2012 Group equity2 16,276 5,621 4,844 6,520 5,146 Gross debt 7,561 3,502 3,197 3,021 3,246 Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term deposits and similar instruments and available-for-sale financial assets – current portion 4,317 2,354 1,886 3,963 1,886 Net debt 3,244 1,148 1,311 (942) 1,360 Total assets 36,275 15,880 14,138 15,142 14,572 Number of stores1 6,556 3,253 3,206 3,131 3,074 Number of employees (in thousand FTEs)1 225 129 126 123 125 Number of employees (in thousands headcount)1 370 236 227 222 225 Common shares outstanding (in millions)2 1,272 818 823 982 1,039 Share price at Euronext (€) 20.03 19.48 14.66 13.22 10.16 Market capitalization2 25,484 15,944 12,059 12,989 10,551 Year-end exchange rate (€ per $) 0.9506 0.9208 0.8213 0.7277 0.7566 1 The number of stores and employees include discontinued operations (Slovakia). 2 In 2016, €1,001 million was returned to shareholders through a capital repayment (2014: €1,007 million) and nil as a result of a share buyback (2015: €161 million, 2014: €1,232 million, 2013: €768 million and 2012: €277 million). Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 248 Contact information Ahold Delhaize proactively maintains an open dialogue with shareholders, providing accurate information in a timely and consistent way. We do this through press releases, the Annual Report, presentations, webcasts, and regular briefings with analysts, fund managers and shareholders. Ahold Delhaize is covered by approximately 30 analysts who frequently issue reports on the Company. Corporate website Whether you want to view the Company’s latest press releases or learn more about our great local brands and heritage, our commitment to being a sustainable retailer, or our approach to corporate governance, Ahold Delhaize’s corporate website provides a wealth of information for shareholders. If you have a general question about your shareholding, the Investors section of our corporate website can help, as it contains much of the information that is most frequently requested from our shareholder helpline. Investors are also encouraged to sign up to receive emailed news alerts, which include all financial news releases throughout the year. You can access the corporate website at www.aholddelhaize.com. The Company is responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the financial information on our website. This information has been prepared under the relevant accounting standards and legislation. Electronic communication In recent years, changes in legislation have removed the requirement for companies to mail large quantities of paper communications to shareholders. Instead, companies are choosing to communicate with their shareholders via the internet, because of its speed and environmental benefits, and to save costs. Ahold Delhaize actively encourages shareholders to sign up to receive electronic communications, as part of our commitment to being a sustainable retailer. For information about how to register to receive electronic communications, please visit the Contact us section of our corporate website. How to get in touch Investor Relations Henk Jan ten Brinke Aurélie Bultynck Kim Verdouw SVP Investor Relations Director Investor Relations Senior Manager Investor Relations investor.relations@aholddelhaize.com +31 88 659 52 13 Media Relations Ellen van Ginkel Maud van Gaal Director External Communications Manager External Communications communications@aholddelhaize.com +31 88 659 51 34 Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 249 Contact information General information continued Ahold Delhaize Group Communications Provincialeweg 11 1506 MA Zaandam The Netherlands Telephone: +31 88 659 5100 Email: communications@aholddelhaize.com www.aholddelhaize.com Trade Register No. 35000363 Shareholder information Ahold Delhaize Investor Relations Provincialeweg 11 1506 MA Zaandam The Netherlands Telephone: +31 88 659 5213 Email: investor.relations@aholddelhaize.com Visiting address Ahold Delhaize Global Support Office Provincialeweg 11 1506 MA Zaandam The Netherlands ADR information Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas c/o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company Peck Slip Station P.O. Box 2050 New York, NY 10272-2050 Email: DB@amstock.com Shareholder Service (toll-free) Tel. (866) 706-0509 Shareholder Service (international) Tel. (718) 921-8124 www.amstock.com Overview Business review Governance Financials Investors Ahold Delhaize Annual Report 2016 250 Cautionary notice This Annual Report includes forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts may be forward-looking statements. Words such as committed, strategy, on track, opportunities, improve, trends, ongoing efforts, key priority, focused on, goals, future, going forward, expect, aim, planning, prepare, vision, ahead, ambitions, keep, come, will, promises, strive, endeavor and policy or other similar words or expressions are typically used to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and that may cause actual results of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V. (the “Company”) to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to risks relating to competition and pressure on profit margins in the food retail industry; the impact of the Company’s outstanding financial debt; future changes in accounting standards; the Company’s ability to generate positive cash flows; general economic conditions; the Company’s international operations; the impact of economic conditions on consumer spending; turbulences in the global credit markets and the economy; the significance of the Company’s U.S. operations and the concentration of its U.S. operations on the east coast of the U.S.; increases in interest rates and the impact of downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings; competitive labor markets, changes in labor conditions and labor disruptions; environmental liabilities associated with the properties that the Company owns or leases; the Company’s inability to locate appropriate real estate or enter into real estate leases on commercially acceptable terms; exchange rate fluctuations; additional expenses or capital expenditures associated with compliance with federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S., the Netherlands, Belgium and other countries; product liability claims and adverse publicity; risks related to corporate responsibility and sustainable retailing; the Company’s inability to successfully implement its strategy, manage the growth of its business or realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions; its inability to successfully complete divestitures and the effect of contingent liabilities arising from completed divestitures; unexpected outcomes with respect to tax audits; disruption of operations and other factors negatively affecting the Company’s suppliers; the unsuccessful operation of the Company’s franchised and affiliated stores; natural disasters and geopolitical events; inherent limitations in the Company’s control systems; the failure or breach of security of IT systems; changes in supplier terms; antitrust and similar legislation; unexpected outcome in the Company’s legal proceedings; adverse results arising from the Company’s claims against its self-insurance programs; increase in costs associated with the Company’s defined benefit pension plans; and other factors discussed in the Company’s public filings and other disclosures. Forward-looking statements reflect the current views of the Company’s management and assumptions based on information currently available to the Company’s management. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company does not assume any obligation to update such statements, except as required by law. Outside the Netherlands Ahold Delhaize presents itself under the name “Royal Ahold Delhaize” or “Ahold Delhaize”. For the reader’s convenience, “Ahold Delhaize”, the “Company”, the “company”, “Ahold Delhaize group” or the “Group” is also used throughout this Annual Report. The Company’s registered name is “Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize N.V.” Nielsen’s information as included in this Annual Report does not constitute a reliable independent basis for investment advice or Nielsen’s opinion as to the value of any security or the advisability of investing in, purchasing or selling any security.
