Bersay Communications Group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Report 31 March 2017 Chairwoman’s Remarks As one of the leading players of the public relations industry in Turkey, Bersay has been among the pioneers in adopting the international professional standards and has continuously taken steps towards bringing the industry to higher levels. Bersay opted for a new organizational structure which would ensure further and deeper specialization by training the employees based on industries and functions. Each individual is offered a career plan tailormade in line with his/her traits, specialization programs and mentorship support is provided. In office specialization programs are reinforced with seminars, conferences and workshops whereby individuals gain practice. This really is a hard mission when the business world gets more and more communication-educated and new tools like social networks are constantly changing the game. As we stated in last years report, our approach to Human Resources shifted to Human Assets. Now, in the purpose of orienting our organization to a changing global order, we are moving our server systems to cloud for creating a working environment everywhere in the country or in the world. In addition, focusing on marketing communication is a new focus area for us in our communication skills. Since signing the UN Global Compact protocol in 2007, we are proud to be recording a continuous progress towards the principles and we are well aware that this is a neverending journey. It i s our pleasure to present the eighth Communication on Progress Report that represents our commitment to the Global Compact principles on behalf of all Bersay Communications Group employees. Arın Saydam President Communication on Progress Report / 2017 About Bersay Communications Group Having its roots from Bersay Communications Consultancy established in 1990, Bersay Communications Group offers basic (i.e. public relations services) communication consultancy as well as other forms of communications services to the clients like digital, social media, marketing and leadership communication consultancy, event management, publishing & design, corporate social responsibility project development, marketing and social research design and implementation. These services are provided either by Bersay or through a network of best-inclass strategic partners supervised by Bersay based on integrated solutions approach; in line with the practices of similar network agencies around the globe. Bersay C om m uni cat i ons G r o u p i s a n exclusive affiliate o f Ketchum, one of the leading global communications consultancy networks. Progress in 2015 A. Core Business World is changing day-by-day and companies should keep in pace with that change. So Bersay decided move to cloud system in mails, meetings and practices. This will provide for employees to reach their files, server files anywhere which have access to internet. The main purpose of this change to create closer relationship with our clients, spending time and sharing experience with them. After the complete establishment of this system, communication executions, strategies will become more effective and much faster. In addition, we established an agency called “Gravital” and gathered our marketing communication, publishing, event management and digital services in it. It can be called as sister company of Bersay. We are providing such services to our clients according to their requests. This movement in our business created a division of services and much more organized structure based on expertness. Education & Awareness Raising With the understanding that our employees are in the heart of our core business, we transformed our human resources organisation to Human Assets Department in 2010, and since then, we have been spreading this approach also to our clients, business and solution partners. Human Assets is not a support unit for Bersay and with the vision that our most important assets are our employees; we are continuously taking steps in terms of keeping the best talents at Bersay. Communication on Progress Report / 2017 Bersay Human Assets Policy lies on a framework where establishing a healthy work environment, cultivating team collaboration, enabling the employees to improve themselves on a continuous basis with the help of training programs and employing qualified and efficient personnel at all positions is aimed. Firstly in 1999, the concept of Human Assets rather than Human Resources was revealed by Ali Saydam; followed by an article in 2000 and later in 2005, in his book Perception Management Saydam continued sharing his knowledge which contributed to the structural changes made within the group. Human Assets concept has been registered by the Turkish Patent Institute Bersay Communications Consulting. Our main purpose is to have all our employees to be successful and happy, respect & love their job with continuous excitement. This philosophy, no matter what position, throughout their career, employees self improvement and continue to develop themselves. Human Assets Policy Concept; Human Assets Management Procedure based on qualifications; As pointed out among 2015 targets, New Bersay Organizational structure have been put into use. Bersay fire, earthquake, sabotage and first aid action plans were drafted and training activities were started. A new salary and premiums system was developed. Another one among these steps is the great educational track record of BIE since 2008. As Bersay Communications Group, we have established BIE with the aim of providing training opportunities to both Bersay employees as well as the industry professionals. Since its establishment, BIE has hosted numerous conference and seminar programs that have greatly contributed to the world views of the participants. Now we set up a new talent raising program, which will raise PR professionals through our own system and way of doing business. This will create an organic and efficient growth to our company. Bahcesehir CO-OP Project: Consultants of Bersay Communications Group are also the lecturers of the CO-OP Education Model applied by Bahcesehir University with BIE support. The program included major communications disciplines like Reputation Management, Stakeholders and Target Audience, Crisis Management, Media Relations, Corporate Responsibility, Financial Communications, Online Communications, Event Management, Celebrity Communications and Leadership Management, Issue Management and Agenda Setting. 60 students participated in 2014-2015 spring & 2015-2016 fall classes. Communication on Progress Report / 2017 Communications Profession Trainings: Bersay consultants that contribute to the CO-OP projects presented their trainings to Bersay Group employees as well as participants from client teams. Around 50 participants attended to several lectures at BIE including Strategic Marketing at Crisis Era, Presentation Techniques, Public Relations Authorship, and Client Relations Management topics All Bersay consultants enjoy participating in webinars arranged by Ketchum to betterify Ketchum / Bersay relations and to increase the industry know-how. Bersay also supports TUYID (Turkish Investor Relations Association) since its establishment and Bersay consultants that aim to specialize in finance sector benefit from regular finance trainings of TUYID. Bielog, the online platform of BIE, was kept open to contribution of all Bersay employees as well as PR industry professionals. Internal Meetings: Internally, we set up two meetings in a month. One of those meeting is related with client experience. We will invite our clients to our meetings in order to share mutual experience in communication executions. Other type of meeting will be about employee experience. We will share our client experience between us and create flowing knowledge in the company. B. Social Having about 8279 and gradually increasing online and offline materials including books, DVDs, magazine subscriptions focused on communications, BIE library is open to Bersay employees and client teams as well as communications professionals, students, interns, academicians, BIE’s revenue sources are generally the conferences such as Ducane Cündioğlu seminar on Philosophy, webinars and seminars, as well as all kinds of corporate programs including media trainings. Among these sources are the revenues of books and lectures of Ali Saydam, founder and Honorary President of Bersay Group, who is among the leading communications experts in Turkey. As a non-profit organization, BIE donates its profits to communications master and doctorate students as scholarships. C. Ethics Handling its business in full transparency with its clients and the industry, Bersay and Gravital companies are audited every two years in respect of being suitable to Consultancy Management Standard (CMS). Bersay continues to work with Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society after becoming a corporate member in 2011. Furthermore BIE maintains its activities according to the Ethics Declaration signed in 2012. Communication on Progress Report / 2017 D. Environment In order to develop a healthier and more clear environment for our employees, Bersay has moved to an office which offers an open working area for an easier internal communication atmosphere. This new working condition also includes an open living room which stores movies, books, magazines, projection and couches for comfort. This is an area where Bersay employees meet once a week to discuss client cases, media and everything related to both global and domestic subjects within the public relations sector. Forward Looking We remain committed to Global Compact and its principles in all our strategies, throughout our organisation and during our consultancy services to our clients. In the upcoming years, we’ll continue adding value to our employees and clients, as well as actively contributing to the development of PR industry in Turkey. Communication on Progress Report / 2017 UN Global Compact Principles GC GRI Definition Bersay Approach Bersay Practices Bersay Communications Group Recruitment process believes that every people has right to Rewarding system Business should support work, choose his/her job, freedom of (Finder/Success Fee) HR1, HR2, expression, liberty and security, health and respect the protection Employee satisfaction HR3, HR4, care and equality. Bersay also consults of internationally survey 1 HR5, HR6, its suppliers and clients to support the proclaimed human rights Health insurance HR7, HR8, same principles. HR9 Trainings Internal Communication Internship Program Bersay policies on harassment, Business should ensure employment equity, safety and health Employee satisfaction that they are not complicit ensure that basic human rights are survey 2 HR1, HR2 in human rights firmly respected. Employee contracts and confidentiality Fire, sabotage, first aid trainings Trainings on health insurance Offering private pension funds & trainings Accessible management team Bersay policy on employment equity Bielog communication Business should uphold ensures the provision of good platform LA2, LA4, the freedom of working conditions in which all Weekly regular group LA5, LA13, association and effective employees could express their meetings 3 LA14, HR4, recognition of the right HR5 to collective bargaining ideas. Participative management Information sharing Profit sharing Bonuses Bersay employee policies are specified within employment contracts. Employee contracts cannot be Business should support Bersay is strictly against forced labor against the labor law. The the elimination of all considered as a potential risk also in contracts state the actual working 4 HR7 forms of forced and service sector. terms and conditions and their compulsory labor rights clearly. Thus, all of our employees are aware of these working conditions and their rights. Communication on Progress Report / 2017 Bersay is against the child Business should support the labor and complies with the Bersay does not recruit 5 HR6 effective abolition of child labor minimum age provisions of anybody below the legal age Turkish labor laws and of 18. regulations. Bersay believes every Business should support the individual has to be elimination of discrimination in treated fairly without LA2, LA13, respect of employment and Recruitment process 6 LA14, HR6 considering what their Intensive occupation gender is, what their education&training contract type is, what their program promoted job is and so on. with the scorecard system Discipline code Bersay, like the rest of the society, faces the global challenge of ensuring a Business should healthy and sustainable support a environment in the future. By precautionary signing the Global Compact Waste handling applications 7 4.11 approach to Bersay commits itself to environmental approach more carefully to Decreasing paper usage challenges environmental issues. Bersay Gradually falling electricity and gas signed the Ethics Declaration consumption in 2013. Bersay develops Corporate Social EN2, Responsiblity projects and projects EN5, One of the priorities of Bersay aiming to EN6, EN7, Business should undertake Communication Group is to promote greater initiatives to promote create environmental environmental responsibility. The EN10, greater environment awareness first for our clients are encouraged to apply 8 EN13, responsibility employees and for all of our those projects as their EN14, clients, suppliers and environmental and Corporate EN18, stakeholders. Social Responsibility projects. EN21, EN22, EN26, EN27, EN30 Communication on Progress Report / 2017 EN2, Business should encourage EN5, the development and Water, Paper, Electricity, Natural Gas, Bersay encourages its staff to diffusion of Energy Saving Supporting Recycling 9 EN6, environmentally friendly use environmentally Process EN7, technologies friendly technologies. EN10, EN18, EN26, EN27 Bersay’s employment agreement states that unethical business practice is a reason for ending employment contract. Bersay Memberships: ICCO, Business should work Bersay is against all forms of IDA (Communication Consultancies SO2, against corruption in all its corruption, including Association of Turkey), TEID 10 forms, including extortion SO3, and bribery extortion and bribery. (Turkish Ethics and Reputation SO4 Society) Individual Based Memberships: TUHID (Turkish PR Foundation), TBV (Turkish Information Foundation). Communication on Progress Report / 2017 Performance Indicators Actions Aims 2015 Targets 2015Results 2016 Targets 2016 Results 100% job 97% job 100% job 99% job Recruitment Process Fair treatment application application application application responding responding responding responding rate rate rate rate reached To give 10 corporate 11corporate 12corporate 9corporate Rig hts individual trainings trainings trainings trainings Training trainings development 15option 15 17 16 optional Huma opportunities al optional optional n to our training trainings trainings conducted employees s Motivation / 1 year end 1 year end 1 year end Participation 1 year end organization organization / organization / Internal to company / Weekly organization / Weekly Monthly client Communication processes / Bizbize Weekly Bizbize Bizbize meetings / Information Meetings / 1 Meetings / 1 Meetings / 1 Monthly internal sharing year end year end Kickyear end meetings/ 1 year Kickoff off end Kickoff Kickoff To sustain the Discipline Non-Discrimination Fair treatment Revised Discipline Code fair and Code Revised Discipline is revised proper policy Standard Code s Employees / Fair treatment proper Number of To sustain Fair and proper To sustain the Fair and proper Woman the fair and policy was fair and policy was Labo sustained proper policy sustained r Number of Total policy Employees To sustain Ethical approach To sustain the Ethical the ethical in business ethical approach in Ethical Business approach in AntiMemberships practices was approach in business Practices business sustained business practices was practices practices sustained E nv ir on Consumption Consumption m en To reduce t maintained To reduce Environmentally consumption rate was consumption rate was Water & friendly and continue reduced. and continue reduced. Electricity Usage applications and supporting the Recycling supporting the Recycling and Waste less consumption Management recycling process recycling process process maintained 8 scholarships 5 more For our nonprofit 9 scholarships / enterprise BIE to / 400 TL for 400 TL for each Sustain the scholarships / 400 Scholarships deliver its first each scholar scholarship TL for each scholar by program scholar by month scholarships by month month for 12 for 12 months for months Communication on Progress Report / 2017 Activ ities 2 books of Ali Management”, To publish Saydam: “Perception nonprofit Sustaining Sustaining BIELOG and Voluntee books the ongoing the ongoing Publication r English version of Publications supporting the book “How to Loose book activities development publishing Wives and Clients”, publishing Continued of the sector and “Power is Solitude” and BIELOG and to donate BIELOG Sustaining of plannings Dr. Arın Saydam’s book: their income plannings BILEOG “Sustainability” Communication on Progress Report / 2017
