AB Svensk Exportkredit Swedish Export Credit Corporation Annual Report 2016 SEK’s vision is to strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish export industry and, thereby help to create employment and sustainable growth in Sweden. Contents 3. This is SEK 34. Key performance indicators 4. 2016 in brief 34. Financial 6. Statement by the CEO 35. Sustainability 8. Macro environment 36. Review of 2016 10. Mission and strategy 40. Risk and capital management 12. Targets and outcomes 47. Chairman’s statement 13. Follow-up of the public policy assignment 48. Corporate Governance Report 14. Value creation 56. The Board of Directors and management 16. Offering 60. Financial statements 17. Offering to Swedish exporters 60. Accounts 17. Offering to exporters’ customers 68. Notes 17. Green loans 131. The Board of Directors’ signatures 17. Financial solutions 132. Auditors’ report 18. Example of SEK’s lending: Purac 133. Sustainability Report 18. Example of SEK’s lending: ITAB 136. About the Sustainability Report 19. Example of SEK’s lending: ABB 138. GRI Index & COP UNGC 20. Operations in 2016 140. The UN’s Sustainability Development Goals 20. Map of our lending worldwide 140. The Fossil Free Sweden initiative 22. Lending 141. Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report on the GRI report 23. Credit and sustainability analysis 142. Definitions 24. Example of SEK’s lending: Volvo Cars 25. Borrowing and liquidity 26. Sustainable business 26. Stakeholder dialogue 27. Materiality analysis 28. Responsibility 29. Example of SEK’s lending: Dynasafe 30. Exports of Swedish environmental know-how 30. Example of SEK’s lending: Rottneros 31. Employees 32. Procurement of products and services How to read SEK’s Annual Report SEK’s Annual Report 2016 is an integrated report that adheres to the mission from the Swedish government. The APMs are used interprinciples set out in the IIRC’s International Integrated Reporting nally to monitor and manage operations, and are not considered Framework. This framework applies principles aimed at creating to be directly comparable with similar key performance indicators cohesion in the reporting process on those factors that impact a compresented by other companies. For additional information regarding pany’s ability to create value over time. The company’s audited annual the APMs, refer to www.sek.se. accounts and the consolidated financial statements are included on pages 8–131. The Report of the Directors can be found on pages 8–59. AB Svensk Exportkredit (SEK), Swedish corporate identity number The GRI-based Sustainability Report with GRI Index definitions on 556084-0315, with its registered office in Stockholm, Sweden is a pages 138–139 has been reviewed. public company as defined in the Swedish Companies Act. In some Alternative performance measures (APMs) are key performance instances, a public company is obliged to add “(publ)” to its company indicators that are not defined under IFRS or in the Capital Requirename. For more information about SEK’s operations, call our Commuments Directive IV (CRD IV) or in regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 on nications Department on +46 8 613 83 00. Design and production: SEK, prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms with counsel from Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, and production support (CRR). SEK has chosen to present these, either because they are in from Textfokus, Stockholm 2017. Images (unless otherwise stated): Jan common use within the industry or because they accord with SEK’s Danielsson. 2 SEK Annual Report 2016 This is SEK This is SEK Mission Vision SEK’s mission is to ensure access to SEK’s vision is to strengthen the financial solutions for the Swedish competitiveness of the Swedish export industry on commercial and export industry and thereby help to sustainable terms. The mission create employment and sustainable includes administration of the offigrowth in Sweden. cially supported CIRR system. 120 SEK currently has some 120 clients within the Swedish export industry. 256 employees Collaboration Solution Orientation Professionalism SEK’s core values 1963 Rating SEK’s first financing AA+ Standard & Poor’s M/S Berit Aa1 Moody’s SEK’s offering SEK’s offering is aimed at the Swedish export industry and buyers of Swedish products and services. SEK’s clients are mainly Collaboration represented among the 100 largest Swedish exporters with sales SEK has a strong international exceeding Skr 4 billion. Since network in international financ2015, SEK has also expanded its ing and a close co-operartion offering to reach medium-sized with many swedish and internaexporters with sales exceeding Skr We support Global tional banks. 500 million. Compact SEK Annual Report 2016  3 2016 in brief 2016 in brief During the year, SEK has continued to deepen business with existing clients and to attract new clients. Half of the new clients are medium-sized companies and half large companies. In 2016, SEK invested considerable resources into developing system support for raising its risk management and measurement capabilities. SEK has excellent liquidity and is well-prepared to assist the Swedish export industry with financing solutions. 55 263 1,002 billion Swedish kronor billion Swedish kronor billion Swedish kronor in new lending in the total lending portfolio in operating profit SEK has lending in 23 of the 26 countries that the government’s Export Strategy has identified as prioritized markets. 4.6 % Return on equity 4 SEK Annual Report 2016 2016 in brief SEK’s employee Partnership with Green survey 2016 Team Sweden Loans 3.3 Within the framework of the government’s export strategy, SEK develops partnerships 85 % with the other export promotion agencies in Team Sweden, including Almi, EKN, Business Sweden and Swedfund. That billion Swedish kronor in includes the establishment of new lending regional export centers. I feel strong commitment to my work duties 81 % My manager provides 25.1 % Total capital ratio excellent leadership Public policy assignment Clients Banks 87 % of companies say that the 94 100 % Client of the banks would consider Swedish export credit system is better Satisfaction Index collaborating with SEK again and than the systems of competitor countries. would recommend SEK to others These figures were obtained from SEK’s client survey conducted in April 2016 SEK is participating in the government’s Fossil Free Sweden SEK contributes to meeting the initiative. global sustainability goals. SEK Annual Report 2016  5 Statement by the CEO Optimism for Swedish exports despite difficult macro environment Our efforts to reach new clients with our offering has during 2016 performed well. In total, SEK entered into relationships with 15 new clients and lent Skr 55 billion during the year. Political uncertainty largely prevailed through 2016 and Despite the favorable capital market providing clients created unrest in the financial markets. In the latter part with alternative forms of financing, SEK experienced a of the year however, we noted significantly more stable healthy flow of work during the year. Our efforts to reach markets despite the continued unclear state of US politics. medium-sized companies with our offering has also Moreover, the global financial market also appears to be performed well. In total, SEK entered into relationships more susceptible to the new US fiscal policy rather than with 15 new clients and lent Skr 55 billion to and for the monetary policy moving forward. In Europe, we face the Swedish export industry and its customers during the year. negotiations for the UK’s exit from the EU in parallel with By reaching new clients, we add value for even more export election processes in a number of major economies. companies who can increase the competitiveness of their Over the next few years, the OECD expects global trade to offerings through our financing. increase from a historically low level, but the coming years’ Similar to many other financial institutions, the increases are assessed as moderate. Moving forward, political prevailing low interest rates make it challenging for SEK to uncertainty risks negatively impacting willingness to invest. maintain profitability and to develop operations. Therefore, Increased protectionism and the introduction of new trade it was pleasing to post an increase of around 5 percent in net barriers could both increase costs and cause difficulties for interest income to Skr 1,747 million (2015: Skr 1,662 million). the Swedish export industry, which is largely dependent on SEK has a strong capitalization with a total capital ratio foreign suppliers. Efforts to ensure a larger share of Swedish of 25.1 percent and healthy liquidity. Operating profit for exports reach emerging markets remain important. And this 2016 declined to Skr 1,002 million (2015: Skr 1,535 million). is where SEK has a pivotal role. This decline in profit was mainly due to lower net results Despite a relatively weak global investment trend, of financial transactions related to unrealized changes in Swedish goods exports increased at the end of 2016. The market value. The pace of investment in adapting operations weak Swedish krona was a contributory factor. The service to new regulatory frame-works was high in 2016 and will sector has performed strongly over the last few years and remain high in 2017. continued to trend favorably, albeit at a slightly slower pace than previously. In 2017, SEK will continue its efforts to reach new clients and broaden its business with existing clients Sweden’s Export Strategy aims to strengthen swedish » By reaching new clients, we add value for exports to and internationalization in emerging markets even more export companies « around the world. Moreover, in many emerging markets, Swedish environmental expertise can create the greatest Looking forward, we have noted increased optimism benefits in the form of reduced GHG emissions. The among Swedish exporters. Our own Export Credit Index (ECI) government has high expectations for sustainable business rose from 54 to 58 between June and December 2016, and and for the operations of companies active in Sweden and Business Sweden’s Export Managers’ Index climbed from abroad to respect human rights. SEK has a pivotal role in 53.9 (Q3 2016) to 58.2 (Q1 2017). In our surveys, exporters meeting these aims. Financing is often key to a company emphasized that access to finance was one of the most winning an order in emerging markets and, in parallel, significant factors for a successful export transaction. With we have a responsibility to set requirements regarding regard to access to financing, our clients’ perception is that respecting human rights for example. Our sustainability their financial position has continued to strengthen, and efforts focus therefore on managing sustainability risks in access to finance has improved as a result of favorable capital the transaction we finance and on actively promoting the market conditions. export of Swedish environmental expertise to the rest of the world. International guidelines, including the UN Global Compact and Sustainability Development Goals, show the way forward for our sustainability efforts. 6 SEK Annual Report 2016 I am extremely proud that, during the year, we were able Despite the likelihood of 2017 being marked by continued to continue driving large internal development projects in political uncertainty in our macro environment, we have parallel with attracting new clients and increasing client an optimistic outlook on the development of Swedish satisfaction. SEK has a client satisfaction index (CSI) with exports and on what SEK can do for these companies. We an overall score of 94, which is probably among the highest are a stable partner with a substantial contingency for new client rating in the entire industry. Furthermore, when lending and we will continue to strive to assist the Swedish asked, all of our Swedish and international banking partners export industry. In this way, our vision of strengthening the responded that they would recommend us to others. The competitiveness of the Swedish export industry is realized, client survey found that 87 percent of the client companies and thereby contributes to creating jobs and sustainable consider that the Swedish export credit system to be growth in Sweden. better than the corresponding export credit systems in key competitor countries. Stockholm February 22, 2017 » SEK has a client satisfaction index with an overall score of 94, which is probably among the highest client rating in the entire industry « Catrin Fransson, CEO SEK Annual Report 2016  7 Macro environment A business environment with challenges and opportunities SEK is impacted by factors in its macro environment. Some of the events worldwide create new opportunities to develop the offering and to identify new business opportunities. There are also challenges that require that SEK refines the modes of operation. Technological development, digitalization and fintech The pace of technological development is rapid and digitalization has made major inroads and will change many industries and exporters’ business models. SEK is also affected by this and works close to its clients to gain insight into how they are impacted and to adapt Internationalization its offering. Companies’ possibilities for exporting and internationalization can be enhanced by state export-promoting activities, of which SEK is one part. The companies can be supported with information on exports and individual export markets, and about guarantees and financial solutions, help to contact purchasers, procurers Low interest rates and and decision makers, and help to stimuli from central banks deal with bureaucratic trade barriers. Monetary policy stimuli from central banks worldwide and low interest rates heavily influence the Western world’s economies. This is Geopolitical concerns, also affecting SEK’s earnings. war and refugees Conflicts in the operating environment can impact Swedish exporters and have led to streams of refugees to Sweden. SEK works with integration, in part by employees giving talks in schools in areas with many pupils born outside Sweden. Regulations The financial sector continues to be impacted by new regulations and requirements. SEK adapts its systems and organization to comply with the requirements that affect its operations. 8 SEK Annual Report 2016 Macro environment More service exports The Swedish export trend toward an increasing content of services will continue in the years ahead. SEK is working together with other participants to develop its offering. European banking sector The European banking sector faces a number of challenges. A number of major and minor European banks have experienced problems. There is a risk that this will impact other Exports to emerging markets parts of the financial sector. In the years ahead, growth will probably be low in the more mature markets that currently account for the majority of Swedish exports’ business. Asia, the Middle East and several African countries will account for most of the growth, not least due to the ongoing urbanization in many countries. SEK, together with the other state export promotion agenRisk of protectionism cies, will assist Swedish exporters in Protectionist forces are gaining reaching new markets. Sustainability ground in many countries. Free trade work is of the utmost importance and free mobility are extremely and SEK has extensive experience of important to Swedish exports and, by working in complex markets. extension, to SEK’s operations. Considerable scope for climate issues At the UN’s summit meeting in September 2015, heads of government of the world’s leading countries adopted 17 Sustainability Development Goals (SDG). The countries undertook up to 2030 to lead the world towards a more sustainable and just future. In Paris in December 2015, the countries of the world also united behind a new global climate agreement. SEK promotes achieving these global goals by issuing green bonds that finance green loans aimed at reducing GHG emissions. SEK Annual Report 2016  9 Mission and strategy Mission and strategy SEK’s operations are determined by the strategy and focus areas defined in SEK’s mission, operating environment and core values. 1. Mission 2. Core values SEK’s mission is determined by the owner, the Swedish SEK’s core values are to permeate the actions of the employgovernment, and is to ensure access to financial solutions for ees in their professional roles and are defined as: solution the Swedish export industry on commercial and sustainable orientation, collaboration and professionalism. Solution terms. SEK is also to set a positive example in sustainability orientation entails that the employees strive to attain longissues. term holistic solutions and to resolve challenges efficiently SEK is governed by an owner instruction adopted by the 2016 by means of business acumen, proactivity and endeavoring to general meeting of shareholders and by mission and financial see opportunities. targets encompassing capital structure, profitability targets Collaboration entails sharing information and asking for and dividend policy. SEK has a complementary role to the the skills of colleagues, talking to colleagues, listening and market. talking frankly, helping colleagues to achieve their targets The Swedish parliament has established a public policy and taking responsibility for the results of the unit. assignment for SEK, which is to administrate the CIRR Professionalism entails striving for simplicity, efficiency and system. This assignment is followed up through measuring quality in everything. It also entails taking responsibility for the added value that SEK adds by offering export credits and the big picture and offering skills and showing great comthe stakeholder dialogue. mitment for SEK’s objective of having satisfied clients and a SEK is a member of Team Sweden, which is made up of profitable business. the Swedish state export promotion agencies, including EKN, With the core values as the lodestar, a culture is created at Almi, Business Sweden and Swedfund, and works to realize SEK that enables everyone to contribute on the basis of their the government’s Export Strategy. SEK and the Swedish specific skills. Export Credits Guarantee Board (EKN) jointly constitute the Swedish export credit system. 1 Mission To ensure access to financial solutions for the Swedish 2 Core values • Solution orientation • Collaboration export industry on commercial and sustainable terms. • Professionalism 10 SEK Annual Report 2016 Mission and strategy 3. Strategy 4. Focus areas SEK endeavors to understand the macro environment and SEK currently has approximately 120 clients among large develop the offering to continue to generate value for Swedand medium-sized companies. In 2016, SEK’s work to access ish exports. more medium-sized companies generated effect and SEK The strategy is to free up time and enhance the efficiency was able to finance a number of new clients. of the company’s use of capital, thus creating scope for addiIn the years ahead, SEK wants to continue to develop by tional business. In this way, the vision of strengthening the reaching new clients and broadening its business with existcompetitiveness of the Swedish export industry is realized, ing clients. SEK is also endeavoring to reach more clients by thereby contributing to creating jobs and sustainable growth jointly with other players continuing to develop the offering. in Sweden. Realizing the strategy requires that SEK conSEK hopes to be able to reach new client categories, including tinues to develop the foundation for operations; i.e. having suppliers to the export industry, service exporters and overwell-functioning IT systems and processes, an efficient seas companies with exporting operations in Sweden. organization and succeeding in retaining and developing A large part of SEK’s transactions derives from collabocompetent and committed employees. ration with banks, which account for a significant number of the new clients. Collaboration with Swedish and international banks as well as with Almi, Business Sweden and the EKN continues to be important. Swedish exporters are engaging increasingly in business in emerging markets. However, more has to be done by various export-promoting organizations to help small and medium-sized enterprises reach emerging markets, as is also highlighted by the government in its export strategy. SEK contributes to sustainable development by financing Swedish environmental expertise in exports and by imposing sustainability requirements in the transactions that SEK finances. The focus on business development moving forward sets considerable demands for IT development. 3 4 Strategy • Free up time and capital to create Focus areas • Develop the offering scope for additional business • New client categories • A client-focused corporate culture • Develop collaboration with • Further develop IT systems, other organizations processes and organization • Green loans • Attractive and sustainable employer SEK Annual Report 2016  11 Target and outcomes Targets and outcomes SEK’s strategy is to free up time and capital to create scope for additional business, thus resulting in longterm value creation. SEK’s prioritized targets are as follows and on page 13, the follow-up of the public policy assignment. 2016 2016 2017 TARGETS OUTCOMES TARGETS Broaden the client base: Business Number of new clients 7 15 14 objective C/I ratio 0.34 0.34 0.40 Client Satisfaction Index >80% 94% >80% Client value Value added for clients through export credits 1 63% >60% Diversity: Percentage of An attractive women in management >40% 36% >40% positions employer Diversity: Number of employees with >25% 30% >25% a foreign background Commitment 2 80% 85% 80% Skr Skr Skr A sustainable Green loans 3 bn 3.3 bn 3 bn society Sustainability rating 3 C+ C C+ 2016 2016 LONG-TERM TARGETS OUTCOMES TARGETS Financial Return on equity 5.5% 4.6% 6% targets 4 Dividend policy 30% 30% 30% 18.3– Capital target 25.1% 1–3% 5 20.3% 1 Proportion of the client survey that perceives that SEK’s export credits contributed significantly or very significantly to the execution of their export transactions. 2 Proportion of respondents to the employee survey that agreed or agreed entirely that they showed significant commitment to work duties. 3 External sustainability rating conducted by Oekom. The survey is conducted biennially and most recently in 2016. 4 The General Meeting has decided the long-term financial targets for SEK. 5 Under normal conditions, SEK’s total capital ratio is to exceed the Swedish FSA’s capital adequacy requirement by 1 to 3 percentage points. Comments on target attainment SEK conducted its first follow-up on its public policy assignment through a customer survey that included the question of whether SEK’s export credits had aided in concluding the clients’ export transactions. Moving forward, the aim is to retain the high level of added value shown in the survey that SEK generates for clients. The gender equality goal among management was not reached. SEK works actively with staff development and recruitment to, over time, promote increased gender equality at the workplace. The return was negatively impacted by unrealized changes in fair value in the results and did not reach the 2016 target. Capital adequacy is above the capital target, but will be reviewed over a longer horizon with regard to regulatory changes. 12 SEK Annual Report 2016 Target and outcomes Follow-up of the public policy assignment The fact that SEK is to administrate the export credit system (CIRR system) is a specially commissioned public policy assignment by the Swedish parliament. The socioeconomic value of this can be evaluated in part by measuring the added value that SEK generates in terms of export credits (of which CIRRs comprise a part) and in part through the stakeholder dialogue. The stakeholder dialogue is presented on page 26. The results of the monitoring included: 1. “How do SEK’s export credits contribute to execution of the clients’ export transactions?” 63 percent of clients who had engaged SEK’s services for export credits stated that SEK’s credits had contributed significantly or very significantly to the execution of their export transactions. 2. “The reason why the exporters decided to collaborate with SEK” The responses are shown as open replies and include the fact that SEK is customer-oriented, that the clients appreciate SEK’s ability to assist medium-sized companies, that SEK offers long maturities and access to CIRR. 3. “Did the collaboration match the clients’ expectations?” 73 percent of clients stated that the collaboration exceeded their expectations. 18 percent responded that the collaboration significantly exceeded their expectations. 4. “How SEK can further improve its offering of export credits” Approximately two thirds of the clients considered SEK as proactive, but that there was room for improvement and scope to increase its proactivity. 5. “How the clients perceived the Swedish export credit system compared with corresponding systems in key competing countries” 87 percent of the client companies consider that the Swedish export credit system is better than the systems in key competitor countries. SEK Annual Report 2016  13 How SEK creates value How SEK creates value SEK’s mission is to create value for various stakeholders. The model shows how SEK uses various types of resources in the form of capital and how these are used in the business model to create value. RESOURCES OPERATIONS Financial capital EQUITY MI SS IO N BORROWING Intellectual capital POLICIES AND PROCEDURES, IT SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES INTERNATIONAL BRAND Human capital EXPERTISE FO CU CORE VALUES S A R EA Relationship capital EXPORTERS AND EXPORT PROMOTION AGENCIES INTERNATIONAL BANKS 14 SEK Annual Report 2016 How SEK creates value The most central feature is the financial flow. SEK raises capital in the international capital market, which is then lent to exporters and their customers. The lending generates value for the Swedish export industry, and for SEK and its stakeholders, both directly and indirectly. VALUE Business objectives BROADEN THE CLIENT BASE Indirect value of new lending in 2016 C/I RATIO Environmental impact CO Client value RE GREEN LOANS SKR 3.3 BILLION ES LU CLIENT SATISFACTION Through its lending, SEK contributes indiVA rectly to society’s environmental impact. Read more under definitions on page 142. VALUE ADDED BY EXPORT CREDITS LENDING Social impact An attractive employer JOBS 44,000 PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT Through its lending, SEK contributes POSITIONS indirectly to creating jobs in Sweden. Read more under definitions on page 142. PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES WITH GY A FOREIGN BACKGROUND TE RA COMMITMENT Economic impact ST A sustainable society GDP SKR 33 BILLION Through its lending, SEK contributes indiGREEN LOANS rectly to GDP growth in Sweden. Read more under definitions on page 142. GOOD SUSTAINABILITY RATING Financial targets PROFITABILITY DIVIDEND CAPITAL RATIO SEK Annual Report 2016  15 Offering Offering By offering various forms of financial solutions, SEK helps the Swedish export industry secure more export transactions. SEK finances exporters SEK finances Swedish exporters and buyers of Swedish prodSEK adds value for the export industry ucts and services. SEK complements the client companies’ existing borrowing sources and serves as an alternative for Swedish exporters that require access to multiple alternative sources of financing. SEK is a long-term partner with conSales siderable experience of international financing and can offer The possibility of the Swedish export industry to long credit periods. offer financing solutions to buyers of products and services contributes to increased sales. Collaboration boosts exports SEK offers financing in various formats and currencies. As a result of collaboration with SEK, client companies gain access to a large international contact network of banks. Collaboration with the EKN creates a highly competitive export Growth credit system that offers financing and guarantees to the Financing that enables exporters to grow, such as Swedish export industry. to build a new plant, acquire a new company or Since SEK also collaborates other export-promoting establish a subsidiary abroad. agencies, including Almi and Business Sweden within the framework of the government’s Export Strategy and Team Sweden, SEK’s clients have access to the entire Swedish Working capital export-promoting system. By, inter alia, acquiring the exporter’s accounts receivable, SEK can release the client companies’ State-supported export credits system provides more capital thereby creating scope for additional opportunities capital expenditure. As an alternative to a floating or fixed market interest rate, SEK can offer its clients a fixed commercial interest reference rate(CIRR), when this is required to boost competitiveness and secure export transactions. 16 SEK Annual Report 2016 Offering Lending to Swedish exporters Financial solutions SEK offers loans direct to Swedish exporters or their subExport Credits sidiaries across the globe. This can then be used to facilitate Export credits are a common form of financing when the continued growth or capital expenditure. In addition to Skr, Swedish exporter’s buyers require investment financing EUR and USD, SEK offer loans in local currencies, such as with a credit period of two years or more. The loan is MXN (Mexican pesos) and TRY (Turkish lira). offered at a fixed CIRR or at the market interest rate. The EKN can offer guarantees covering most of the credit risk. The terms of contract for CIRR loans conform to the standard agreed upon by the OECD in terms of the size of advances, etc. Lending directly to Swedish exporters SEK offers lending directly to Swedish export companies or its affiliates around the world. The lending may be in Euro US dollars or Swedish kronor. SEK also offers lending in local currencies. Lending to buyers of Swedish exports SEK offers financing to buyers of Swedish products and serTrade Finance vices through export credits among other things. In an export SEK can strengthen its client companies’ liquidity and credit, there is an arranging bank and an ECA (guarantee risk capacity by financing or discounting the accounts institution), which in transactions involving a Swedish interreceivable of Swedish exporters. This is usually done est is usually the EKN. The structure complies with an OECDtogether with a bank. wide regulation governing, inter alia, repayment terms and repayment. SEK administrates the state export credit system and can offer a fixed interest-rate option during the negotiaCustomer Finance tion phase. This gives buyers an overview of their total cost of SEK offers financing in the form of leasing and installinvestment and can function as an important bargaining tool ment plans for export transactions that utilize capital for securing a transaction. goods as collateral. This is based on collaboration and that SEK can engage in risk-sharing with the individual exporter, which enables smaller-scale transactions in various markets. Project Finance SEK may participate in a financing structure for which a project is the only asset, or in project finance combined with export credit institutions. SEK makes long-term commitments by offering long maturities, and aims to Green Loans be part of the project throughout the entire period to maturity. Some of the transactions that SEK finances promote the transition to a low-carbon economy and may be classified as green loans. The classification is performed by sustainability analysts at SEK using an internal evaluation process. The effects that the loan will give rise to, such as reduced emissions of greenhouse gases, are monitored and reported. SEK Annual Report 2016  17 EXAMPLE Offering OF SEK’S LENDING IN 2016 SEK finances Northern Europe’s second largest biogas facility SEK has financed the Norwegian company Biokraft’s construction of a biogas facility in Skogn, just north of Trondheim. Construction of the facility in Skogn started in 2015 and, on its completion in 2017, it will be one of Northern Europe’s largest producers of liquid biogas. The facility will more than double production of biogas in Norway. “Norway has entered a period of comprehensive readjustment. We are developing Facts and business partners industry and commerce, which will take over the role that oil and gas operations Amount: Export credit, NOK 160 million currently play. Biokraft shows that it is possible to combine industry’s demands for Start: 2016 profitability with the need for clean fuel, increased production and reduced climate emissions.” Maturity: 2027 – Håvard Wollan, CEO, Biokraft Borrower: Biokraft AS of Norge Exporter: Purac AB The facility is being constructed by the Swedish environmental engineering Arranger: SpareBank 1 SMN company, Purac. SEK is financing an export credit to Biokraft AS that is being Guaranteed by: Sparebank 1 och EKN arranged by SpareBank 1 SMN. The project is also co-financed by Innovation Norway and the Norwegian company ENOVA. Sustainability “At Purac, we are tremendously proud to have the opportunity to construct this The facility in Skogn landmark in renewable fuel. The facility in Skogn will be the largest biogas plant that Purac has constructed in Europe and it is thanks to competitive financing from will contribute to an SEK and collaboration with the Swedish export credit system that the project can be annual reduction of CO2 brought to fruition and Biokraft can contribute to a better environment.” emissions corresponding – Jonas Fack, Managing Director, Purac to 30,000 metric tons. Green lending SEK finances ITAB Shop Concept AB SEK has financed ITAB’s acquisition of the Italian group, La Fortezza. The Facts financing of acquisitions by Swedish companies falls well within SEK’s mission which, in addition to promoting exports, also includes creating Amount: EUR 32.5 million employment in Sweden. Swedish exporters who expand through acquisiStart: 2016 tions rather than allow themselves to be acquired are expected to contribMaturity: 2023 ute to growth and higher employment. ITAB Shop Concept AB is one of Europe’s leading suppliers of store interiors and lighting systems. Following the acquisition, the group has annual sales of about Skr 6.5 billion and operations in 28 countries. La Fortezza is an Italian company in concept interiors and, through the acquisition, ITAB strengthened its market position in Europe and also gained a local presence in Southern Europe. ITAB wanted to broaden its financing base to ensure continued growth, both organic and through acquisitions. SEK’s close collaboration with ITAB’s commercial bank meant SEK could offer a loan with a longer maturity than that offered by the bank market, in connection with the acquisition. The loan from SEK helped ITAB to both diversify and extend its debt structure. ITAB’s successful acquisition track record com-bined with its continued growth potential constituted a key aspect of SEK’s assessment. “I view SEK as a valuable complement to our commercial bank. Through their longstanding relationship, SEK and our commercial bank were able to act quickly when a need for increased financing arose in conjunction with this particular acquisition.” – Samuel Wingren, CFO, ITAB Shop Concept AB 18 SEK Annual Report 2016 EXAMPLE OF SEK’S LENDING IN 2016 Offering SEK finances ABB’s deliveries to the North Sea Link SEK has financed ABB’s deliveries to the 720 km long subsea interFacts and business partners connector, the North Sea Link (NSL), between the UK and Norway. Amount: Approximately USD 230 million CIRR export credit This comprises a high voltage direct current (HVDC) cable with a Buyer: Statnett and National Grid capacity of around 1,400 megawatts (MW). The aim is to secure elecExporter: ABB tricity supplies between the two countries and the cable is expected Structuring bank and agent: BNP Paribas to be operational in 2021. The interconnector will be bidirectional Export Credit Guarantee provider: EKN allowing the import and export of electricity between the UK and Norway. ABB’s involvement in the project comprises the delivery of converter stations. The order value is about USD 450 million and SEK Sustainability is providing financing of around USD 230 million in the form of an The North Sea Link will increase the export credit at a fixed CIRR. security of electricity supplies and The proposed subsea cables will be routed from the converter lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions station in East Sleekburn near Blyth in the UK to Kvilldal in Norway. equivalent to 2.65 million tons per The cable will pass through UK and Norwegian territorial waters. year. The part being financed by SEK The North Sea Link will give the UK access to Norwegian hydropower whilst giving Norway access to UK’s increasing portfolio of wind and corresponds to an annual reduction other renewable technology generation. of 371,000 tons of CO2 emissions. Green lending SEK Annual Report 2016  19 Operations Lending worldwide The map shows the countries where SEK has lending to Swedish exporters or buyers of Swedish goods and services. At December 31, 2016, the total volume of loans outstanding and undisbursed loans amounted to Skr 263.5 billion. Lending, Skr mn 0 1–300 300–3,000 >3,000 Lending by region 2016 (Trend 2016/2015) Sweden Skr 75.7 bn (+5%) Western Europe except Sweden Skr 44.7 bn (-10%) Sweden Skr 75.7 bn (+5%) East central andEurope Western Europe except Sweden 10.2 SkrSkr bnbn(-12%) 44.7 (-10%) Japan Skr East and 2.7 bn central (-30%) Europe Skr 10.2 bn (-12%) Asia Japanexcept Japan Skr 2.7 bn Skr 24.5 bn (-11%) (-30%) Asia except Japan Skr 24.5 bn (-11%) Middle East/Africa/Turkey Skr 19.7 bn (-20%) Middle East/Africa/Turkey Skr 19.7 bn (-20%) North America Skr 30.5 bn (+18%) North America Skr 30.5 bn (+18%) Latin America Latin America SkrSkr 55.3 55.3 bn (+5%) bn (+5%) Oceania Skr Oceania Skr 204 204 mnmn (-35%) (-35%) 20 SEK Annual Report 2016 Operations SEK Annual Report 2016  21 Operations Lending Over the year, SEK has actively worked to attract new clients and to add value for more exporters. Through SEK’s financing, these companies can increase the competitiveness of their offerings. One of the year’s key objectives was to canvass new clients and client groups. The client base grew slightly more than 10 How an export credit is handled percent and the new clients include both large and medium-sized companies. During the year, SEK provided new lending for the growing sector of service exporting companies and subcontractors. Total new lending in 2016 amounted to Skr 54.8 billion. 1. Customer contact: In conjunction with an The 2016 client survey found a continued high client exporter and a buyer negotiating a contract of satisfaction index (CSI) with an overall CSI score of 94. The sale, one of the parties contacts a bank to arSwedish export credit system also received high ratings from range an export credit, if winning the contract companies, where 87 percent of the clients responded that so requires. The bank contacts SEK to obtain the Swedish export credit system was better than the sysfinancing in the required currency and the tems of competitor countries. bank and SEK jointly suggest a financing soluAs part of efforts to reach more clients and spread awaretion, which includes a guarantee from EKN. ness of SEK, a number of client events were conducted during the year. The annual seminar to which SEK invites Swedish and international banks, clients and business partners was conducted in May. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation 2. Indicative offer: SEK issues an offer to the exporter or the arranging bank. SEK can Mikael Damberg was the main speaker and presented the offer financing at market interest rates or at aims of the government’s Export Strategy. SEK also arranged the commercial interest reference rate (CIRR), breakfast seminars on how Swedish exporters could be which is set by the OECD. impacted by the US presidential election. SEK also participated in panel discussions at several Swedish and international trade days and conferences with the aim of raising awareness of SEK and the Swedish export credit system. 3. Deeper collaboration: If the exporter Additionally, within the framework of the co-operation wins the contract, a deeper analysis is initiated with the other export promoters in Team Sweden, SEK parat the bank, EKN and SEK. This analysis inticipated in the development of six regional export centers cludes both a credit and a sustainability analthat have been established across Sweden. The Swedish ysis of the export transaction and its parties in Agency for Economical and Regional Growth is the coordiline with the respective institution’s routines. nator for these efforts and the aim has been to create “one door in” for companies, in line with the government’s Export Strategy. In 2016, SEK established operations in Gothenburg, where it shares offices with Almi and the Swedish Export Credits 4. Binding offer and contract: Thereafter, the bank and SEK draw up a loan agreement Guarantee Board (EKN), primarily to assist medium-sized that includes credit periods, sustainability companies. issues, etc. 5. Signing contracts and loan disburse“We invested in raising awareness ment: When the loan agreement has been of SEK, and have seen a noticeable signed, the loan is disbursed to the exporter increase in the client base.” according to the payments schedule agreed with the buyer. The buyer then makes capital and interest payments according to the plan set out in the loan agreement, normally on a six-monthly basis. Jane Lundgren Ericsson, Head of Lending 22 SEK Annual Report 2016 Operations Credit and sustainability analysis SEK strives to provide efficient, sound and sustainable credit granting in conjunction with all lending. This requires in-depth knowledge of the operating environment, clients and business. The importance has risen of more highly developed credit How SEK works with credit analysis analysis of new and existing counterparties to leverage business opportunities and meet regulatory requirements. The analysis models are continuously reviewed in pace with 1. When a business enquiry is received, changes in SEK’s operating environment. SEK’s account manager carries out know In 2016, SEK started to measure the risks in the lending your customer (KYC) and sustainability asportfolio that are linked to climate change. This comprises an sessments on all parties in the deal. A basic important step in SEK’s sustainability efforts. Measurement requirement of any business transaction is and analysis of how these risks are managed by counterparthat SEK obtains a level of KYC that meets ties creates an understanding of how the companies’ busithe requirements in the applicable laws and ness models are impacted by climate change and how their regulations pertaining to money laundering credit ratings could be affected. and terrorism financing. During the year, SEK also implemented a new IT tool for managing KYC activities and sustainability reviews. 2. The account manager involves credit The credit portfolio has predominantly an extremely high analysts who carry out a counterparty risk credit quality. About 90 percent of SEK´s lending is to risk classification and a transaction credit risk counterparties that have a risk classification corresponding assessment. to investment grade. In its business transactions, SEK often uses risk mitigation measures, mainly through guarantees3. If a more in-depth sustainability review from the EKN and other government export credit institutes in the OECD and to some extent credit derivatives. This leads is required due to higher risk at country, to relatively large differentials between exposures before counterparty or transaction levels, the acrisk mitigation (gross exposures) and exposures after risk count manager engages a sustainability anamitigation (net exposures) based on geographic location lyst.The sustainability assessment covers and industry. The portfolio has a favorable spread in terms areas such as human rights, including labor of geographies and industries before taking into account conditions, corruption and environmental risk mitigation, while net exposures are more concentrated. impact. SEK’s mission and longstanding partnerships with large exporters is reflected in a concentration in its lending port4.  The account manager structures the folio. transaction and compiles documentation ahead of credit decisions, including the rating, credit and sustainability analyses that have been prepared. 5.  The account manager, credit analysts and, where necessary, sustainability analysts participate in decisions taken by the Credit Committee. “Thanks to our strong, longstanding relationships with many of 6. The loan is followed up at least once Sweden’s largest exporters, we are able to tailor our business proper year in an annual report to the Credit posals as well as identify solutions Committee. if the exporter’s customer has problems.” Teresa Hamilton Burman, Chief Credit Officer SEK Annual Report 2016  23 EXAMPLE OF SEK’S LENDING IN 2016 Operations SEK finances Volvo Car’s suppliers The ability to finance suppliers of Swedish export companies is a new possibility for SEK, following the change in SEK’s assignment by the owner, the Swedish government in 2015 to allow SEK to also offer financing solutions that indirectly promote Swedish exports. SEK has during 2016 completed such financing for Volvo Cars. The underlying need arose from relatively long lead times from when the products are delivered to Volvo by the supplier until the product is ready for use in production. SEK’s financing solution frees up capital, which benefits all parties. The partnership is run together with the EKN, local banks, the exporter and suppliers. 24 SEK Annual Report 2016 Operations SEK’s borrowing and liquidity SEK should always be able to lend funds to Swedish exporters, even during times of financial turbulence. This capacity can be safeguarded through diversified borrowing. SEK strives to maintain its solid credit rating and the favorable reputation that it has earned through its longstanding experience and presence in the world. Funding markets were volatile in 2016. The somewhat unexpected results of the UK referendum to exit the EU and the US SEK’s borrowing and liquidity presidential election caused uncertainty in the market. SEK built up liquidity with the aim of avoiding borrowing in the Bond issue markets, in cases where the markets became turbulent. This SEK borrows funds using several resulted in the at time turbulent market having no significant different instruments in various geoimpact on SEK. graphic markets. SEK targets different During the year, there are periods in conjunction with investor categories, both institutional interim and annual reports where borrowing transactions and private investors. SEK also issues are not permitted. Together with uncertain markets, the green bonds to finance green loans. major political events further hampered borrowing, which contributed to relatively small windows for SEK to be active in the market. Despite this, SEK borrowed more in 2016 than in 2015, both in the form of public offerings and private placements. Altogether, SEK completed approximately 300 borrowing transactions in nine currencies, compared with approximately 240 transactions in nine currencies in 2015. In 2016, SEK continued to be active in the structured bond markets, primarily in Japan. SEK increased its borrowing on New lending capacity*: Collateral*: the so-called Uridashi market, from USD 2.2 billion in 2015 Part of the liquidity portSEK neutralizes market to USD 2.6 billion in 2016, an increase of about 20 percent. folio forms a contingency risk through derivative This in a market with reduced volumes and increased comfor new lending in the contracts. SEK also has petition. This means that SEK is currently the largest foreign event of poorer access to collateral agreements in issuer in the Uridashi market. SEK’s success is based on a the capital markets. place with all counterhigh presence together with a well-developed and extensive parties to neutralize the contact net. The Uridashi-transactions were carried out with counterparty risk that 25 different Japanese distributors and 13 different arrangers arise in conjunction with in 2016. derivative contracts. Committed New lending including undisbursed loans* disbursement of Lending commitments committed loans that are as yet undisBy matching the maturbursed have been funded ities of available funding in advance as SEK does with lending, SEK ennot assume any refisures that it can meet its “I am satisfied with the nancing risk. obligations. This applies favorable access that we have to all of our lending to global investors in parallel commitments, for both with the success of our loans outstanding and distribution to private committed undisbursed investors in both Japan and loans. the US.” Per Åkerlind, * SEK holds liquidity investments as a contingency for disbursements Head of Treasury & Executive Vice of new loans and committed loans as well as for payments under the­ President ­collateral agreements SEK has in place with derivative counterparties. SEK Annual Report 2016  25 Sustainable business Strategic sustainability efforts On the basis of a continuous dialogue with the stakeholders, SEK identifies significant sustainability areas on which the sustainability efforts can then focus. SEK monitors and measures the impact of these efforts by means of sustainability targets that are integrated in the business strategy. Stakeholder dialogue sions with representatives of non-governmental organizaListening to the company’s stakeholders to identify the tions (NGOs) and civil society. SEK also arranges an annual economic, social and environmental issues that are impacted employee survey, as well as a biennial client survey the by SEK’s operations and that the stakeholders regard as sigaims of which include evaluating how well SEK has fulfilled nificant is an important part of SEK’s operations. its public policy assignment. During 2015, SEK conducted SEK’s work to promote exports is conducted in collaboa survey of the company’s key stakeholders to determine, ration with a number of other public organizations and with inter alia, the principal sustainability issues. A new survey is commercial operators. To obtain the optimal outcome and scheduled for 2017. The results of the stakeholder dialogue, achieve efficiency, it is important that SEK holds a stakeand the formats for arranging the dialogue, are reported holder dialogue. As part of this dialogue, a discussion is held below. as to how the various operators can develop their efforts to SEK reports the result of its sustainability efforts accordpromote the Swedish export industry. ing to the international reporting standard, GRI, which SEK’s stakeholder dialogue occurs through, inter alia, includes identifying material sustainability aspects. meetings with clients and the owner, and through discusPRINCIPAL EXPECTATIONS STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY Determine the public policy assignOwner policy, mission, owner Behave responsibly and leverSwedish ment, set profitability requirements instruction, regular discussions age business opportunities to government and have the company set a positive and meetings, Board representagenerate sustainable value. (owner) example in sustainability issues. tion and network meetings. Swedish exporters contact Customer meetings, client Distinct and reasonable Swedish SEK when they have a need survey, questionnaire includsustainability requirements. exporters for borrowing. SEK markets its ing sustainability issues and Proactive efforts to finance offering. sending delegations. the impact of climate change. Swedish and international Meetings and questionnaire Collaboration on sustainability banks assist SEK by providing including sustainability issues. issues. Banks a contact network and collaborating to help the exporters. Invests in SEK’s bonds. Financial statements, investor Issue green bonds and in the presentations and meetings. future social bonds. High Investors sustainability rating. Conduct credit and sustainFinancial statements, investor Report sustainability efforts ability ratings. presentations and meetings. transparently. Rating agencies Along with SEK, there are Delegations, meetings and SEK contributes expertise in other state organizations that Team Sweden’s network. sustainability issues. Team Sweden assist exporters. Representatives drive social Meetings, questionnaire on Behave responsibly and transNGOs/civil and environmental issues sustainability issues and parently. society from a societal perspective. reports. Implement and develop SEK’s Discussions, meetings, Good work environment, offering to make it internaemployee survey and workdevelopment opportunities Employees tionally competitive. place dialogues with trade and engaging duties. unions. 26 SEK Annual Report 2016 Sustainable business Materiality analysis As a result of the stakeholder dialogue, SEK forms an opinion of the type of sustainability issues the company should work with. Subsequently, SEK’s management decides on the Impact of SEK’s Impact of SEK’s Both lending and issues’ order of priority. This prioritization is agreed on the lending own operations own operations basis of what is deemed reasonable considering SEK’s ability to act. The results of the prioritization are presented below. 1 Business ethics 2 12 2 Labor conditions 3 9 3 Anti-corruption 13 4 Work environment 1 EXTERNAL RANKING 5 Equality 6 Integration 7 5 7 Climate change 11 8 Supplier responsibility 9 Environmental considerations, lending 6 4 10 Environmental impact of own operations 8 10 11 Diversity 12 Human rights 13 Transparency INTERNAL RANKING Focus areas in SEK’s sustainability efforts An attractive employer Based on the stakeholder dialogue and the materiality analyA culture characterized by diversity, equality and comsis, SEK’s sustainability efforts are shaped into various focus mitted employees is a prerequisite for SEK to succeed with its areas. mission. SEK’s goals as an attractive employer are measured in the percentage of women in management positions and Responsibility the percentage of employees of non-Swedish origin as well as SEK’s responsibility focuses on managing sustainability risks by the level of employee commitment. in connection with lending. International guidelines are used as guidance. The aim is that the risk assessment will earn SEK a high sustainability rating and match expectations for responsible lending. SEK divides its work into the focus areas “We regard the dialogue with our of Anti-corruption and Business ethics, Environmental constakeholders as very important for cerns and Human rights, including labor conditions. us and for how we can develop sustainable operations. During 2017, Exports of Swedish environmental know-how our aim is to further intensify the Through the offering and collaboration with other organizadialogue with our stakeholders.” tions, SEK works proactively to finance exports of Swedish environmental expertise worldwide, thus contributing to sustainable development and supporting global sustainability goals. The aim is to increase the volume of green loans. Edvard Unsgaard, Head of Communication SEK Annual Report 2016  27 Sustainable business Responsibility SEK works to ensure compliance with international sustainability guidelines in respect of the financing of the Swedish export industry. Important activities implemented in 2016 are presented on this spread. The management of sustainability efforts is presented in the Corporate Governance Report on page 54 and the management of sustainability risk is presented in its entirety in Note 27 on page 128. Anti-corruption and business ethics • SEK’s own environmental efforts were focused on reducing electricity consumption. The reduction was approximately SEK’s operations are characterized by good business ethics 2.5 percent, which did not reach up to the target of 5 percent whereby SEK’s Code of Conduct guides the employees in daily because SEK needed more IT capacity than was expected. work. SEK adhere to the OECD’s Anti-bribery Convention SEK uses renewable energy sources for electricity and together with other international anticorruption guidelines, heating. and are involved in ensuring that they are implemented in • SEK has implemented carbon offsetting by investing in practice. In terms of risk, SEK is mainly exposed to corruption a biomass power plant in India that is certified in accorindirectly in connection with SEK’s lending. dance with the Clean Development Mechanism and Gold Standard. Important activities in 2016 • SEK implemented an annual review and update of the comHuman rights and labor conditions pany’s Code of Conduct, which was communicated to the SEK complies with and is dedicated to putting into pracemployees by means of in-house training. tice the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human • Annual risk assessment of all SEK’s operational corruption Rights. SEK’s risk is that its becomes linked to human rights risks. violations when lending to major projects or to exporters’ • SEK introduced a new IT tool for identifying and monitoring customers in countries that have a high risk of human rights sustainability risks, including risk of money laundering and violations. financing of terrorism. • SEK continued to impose requirements on its suppliers Important activities in 2016 and 84 percent demonstrated that they comply with SEK’s • SEK implemented an annual risk assessment of the operethical and anti-corruption requirements. ations’ risk of causing, contributing to or being linked to Environmental concerns human rights violations including labor conditions. • SEK and the EKN jointly produced draft guidelines for manThe financing of deliveries to major projects is what can aging human rights in the telecom sector. primarily result in an elevated risk of environmental impact. SEK’s own operations are conducted in an environmentally certified building and business travel is climate compenTelecom and human rights sated. A key aspect of putting the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into practice is clarifying Important activities in 2016 responsibility and SEK’s expectations of exporters and • During the year, SEK conducted a scenario analysis to identheir customers. tify the impact on SEK’s lending portfolio of the implemenDuring the year, SEK and the EKN produced draft tation of the COP21 global climate treaty. guidelines for human rights in the telecom sector. Work is being conducted in collaboration with the IHRB (Institute for Human Rights and Business), which also compiled a background report as a complement to the guidelines. The draft may be viewed as Sweden’s “During the year, we worked on ambition to pursue human rights matters in the OECD the global sustainability targets in and export credits. SEK’s business plan and engaged in extensive dialogue about telecoms and human rights. In 2017, we will focus on increasing green lending and increasing exports of Swedish environmental expertise worldwide,” Johan Henningsson, Head of Sustainability. 28 SEK Annual Report 2016 Sustainable business EXAMPLE OF SEK’S LENDING IN 2016 Sustainability risks in lending In connection with a new business opportunities, sustainability risks are identified and assessed at country, counterparty and transaction level. Countries are analyzed, inter alia, on the basis of the risk of corruption, human rights violations including labor conditions and the risk of money laundering, financing of terrorism and tax non-transparency. Counterparty checks are conducted by using an IT tool as part of KYC activities, including checks of ownership and checks against international sanction lists, as well as whether the counterparty has been involved in significant sustainability-related incidents. Projects and project-related financing are classified based on their potential social and environSEK finances customer for mental impact according to the OECD’s framework for export credits. Other business transactions are Dynasafe Demil Systems AB analyzed to assess the risk of, inter alia, negative environmental impact, corruption, human rights Dynasafe Demil Systems AB designs and manufactures systems violations including labor conditions and the risk of for the destruction of both chemical and conventional weapons. money laundering, financing of terrorism and tax The company’s facilities for the destruction of ammunition are non-transparency. based on unique technology that is internationally acknowledged An in-depth sustainability review is performed in to successfully and at high capacity destroy various types of cases of elevated sustainability risk. The extent and conventional and chemical ammunition. This is done in a safe and format depends on the scope of the financing, the eco-friendly manner. The group has sales of about Skr 760 million level of identified risks and SEK’s ability to influence and all sales are exported. the situation. Where necessary, social and environmental condi“Thanks to SEK, we can offer our customers financing, which substantions are included in loan agreements and site visits tially increases our competitiveness. We get paid directly and we can are conducted. sell our products secure in the knowledge that we have an excellent Monitoring during the maturity of the loan is confinancing solution.” ducted via incident searches and via checks of com– Jörgen Björkman, CEO, Dynasafe Demil Systems AB pliance with the agreement’s sustainability clauses. In connection with Dynasafe securing a transaction with a spanish customer, SEK and Dynasafe entered into a dialogue in autumn Networks in sustainable business 2015. Thanks to the collaboration between SEK and EKN, SEK were able to offer Dynasafe’s customer a competitive financing solution. As a result of an export credit from SEK, Dynasafe receives • Transparency International Business Group payment directly on delivery and can thus focus more on future • The OECD’s working groups for environmental business. The loan from SEK is secured through a lender guaranissues and human rights in terms of officially tee from EKN. ­ upported credits s • Sustainable business network at state-owned companies Facts • Team Sweden smart cities Amount: USD 6 million, export credit • ICC Sweden’s CSR reference group Start: 2016 • UN Global Compact’s Nordic network Maturity: 2022 SEK Annual Report 2016  29 Sustainable business Exports of Swedish environmental know-how SEK contributes to a reduction in climate change by financing exports of Swedish environmental expertise. This is what SEK is contributing SEK is working to reduce climate change by means of green Green loans loans, green bonds and measuring climate-related risks. SEK An increased volume of green loans contributes to are also participating in the Swedish state agencies’ collaboincreasing exports of Swedish environmental expertise ration concerning the financing of smart cities internationworldwide and is also a profitable business for SEK. ally. Green bonds SEK’s green loans are financed by issuing green bonds in international capital markets. Green bonds help to diversify SEK’s investor base. Measure climate-related risks associated with lending By taking into account the risks in the lending portfolio that are linked to climate change, SEK creates awareness of how credit ratings and the companies’ business models are affected by climate change. EXAMPLE OF SEK’S LENDING IN 2016 SEK finances Rottneros AB SEK and a commercial bank Facts have jointly financed the Amount: Skr 65 million project of exporter Rottneros Start: 2016 to replace fossil-dependent Maturity: 2020 thermal energy with a stateof-the-art biofuel burner. Rottneros AB’s business Sustainabiliy concept is to be an independent and flexible SEK’s part of the financing will result in supplier of high-quality, an annual reduction in CO2 emissions of customized paper pulp. The appr 11,000 metric tons. Rottneros Mill in the county of Värmland is one of the company’s two mills and it produced just over 156,000 metric tons of mechanical pulp in 2016. The company currently uses thermal energy generated in part by an old bark burner, in part through an oil-powered furnace and in part through excess heat from the production process. As part of the “Fossil-free energy” project, Rottneros is to build a biofuel Green lending burner, which is expected to generate 18-20 MW of fossil-free energy. The capital expenditure in the new energy and emissions-efficient biofuel burner, and in an improved energy system, totals Skr 98 million and will minimize oil consumption. Together with capacity-enhancing capital expenditure, CO2 emissions will be reduced by approximately 17,000 metric tons. The new biofuel burner will be commissioned in mid-2017. 30 SEK Annual Report 2016 Employees Employees SEK possesses a committed, client-focused culture driven by collaboration, professionalism and a solution orientation. SEK is an organization that has been tasked with a vital mission and, which means it is crucial for SEK to attract, develop and retain the right competence. Leadership and culture In 2016, all managers at SEK completed a leadership program Jonatan Ay, new recruit to Financial Risk dedicated to collaboration, customer focus, change manAnalysis agement and solution orientation. Within the program, SEK “Being part of promoting the Swedish worked on areas including charting and understanding how export industry and, at the same time, the know-how and different behaviors of employees and being able to work with quantitative tasks managers can improve communication and collaboration. felt like an interesting challenge.” These efforts will continue during 2017, including under the framework of SEK’s new follow-up and development dialog model. New employees Andreas Ericson, Head of Mid Corporates SEK had many applicants to its vacant positions. SEK’s mission is often viewed as attractive to new employees. During “As one of SEK’s managers, I am able to the year, 22 new employees joined SEK, primarily in the Risk, continue my professional development IT and Credit functions. through courses, such as leadership training. This equips me with more tools to enable me to provide direct and clear leadership. This is important.” Sofia Grundtman, moved within the Risk department to Operational Risk “It’s interesting and fun to switch jobs internally and broaden my skills.” A healthy and sustainable workplace SEK strives to be a modern employer. The long-term ambition is for the work and working conditions to promote good health. Therefore, everyday health, wellness, recovery and support have been prioritized in the preparation of the new benefits package. The company’s strategy is, at the earliest 2016 employee survey possible moment, to alert employees who need support in The findings of this year’s employee survey showed strong terms of their work circumstances to the need to start rehacommitment and high motivation among employees. SEK’s bilitation measures as soon as possible. mission is perceived as a powerful driver. As a result of the SEK has continued to pursue its equality and diversity new organization with clearer roles and responsibilities, plan that was prepared in 2015. Employee development and intra-function collaboration has improved. recruitment procedures comprise tools that will promote an Internal job rotation continues to be high at SEK with 15 even more equal and inclusive workplace over time. people changing jobs in 2016. The employee survey found SEK partners with the Red Cross and My Dream Now to that employees desired even better long-term development enable employees to get involved with voluntary work on within SEK, which is a challenge for a company of SEK’s size. work time. “We closed the chapter on an exciting year in terms of leadership development at SEK. High levels of commitment and energy marked the leadership program, and we have added many tools that will help us moving forward.” Sirpa Rusanen, Head of Human Resources SEK Annual Report 2016  31 Procurement of products and services Procurement of products and services In 2016, SEK procured products and services to a value of around Skr 260 million. Procurements ranged from major IT systems and information services to office supplies and travel. A well-functioning procurement process is important if SEK is to have costefficient operations and to ensure that supplies meet SEK’s sustainability requirements. In 2016, efforts continued to reach the goal of all of SEK’s suppliers undertaking to comply with SEK’s anti-corruption Procedure for approving suppliers and business ethics guidelines. At year end, about 84 percent of SEK’s suppliers had committed to comply with SEK’s Code of Conduct or demonstrated that they have an equivalent 1. Needs: A needs analysis is conducted approach. This work has taken longer than expected, but SEK and a procurement, adapted to the size look forward to its completion in 2017. SEK’s largest suppliof the procurement, carried out, whereby ers comprise one IT supplier and the company that owns the various suppliers are invited to tender property where SEK rents office space. offers that are evaluated in terms of price, quality and other conditions in relation to A more risk-based approach is being developed to be able the SEK’s requirements. to more efficiently ensure that the suppliers meet SEK’s requirements. Checks and follow-ups will b e adapted to 2. Environmental concerns: SEK apthe supplier’s, the product’s and alternatively the service’s plies the Global Compact’s Principles and assessed risk level. wants to ensure that products and services are produced under acceptable conditions with regard to human rights and labor conditions. SEK prioritizes products and services with labelling that ensures consideration for the environment and climate, for example, TCO certification, Energy Star certification, The Swan (Nordic ecolabel), Good Environmental Choice, KRAV label or similar. 3. Ownership checks: When the procurement has resulted in a desirable supplier, SEK checks the ownership and the group structure, and which physical persons own more than 25 percent of the supplier. 4. Credit assessments and sustainability reviews: SEK performs a credit assessment and carries out a sustainability review of the supplier. “In 2016, SEK extended the lease 5. Code of Conduct certificate: Suppliers must undertake to adhere to SEK’s on its offices in Stockholm. We Code of Conduct, which includes a policy have also completed the procureon anti-corruption. SEK also requires a ment of office supplies and printers non-disclosure agreement if the supplier for our offices. The procurement of has access to SEK’s premises, IT systems printers also included an analysis of or any information belonging to SEK. how SEK can reduce the number of printouts to become more resource efficient.” 6. Approval: The supplier is approved Susanna Rystedt, and the partnership can be initiated. Chief Administrative Officer 32 SEK Annual Report 2016 Procurement of products and services SEK Annual Report 2016  33 The Report of the Directors Financial key performance ­indicators Amounts (other than %) in Skr mn 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Results Net interest revenue 1,747 1,662 1,578 1,555 1,880 Operating profit 1,002 1,535 1,629 1,408 824 Net profit 780 1,187 1,260 1,090 709 C/I ratio 0.34 0.34 0.33 0.33 0.29 After-tax return on equity 4.6% 7.2% 8.1% 7.4% 5.0% After-tax return on assets 0.3% 0.4% 0.4% 0.4% 0.2% Earnings per share before and after dilution (Skr) 195 297 316 273 178 Dividend 234 356 378 327 213 Statement of financial position Total assets 299,442 280,411 325,166 306,554 313,136 Total liabilities 282,306 263,583 309,009 291,564 298,756 Total equity 17,136 16,828 16,157 14,990 14,380 Lending New customer financing 54,856 104,583 57,118 55,701 56,235 of which to Swedish exporters 18,107 19,254 23,231 16,685 17,577 of which to exporters’ customers 36,749 85,329 33,887 39,016 38,658 CIRR-loans as a percentage of new lending 20% 49% 10% 24% 35% Loans outstanding and undisbursed loans 263,483 268,535 234,250 221,958 218,822 Borrowing New borrowing 70,388 47,025 52,216 95,169 43,231 Outstanding senior debt 252,948 233,556 282,192 269,216 272,637 Outstanding subordinated debt 2,266 2,088 1,945 1,607 3,013 Capital and liquidity position Common Equity Tier 1 capital 22.1% 21.6% 16.9% 19.5% 19.8% Tier 1 capital ratio 22.1% 21.6% 16.9% 19.5% 23.0% Total capital ratio 25.1% 24.5% 19.2% 21.8% 23.0% Leverage ratio 5.3% 5.4% 4.4% n.a. n.a. Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) according to the Swedish FSA 383% 573% 250% 595% n.a. Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) according to the EU Commision’s delegated act 215% n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) 131.5% 99.4% 103.6% 97.9% n.a. For definitions, see page 142. The information in the above table relates to the Group. There is no substantial difference between the Group and the Parent Company except that untaxed reserves are disclosed in the balance sheet of the Parent Company and information on earnings per share for the Parent Company is not provided. For differences between the Group and the Parent Company, see Note 1, the income statement of the Parent Company, the balance sheet of the Parent Company and related notes. 34 SEK Annual Report 2016 The Report of the Directors Sustainability key performance indicators Indirect impact 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Contribution to Sweden’s GDP (Skr mn) 33,000 36,000 35,000 – – Contribution to jobs in Sweden (number) 44 000 48,000 47,000 – – Annual carbon dioxide reductions from green projects (tons) >4,638,000 >4,137,000 – – – Lending and funding Percentage of new lending subjected to environmental and societal review, including human rights 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Loans granted to category A projects (number) 1 2 5 3 6 Loans granted to category B projects (number) 5 3 5 3 3 Total volume of green bonds issued (Skr mn) 4,176 – – – New lending to green loans (Skr mn) 3 334 988 – – – Climate impact of our operations in tons CO2e Total greenhouse gas emissions 502 614 767 658 1,052 of which business travel 426 486 628 558 953 of which premises 25 75 93 54 55 of which other 51 53 46 46 44 Direct greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 15 15 24 25 37 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from energy use scope 2 25 74 85 46 48 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions scope 3 462 525 658 587 967 Emissions per employee 1.96 2.33 3.18 2.64 4.48 Status after carbon offset of emissions 0 0 0 0 0 Energy consumption, premises (kWh) 1,322 1,420 1,515 1,585 1,477 of which electricity 1,139 1,169 1,344 1,386 1,278 of which district heating 183 251 171 199 199 Employees and suppliers Training days per employee (number) 3 2 2 2 5 Percentage of employees who had a development dialogue 98% 98% 92% 93% 87% Allocation of women/men in management positions 36/64 38/62 41/59 44/56 39/61 Distribution of employees with foreign/Swedish backgrounds 30/70 30/70 29/71 29/71 28/72 The percentage of suppliers that undertake to comply 84% with SEK’s anti-corruption guidelines 48% 23% 5% – Percentage of employees who have completed training in SEK’s Code of Conduct including anti-corruption 97% 97% 99% 94% – For definitions, see page 142. SEK Annual Report 2016  35 Review of 2016 Review of 20161 Business reporting market, which is due to a long-standing presence and a solid In 2016, SEK posted lending of Skr 54.8 billion (2015: Skr reputation. 104.6 billion). The decline compared to the prior year SEK continues to maintain high liquidity for new lending pertains mainly to SEK’s financing of Brazil’s purchase of and is well-prepared for consequences that political Saab’s Gripen aircraft in 2015 amounting to Skr 41.9 billion. turbulence in the macro environment may have for the At the start of the year, export credits, both at a fixed rate Swedish export sector financing possibilities. In 2016, credits (CIRR) and the floating market rate, were mainly requested were granted to six larger international projects where SEK for exporters’ customers. During the latter part of 2016, conducted separate sustainability reviews in line with the increased demand was noted for working capital financing OECD guidelines for Environmental and Social Due Diligence through direct lending to exporters. Export credits are often as well as the Equator Principles. In 2016, new lending that large transactions, which means that new lending for them qualified for classification as green loans amounted to Skr often varies between quarters. 3.3 billion, which exceeded our target of Skr 3 billion. In In 2016, SEK has focused on broadening its client base and collaboration with clients and business partners, SEK has product offerings. SEK has performed strongly in soliciting continued to clarify its accountability for human rights in new clients and the client base has increased. These new conjunction with export credits. In 2016, SEK has also charted customers are in both of SEK’s customer groups: large and operations based on the global sustainability development medium-sized companies. As a part of the cooperation goals and joined the government’s Fossil Free Sweden with Team Sweden SEK is now established in Gothenburg initiative, which aims to put Sweden on the map as one of the together with the Swedish Export Credits Guarantee Board world’s first fossil-free welfare nations. and Almi Företagspartner AB which enables closer contact with companies in the west of Sweden. Work is ongoing at New lending Team Sweden with the other export promotion agencies and Skr bn 2016 2015 the joint effort to improve the competitiveness of Sweden’s Lending to Swedish exporters1 18.1 19.3 export industry continue. Lending to exporters’ customers2 36.7 85.3 2016 was a year marked by political turbulence and, Total 54.8 104.6 consequently, volatile markets. Ahead of major events, such as the Brexit referendum in the UK and the presidential CIRR loans as percentage of new financial transactions 20% 49% election in the US, SEK secured its liquidity position through good planning in terms of borrowings, which were invested 1 Of which Skr 0.1 billion (year-end 2015: Skr 0.9 billion) had not been disbursed at period end. in high-quality assets that have generally suffered no 2 Of which Skr 8.3 billion (year-end 2015: Skr 52.5 billion) had not been significant impact from the occasionally turbulent markets. disbursed at period end. During the year, SEK issued three benchmark bonds of USD 1.3, 1.5 and 1.2 billion, which were all well-received by the SEK’s borrowing market. SEK has had favorable access to the international Skr bn 2016 2015 investor base in the public debt market and, in 2016, SEK New long-term borrowings 70.4 47.0 continued to have a significant presence in the Japanese Outstanding senior debt 252.9 233.6 Uridashi market. Despite an overall decline in this market, SEK has maintained the same borrowing volumes as before. Repurchase and redemption SEK is now the largest foreign issuer in Japan’s Uridashi of own debt 14.5 41.0 New lending New borrowing, long-term borrowing Skr bn Skr bn 58.2 60 25 23.5 50 19.5 20.0 20 18.0 40 14.6 15 30 21.6 21.1 10 8.9 20 7.1 13.9 15.3 5.8 10.8 9.6 8.8 5 10 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 2015 2016 1 All amounts in this Report of the Directors relate to the Consolidated Group, unless otherwise stated (see Note 1). As of December 31, 2016, the Consolidated Group comprised SEK and its wholly owned subsidiary Venantius AB, including its wholly owned subsidiary VF Finans AB (‘the Subsidiaries’). The Parent Company’s results and assets correspond predominantly to those of the Group and, accordingly, the information essentially reflects the conditions in the Parent Company. For differences in the accounting policies between the Group and Parent Company, see Note 1 (r). 36 SEK Annual Report 2016 Review of 2016 Factors affecting SEK’s total comprehensive income SEK’s markets for new lending 2016, A major part of SEK’s operating profit derives from net interSkr 54.8 billion (Skr 104.6 billion) est revenues, which are earned mainly on loans to customers, but also t0 a lesser extent on liquidity investments. Borrowing for these assets comes from equity and from securities Sweden 27% (2015: 13%) Western Europe excl. Sweden 28% issued in international capital markets. Accordingly, the key (2015: 20%) determinants of SEK’s operating profit are: the interest rate Japan 1% (2015: 0%) Asia excl. Japan 6% (2015: 2%) on interest-bearing assets, the interest rate of issued securiMiddle East/Africa 3% (2015: 9%) North America 32% (2015: 13%) ties, the outstanding volume of interest-bearing assets and Latin America 3% (2015: 42%) the proportion of assets financed by equity. The relative proCentral and Eastern Europe 0% (2015: 1%) portions of assets funded by debt and equity are also crucial. SEK issues debt instruments with terms that may be fixed, floating or linked to various indices. SEK’s strategy is to economically hedge these terms at floating rates with the aim of SEK’s markets for new borrowing 2016, matching the terms of its debt-financed assets. The quality Skr 70.4 billion (2015: Skr 47.0 billion) of SEK’s operating profit, its relatively stable credit ratings and SEK’s public role have enabled SEK to achieve borrowing at levels that are competitive within the market. Nordic region 1% (2015: 0%) Europe excl. Nordic region 22% In addition to net interest revenues, another key influence (2015: 16%) on SEK’s operating earnings has been changes in the fair Japan 29% (2015: 37%) Asia excl. Japan 15% (2015: 6%) value of certain assets, liabilities and derivatives. The factors Middle East/Africa 4% (2015: 2%) that mainly have impact on unrealized changes in fair value Latin America 3% (2015: 6%) North America 26% (2015: 33%) are credit spreads on own debt and basis spreads. The credit spread on own debt is related to the creditworthiness SEK’s investors believe that SEK has. Basis spread is the deviation in the nominal interest rate between two currencies in a currency interest rate swap caused by the difference between the base interest rate of the currencies. unrealized losses in value attributable to currency swaps Total other comprehensive income is mainly affected by and basis spreads. This was offset by a positive impact from effects attributable to cash-flow hedges. repurchases and an early redemption of SEK’s own debt. During 2015, the change in fair value of SEK’s debt, which Operating profit originated from changes in SEK’s credit spread, made a posiOperating profit amounted to Skr 1,002 million (2015: Skr tive contribution. Unrealized gains on financial instruments 1,535 million). Net profit amounted to Skr 780 million (2015: at fair value, which are included in hedges, also had a positive Skr 1,187 million). impact in 2015. Net interest revenues Operating expenses Net interest revenues amounted to Skr 1,747 million (2015: Skr mn 2016 2015 Change Skr 1,662 million). Borrowing margin cost decreased comPersonnel expenses -308 -295 4% pared to 2015, at the same time as average margin on interOther administrative est-bearing assets increased as a result of somewhat higher expenses -236 -164 44% lending margins. In addition, the average market interest Depreciation and rate slightly increased year-on-year. This was offset by a impairment of nonlower average volume of interest-bearing assets. financial assets -46 -98 -53% Total operating Skr bn, Average 2016 2015 Change expenses -590 -557 6% Total loans 206.9 211.7 -2% The increase in other administrative expenses is explained by Liquidity investments 65.5 72.7 -10% intensive development work on methods and processes for Interest-bearing assets 272.4 284.3 -4% market risk measurement. This has led to development of IT Interest-bearing systems with increased use of consultants. Furthermore, a liabilities 245.4 259.9 -6% larger proportion of this expenditure was expensed compared to 2015. Commission earned and commission incurred The decrease in depreciation and impairment of nonCommission earned and commission incurred amounted to financial assets was due to a Skr -55 million impairment Skr -29 million (2015: Skr -6 million). Commission earned of intangible assets taken in 2015. There was no provision amounted to Skr 3 million (2015: Skr 2 million). Commission taken for the employee incentive scheme in 2016 (2015: incurred amounted to Skr -32 million (2015: Skr –8 million). Skr million). However, a Skr 4 million reversal of earlier provisions for the employee incentive scheme for 2015 was Net results of financial transactions recorded in 2016 (2015: Skr 6 million). Net results of financial transactions amounted to Skr -110 The yield from the scheme for employees in 2016 was million (2015: Skr 400 million), which was primarily due to based on return on equity, and could not exceed two months’ SEK Annual Report 2016  37 Review of 2016 salary. For 2016, the scheme covered all permanent employLiabilities and equity ees with the exception of the CEO, other members of the As of December 31, 2016, the aggregate volume of available executive management and employees working in risk and funds and shareholders’ equity exceeded the aggregate compliance functions. volume of loans outstanding and loans committed at all maturities. Accordingly, SEK considers all of its outstanding Net credit losses commitments to be covered through maturity. Net credit losses amounted to Skr -16 million (2015: Skr 36 In 2016, SEK had a credit facility in place with the Swedish million). The change compared to 2015 was mainly attribNational Debt Office of up to Skr 125 billion. To date, SEK has utable to the reversal in 2015 of Skr 70 million from the not utilized the credit facility. The credit facility can only be portfolio-based reserve (i.e., the reserve not attributable utilized for loans covered by the officially supported export to a specific counterparty). The portfolio-based reserve credits system (CIRR). In December 2016, the Swedish Paramounted to Skr 170 million at year-end 2016 (year-end liament confirmed that the credit facility will continue to be 2015: Skr 170 million). available in 2017 in an amount up to Skr 125 billion. Taxes Credit risks Tax costs amounted to Skr -222 million (2015: Skr –348 There has been no significant change in the composition of million), of which Skr -382 million (2015: Skr -348 million) SEK’s counterparty exposure, see Note 27. Total exposures consisted of current tax and Skr 156 million (2015: Skr 0 milamounted to Skr 340.7 billion on December 31, 2016 (yearlion) consisted of deferred tax (see Note 10). The effective tax end 2015: Skr 326.2 billion), of which the increase is mainly rate was 22.2 percent (2015: 22.7 percent), while the nominal attributable to increased company exposures. tax rate for 2016 was 22.0 percent (2015: 22.0 percent). The credit risk is limited primarily through the use of guarantees. The guarantors are predominantly government Other comprehensive income export credit agencies in the OECD, of which the Swedish Export Credits Guarantee Board (EKN) is the largest, which Skr mn 2016 2015 explains the higher net exposure toward Sweden in the folItems to be reclassified to operating lowing diagram. profit -123 -225 of which available-for-sale securities 46 -8 Gross exposures per region, December 31, 2016 of which other comprehensive income effects related to cash-flow hedges -169 -217 Sweden 31% (2015: 27%) Items not to be reclassified to Western Europe excl. Sweden 20% operating profit -26 49 (2015: 22%) Japan 2% (2015: 1%) Other comprehensive income after tax -149 -176 Asia excl. Japan 8% (2015: 11%) Middle East/Africa/Turkey 8% (2015: 8%) A major part of the items to be reclassified to operating profit North America 11% (2015: 10%) Latin America 17% (2015: 17%) were related to cash flow hedges. The effect was related to Central and Eastern Europe 3% (2015: 3%) reclassification from other comprehensive income to net Oceania 0% (2015: 1%) interest revenues due to the fact that hedging instruments previously were included in cash flow hedges. Items not to be reclassified to operating profit were Net exposures per region, December 31, 2016 related to revaluation of defined benefit pensions. The posEuropa utöver Nord itive impact in fair value was caused by the higher discount Norden 0% (3%) rate. Sweden 69% (2015: 67%) Western Europe excl. Sweden 19% Return on equity (2015: 20%) Japan 2% (2015: 0%) After-tax return on equity amounted to 4.6 percent (2015: 7.2 Asia excl. Japan 2% (2015: 3%) Middle East/Africa/Turkey 1% (2015: 1%) percent). North America 4% (2015: 5%) Latin America 2% (2015: 2%) Central and Eastern Europe 1% (2015: 1%) Statement of financial position Oceania 0% (2015: 1%) Total assets and liquidity The increase in total assets was mainly due to increased liquidity investments since the turn of the year 2015/2016. Liquidity investments have increased to ensure a healthy Other exposures and risks financial capacity in light of global concerns. SEK’s hedging transactions are expected to be effective in offsetting changes in fair value attributable to hedged risks. Skr bn 2016 2015 Change The determination of the gross value of certain items in the Total assets 299.4 280.4 7% statements of financial position, particularly derivatives and Liquidity investments 72.3 58.7 23% issued unsubordinated securities, which effectively hedge Outstanding loans 208.7 205.1 2% each other, requires complex judgments regarding the most of which loans in the appropriate valuation technique, assumptions and estiS-system 50.8 44.1 15% mates. If different valuation models or assumptions were used, or if assumptions changed, a different result may arise. 38 SEK Annual Report 2016 Review of 2016 Excluding the impact on the valuation of spreads on SEK’s Investments own debt and basis spreads (which can be significant), such SEK continually invests in the development of new IT syschanges in fair value would generally offset each other, with tems in order to meet regulatory requirements, to develop little impact on the value of net assets. the business and to ensure appropriate and effective IT SEK maintains a conservative policy with regard to market support for the company’s business and support processes. exposures, interest rate risks, currency risks and operational During 2016, intensive development work on methods and risks. For quantitative and qualitative information about processes for market risk measurement has been made, risks and exposures, see the ‘Risk and capital management’ which has implicated large IT expenditures. Capital expensection of this Annual Report as well as Note 27 Risk Inforditures in IT systems during 2016 amounted to Skr 29 million mation. (2015: Skr 59 million). In the last quarter 2015 write-downs of intangible assets was made amounting to Skr -55 million, Capital adequacy mainly attributable to investments during 2014 and the SEK has a strong capitalization, with a total capital ratio of period January to September 2015. 25.1 percent as of December 31, 2016, and healthy liquidity. Proposal for the distribution of profits December 31, December 31, All amounts are in Skr million, unless otherwise indicated. Percent 2016 2015 The results of the Consolidated Group’s and the parent Common Equity Tier 1 company’s operations during the year and its financial posicapital ratio 22.1 21.6 tion at December 31, 2016, can be seen in the statement of Tier 1 capital ratio 22.1 21.6 comprehensive income, statement of financial position and Total capital ratio 25.1 24.5 statement of cash flows for the Consolidated Group as well as Leverage ratio 5.3 5.4 the income statement, balance sheet and statement of cash LCR according to the flows for the parent company and related Notes. The Board Swedish FSA 383 573 has decided to propose to the Annual General Meeting the LCR according to the EU payment of a dividend of Skr 234 million (2015: Skr 356 mil­Commission’s delegated act 215 n.a. lion), corresponding to the company’s dividend policy. The Net stable funding ratio following proposal regarding distribution of profits relates to (NSFR) 131.5 99.4 the parent company. At the disposal of the Annual General Meeting 10,942 Results under the S-system The Board of Directors proposes that the In return for compensation, SEK administers the Swedish Annual General Meeting dispose of these funds government’s system for subsidized export credits and as follows: development aid credits (together referred to as the – Dividend to the shareholder of Skr 58.65 per ‘S-system’). The S-system paid net compensation to SEK share, amounting to 234 of Skr 116 million (2015: Skr 123 million). This is compensa–R emaining disposable funds to be carried tion paid to SEK for carrying the S-system loans and their forward 10,708 related credit risks on SEK’s balance sheet. The compensation is included in SEK’s net interest revenues. The financial position of the company and the Group is good as evidenced by the annual report for 2016. From the Skr mn 2016 2015 Change equity of the Parent Company and the Group has 2 percent, CIRR loans 235 164 43% constituting unrealized changes in value, been deducted due Concessionary loans -53 -52 2% to valuation of financial instruments at fair value, as Results from the S-system 182 112 63% of December 31, 2016. of which interest differential The own funds for the Group amounted to, as of Decemcompensation 121 13 831% ber 31, 2016, Skr 18,821 million resulting in a total capital adequacy ratio of 25.1 percent. It is the assessment of the The CIRR credits are provided under agreements withinthe Board of Directors that the proposed dividend has coverage in OECD, which is a common regulatory framework for the equity. The own funds and the volume of liquidity investindividual countries’ subsidies on their export industries. ments will, even after the proposed dividend continue to be Exporters are offered the opportunity to fix interest rates for satisfactory in relation to the line of business the company the period of the offer. CIRR credits are provided in collabooperates in, and the company is assumed to fulfill its obligaration between SEK, EKN and commercial banks. tions in the short and long term. Thus, it is the assessment of The aggregate surplus for CIRR-based export credthe Board of Directors that the proposed dividend is justifiits under the S-system for the period from 1990 to 2016 able considering the demands with respect to the size of the amounted to approximately Skr 3.2 billion, with the average company’s and the Group’s equity, which are imposed by the year-end volume of outstanding loans at Skr 16.3 billion. The nature, scope and risks associated with the business, and the surplus for the past five years amounts to Skr 882 million and company’s and the Group’s need for consolidation, volume of the average volume of outstanding loans amounts to Skr 44.3 liquidity investments and financial position in general. billion. SEK Annual Report 2016  39 Risk and capital management Risk and capital management Introduction risks are credit risk (Skr 7.5 billion (2015: Skr 7.9 billion) in The Risk and capital management section addresses sigallocated capital), market risk (Skr 1.6 billion (2015: Skr 1.4 nificant aspects of SEK’s risk and capital management. For billion) in allocated capital) and operational risk (Skr 0.2 bildetailed descriptions, including quantitative information on lion (2015: Skr 0.3 billion) in allocated capital). SEK’s liquidity SEK’s capital adequacy and its risk and capital management, trended stably over the year. refer to Note 26 Capital situation and Note 27 Risk information, respectively. For supplementary and expanded inforCapital target mation, refer to the separate risk report, “Capital Adequacy The company’s capital target, which is one of the Board’s and Risk Management Report — Pillar 3 2016”, available at principal control instruments, is established by the owner www.sek.se. at a general meeting of shareholders. The capital target is designed to ensure that SEK has sufficient capital to support Events in 2016 its strategy and that capital adequacy always exceeds the In 2016, several events in the external environment affected regulatory requirements, even in the event of deep economic the macro scenario, such as Brexit and the US presidential declines. Under normal conditions, SEK’s capital target is for election. To date, however, the economies of the Western its total capital ratio to exceed the capital adequacy requireWorld have been favorably impacted by monetary policy ment communicated by the Swedish FSA by 1 to 3 percentage stimuli from central banks worldwide, by the low interpoints. The point of departure for this is the Swedish FSA’s est-rate environment and, initially at least, by the outcome estimated capital requirement for SEK or SEK’s own assessof the US presidential election. A number of European banks ment, whichever is higher. In addition, SEK’s own funds have found themselves under pressure from assessments must also cover the volatility that may be expected under that they are inadequately capitalized. The fact that major normal conditions. As a result of the Swedish FSA’s review banks have transgressed applicable rules and regulations and evaluation process, SEK was required to have a total has also attracted attention. The consequences of the new capital ratio of 17.3 percent, based on SEK’s balance sheet at regulations for the financial sector remain considerable in September 30, 2016. At December 31, 2016, the total capital the form of adaptation costs, new fees and stricter capital ratio was 25.1 percent. requirements, primarily related to the introduction of the Banking Recovery and Resolution Directive. The greatest Core risk management principles uncertainty concerning the future is found in new floor reguSEK must be selective in its choice of counterparties and lations in the capital adequacy regulatory framework, which clients in order to ensure a strong credit rating. risk resulting in a return to more risk-insensitive capital SEK only lends funds to clients who have successfully requirements. undergone SEK’s procedure for gaining understanding of the SEK’s capital adequacy increased marginally in 2016. At customer and its business relations (know your customer), the end of the year, the total capital ratio was 25.1 percent and have a business structure that complies with SEK’s mis(2015: 24.5 percent), of which the Tier 1 capital ratio and sion of promoting the Swedish export industry. the Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio both amounted to The business operations are limited to financial solutions 22.1 percent (2015: 21.6 percent). SEK’s total exposures and positions that the company has approved and has proincreased, which led to an increase in the capital requirement cedures for, whose risks can be measured and evaluated and under the IRB approach primarily for exposures to comwhere the company complies with international sustainabilpanies. During the same period, the company’s total own ity risk guidelines. funds increased due to an increase in retained earnings. . The SEK’s liquidity strategy entails that the company secures risk parameters declined because of further improvements financing that, at the very least, has the same maturities as in default statistics in recent years. SEK’s largest financial the funds that it lends. Risk appetite “2016 was a year of additional reinThe Board approves the company’s risk appetite, which is forcement to skills and resources to to encompass all of the company’s significant risk classes meet forthcoming challenges. At the and to express the outer limits for the business operations. same time, we have reached the final The risk appetite must specify the risk measurements that, stage of the change and quality-enin the opinion of the Board, provide information that is hancement of risk management, which sufficient for the members of the Board to be well versed in has been ongoing for several years, in the type and scope of the company’s risks. The risk appetite parallel with managing new regulatory is strongly connected to the company’s loss capacity and and reporting requirements.” thus to its equity. At least on a quarterly basis, the Board is Stefan Friberg provided with a comprehensive update of the risk exposures’ Chief Risk Officer relationship to the risk appetite. The graph on the next page illustrates how the risk exposure in relation to the risk appetite is presented in a summarized format to the Board. Refer 40 SEK Annual Report 2016 Risk and capital management Summary of SEK’s risk appetite The risk appetite encompasses all of the company’s significant risk classes and expresses the outer limits for the business operations. The graph illustrates how the risk exposure in relation to the risk appetite is presented in a summarized format to the Board. RISK EGIC RAT ST SK 100 CR ED RI IT AL RI S N 80 O K RE PU TA TI 60 INABILITY RISK BUSIN 40 SUSTA RIS ESS 20 K MA RKE T RIS N K TIO UA VAL RISK Utilization > 100% LIQ ISK UID LR 80% < Utilization ≤ 100% ITY NA RISK ATIO OPER Utilization ≤ 80% also to the “SEK’s risks and its risk management of them” The Board also decides on risk policies and on matters of section, where the risk appetite by risk class is described in considerable importance to credit granting. The Board has detail. established the Finance and Risk Committee (FRC), which assists the Board in overall issues regarding governance Risk governance and monitoring of risk-taking, risk management and use The owner determines the capital target at a general meeting of capital. The FRC also decides on certain limits, primarily of shareholders. The Board of Directors has ultimate responinvolving market risk. The Board’s Credit Committee (CC) sibility for governing and monitoring risk exposure and risk is the Board’s working body for matters involving loans and management, and for ensuring satisfactory internal control. loan limit decisions, and for matters of fundamental signifiThe Board determines the overall risk governance by taking cance or generally of great importance to SEK, and also makes decisions on such matters as risk appetite and risk strategy. loans decisions that have been delegated by the Board. The The risk framework The risk framework encompasses the entire operations and is ultimately governed by Capital Target Owner SEK’s mission. Risk Appetite, Risk Strategy, Risk Policy The Board Risk Culture, Instructions, Processes and Limits CEO, CC and RCC Risk Management Process Commercial and Control and support operations Identification Measurement Governance Reporting monitoring Control functions SEK Annual Report 2016  41 Risk and capital management Board’s Audit Committee (AC) assists the Board with SEK’s financial reporting and matters involving internal control. Division of responsibility for risk, liquidity and For a detailed description of the Board of Directors’ rules of capital management in SEK procedure, refer to the Corporate Governance Report in this Annual Report. First line of defense SEK’s CEO is responsible for day-to-day management • Business and support • Credit and sustainability of business operations. The CEO has established commitoperations. analyses. tees that are tasked with following up matters, serving as • Day-to-day management • Daily control and folconsultative bodies for the CEO in matters decided by the of risk, capital and liquidity low-up of credit, market CEO and preparing matters ahead of decisions by the Board. in compliance with risk and The Risk and Compliance Committee deals with risk, capital, appetite and strategy as liquidity risk. compliance and audit matters and evaluates the effects of well as applicable laws and new regulations. The Committee monitors SEK’s risk exporules. sure and reports issued by the control functions. Following consultation with the Committee, the CEO issues governSecond line of defense ing documents regarding delegation of responsibility and management of the types of risk arising in SEK. The Credit • Independent risk control • Risk, liquidity and capital Committee (CC) is responsible for issues pertaining to credit and compliance functions. reporting. decisions. The CC has been mandated to take credit decisions • Identification, quantifi•M  aintain an efficient risk within the framework of the division of authority determined cation, monitoring and management frameby the Board. control of risks and risk work and internal control SEK has organized risk management and risk control in management. framework. accordance with the principle of three lines of defense in the •C  ompliance monitoring form of clear-cut separation of responsibility between the and reporting. commercial and support operations that own the risks, the control functions that independently identify and monitor Third line of defense the risks and an internal audit, which reviews these matters and reports directly to the Board; see diagram to the right. • I ndependent internal • Performance of audit audit. activities in line with the • Review and evaluation of audit plan adopted by the the efficiency and integrity Board. of risk management. • Direct reporting to the Board. 42 SEK Annual Report 2016 Risk and capital management Risk management process Control and monitoring. SEK checks and monitors The company’s risk management process encompasses: compliance with limits, risk appetite, capital targets, risk identification, measurement, management, reporting, conmanagement and internal and external regulations to ensure trol and monitoring of those risks with which the business that risk exposures are kept at an acceptable level for SEK and is associated and for which SEK has formulated internal that risk management is effective and appropriate. controls with this purpose in mind. SEK’s risk management process consists of the following key elements: SEK’S risk framework Risk identification — at any given time, SEK must be Effective risk management and control in SEK are based on a aware of the risks to which it is exposed. Risks are identified, sound risk culture, a shared approach and a well-functioning primarily in new transactions, in external changes in SEK’s control environment. SEK emphasizes the importance of operating environment or internally in, for example, prodhigh risk awareness among personnel and an understanducts, processes, systems and through annual risk analyses ing of the importance of preventive risk management to, that include all aspects of SEK. Both forward-looking and thereby, keep risk exposure within the determined level. SEK historical analyses and testing are performed. also has a risk framework (see the Risk Framework illusMeasurement — the size of the risks is measured on a tration on the preceding page) encompassing all of SEK’s daily basis in respect of significant measurable risks or is operations, all of its risks and all relevant personnel. assessed qualitatively as frequently as necessary. For those The structure of the risk framework is ultimately governed risks that are not directly measurable, SEK evaluates the risk by SEK’s mission from its owner, the Swedish government, according to models that are based on SEK’s risk appetite and SEK’s business model. for the respective risk class, specifying appropriate scales of The capital target constitutes the outer boundary for probability and consequence. SEK’s strategy. Within the confines of the capital target, risk Governance — SEK aims to oversee the development of appetite is stated, which is expressed by risk class and combusiness, actively utilize risk-reduction capabilities and prises the risk to which the Board is prepared to expose SEK control the development of risks over time to ensure that in order to achieve its strategic objectives. Risk governance is the business activities are kept within the risk appetite and specified in the form of a risk strategy, a risk policy, in SEK’s limits. SEK also plans and draws up documentation to ensure risk culture, and in instructions, processes and limits. These the continuity of business-critical processes and systems and policy documents describe the risk management process that planning is carried out for crisis management. Exerand define what activities and operations are included in cises and training regarding the management of situations the process, and how they should be performed. The policy that require crisis and/or continuity planning are performed documents also indicate how responsibility is structured in continuously. terms of the execution, monitoring of and compliance with Reporting — the company reports on the current risk risk management. situation, on the use of capital and on related matters to the CEO, the Finance and Risk Committee and the Board, at least once each quarter. SEK Annual Report 2016  43 Risk and capital management SEK’s risks and its risk management SEK’s mission is to ensure access to financial solutions for the Swedish export industry on commercial and sustainable terms. Different types of risk arise as part of operations, primarily credit risk. An overview of the risks SEK is exposed to and how these risks are managed is presented in this section. For more detailed descriptions, refer to Note 27. Risk profile Risk appetite metrics Risk management Credit risk SEK’s credit risk portfolio • Individual or collectively limited expoLending must be responsible and maintains a high credit quality. sures must not exceed 20 percent of own based on in-depth knowledge of The portfolio is exposed to funds. SEK’s counterparties. Lending must a concentration risk due to • The company’s expected loss within also take place in accordance with SEK’s mission. The net risk is one year must not exceed 2 percent and SEK’s mission based on the owner principally limited to counterbased on the total remaining maturity not instruction and must be based on the parties with high credit ratings, exceed 8 percent of the Common Equity counterparty’s repayment capacity. such as government export Tier 1 capital. SEK’s credit risks are limited by the credit agencies, major Swedish • Concentration risk, exposures larger than risk-based selection of counterexporters and banks and insur10 percent of own funds, is to be reported parties and are managed, inter alia, ance companies. SEK invests its at least on a quarterly basis. by the use of guarantees and other liquidity in high-credit-quality • The company’s exposures to countertypes of collateral. SEK endeavors securities, primarily with short parties with a credit rating lower than to achieve a diversified lending maturities. investment grade are to be reported at portfolio. Concentrations that natleast quarterly. urally result from SEK’s mission are • Risk ratings and risk limits are to be accepted, although risk mitigation updated at least annually. solutions are used to partly reduce concentration risks. Market risk SEK’s business model leads to • The aggregated risk from exposures meaThe core of SEK’s market risk stratexposure primarily to spread sured at fair value in the balance sheet is egy is to borrow funds by issuing risk, interest-rate risk and not to exceed Skr 1,300 million securities which, regardless of the currency risk. SEK’s largest • Total interest-rate sensitivity to a 100 market risk exposures generated by net exposures are to changes basis-point parallel shift in all yield these, are hedged by being swapped in spread risk, mainly to credit curves, comprising the entire balance to a floating interest rate. Borrowed spreads associated with assets sheet, must not exceed Skr 600 million. funds are used either immediately and liabilities and to cross-cur• Net interest income 1 year, the impact on for lending, mainly at a floating rate rency basis spreads. SEK’s future earnings margin resultof interest, or swapped to a floating ing from a change in interest rates, a rate, or used to ensure sufficient 100 basis-point parallel shift, must not liquidity. The aim is to hold assets exceed Skr 250 million. and liabilities to maturity. • Risk to NII from cross-currency basis swaps 1 year, the impact on SEK’s future earnings margin resulting from a change in cross-currency basis spreads must not exceed Skr 150 million. OperaOperational risks arise • The risk appetite for losses due to inciSEK works continuously to manage tional risk naturally in all parts of the dents is Skr 20 million per calendar year operational risk, primarily by means business. The incidents that • SEK does not accept any material risks or of efficient internal controls, by have occurred predominantly serious audit remarks. Material risks are performing risk analyses prior to comprise minor events that are risks whereby the aggregated assessment changes, by focusing on continuous rectified promptly within the of probability and consequence exceeds improvements and through continrelevant function. the level that the company may accept. In gency planning. Costs to reduce risk the event that the risk still arises, it must exposures must be in proportion to be mitigated to an acceptable level within the effect that such measures have. three months. • No transgression of laws, ordinances or other regulations governing operations requiring permits, including the requirement of internal control of financial reporting is permitted. 44 SEK Annual Report 2016 Risk and capital management Risk profile Risk appetite metrics Risk management Liquidity SEK has secured borrowing for • The company is to operate with a liquidity SEK must have diversified borrowing risk all of its credit commitments, coverage ratio (LCR) for the entire balance to ensure that borrowing is availincluding those committed sheet, and in EUR and USD, exceeding 110 able through maturity for all credit but as yet undisbursed. In percent. commitments — loans outstanding addition, the size of SEK’s • The company is to operate with a net as well as committed undisbursed liquidity investments allows stable funding ratio (NSFR) exceeding 100 loans. The size of SEK’s liquidity new lending to continue at a percent. investments must ensure that new normal pace, even during times • The company is to operate with a matched lending can take place even during of stress. balance sheet and have contingencies for times of financial stress. potential disbursements of new lending for at least four months. • All lending transactions are to be funded using at least the same maturity. ValuaSEK is exposed to a valuation • The price adjustment for prudent valuSEK works continuously to improve tion risk risk for financial instruments ation is not to exceed 10 percent of own the quality of market data and interthat are not traded actively funds. nally developed models, to calibrate and are thus appraised using • The company may not accept identified models against market transactions models. material risks concerning valuation and to check market value with methods, including the regulatory frameexternal counterparties. work for prudent valuation. SustainSEK is primarily exposed to • SEK only engages in transactions for Sustainability risks are managed ability risk sustainability risks when which we have conducted know your according to a risk-based approach. lending. A sustainability risk customer activities and that entail an In the event of a high sustainabilcould arise from the financing acceptable sustainability risk, at least in ity risk, an in-depth sustainability of major projects or from operaccordance with the international guidereview is conducted and, where necations in high-risk countries in lines adhered to by the company. essary, requirements set that meaterms of corruption or human • Initially approved projects that can give sures be implemented to counteract rights violations. rise to sustainability-related issues at a the adverse environmental and later stage, including reputational risk, societal impact. Requirements are are to be assigned particular attention. based on national and international regulations and guidelines in the areas of anti-corruption, climate and environment, human rights including labor conditions and business ethics including money laundering and the financing of terrorism. CommerSEK has a natural concentra• Concentration in income from a limited Business risk is identified through cial and tion risk to Sweden and to large number of clients risk analyses and is monitored reputaSwedish exporters pursuant to • Follow-up of the reputational impact and prevented as deemed necestional risk its mission from the owner. from transactions sary. Reputational risk is mitiThe main factors considered gated actively through a number of to affect the reputation of the activities, including ongoing analysis SEK brand are credit losses, of media coverage, stakeholder transactions that could be dialogues and risk analyses. SEK’s perceived to lack Swedish communication plan describes the interests or the perception that principles for both long-term and SEK has breached applicable short-term management of reputaregulations. tional risk. StrateSEK’s strategic risks mainly • SEK accepts conscious strategic risks in Strategic risk is identified through gic risk arise from structural changes in line with the company’s strategy. risk analyses and is monitored and (business competition, which could lead • Governance of new initiatives is to prevented as deemed necessary. environto limited lending opportuniinclude monitoring of business volumes ment risk) ties for SEK, and from regulaand, where relevant, have limits applied. tory reforms. SEK Annual Report 2016  45 Risk and capital management Internal capital and liquidity assessment processes whereby Value at Risk (VaR) is calculated at a confidence The internal capital adequacy assessment process is an level of 99.9 percent. This quantitative estimate is performed integral part of SEK’s strategic planning, whereby the Board using a simulation-based tool that produces a probability determines SEK’s risk appetite and approves the capital distribution of the value of the credit portfolio over a defined target. The purposes of the internal capital adequacy assesstime horizon (usually one year). The methodology used in ment process are to ensure that SEK has sufficient capital to the VaR quantification is based on the CreditMetrics model. meet the regulatory requirements under both normal and In addition to the internal capital adequacy assessment, stressed financial conditions and to support SEK’s high credit SEK also estimates the total capital requirement as set for rating. The capital kept by SEK must be sufficient in relation SEK by the Swedish FSA in its annual review and evaluation to the risks that SEK has, or can be exposed to. The capital process. The capital requirement specified by the Swedish adequacy assessment is based on SEK’s internal assessments FSA constitutes a minimum requirement for the size of SEK’s of the risks and their development, as well as assessments of own funds. In SEK’s assessment, SEK has own funds that risk measurement models, risk governance and risk managecomfortably exceed both the internally estimated need of ment. It is integrated into business planning and forms the own funds and the total capital requirement calculated by the foundation for SEK’s strategy for maintaining an adequate Swedish FSA. For further information, refer to the separate level of capital. Capital adequacy assessments are conducted risk report, “Capital Adequacy and Risk Management Report at least for the forthcoming three-year period. — Pillar 3 2016”, available at www.sek.se. In conjunction with its internal capital adequacy assessment process, an in-depth liquidity analysis is performed. New regulations During the planning period, the liquidity requirement and For exposures to central governments and regional govits composition are evaluated to ensure the company has ernments, SEK has been granted, until further notice, an adequate liquidity to implement the business plan and meet exemption from using the IRB approach for risk classification regulatory requirements. and quantification of credit risk. SEK applies the standardSEK’s assessment is that the macroeconomic climate ized approach for these exposures but will switch to the IRB represents the foremost source of the risks to its earnings approach during 2017. The minimum capital requirements and financial stability. To arrive at an adequate capitalization for these exposures will increase in connection with a switch level that also applies under stressed financial conditions, an to the IRB approach. analysis is conducted of how the capitalization is affected by In the assessment of SEK, the company has sufficient stress in global financial markets, as well as of other factors eligible own funds in accordance with the Banking Recovery that impact SEK’s business model and net risk exposure. and Resolution Directive. When SEK performs the internal capital adequacy Under normal conditions, SEK satisfies the new CRR assessment, it applies methods other than those used for the liquidity requirements. Swedish FSA capital requirement. TThe assessment is based Rules stipulating the particular derivatives that have to on SEK’s internal calculation of economic capital, which be cleared are evolving progressively, as are rules for how captures all of the specific risks to which SEK’s operations non-cleared derivatives should be managed. When these are exposed, even risks over and above those included in the rules have been definitively finalized, this will have a certain Swedish FSA capital requirement. For example, for credit impact on capital requirements and liquidity flows. risk, economic capital is based on a quantitative approach 46 SEK Annual Report 2016 Chairmain's statement An intense year for SEK 2016 was marked by tumultuous political events, such as the government’s Fossil Free Sweden initiative and the company US presidential election and the UK’s decision to leave the has implemented a scenario analysis to identify the impact on EU. The outcomes of these events reflect the growing trend of the lending portfolio of the implementation of the COP21 global increasing nationalism and protectionism as well as opposition climate treaty. to globalization. It is important that Sweden, with its interest The targets set by the general meeting of shareholders in free trade and dependence on exports, monitors these were met, except the target for the after-tax return on equity trends. In addition, 2016 marked another turbulent year in the for 2016, which was 4.6 percent (2015: 7.2 percent). The European financial market, partly as a result of challenges for profitability target is 6 percent over time. SEK has a strong several European banks. capitalization with a total capital ratio of 25.1 percent at the end 2016 was also an intensive year for SEK. SEK has continued of the year (24.5 at the end of 2015) and SEK’s Board decided to add value for existing clients and strengthened the to propose to the Annual General Meeting the distribution competitiveness of the Swedish export industry. Initiatives of a dividend of Skr 234 million (2015: Skr 356 million), for reaching new clients have led to business in new client corresponding to 30 percent of net profit for the year. 2016 was segments. A high level of internal activity was also maintained also the first year in which we have followed up the specially with strengthening SEK’s organization and infrastructure. commissioned public policy assignment. The measurement of During the year, the Board has worked with areas including the value added by SEK found that 63 percent of clients who had initiatives to improve the company’s risk management and risk engaged SEK’s services for export credits perceived that SEK’s measurement capability. credits had contributed significantly or very significantly to the In 2015, SEK created a separate unit for medium-sized execution of their export transactions. exporters and it is extremely pleasing to note that efforts in SEK’s strategic sustainability targets are primarily linked to 2016 resulted in new partnerships with a number of companies our lending. Our objective is to set clear sustainable business with whom SEK had previously had no customer relationship. requirements when granting credit and, concurrently, increase The government’s Export Strategy also has considerable focus our green loans to promote a green transition. During the on how more Swedish companies, particularly medium-sized year, we lent Skr 3.3 billion in the form of green loans, which companies, can reach emerging markets. Large companies slightly exceeded our target for the year. We have also set a goal have often had long exposure in emerging markets and SEK of gradually raising our external sustainability rating, thereby has often participated in their expansion. To assist both large providing proof that we are developing our responsible lending and medium-sized companies in these emerging markets, as well as sustainability efforts in general. The strength of SEK’s we need to increase our ability to operate in difficult markets, sustainability rating and credit rating is also starting to become which requires local knowledge and the ability to manage often increasingly important for our investors. Moreover, SEK has complex risks. SEK must work closely with our clients, their continued work with designing sustainability efforts to meet customers and local providers of finance to achieve this. external requirements, guidelines and expectations. SEK has But we believe we can add value for even more exporters, been tasked with a vital mission, which means it is crucial for even small companies. Therefore, the Board has put forward SEK to attract, develop and retain the right competence. The a strategy setting out how, in the longer term (at least five 2016 employee survey found high employee commitment at years), SEK can develop operations to reach more medium and SEK. We have also all but succeeded in reaching our equality and smaller companies, without compromising its ability to aid the diversity goals. largest Swedish companies. Working with smaller companies SEK plays a pivotal role in promoting the Swedish export sets substantial new requirements on SEK’s organization, industry and assists in export transactions that create infrastructure and capital, which take time to develop. employment and sustainable growth in Sweden. I am extremely In these more uncertain times, perhaps now more than ever, proud to be the Chairman of this company and I would hereby SEK is a strong market participant. Irrespective of whether the like to thank the Board, management and, most of all, the economic stimuli in the US accelerate growth or whether the employees, who in a committed manner, execute their tasks world will be marked by increased protectionism, SEK must well on a daily basis and continue to develop SEK. keep up with developments. We must remain relevant and fulfil our mission, namely, to always be prepared to assist the Swedish export industry with financing solutions. SEK must also adapt to the increasing content of services in exports and how we can develop the offering to finance this type of export. At the UN Summit in 2015, world leaders adopted 17 sustainability development goals (SDG), which are also known as Agenda 2030. Based on the above, the Swedish government has set out a strategy for Sweden to work toward these goals, and state-owned companies have an important part in this work. In 2016, SEK clarified how these goals are linked to our strategies, goals and activities. Among other initiatives, SEK works proactively to finance exports of Swedish environmental Lars Linder-Aronson, expertise around the world. This contributes to sustainable development and supports the SDGs. In 2016, SEK joined the Chairman of the Board SEK Annual Report 2016  47 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 2016 SEK is a Swedish public limited company, and credit market State-owned companies are subject to greater information institution, domiciled in Stockholm, Sweden. SEK is wholly requirements regarding sustainability reporting under the owned by the Swedish state and under the administration of policy guidelines and, therefore, are to apply such regulations the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation. as the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. For further The government considers SEK a key participant in the information on internal governance and control regarding state’s promotion of the Swedish export industry and in the sustainability, refer to page 54. realization of the government’s export strategy. The owner’s governance of SEK is executed through the The Code state’s ownership policy and owner instruction and, as for The Code is part of the Swedish government’s framework for all limited companies, through the Articles of Association, corporate governance that supplements the state’s ownergeneral meeting of shareholders, the Board and the CEO. ship policy (for example, regarding financial reporting and remuneration of senior executives). SEK complies with the The state’s ownership policy and guidelines Code in line with the owner’s guidelines. for companies with state ownership In the state’s ownership policy, the government details its Deviations from the Code mission and objectives, the applicable frameworks and its SEK chooses to deviate from the Code in regard to certain position on key policy issues pertaining to corporate goveraspects, in accordance with the Code’s regulations regarding nance at all state-owned companies. The state’s ownership “comply or explain.” The reason for such deviations is that policy includes the government’s guidelines for external SEK is wholly owned by the state and thus is not a publicly reporting and guidelines for terms of employment for senior listed company with diverse ownership. SEK’s corporate executives. Moreover, the state’s ownership policy means governance deviated from the requirements of the Code on that the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) the following points in the 2016 fiscal year: applies. Nomination Committee. The nomination process for As set out in the state’s ownership policy, inter alia, as a Board members adheres to the principles described in the state-owned company, SEK is to set a positive example for state’s ownership policy. sustainable business, which primarily means that SEK is to: Chairman of the Annual General Meeting. The nomina• work strategically, integrate the issues in its business tion process for the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting strategy and adopt strategic sustainability targets; adheres to the principles described in the state’s ownership • work transparently in matters concerning material risks policy. and opportunities and maintain an active dialog with the Election of auditors. The nomination process for auditors company’s stakeholders in society; adheres to the principles described in the state’s ownership • work together with other companies and relevant orgapolicy. nizations; and The Board of Directors’ independence from the owner. • comply with international guidelines in this area. In accordance with the state’s ownership policy, SEK does Corporate governance structure Shareholder Nomination Reporting paths Auditors at AGM procedure p. xx p. 65 p. 66 Appointed by Internal Audit Board of Directors Audit Credit Remuneration Finance and Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief Risk Officer CEO Head of Compliance Risk and Executive Compliance Credit Committee Management Committee 48 SEK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report not disclose whether members of the Board of Directors are member. Lars Linder-Aronson was re-elected Chairman of independent in relation to the owner. the Board by the Meeting. The Annual General Meeting adopted the Annual Report Owner instruction 2015 submitted by the Board and the CEO, and discharged A new owner instruction was adopted at the Annual General the Board and the CEO from liability for the 2015 fiscal year. Meeting on April 26, 2016. The owner instruction states, The Annual General Meeting also resolved, in line with the inter alia, that SEK is to: (a) conduct lending operations on Board‘s proposed appropriation of profits, to pay a dividend commercial and sustainable terms, within the scope of the of Skr 356 million to the shareholder. The decision was in objects of the company as set out in the Articles of Associaaccordance with SEK’s dividend policy. tion, with the aim of promoting the Swedish export industry Moreover, the Annual General Meeting resolved on by offering financing solutions that directly or indirectly unchanged guidelines for the remuneration of senior execupromote Swedish exports; (b) provide export credits, includtives, see also under Note 5 of the Annual Report. ing officially supported credits (CIRR loans); (c) in periods when the market cannot satisfactorily provide financing Extraordinary General Meeting to the Swedish export industry, constitute a tool whereby The company held an extraordinary general meeting on Januthe government can take separate measures to ensure that ary 21, 2016, at which the meeting resolved in line with the such financing can be provided; and (d) promote compliance shareholder’s proposal to set SEK’s total capital ratio, under with international guidelines within the area of sustainnormal conditions, at 1 to 3 percentage points in excess of the able business relating to the environment, anticorruption, requirement announced by Swedish FSA. human rights, labor conditions and business ethics. Where relevant when making credit assessments, SEK is to comply The Board of Directors with international frameworks, such as the OECD’s Common The Board’s composition and nomination procedure Approaches for Officially Supported Export Credits and EnviThe nomination procedure for Board members complies ronmental and Social Due Diligence or the Equator Principles, with the state’s ownership policy and is conducted and and observe the OECD’s Principles and Guidelines to Promote coordinated by the Division for Corporate Governance and Sustainable Lending in the Provision of Official Export CredAnalysis at the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise and Innovaits to Low Income Countries. tion. A working group analyzes the skills requirements based The owner instruction sets further requirements for the on the composition of the Board as well as the company’s reporting and following up of SEK’s administration of the operations, status, future challenges and completed Board CIRR system under the specially commissioned public policy training. Any recruitment needs are then established and the assignment from the government. The socioeconomic value recruitment process initiated. It is important for the owner of this can be evaluated in part by measuring the added value that the Board represents diversity and breadth in terms of that SEK generates in terms of export credits (of which CIRRs age, gender, ethnic origin, industry experience, academic comprise a part) and in part through the company conducting background and profession. a stakeholder dialogue. SEK carries out a suitability assessment of Board members and senior executives pursuant to the regulatory framework Articles of Association issued by the European Banking Authority (EBA). SEK’s SEK’s Articles of Association regulate such issues as the assessment of potential new Board members is based on the operating targets of the company. The Articles of Association owner having identified the candidate in question according do not contain any provisions regulating the appointment or to a job specification. The owner is informed of the outcome removal of Board members, except for a provision stipufollowing SEK’s assessment. When the procedure is comlating that the Chairman of the Board is to be appointed by plete, the nominations are disclosed publicly in accordance the general meeting of shareholders and the maximum and with the provisions of the Code. minimum number of Board members. For amendments to be The Articles of Association stipulate that the Board is to made to the Articles of Association, the notice of the extraorcomprise no less than six and no more than eight members. dinary general meeting at which amendments to the Articles Board members are elected each year at the Annual General of Association is to be issued not earlier than six weeks and Meeting to serve until the end of the following Annual Gennot later than four weeks prior to the meeting. SEK’s Articles eral Meeting. SEK’s Board of Directors comprises the eight of Association do not contain any limitations on the number members elected at the 2016 Annual General Meeting. The of votes that a shareholder can cast at a general meeting of CEO is not a member of the Board. Four of the Board memshareholders. bers are women and four are men. The names, ages, and main education of the Board members, and the number of Board General meeting of shareholders and Committee meetings held during the year are presented Annual General Meeting on pages 52 and 55-57. None of the Board members or the SEK’s Annual General Meeting was held on April 26, 2016. CEO hold shares or financial instruments issued by SEK. External parties were entitled to attend the Meeting. The minutes of the Annual General Meeting are available at www. Chairman of the Board sek.se. The Chairman of the Board is elected by a general meeting The Annual General Meeting re-elected the following of shareholders, unless the Chairman resigns from his/her Board members: Lars Linder-Aronson, Cecilia Ardström, Jan assignment during his/her term of office, in which case the Belfrage, Susanne Lithander, Lotta Mellström, Ulla Nilsson Board is to elect a new Chairman from within its ranks to and Teppo Tauriainen. Magnus Uggla was elected as a new serve until the end of the general meeting that is to elect SEK Annual Report 2016  49 Corporate Governance Report a new Chairman. The Chairman leads the Board’s work, monitors to ensure that the Board is performing its duties, represents the Board in relation to the owner and maintains contact with the owner. The Chairman is also responsible for initiating the annual evaluation of the Board’s and Board’s work during the year CEO’s work. The Chairman ensures that the Board receives adequate information and decision data for its work by, inter Over the year, matters addressed by the alia, informing the Board about what has transpired from Board included the following: contact with the owner. The Chairman also ensures that • Year-end report and annual report the Board receives the requisite training for the Board work to function efficiently, and checks that Board decisions are • Annual reports from internal audit and implemented. regulatory compliance • Review of SEK’s remuneration system The Board and its working methods • Adoption of the Pillar 3 report and risk The Board is responsible for the organization and the administration of SEK’s affairs. The Board is also tasked with strategy ensuring that the company’s financial statements are pre• Client visit at SAAB AB in Linköping, pared in accordance with legislation, applicable accounting Sweden, and at Skanska and banks in standards and other requirements. The Board must continLondon, UK ually assess SEK’s financial position and ensure that SEK is structured in such a way that its accounting, management of • Project decisions funds and SEK’s other financial circumstances are governed • Internal capital adequacy assessment by satisfactory controls. The Board adopts the operating process targets and strategies for the operations, and issues general • Notice of Annual General Meeting internal regulations in policies and instructions. The Board ensures that an efficient system is in place to monitor and • Decision on salary and benefits for CEO control SEK’s operations. In addition, the Board is tasked and senior executives with appointing, and dismissing if necessary, the CEO and • Review of 2015 CEO and Board evaluations Chief Risk Officer and deciding on remuneration of these • Statutory Board meeting individuals and other members of executive management. The Board’s work follows the rules of procedure adopted • Interim reports each year at the statutory Board meeting and the Board’s • Review of the revised structure for internal annual plan. The Board of Directors met on 12 occasions rules in 2016. The CEO attends all Board meetings except those addressing matters in which there is a conflict of interest, • Strategy meeting such as when evaluating the CEO’s work. • Review of outcome of employee survey • Termination of the employee incentive Evaluation of the work of the Board of system, which has been replaced with an Directors and the executive management A separate assessment of the work of the Board and execemployee benefit package. utive management is carried out once a year under the • Review of succession plan for senior leadership of the Chairman. The results of this assessment e ­ xecutives were reported to the Board and, by the Board’s Chairman, • Issue of several new and revised governing to the owner. An evaluation is also performed by the owner in conjunction with the nomination of Board members. The documents Chairman and Board members check assessments regularly • Business plan during the year. • Selection of external auditor • Decision on business plan • Board training 50 SEK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report The Board established the following committees. The Board’s rules of procedure include establishing annual instructions for all of its committees. The minutes from each committee are reported at Board meetings by the respective committee’s chairman. Remuneration Committee Finance and Risk Committee Lars Linder-Aronson (Chairman), Susanne Lithander Cecilia Ardström (Chairman), Lars Linder-Aronson, Ulla and Lotta Mellström Nilsson and Magnus Uggla During the year, the Remuneration Committee During the year, the Finance and Risk Cominvested substantial time in preparing the item mittee devoted substantial effort to following regarding the replacement of the employee up developments in the company’s project incentive scheme with new benefits. SEK has to improve the measurement of market risk. chosen to invest in employee benefits that Moreover, the Committee addressed a number promote health and well-being, and therefore of issues arising primarily from the EU’s Crisis expanded the benefits package to include the Management Directive. possibility of an extra health day as well as healthcare and medical insurance.￼ The possibility of a limited amount of variable remuneration has been introduced for a few employees, those that work in positions with direct client contact or that generate business. • Prepare matters relating to employment terms and • Ensure that the company can identify, measure, manage, conditions, salaries, pensions and other benefits for the report internally and control the risks to which it is or can CEO and the management, and general issues relating to be expected to be exposed. salaries, pensions and other benefits. • Prepare matters pertaining to general policies, strategies • Prepare proposals regarding the remuneration policy for and risk appetite in all risk and capital-related issues, as decision by the Board. well as regarding overall issues concerning the compa• Prepare proposals on salaries for other individuals in ny’s financial operations. management positions for whom the Board determines • Set limits for such risk and capital-related matters that the terms of remuneration. the Board delegates to the Committee to determine, and • Evaluate compliance with the Annual General Meeting’s to establish measurement methods and limits concernresolutions on remuneration. ing market and liquidity risk, in addition to models for valuing financial instruments. Credit Committee Audit Committee Jan Belfrage (Chairman), Lars Linder-Aronson, Lotta Mellström (Chairman), Lars Linder-Aronson and Ulla Nilsson and Teppo Tauriainen Susanne Lithander The Credit Committee decided 119 issues over Over and above its customary tasks, the Audit the year. The Committee is the final instance Committee has addressed issues relating to for credit decisions with the exception of credit the procurement of new auditors that was decisions that are of fundamental or otherconducted. During the year, the Committee wise significant importance to the company, devoted substantial effort to following up which are determined by the Board. In 2016, developments in the company’s project to the Board made one such decision regarding a adapt operations to the forthcoming financial credit to the European Spallation Source (ESS). reporting standard, IFRS 9. Moreover, the Credit Committee issued a new credit instruction in 2016.￼ • Monitor the company’s financial reporting and to submit recommendations and proposals aimed at assuring the • Ensure the Board’s involvement in decision-making reliability of the company’s reporting. regarding credit risks. • Monitor the efficiency of the company’s internal control, • Prepare matters relating to credits and credit deciinternal audit and risk management in terms of the sions that are of fundamental or otherwise significant financial reporting. importance to the company, and also to make decisions • Evaluate the audit process and inform the Board of the regarding credits in accordance with the delegation rules results and, through the Chairman of the Board, to determined by the Board. inform the company’s owner about the results of the evaluation. • Keep informed about the audit of the annual accounts and the consolidated financial statements, as well as the conclusions of the Supervisory Board of Public Accountants’ quality control. • Assist in the preparation of proposals regarding the selection of auditors for resolution by the general meeting of shareholders. SEK Annual Report 2016  51 Corporate Governance Report In 2016, SEK’s Board and committees adopted the Chief Executive Officer following policies and instructions: Catrin Fransson has been the CEO of SEK since the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Catrin Fransson was born in 1962 Policy documents Issued by and has an MSc in Economics and Business from Luleå UniThe Board’s rules of procedure The Board of Directors versity of Technology. Authorization and Delegation The Board of Directors Rules Remuneration of the Board of Directors Financial Reporting Instruction The Board of Directors and senior executives Information regarding remuneration of the Board, CEO Risk Reporting Instruction The Board of Directors and executive management and the Board’s proposals to Code of Conduct The Board of Directors the Annual General Meeting are presented in Note 5 of this Sustainable Business Policy The Board of Directors Annual Report. Policy on Combating Money The Board of Directors Laundering and Terrorist Conflicts of interest Financing Under the company’s Internal Governance and Control Internal Governance and The Board of Directors Policy, each manager within the company is responsible for Control Policy identifying, analyzing, rectifying and documenting any conRisk Policy The Board of Directors flicts of interest within that manager’s area of responsibility. Finance Policy The Board of Directors Credit Policy The Board of Directors Internal governance, control and risk management with regard to financial reporting Remuneration Policy The Board of Directors To ensure correct and reliable financial reporting, SEK has Instruction for the CEO The Board of Directors developed a management system for financial reporting Instruction for the Chief Risk The Board of Directors based on the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Officer, CRO Treadway Commission (COSO) framework for internal conInstruction for the Internal The Board of Directors trol (2013 version). This internal control framework is divided Audit function into five components: Control Environment, Risk AssessInstruction for the Compliance The Board of Directors ment, Control Activities, Information and Communication, function and Monitoring Activities. Instruction for the assessment Remuneration Committee of the suitability of Board Control environment members, the CEO and senior The Board is responsible for internal governance and control. executives Part of the work of the Board is to establish, update and Financing Strategy Finance and Risk approve a number of fundamental policies that govern the Committee company’s operations (see the left table). The Board issues Liquidity Strategy Finance and Risk guidelines that create the prerequisites for an organizational Committee structure with clear roles and responsibilities, procedures Market risk limits Finance and Risk for attracting, developing and retaining employees, and a Committee Attendance at Board and committee meetings in 2016 Finance Board of Remuneration and Risk Credit Audit Total Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 47 12 5 7 14 9 Lars Linder-Aronson 41 12 5 7 11 6 Cecilia Ardström 19 12 0 7 0 0 Jan Belfrage 24 11 0 0 13 0 Susanne Lithander 24 10 5 0 0 9 Lotta Mellström 26 12 5 0 0 9 Ulla Nilsson 29 10 0 7 12 0 Jan Roxendal 10 6 0 0 2 2 Teppo Tauriainen 23 11 0 0 12 0 Magnus Uggla 10 6 0 4 0 0 Jan Roxendal stepped down from the Board on April 26, 2016. Jan participated in six meetings in 2016 Jan Roxendal stepped down from the Credit Committee on April 26, 2016. Jan participated in two meetings in 2016 Jan Roxendal stepped down from the Audit Committee on April 26, 2016. Jan participated in two meetings in 2016 Magnus Uggla was elected as a member of the Board and the Finance and Risk Committee on April 26, 2016. Lars Linder-Aronson was elected as a member of the Credit Committee and the Audit Committee on April 26, 2016 52 SEK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report remuneration system that favors the effective management terms of comprehensiveness, accuracy, valuation, reportof operational risks. Using these cornerstones, internal ing and risk of fraud. The company carries out regular risk rules, processes and structures are created that form the assessments during the year in the event of material changes basis for internal governance and control throughout the for the company. organization. It is the responsibility of the CEO to establish guidelines so that all employees understand the requirement Control activities for maintaining ethical values and the role of each individual Controls have been designed based on identified risks to in such work, as regulated in part by the Code of Conduct to thereby prevent, detect and correct errors and discrepancies. which all employees must adhere. S ♣ EK has an independent The controls are conducted at transaction level, as internal audit function that reviews the company’s internal company-wide controls and as general IT controls. Comgovernance and control. The Board establishes the auditing pany-wide controls include instructions and procedures assignment each year by means of an audit plan, which takes regarding authorizations, powers and responsibilities relatinto account the mandatory audits required by legislation. ing to credit granting, and monitoring of compliance. SEK’s The assignment involves checking and assessing whether the accounting and financial reporting depends on complex IT company’s risk management, governance, control, reporting systems. General IT controls include change management, and management processes and regulatory compliance are back-up procedures and access rights. effective. The internal audit has reported its observations on Transaction-based controls, whether manual or autoan ongoing basis to the Board, the Audit Committee and the mated, are carried out to manage the risk of errors occurring CEO, and has regularly informed the executive management. in financial reporting. Such controls include reconciliations As of 2012, the Board commissioned an external party, KPMG, and analyses. Processes and controls are documented in the to be responsible for this independent internal audit. The form of flow charts and descriptions of individual control appointment of an external party to perform the internal activities, which specify who executes a particular control, audit provides SEK with access to significant and extensive how it is implemented and how implementation of the concapabilities for auditing the company’s regulatory complitrol is to be documented. ance, particularly capital adequacy, including audits of ICAAP and the company’s IRB model. The internal audit assignment Information and communication includes liaising with the external auditors so that they are Policies, instructions, guidelines and operating procedures able to rely on the work carried out by the internal auditors, are continually updated and communicated to staff via relthereby ensuring that all material areas of risk have been evant channels, primarily via the intranet, through internal audited. training and personnel meetings. Formal and informal communication between staff and management is promoted Risk assessment by the small number of employees and their geographic locaSEK performs an annual risk assessment at management, tion, primarily at one office. function and process level. The aim is to identify, document The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee are and quantify the consequences and probability of events continually provided with management reports on financial occurring that could entail that SEK’s targets cannot be performance together with analyses of and commentaries on achieved. Risk assessment for financial reporting comprises results, budgets and forecasts. The executive management’s identifying and evaluating material risks that may result in duties include assessing material accounting policies and the goal of reliable financial reporting not being achieved in other matters pertaining to financial reporting and addressMonitoring activities Control environment 5 1 Information and 4 2 communication Risk assessment 3 Control activities SEK Annual Report 2016  53 Corporate Governance Report ing interim reports, year-end reports and annual reports applicable accounting standards and other requirements. prior to the Audit Committee being given the opportunity to The Board adopts the operating targets and strategies for present its views and the documents being submitted to the the operations, in which sustainability is one aspect, and Board for approval. issues general internal regulations in policies and instrucThe Board and the Audit Committee meet the auditors tions where sustainability issues are integrated. The Board regularly and study the audit reports. has established committees, including the Finance and Risk Committee, which prepare matters pertaining to general Monitoring activities policies, strategies and risk appetite in all risk and capiInternal audit, and the functions for compliance and risk tal-related issues, where sustainability risk comprises one monitor the management of operational risk and compliance type of risk. The Credit Committee includes sustainability with policy documents. aspects when it prepares matters relating to credits and Monitoring and testing of control activities are carried out credit decisions that are of fundamental or otherwise signifon an ongoing basis throughout the year to ensure that risks icant importance to the company, and also makes decisions are taken into account and managed satisfactorily. Testing is regarding credits in accordance with the delegation rules carried out by staff who are independent of the implementadetermined by the Board. The Audit Committee monitors tion of controls and who are capable of evaluating the implethe company’s financial reporting, including sustainability mentation of controls. Measures to address any deficiencies reporting, and submits recommendations and proposals are monitored by the Risk and Compliance Committee and aimed at assuring the reliability of the company’s reporting. the Audit Committee. The executive management has also More information regarding SEK’s policies is provided at established controls to ensure that appropriate measures www.sek.se. are taken in response to the recommendations made by the SEK’s mission entails financing projects and operations in internal audit function and by the auditors elected by the countries with sustainability risks that may require manAnnual General Meeting. agement. Sustainability risk is the risk that SEK directly or SEK is a foreign private issuer as defined by US regulations indirectly negatively impacts its surroundings in terms of and is therefore also affected by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act money laundering, financing of terrorism, environmental (SOX). SOX requires the executive management to assess issues, anti-corruption, human rights, labor conditions or and comment, each year, on the effectiveness of the internal business ethics. The management of sustainability risks is control over financial reporting based on the testing of interdetailed in Note 27. nal controls. However, no corresponding expression of opinIn accordance with the owner instruction, where relevant ion is required of the company’s auditors for the category when making credit assessments, SEK is to comply with of companies to which SEK belongs under the US regulatory international frameworks, such as the OECD’s Common framework. The executive management has assessed the Approaches for Officially Supported Export Credits and Enviinternal control over financial reporting in accordance with ronmental and Social Due Diligence or the Equator Principles, the rules applicable to foreign private issuers. At December and observe the OECD’s Principles and Guidelines to Promote 31, 2016, the conclusion was that effective and efficient conSustainable Lending in the Provision of Official Export trols were in place relating to internal control over financial Credits to Low Income Countries. SEK applies the following reporting. international guidelines in its efforts to act responsibly: the ten principles in the UN Global Compact, the UN Guiding Auditors Principles on Business and Human Rights, the UN ConThe 2016 Annual General Meeting elected Ernst & Young AB vention on the Rights of the Child, the OECD Guidelines for as auditor of the company, with Erik Åström as Auditor in Multinational Enterprises and the OECD’s conventions and Charge. The Swedish National Audit Office may appoint one guidelines on anti-corruption measures. or more auditors to participate in the annual audit. However, this did not occur in 2016. Business ethics Each year, the Audit Committee reviews the audit plan SEK’s promotes business and relationships that are charand is informed of the audit observations on an ongoing acterized by good business ethics. SEK does not accept basis. While examining the annual and interim accounts, the business transactions whose primary and main aims are for company’s auditors participated at three Board meetings. tax planning. Under certain circumstances, SEK may require The Board of Directors holds a meeting with the company’s additional tax transparency. SEK’s Code of Conduct, which auditors at least once a year without the attendance of the the Board adopts each year, provides support for governing CEO or any other member of the executive management. The the operations and is signed by the Board and employees Board also receives summary audit reports. every year. The Code demands integrity and ethical conduct The Board has decided to propose PwC as SEK’s auditors and is communicated to employees through annual trainfor 2017 to the general meeting of shareholders. ing sessions. Suspected conduct that could involve or lead to a breach of the law, unethical behavior, infringement or Internal governance and control — sustainability suspected breach of SEK’s Code of Conduct must be reported. The Board is responsible for the organization and the adminThese types of breaches can also be reported anonymously istration of SEK’s affairs in which sustainability issues form via SEK’s SpeakUp system, which is managed by a third an integral part. The Board is also tasked with ensuring that party. For more information on our Code of Conduct, refer to the company’s financial statements, including sustainabilwww.sek.se. ity reporting, are prepared in accordance with legislation, 54 SEK Annual Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report Money laundering and terrorism financing A basic requirement of any business transaction is that SEK obtains a level of KYC that meets the requirements in the applicable laws and regulations pertaining to money laundering and terrorism financing. In the case of any new business relationship, SEK collects and analyzes information pertaining to who represents the company, its ownership structure including its beneficial owner, politically vulnerable individuals and international sanctions. Moreover, SEK analyzes the country where the company is domiciled in terms of the country’s capacity to deal with corruption, tax transparency and legislation regarding money laundering and terrorism financing. Anti-corruption SEK’s principal exposure risk to corruption arises indirectly in connection with lending in countries and industries with a high risk of corruption. SEK takes a stand against all forms of corrupt behavior, and adheres to Swedish anti-bribery legislation, the Swedish Anti-corruption Institute’s Code of Business Conduct as well as other international initiatives. SEK does not accept corruption in any form in the transactions the company finances. Suppliers and clients are expected to comply with SEK’s expectations in this area. Human rights and labor conditions SEK’s principal risk is of becoming linked to human rights violations, including labor conditions, when we lend to major projects or to exporters’ customers in countries which have a high risk of human rights violations. Human rights, including the ILO’s core conventions, pertaining to labor conditions must be respected in SEK’s operations, and SEK will work to ensure they are respected by the company’s suppliers and in operations financed by SEK. SEK refrains from any transactions where a material risk exists that human rights will be neglected, or where SEK assesses that the risks will not be managed in line with the UN’s framework for business and human rights. Environmental concerns SEK’s own operations have little negative environmental impact. Any potential negative environmental impact by SEK is mainly indirect through lending operations. SEK refrains from participating in transactions where the environmental impact is deemed unacceptable and inconsistent with international guidelines. SEK strives to reduce the environmental impact of its own operations and the impact connected with the company’s transactions. Moreover, SEK uses carbon offset for the greenhouse gas emissions its operations produce. SEK Annual Report 2016  55 The Board of Directors and management The Board of Directors Lars Linder-Aronson Chairman of the Board Chairman SEK’s Remuneration Committee Member SEK’s Audit Committee, SEK’s Credit Committee and SEK’s Finance and Risk Committee Born: 1953 Education: MSc Economics and Business, Stockholm School of Economics Elected: 2011 Previous positions: President Enskilda Securities, Senior Vice President Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken Other assignments: Board member Betsson AB, e-Capital AB, Facility Labs AB and Morco Förvaltning AB Cecilia Ardström Board member Chairman SEK’s Finance and Risk Committee Born: 1965 Education: Economics, Gothenburg School of Business, Economics and Law Elected: 2011 Previous positions: Chief Financial Officer and Head of Asset Management Länsförsäkringar AB, Head of Treasury Tele2 Group, Head of Asset Management and CIO Folksam Group Other assignments: Board member Guldsillen AB Jan Belfrage Board member Chairman SEK’s Credit Committee Born: 1944 Education: MSc Economics and Business, Stockholm School of Economics Elected: 2010 Previous positions: Nordic Manager Credit Agricole, Nordic Manager and former CEO Sweden Citigroup, CFO AGA AB and Group Treasurer AB SKF Other assignments: Chairman of the Board Universal Creation Susanne Lithander Board member Member SEK’s Audit Committee and SEK’s Remuneration Committee Born: 1961 Education: MSc Economics and Business, University of Gothenburg School of Business, Economics and Law Elected: 2015 Previous positions: VP Finance SCA-group, CEO Mercuri International Group and VP Head of Advisory Services Ericsson, BU Global Services Other assignments: Board member Eltel AB Current positions: CFO BillerudKorsnäs AB Auditors: Ernst & Young AB, auditors for SEK since 2008 Principal auditor: Erik Åström, Authorized Public Accountant. Born: 1957. Auditor at SEK since 2013. No Members of the Board hold shares or other financial instruments in the company. 56 SEK Annual Report 2016 The Board of Directors and management Lotta Mellström Board member Chairman SEK’s Audit Committee Member SEK’s Remuneration Committee Born: 1970 Education: MSc Economics and Business, Lund University Elected: 2011 Previous positions: Management consultant Resco AB, Controller Sydkraft Group and ABB Group Other assignments: Board member Swedavia AB Current positions: Deputy Director Swedish Ministry of Finance Ulla Nilsson Board member Member SEK’s Finance and Risk Committee and SEK’s Credit Committee Born: 1947 Education: M. Pol. Sc., Economics and Business Administration, Uppsala University Elected: 2011 Previous positions: Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Global Head of SEB Futures London, Chairman of Enskilda Futures Limited London, Head of Trading & Capital Markets Singapore, Head of Treasury Luxemburg and Skånska Banken Other assignments: CEO Swedish Chamber of Commerce London Current position: President at the Swedish Chamber of Commerce London Teppo Tauriainen Board member Member SEK’s Credit Committee Born: 1961 Education: MSc Economics and Business, University of Gothenburg School of Business, Economics and Law Elected: 2014 Previous positions: Ambassador to Singapore and Canada, Head of department, Department of international trade policy, Ministry for Foreign Affairs Current positions: Head of department, Americas Department, Ministry for Foreign Affairs Magnus Uggla Board member Member SEK’s Finance and Risk Committee Born: 1952 Education: MBA, Stockholm School of Economics. MSc Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm. Stanford Executive Program Elected: 2016 Previous positions: Executive Vice President Handelsbanken, in several roles including head of Stockholm Region, Head of UK and Head of Handelsbanken International Other assignments: Board member Hoist Finance AB and Chairman of the Board Fotografiska, Stockholm SEK Annual Report 2016  57 The Board of Directors and management Management Catrin Fransson Chief Executive Officer Born: 1962 Education: MSc Economics and Business, Luleå University of Technology Employed: 2014 Other assignments: Chairwoman Venantius AB and Board Member of SNS (Centre for Business and Policy Studies) Board of Trustees Per Åkerlind Executive Vice President, Head of Treasury and Capital Management Born: 1962 Education: MSc in Engineering, the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm Employed: 1990 Other assignments: Chairman of the Credit Markets Group and Board Member of the Swedish Society of Financial Analysts (SFF) Karl Johan Bernerfalk General Counsel Born: 1972 Education: LLM, Lund University Employed: 2007 Other assignments: Board Member of Venantius AB Stefan Friberg Chief Risk Officer Born: 1968 Education: MSc Business and Economics, Stockholm University Employed: 2015 Other assignments: Teresa Hamilton Burman Chief Credit Officer Born: 1962 Education: MSc Business and Economics, Stockholm University Employed: 2015 Other assignments: Co-opted members 2016 Co-opted member have during 2016: Marie Lindstedt (Head of Compliance), Dan Kohlberg (IT Manager) and Sven-Olof Söderlund (Senior Specialist, Head of Ownership Issues). 58 SEK Annual Report 2016 The Board of Directors and management Johan Henningsson Head of Sustainability Born: 1965 Education: PhD Industrial Economics and Organisations, Mälardalen University and MBA International Business Studies, Gothenburg University Employed: 2006 Other assignments: Jane Lundgren Ericsson Head of Lending Born: 1965 Education: LLM, Stockholm University and LL M (London) Employed: 1993 Other assignments: Board member of SBAB Sirpa Rusanen Head of Human Resources Born: 1964 Education: Behavioural Science Degree, Lund University Employed: 2005 Other assignments: Susanna Rystedt Chief Administrative Officer Born: 1964 Education: MSc Economics and Business, Stockholm School of Economics Employed: 2009 Other assignments: Board Member of AB Trav och Galopp Edvard Unsgaard Head of Communication Born: 1974 Education: BA Journalism, Mid Sweden University, university studies in Russian and History Employed: 2012 Other assignments: Changes after 2016-12-31 Dan Kohlberg (IT manager) has left his position and Ingela Nachtweij is the Acting IT Manager. SEK Annual Report 2016  59 Financial reports Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Skr mn Note 2016 2015 Interest revenues 3,188 2,835 Interest expenses -1,441 -1,173 Net interest revenues 2 1,747 1,662 Net fee and commission expense 3 -29 -6 Net results of financial transactions 4 -110 400 Total operating income 1,608 2,056 Personnel expenses 5 -308 -295 Other administrative expenses 6 -236 -164 Depreciation and impairment of non-financial assets 7 -46 -98 Total operating expenses -590 -557 Operating profit before net credit losses 1,018 1,499 Net credit losses 9 -16 36 Operating profit 1,002 1,535 Tax expenses 10 -222 -348 Net profit1 780 1,187 Other comprehensive income related to: Items to be reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-sale securities2 46 -8 Derivatives in cash-flow hedges2 -169 -217 Tax on items to be reclassified to profit or loss 10 27 49 Net items to be reclassified to profit or loss -96 -176 Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation of defined benefit plans -26 49 Tax on items not to be reclassified to profit or loss 10 6 -11 Net items, not to be reclassified to profit or loss -20 38 Total other comprehensive income -116 -138 Total comprehensive income1 664 1,049 Skr Basic and diluted earnings per share3 195 297 1 The entire profit is attributable to the shareholder of the Parent Company. 2 See the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. 3 The average number of shares in 2016 amounts to 3,990,000 (2015: 3,990,000) 60 SEK Annual Report 2016 Financial reports Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Skr mn Note 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 11,12 7,054 2,258 Treasuries/government bonds 11,12 3,687 2,006 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 11,12 49,901 40,831 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 11,12 46,222 48,107 Loans to credit institutions 9,11,12 26,190 29,776 Loans to the public 8,9,11,12 147,909 140,806 Derivatives 14 12,005 12,672 Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 7 123 129 Other assets 16 4,167 1,854 Prepaid expenses and accrued revenues 17 2,184 1,972 Total assets 299,442 280,411 Liabilities and equity Borrowing from credit institutions 12,18 3,756 5,283 Borrowing from the public 12,18 0 61 Senior securities issued 12,18 249,192 228,212 Derivatives 14 22,072 23,631 Other liabilities 19 2,374 1,637 Accrued expenses and prepaid revenues 20 2,036 1,912 Deferred tax liabilities 10 559 720 Provisions 5,21 51 39 Subordinated securities issued 12,22 2,266 2,088 Total liabilities 282,306 263,583 Share capital 3,990 3,990 Reserves 130 246 Retained earnings 13,016 12,592 Total equity 23 17,136 16,828 Total liabilities and equity 299,442 280,411 SEK Annual Report 2016  61 Financial reports Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Share Retained Equity capital Reserves earnings Hedge Fair value Defined benefit Skr mn reserve reserve plans Opening balance of equity January 1, 2015 16,157 3,990 398 5 -19 11,783 Net profit for the year 1,187 1,187 Other comprehensive income related to: Items to be reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-sale securities -8 -8 Derivatives in cash-flow hedges Reclassified to profit or loss -217 -217 Tax on items to be reclassified to profit or loss 49 47 2 Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation of defined benefit plans 49 49 Tax on items not to be reclassified to profit or loss -11 -11 Total other comprehensive income -138 -170 -6 38 Total comprehensive income 1,049 -170 -6 38 1,187 Dividend -378 -378 Closing balance of equity 20151,2 16,828 3,990 228 -1 19 12,592 Net profit for the year 780 780 Other comprehensive income related to: Items to be reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-sale securities 46 46 Derivatives in cash-flow hedges Reclassified to profit or loss -169 -169 Tax on items to be reclassified to profit or loss 27 37 -10 Items not to be reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation of defined benefit plans -26 -26 Tax on items not to be reclassified to profit or loss 6 6 Total other comprehensive income -116 -132 36 -20 Total comprehensive income 664 -132 36 -20 780 Dividend -356 -356 Closing balance of equity 20161,2 17,136 3,990 96 35 -1 13,016 1 The entire equity is attributable to the shareholder of the Parent Company. 2 See Note 23. 62 SEK Annual Report 2016 Financial reports Statement of Cash Flows in the Consolidated Group Skr mn 2016 2015 Operating activities Operating profit1 1,002 1,535 Adjustments to convert operating profit to cash flow: Provision for credit losses net 16 -36 Depreciation and impairment of non-financial assets 46 98 Exchange-rate differences 0 22 Unrealized changes in fair value 195 -396 Other 30 18 Income tax paid -276 -580 Total adjustments to convert operating profit to cash flow 11 -874 Loan disbursements -61,350 -56,404 Repayments of loans 72,214 70,777 Net decrease in bonds and securities held -9,041 28,448 Derivatives relating to loans 652 469 Other changes – net -54 469 Cash flow from operating activities 3,434 44,420 Investing activities Capital expenditures -39 -66 Cash flow from investing activities -39 -66 Financing activities Short-term senior debt 17,904 16,312 Long-term senior debt 70,085 53,043 Repayments of debt -70,829 -74,546 Repurchase and early redemption of own long-term debt -14,523 -41,006 Derivatives relating to debts -834 -2,540 Dividend paid -356 -378 Cash flow from financing activities 1,447 -49,115 Net cash flow for the year 4,842 -4,761 Exchange-rate differences on cash and cash equivalents -46 -80 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,258 7,099 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year2 7,054 2,258 of which cash at banks 916 294 of which cash equivalents 6,138 1,964 1 Interest payments received and expenses paid Interest payments received 2,975 2,990 Interest expenses paid 1,229 1,273 2 C  ash and cash equivalents include, in this context, cash at banks that can be immediately converted into cash and short-term deposits for which the time to maturity does not exceed three months from trade date. See Note 11. SEK Annual Report 2016  63 Financial reports Parent Company Income Statement Skr mn Note 2016 2015 Interest revenues 3,188 2,835 Interest expenses -1,441 -1,173 Net interest revenues 2 1,747 1,662 Dividend from subsidiary 15 2 8 Net fee and commission income 3 -29 -6 Net results of financial transactions 4 -110 400 Total operating income 1,610 2,064 Personnel expenses 5 -313 -296 Other administrative expenses 6 -236 -164 Depreciation and impairment of non-financial assets 7 -46 -98 Total operating expenses -595 -558 Operating profit before net credit losses 1,015 1,506 Net credit losses 9 -16 35 Operating profit 999 1,541 Changes in untaxed reserves 10 712 3 Taxes expenses 10 -377 -348 Net profit 1,334 1,196 Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income Skr mn Note 2016 2015 Net profit for the year (after taxes) 1,334 1,196 Other comprehensive income related to: Items to be reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-sale securities1 46 -8 Derivatives in cash-flow hedges1 -169 -217 Tax on items to be reclassified to profit or loss 10 27 49 Net items, to be reclassified to profit or loss -96 -176 Total other comprehensive income -96 -176 Total comprehensive income 1,238 1,020 1 See the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity. 64 SEK Annual Report 2016 Financial reports Parent Company Balance Sheet Skr mn Note 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 11,12 7,031 2,234 Treasuries/government bonds 11,12 3,687 2,006 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 11,12 49,901 40,831 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 11,12 46,222 48,107 Loans to credit institutions 9,11,12 26,190 29,776 Loans to the public 8,9,11,12 147,909 140,805 Derivatives 14 12,005 12,672 Shares in subsidiaries 15 17 17 Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 7 123 129 Other assets 16 4,167 1,854 Prepaid expenses and accrued revenues 17 2,184 1,972 Total assets 299,436 280,403 Liabilities and equity Borrowing from credit institutions 12,18 3,756 5,283 Borrowing from the public 12,18 0 61 Senior securities issued 12,18 249,192 228,212 Derivatives 14 22,072 23,631 Other liabilities 19 2,374 1,637 Accrued expenses and prepaid revenues 20 2,036 1,912 Deferred tax liabilities 10 0 0 Provisions 5,21 16 25 Subordinated securities issued 12,22 2,266 2,088 Total liabilities 281,712 262,849 Untaxed reserves 10 2,565 3,277 Non-distributable capital Share capital 3,990 3,990 Legal reserve 198 198 Fund for internally developed software 29 Distributable capital Fair value reserve 131 227 Retained earnings 9,477 8,666 Net profit for the year 1,334 1,196 Total equity 23 15,159 14,277 Total liabilities and equity 299,436 280,403 SEK Annual Report 2016  65 Financial reports Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity Fund for internally Share Legal developed Retained Equity capital reserve software Fair value reserve earnings Hedge Fair value Skr mn reserve reserve Opening balance of equity 2015 13,635 3,990 198 398 5 9,044 Net profit for the year 1,196 1,196 Other comprehensive income related to: Items to be reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-sale securities -8 -8 Derivatives in cash-flow hedges Reclassified to profit or loss -217 -217 Tax on items to be reclassified to profit or loss 49 47 2 Total other comprehensive income -176 -170 -6 Total comprehensive income 1,020 -170 -6 1,196 Dividend -378 -378 Closing balance of equity 20151 14,277 3,990 198 228 -1 9,862 Net profit for the year 1,334 1,334 Other comprehensive income related to: Items to be reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-sale securities 46 46 Derivatives in cash-flow hedges Reclassified to profit or loss -169 -169 Tax on items to be reclassified to profit or loss 27 37 -10 Total other comprehensive income -96 -132 36 Total comprehensive income 1,238 -132 36 1,334 To the net results 29 -29 Dividend -356 -356 Closing balance of equity 20161 15,159 3,990 198 29 96 35 10,811 1 See Note 23. 66 SEK Annual Report 2016 Financial reports Statement of Cash Flows in the Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 Operating activities Operating profit1 999 1,541 Adjustments to convert operating profit to cash flow: Provision for credit losses net 16 -36 Depreciation and impairment of non-financial assets 46 98 Gain on sale of subsidiary Exchange-rate differences 0 22 Unrealized changes in fair value 195 -396 Other 31 18 Income tax paid -276 -580 Total adjustments to convert operating profit to cash flow 12 -874 Loan disbursements -61,350 -56,404 Repayments of loans 72,214 70,777 Net change in bonds and securities held -9,041 28,448 Derivatives relating to loans 652 469 Other changes – net -51 442 Cash flow from operating activities 3,435 44,399 Investing activities Capital expenditures -39 -66 Cash flow from investing activities -39 -66 Financing activities Short-term senior debt 17,904 16,312 Long-term senior debt 70,085 53,043 Repayments of debt -70,829 -74,546 Repurchase and early redemption of own long-term debt -14,523 -41,006 Derivatives relating to debts -834 -2,540 Dividend paid -356 -378 Cash flow from financing activities 1,447 -49,115 Net cash flow for the year 4,843 -4,782 Exchange-rate differences on cash and cash equivalents -46 -80 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,234 7,096 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year2 7,031 2,234 of which cash at banks 893 270 of which cash equivalents 6,138 1,964 1 Interest payments received and expenses paid Interest payments received 2,975 2,990 Interest expenses paid 1,229 1,273 2 Cash and cash equivalents include, in this context, cash at banks that can be immediately converted into cash and short-term deposits for which the time to maturity does not exceed three months from trade date. See Note 11. SEK Annual Report 2016  67 Notes Notes Note table (b) Basis of presentation Note 1. Significant accounting policies 68 (i) Statement of compliance Note 2. Net interest revenues 77 The consolidated accounts have been compiled in accordance with Note 3. Net fee and commission expense 78 International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the Note 4. Net results of financial transactions 79 International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The IFRS standards Note 5. Personnel expenses 79 applied by SEK are all endorsed by the European Union (EU). AddiNote 6. Other administrative expenses 87 tional standards, consistent with IFRS, are imposed by the Swedish Note 7. Tangible and intangible assets  88 Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies Note 8. Leasing 89 (1995:1559) (ÅRKL), Recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary AccountNote 9. Impairment and past-due receivables 89 ing Principles for Groups, issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting Note 10. Taxes 90 Board (RFR), and the accounting regulations of the Financial SuperviNote 11. Loans and liquidity investments 92 sory Authority (FFFS 2008:25), all of which have been complied with Note 12. Classification of financial assets and liabilities 93 in preparing the consolidated financial statements, of which these Note 13. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value 95 notes form part. SEK also follows the Swedish Government’s general Note 14. Derivatives 100 guidelines regarding external reporting in accordance with its corpoNote 15. Shares 102 rate governance policy and guidelines for state-owned companies. The Note 16. Other assets 102 accounting policies of the Parent Company match those used in the Note 17. Prepaid expenses and accrued revenues 102 preparation of the consolidated financial statements, except as stated Note 18. Debt 102 in Note 1, section (r) below. Note 19. Other liabilities 103 Certain additional disclosures required by applicable regulations Note 20. Accrued expenses and prepaid revenues 103 or legislation are included in the notes, or with reference to the “Risk Note 21. Provisions 103 and Capital Management” section (pages 40-46). Such information is Note 22. Subordinated debt securities 104 deemed to be incorporated herein by reference. Note 23. Equity 104 The consolidated financial statements and the Parent Company’s Note 24. Ställda säkerheter och eventualförpliktelser 105 annual report were approved for issuance by SEK’s Board of DirecNote 25. S-system 106 tors on February 22, 2017. The Group’s statements of comprehensive Note 26. Capital adequacy 107 income and financial position and the Parent Company’s income stateNote 27. Risk information 111 ment and balance sheet will be subject to approval by SEK’s shareNote 28. Transactions with related parties 129 holder at the annual general meeting to be held on March 22, 2017. Note 29. Events after the reporting period 130 (ii) Basis of measurement Note 1. Significant accounting policies The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an amorThe accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently tized cost basis, subject to the following exceptions: to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements, • all derivatives are measured at fair value, unless otherwise stated. • financial instruments — measured at fair value through profit or loss — are measured at fair value, Table of contents: • available-for-sale financial assets, are measured at fair value, (a) Reporting entity • when applying hedge accounting at fair value, amortized cost is (b) Basis of presentation adjusted in the consolidated financial statements based on the (c) Changes to accounting policies and presentation underlying hedged item, in order to reflect changes in fair value with (d) Basis of consolidation regard to the hedged risk. (e) Segment reporting (f) Recognition of operating income (iii) Functional and presentation currency (g) Foreign currency transactions SEK has determined that the Swedish krona (Skr) is its functional and (h) Financial instruments presentation currency under IFRS. Significant factors are that SEK’s (i) Tangible assets equity is denominated in Swedish kronor, its performance is evaluated (j) Intangible assets based on a result expressed in Swedish kronor, and that a large portion (k) Employee benefits of expenses, especially personnel expenses, other expenses and taxes, (l) Equity are denominated in Swedish kronor. SEK manages its foreign currency (m) Income tax risk by hedging the exposures between the Swedish kronor and other (n) Earnings per share currencies. (o) Statement of cash flows (p) Critical accounting policies, assumptions and estimates (iv) Going concern (q) Forthcoming changes in regulatory framework not yet applied SEK’s Board of Directors and management have made an assessment of (r) Parent Company SEK’s ability to continue as a going concern and are satisfied that SEK has the resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future. (a) Reporting entity The Board of Directors and management are not aware of any mateAB Svensk Exportkredit (“SEK” or “the Parent Company”) is a comrial uncertainties that may could significant doubt upon SEK’s ability to pany domiciled in Sweden. The address of the company’s registered continue as a going concern. Therefore, the financial statements conoffice is Klarabergsviadukten 61–63, P.O. Box 194, SE-101 23 Stockholm, tinue to be prepared on a going-concern basis. Sweden. The Consolidated Group as of December 31, 2016 encompasses SEK and its wholly owned subsidiary Venantius AB, including the lat(c) Changes to accounting policies and presentation ter’s wholly owned subsidiary VF Finans AB (“the Subsidiaries”). These In all significant respects, the accounting policies, bases of calculaare jointly referred to as the “Consolidated Group” or “the Group”. tion and presentation are unchanged compared with the 2015 Annual Venantius AB is no longer engaged in any active business. Report, except for changes in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and FFFS 2008:25. The changes in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and FFFS 2008:25 entail that the possibility 68 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 1, continued of recognizing memorandum items has been removed and disclosures results in interest income or interest expenses that are a reasonable must now be provided in Note 24 Pledged assets and contingent liabilapproximation of the result that would be obtained using the effecities. In addition, remeasurements of defined-benefit net liabilities for tive interest method as the basis for the calculation. Fees regarded as defined-benefit pension plans are now recognized in a separate reserve an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument in equity: reserve for defined-benefit plans. These were previously are treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate (usually fees recognized in retained earnings; the change is applied retrospectively received as compensation for risk). The effective interest rate is equivfrom the introduction of IAS 19R. For financial guarantees documented alent to the rate used to discount contractual future cash flows to the as derivatives, a voluntary change of accounting policy occurred during carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. In addition to inter2016. They are now accounted for as derivatives in line with current est income and interest expense, net interest income, where these are accounting practice and measured at fair value, compared to earlier recognized as interest expense, includes the resolution fee (as earlier as guarantees at amortized cost. The effect of the accounting policy the stability fund fee) and guarantee commissions that are comparable change is not material for current or prior periods. to interest. In addition to the above changes, certain amounts reported in prior The state-supported system (“S-system”) SEK’s net compensaperiods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation for administrating the S-system is recognized as part of interest tion. SEK analyzes and assesses the application and impact of changes income in the statement of comprehensive income. SEK administers, in financial reporting standards that are applied within the Group. in return for compensation, the Swedish State’s export credit support Changes that have not been named are either not applicable to SEK or system, and the State’s related aid credit program (jointly referred to as have been adjudged to not have a material impact on SEK’s financial the “S-system”). Pursuant to the instruction from the State, the State reporting. reimburses SEK for all interest differentials, financing costs and any net foreign exchange losses under the S-system. SEK has determined (d) Basis of consolidation that the S-system should be considered an assignment whereby SEK The consolidated financial statements encompass the Parent Company acts as an agent on behalf of the Swedish State, rather than being the and all subsidiaries, meaning companies over which the Parent Comprincipal in individual transactions. This assessment has been made pany has control and that are impacted by the company’s results. The based on a number of factors, such as: (i) although it does in form, consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the purSEK does not in substance bear the risks and benefits associated with chase method. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included ownership; (ii) SEK does not have discretion in establishing prices; in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control and (iii) SEK receives compensation in the form of a fixed commission. commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting policies Accordingly, interest income, interest expense and other costs settled of subsidiaries are consistent with Group policies. Intra-group transwith the State are not recognized in SEK’s statement of comprehensive actions and balances, and any unrealized income and expenses arising income. Such settlements are made on a yearly basis. Assets and liabilfrom intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolities related to the S-system are included in SEK’s assets and liabilities idated financial statements. Unless otherwise stated or when it is clear since SEK bears the credit risk for the lending and acts as contractor for from the context, the information in these notes relates to the Consollending and borrowing. Unrealized fair value changes on derivatives idated Group and the Parent Company. Consolidation of SEK pursuant related to the S-system are recognized net under other assets. Accordto the supervisory regulations does not differ from the consolidation ingly, assets and liabilities related to the S-system are included in the made in the consolidated financial statements. Since no subsidiary is statement of financial position for the Consolidated Group and the balan institute pursuant to the CRR definition, subsidiaries are not subance sheet of the Parent Company. ject to the supervisory regulations on an individual basis. No current or anticipated material restrictions have been identified to prevent the (ii) Net fee and commission expense transfer of own funds or the repayment of liabilities among the parent Commissions earned and commissions incurred are recognized as net or its subsidiaries. fee and commission expense in SEK’s statement of comprehensive income. The gross amounts of commissions earned and commissions (e) Segment reporting incurred are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. The recSegments are identified based on internal reporting to the CEO who ognition of commission income depends on the purpose for which the serves as the chief operating decision maker. SEK has one segment, fee is received. Fees are either recognized as revenue when services are lending, based partly on the company’s assignment from the owner, provided or accrued over the period of a specific business transaction. which is to ensure access to financial solutions for the Swedish export Commissions incurred are transaction-based, and are recognized in industry on commercial and sustainable terms, and partly on how the period in which the services are received. Guarantee commissions governance and earnings monitoring of the business are conducted. that are comparable to interest and fees that comprise integrated comAccordingly, no segment reporting has been prepared. Disclosures ponents of financial instruments, and therefore included in the effecregarding the geographic breakdown and revenue per product group tive interest rate, are not recognized as commission and are instead are presented in notes 2 and 3. included under net interest income. (f) Recognition of operating income (iii) Net results of financial transactions Net results of financial transactions include realized gains and losses (i) Net interest income related to all financial instruments and unrealized gains and losses on Interest revenues and interest expenses related to all financial assets all financial instruments carried at fair value, except for the types of and liabilities, regardless of classification, are recognized in net interfinancial instruments for which the change is to be recognized in other est income. Interest income and interest expense are recognized gross, comprehensive income. Gains and losses include gains and losses with the exception of interest income and interest expenses related to related to currency exchange -rate effects, interest-rate changes, derivative instruments, which are reported on a net basis. Interest for changes in credit spreads on SEK’s own debt, changes in basis-spreads derivatives used to hedge borrowing is recognized as interest expense and changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparty to the finanand interest on all derivatives used to hedge assets is recognized as cial contract. The item also includes market value changes attributinterest income, regardless of whether the contracts’ net interest able to hedged risks in fair-value hedges and inefficiency in cash-flow is positive or negative. This reflects the real interest expense of borhedges. Realized gains and losses from financial instruments mearowing after taking economic hedges into account. Negative effective sured at amortized cost, such as interest rate compensation received interest rates on assets are recognized as interest expense and negative and realized gains/losses from buy-back of issued own debt, are recogeffective interest rates on liabilities are recognized as interest income. nized as they arise directly under net results of financial transactions. Interest income and interest expenses are calculated and recognized based on the effective interest rate method or based on a method that SEK Annual Report 2016  69 Notes Note 1, continued (g) Foreign currency transactions nition at fair value through profit or loss; and assets held for trading. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies have been transWhere two or more derivatives hedge both interest rate and credit lated into the functional currency (Swedish krona) at the exchange exposures in a financial asset, such transactions may be classified irrerates applicable on the last day of each relevant reporting period. vocably as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss. Making Revenues and costs in foreign currencies are translated into Swedish such designations eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting kronor at the exchange rate prevailing on the dates that they arise. Any mismatch that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liachanges in the exchange rates between the relevant currencies and the bilities or recognizing the gains or losses on them on different bases. Swedish krona relating to the period between the dates that they arise Derivatives are always classified as financial assets or liabilities at fair and the date of settlement are recognized as currency exchange-rate value through profit or loss, except when they are subject to hedge effects. Currency exchange effects on the nominal amounts of financial accounting. No assets were classified as held-for-trading other than assets and liabilities measured at fair value are recognized as currency derivatives held for economic hedging. exchange effects, although currency exchange effect of the change in Available-for-sale financial assets. This category is used for interfair value that arises due to other components is not separated. Curest-bearing assets included in SEK’s liquidity investments. Transacrency exchange effects are included as a component of net results of tions classified as available-for-sale financial assets are carried at fair financial transactions. value, with unrealized changes in value recognized in other comprehensive income. If assets are sold, changes in fair value are transferred (h) Financial instruments from other comprehensive income to profit or loss. (i) Recognition and derecognition in the statement of financial posiFinancial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. There are two tion When recognizing financial instruments, trade date accounting main subcategories in the category of financial liabilities at fair value is applied for the recognition and derecognition of securities bought, through profit or loss: financial liabilities designated upon initial recsecurities issued and derivatives. Other financial instruments are recognition at fair value through profit or loss and financial liabilities ognized in the statement of financial position and derecognized from held-for-trading. Senior securities issued by SEK containing embedded this on the relevant settlement date. The difference between the carderivatives are in their entirety irrevocably classified as financial liabilrying amount of a financial liability or an asset (or part of a financial ities at fair value through profit or loss. Derivatives are always classiliability or an asset) that is extinguished or transferred to another party fied as financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the consideration paid is recognized in the statement of compreexcept when they are subject to hedge accounting. No liabilities were hensive income under net results of financial transactions. classified as held-for-trading other than derivatives held for economic hedging. Other financial liabilities. All senior securities issued by SEK other (ii) Measurement on initial recognition than those classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit When financial instruments are initially recognized, they are measured or loss are classified as other financial liabilities and measured at at fair value plus, in the case of a financial assets or financial liabiliamortized cost, using the effective interest rate method. Where one ties not carried at fair value through profit or loss, any transaction costs or more derivative is used to hedge currency, interest rate and/or other that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issuance of the finanexposures, fair-value hedge accounting is applied. Subordinated debt is cial asset or financial liability. classified as other financial liabilities and is subject to fair-value hedge accounting. When applying fair-value hedge accounting on subordi(iii) Offsetting nated debt, hedging is applied to the subordinated debt for the period Financial assets and liabilities are offset and presented in the statecorresponding to the derivative’s time to maturity, when the maturment of financial position when the Group has a legal right to offset ities do not coincide. the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Derivative assets and (v) Presentation of certain financial instruments in the statement of derivative liabilities in relation to central clearing counterparties are financial position not offset, since these so far do not add up to material amounts. Refer The presentation of financial instruments in the statement of financial to Note 14 for further information about the offsetting of financial position differs in certain respects from the categorization of financial assets and financial liabilities. instruments made for valuation purposes. Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities comprise loans granted to customers that are (iv) Classification of financial assets and liabilities contractually documented in the form of interest-bearing securities, as Financial assets are categorized in three categories for valuation puropposed to bilateral loan agreements, which are classified in the stateposes: loans and receivables, financial assets at fair value through ment of financial position either as loans to credit institutions or loans profit or loss and available-for-sale financial assets. Financial liabilito the public. All other financial assets that are not classified in the ties are categorized in two categories for valuation purposes: financial statement of financial position as loans in the form of interest-bearliabilities at fair value through profit or loss and other financial liabiling securities are presented as cash and cash equivalents, treasuries/ ities. government bonds, other interest-bearing securities except loans or Loans and accounts receivable. This category is used for loans and derivatives. loans in the form of interest bearing securities that are not listed in an active market. Transactions in the category of loans and receiv(vi) Presentation of certain financial instruments ables are measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest rate Derivatives. In the ordinary course of its business, SEK uses various method. The balance sheet items Cash and cash equivalents, Loans to types of derivatives for the purpose of hedging or eliminating SEK’s credit institutions, Loans to the public and the greater part of Loans in interest-rate, currency-exchange-rate or other exposures. Derivathe form of interest-bearing securities are included in this category. tives are always classified as financial assets or liabilities at fair value When one, or multiple, derivatives are used to hedge a currency and/or through profit or loss, except in connection with hedge accounting. interest rate exposure relating to a loan or receivable, fair-value hedge Where SEK decides to categorize a financial asset or liability at fair value accounting is applied. Furthermore, cash-flow hedge accounting can through profit or loss, the purpose is always to avoid the mismatch that be applied for certain transactions classified as loans and receivables, would otherwise arise from the fact that the changes in the value of such as when SEK wishes to hedge against variability in the cash flow the derivative, measured at fair value, would not match the changes in from these assets. Hedge accounting is not applied for lending in the value of the underlying asset or liability, measured at amortized cost. S-system. Guarantees. SEK holds financial guarantee contracts in connection Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. There are two with certain loans. Such guarantees are ordinarily accounted for as main subcategories in the category of financial assets at fair value guarantees in accordance with SEK’s established accounting policy through profit or loss: financial assets designated upon initial recog70 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 1, continued and are therefore not recognized in the statement of financial position at amortized cost and changes in fair value in the hedging instrument (except for the deferred costs of related guarantee fees paid in advance are recognized in other comprehensive income. When the hedged cash for future periods). When SEK classifies a risk-mitigating instrument flow is recognized in profit or loss, the fair-value changes in the hedgas a financial guarantee, SEK always owns the specific asset whose risk ing instrument are reclassified from other comprehensive income to the financial guarantee mitigates and the potential amount that SEK profit or loss. SEK defines the risk hedged in a cash flow hedge as the can receive from the counterparty under the guarantee represents only risk of variability of cash flows with regard to a chosen reference rate the actual loss incurred by SEK related to its holding. Premiums on (referred to as cash flow risk). The hedging instrument may consist financial guarantees are accrued and recognized as interest expense in of one or several derivatives that exchange floating interest for fixed net interest income. Credit default swaps are recognized at fair value interest in the same currency (interest rate derivatives) or one or sevthrough profit or loss. eral instruments that exchange floating interest in one currency for Embedded derivatives. In the ordinary course of its business, SEK fixed interest in another currency (interest and currency derivatives). issues or acquires financial assets or financial liabilities that frequently If a cash flow hedge relationship no longer fulfills the requirements contain embedded derivatives. When financial assets or liabilities confor hedge accounting, or if the designation is revoked and accumulated tain embedded derivatives, where the financial characteristics and gains or losses related to the hedge have been recorded in equity, such risks of the instrument’s unique components are not closely related, gains or losses remain in equity and are amortized through other comthe entire instrument is irrevocably classified as financial assets or prehensive to profit or loss over the remaining maturity of the previfinancial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and ously hedged item. thus does not separate the embedded derivatives. Leasing assets. In the ordinary course of its business, SEK acquires (viii) Principles for determination of fair value of financial leases that are classified as finance leases (as opposed to operating instruments. leases). When making such a classification, all aspects of the leasing The best evidence of fair value is quoted prices in an active market. contract, including third-party guarantees, are taken into account. Fair-value measurements are categorized using a fair-value hierarchy. Financial leases are reported as receivables from the lessees in the catThe financial instruments measured at fair value have been categorized egory of loans and receivables. Any lease payment that is received from under the three levels of the fair-value hierarchy according to IFRS that a lessee is divided into two components for the purposes of measurereflect the significance of inputs. The categorization of these instrument: one component constituting a repayment of the loan and the ments is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fairother component recognized as interest income. value measurement in its entirety. SEK uses the following hierarchy for Committed undisbursed loans and binding offers. Committed undisdetermining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments: bursed loans and binding offers, disclosed under the heading “ComLevel 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical mitments” in note 24 are measured as the undiscounted future cash assets or liabilities; flow concerning loan disbursements related to loans committed but Level 2: valuation models for which all inputs with a significant not yet disbursed at the period-end date, as well as binding offers. effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indiReacquired debt. SEK reacquires its own debt from time to time. Gains rectly; and or losses that SEK realizes when reacquiring own debt instruments are Level 3: techniques that use inputs with a significant effect on the recognized in the statement of comprehensive income as a component recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. of net results of financial transactions. SEK recognizes transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy in the beginning of the reporting period in which the change has (vii) Hedge accounting occurred. SEK applies hedge accounting in cases where derivatives are used For all classes of financial instruments (assets and liabilities), fair to create economic hedging and the hedge relationship is eligible for value is established by using internally established valuation models, hedge accounting, with the exception of lending within the S-system, externally established valuation models and quotations furnished by for which hedge accounting is not applied. The method used for hedge external parties. If the market for a financial instrument is not active, accounting is either fair-value hedge accounting or cash flow hedge fair value is established by using a valuation technique. The objective of accounting. In order to be able to apply hedge accounting, the hedgusing a valuation technique is to establish what the transaction price ing relationships must be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair would have been at the measurement date in an arm’s length exchange values attributable to the hedged risks, both at inception of the hedge based on normal business terms and conditions. Valuation techniques and on an ongoing basis. If hedge efficiency does not fall within estabinclude using, if available, recent arm’s length market transactions lished boundaries, the hedge relationship is discontinued. between knowledgeable, willing parties. Reference to the current fair Fair-value hedge accounting. Fair-value hedge accounting is used for value of another instrument that is substantially the same can also be transactions in which one or several derivatives are used to hedge the used. If the aforementioned are not available, discounted cash flow interest rate risk that has arisen from a fixed-rate financial asset or liaanalysis or option pricing models may be used for assessing the instrubility. When applying fair-value hedging, the hedged item is revalued ment’s value. Periodically, the valuation techniques are calibrated and at fair value with regard to the risk being hedged. SEK defines the risk tested for validity using prices from observable current market transbeing hedged in fair-value hedge accounting as the risk of a change in actions in the same instruments, or based on any available observable fair value with regard to a chosen reference rate (referred to as interest market data, or compared with the counterparty’s prices. rate risk). The hedging instrument may consist of one or several derivIn calculating fair value, SEK seeks to use observable market quotes atives that exchange fixed interest for floating interest in the same (market data) to best reflect the market’s view on prices. These market currency (interest rate derivatives) or one or several instruments that quotes are used, directly or indirectly, in quantitative models for the exchange fixed interest in one currency for floating interest in another calculation of fair value. Examples of the indirect use of market data currency (interest and currency derivatives), in which case the currency are: risk is a part of the fair value hedge. • the derivation of discount curves from observable market data, If a fair-value hedge relationship no longer fulfills the requirements which is interpolated to calculate the non-observable data points; for hedge accounting, the hedged item ceases to be measured at fair and value and is measured at amortized cost, and the previously recognized • quantitative models, which are used to calculate the fair value of a fair-value changes for the hedged item are amortized over the remainfinancial instrument, where the model is calibrated so that availing maturity of the previously hedged item. able market data can be used to recreate observable market prices on Cash-flow hedge accounting. Cash flow hedge accounting is used for similar instruments. transactions in which one or several derivatives hedge risk for variability in the cash flows from a floating-rate financial asset or liability. When hedging cash flows, the hedged asset or liability is measured SEK Annual Report 2016  71 Notes Note 1, continued In some cases, due to low liquidity in the market, there is no access to risk (own or counterparty) is based on publicly quoted prices on credit observable market data. In these cases, SEK follows market practice by default swaps of the counterparty or SEK, if such prices are available. basing its valuations on: Issued debt instruments. When calculating the fair value of issued debt • historically observed market data. One example is when there are instruments, the effect on the fair value of SEK’s own credit risk is no observable market data as of that day’s date, the previous day’s assessed based on internally established models founded on observamarket data is used in the valuation. tions from different markets. The models used include both observable • similar observable market data. One example is if there are no and non-observable parameters for valuation. observable market prices for a bond it can be valued through a credit Issued debt instruments that are hybrid instruments with embedded derivcurve based on observable prices on instruments with the same atives. SEK issues debt instruments in many financial markets. A large credit risk. portion of these are hybrid instruments with embedded derivatives. For observable market data, SEK uses third-party information based SEK’s policy is to hedge the risks in these instruments using derivatives on purchased contracts (such as Reuters and Bloomberg). This type of in order to obtain effective economic hedges. The entire hybrid debt information can be divided into two groups, with the first group coninstruments are irrevocably classified as financial liabilities measured sisting of directly observable prices and the second of market data calat fair value through profit or loss, and thus do not separate the embedculated from the observed prices. ded derivatives. As there are no quoted market prices for these instruExamples from the first group are – for various currencies and ments, valuation models are used to calculate fair value. maturities – currency rates, stock prices, share index levels, swap prices, future prices, basis spreads and bond prices. The discount (x) Impairment testing of financial assets. curves that SEK uses, which are a cornerstone of valuation at fair value, SEK impairment tests loans and other financial assets as described are constructed from observable market data. below. Loans and other financial assets are identified as impaired if Examples from the second group are the standard forms of quotes, there is objective evidence of impairment and an impairment test indisuch as call options in the foreign exchange market quoted through cates a loss. volatility which is calculated so that the “Black-Scholes model” recProvisions for incurred impairment losses, mainly in the category reates observable prices. Further examples from this group are – for loans and receivables, are recorded if and when SEK determines it is various currencies and maturities – currency volatility, swap volatility, probable that the counterparty to a loan or another financial asset held cap/floor volatilities, stock volatility, dividend schedules for equity and by SEK, along with existing guarantees and collateral, will fail to cover credit default swap spreads. SEK continuously ensures the high quality SEK’s full claim. Such determinations are made for each individual of market data, and a thorough validation of market data is exercised loan or other financial asset. Objective evidence consists of the issuer quarterly in connection with the financial reporting. or debtor suffering significant financial difficulties, outstanding or For transactions that cannot be valued based on observable market delayed payments or other observable facts which suggest a measurdata, the use of non-observable market data is necessary. Examable decrease in expected future cash flow. If there is objective evidence ples of non-observable market data are discount curves created using that an impairment loss on a loan or other financial asset has been observable market data that are extrapolated to calculate non-obincurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between servable interest rates, correlations between different underlying the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future market parameters and volatilities at long maturities. Correlations cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) that are non-observable market data are calculated from time-series of discounted to the relevant period end date at the financial asset’s origiobservable market data. When extrapolated market data such as internal effective interest rate. The amount of the loss is recognized in profit est rates are used they are calculated by setting the last observable node or loss. as a constant for longer maturities. Non-observable market data such After an individual determination has been made, and if there is no as SEK’s own creditworthiness are assessed by recent SEK’s issuances objective evidence for impairment of an individually assessed financial of securities, or if no continuous flow of new transactions exist, spreads asset, regardless of whether the asset is individually material or not, against other issuers, in those cases in which observable prices in the the company includes the asset in a group of financial assets with simsecondary market are unavailable. ilar credit risk characteristics and determines, collectively, the need for The valuation models applied by SEK comply with accepted methods the impairment of such assets based on quantitative and qualitative for pricing financial instruments. Fair value adjustments are applied analyses. The need for impairment is related to loan losses that have by SEK when there are additional factors that market participants take occurred as of a period-end date but which have not yet been identified into account and that are not captured by the valuation model. The as individual loan losses. independent risk function assesses the level of fair value adjustments Impairment of an asset is made to a reserve account which, in the to reflect counterparty risk, SEK’s own creditworthiness and other consolidated statement of financial position, reduces the line item to non-observable parameters, where relevant. which it relates. All models for the valuation of financial instruments must receive Charge-offs are recorded when it is evident that it is highly unlikely annual approval from the Board’s Finance and Risk Committee. The use that any remaining part of SEK’s claim on a counterparty will be reimof a valuation model demands a validation and thereafter an approval. bursed within the foreseeable future and when there exists no guarValidation is conducted by the independent risk function. Analysis of antee or collateral covering the claim. Charge-offs may also be made significant non-observable market data, fair value adjustments and once bankruptcy proceedings have been concluded and a final loss can significant changes in fair values of level-3-instruments are reviewed be established, taking into account the value of any assets held by the on quarterly basis by plausibility checks. The valuation result is anabankruptcy estate and SEK’s share of these assets. lyzed and approved by persons responsible for valuation and accountRecoveries are recorded only if there is virtual certainty of collection, ing, and discussed with the Audit Committee quarterly in connection such as in the aftermath of a bankruptcy proceeding when the payment with SEK’s interim reports. due to be paid to SEK has been finally determined by a court of jurisdiction. (ix) Determination of fair value of certain types of financial When a loan is classified as impaired, is past due or is otherwise instruments non-performing, the interest is accounted for in the same manner as Derivatives. Derivative instruments are recognized at fair value, and the principal amount. Thus, the interest related to any portion of a loan fair value is calculated based upon internally established valuations, that is expected to be repaid in the future is recorded in earnings, disexternal valuation models, quotations furnished by external parties or counted at the original effective interest rate, while the interest related market quotations. When calculating fair value for derivative instruto any portion of a loan that is not expected to be collected in accorments, the impact on the fair value of the instrument related to credit dance with the relevant loan agreement will not be recorded in earnings. 72 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 1, continued Restructured loan receivables pertain to loan receivables where SEK the interest rate for Swedish mortgage bonds, with a remaining term has granted concessions to the borrower as a result of the borrower’s approximating that of the actual commitments. Changes in actuarial deteriorated financial position. Following the restructure, normally, assumptions and experience-based obligated adjustments generate the loan receivable is no longer considered doubtful if the obligation actuarial gains or losses. These actuarial gains and losses are reported is being met in compliance with the new terms and conditions. Contogether with the difference between actual and expected return on cessions granted in connection with loan restructuring are regarded as pension assets in other comprehensive income as incurred. Service credit losses. cost, gains / losses from changes in plans, and the interest net of penIf and when a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale finansion assets and liabilities are recognized in profit or loss. The compacial asset has been recognized in other comprehensive income and nies of the Group participate in various public pension plans covering there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative all employees. Sufficient information is available to allow the calculoss that has been recognized is removed from other comprehensive lation of SEK’s proportionate share of the defined-benefit liabilities, income and recognized in profit or loss, even though the financial asset assets and the costs for these plans. The future costs of the plans may has not been derecognized in the statement of financial position. change accordingly if the underlying assumptions of the plans change. (i) Tangible assets (l) Equity Items of property and equipment are measured at cost, less accumuEquity in the Consolidated Group consists of the following items: share lated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes capital; reserves; retained earnings; and net profit. Reserves consist expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the of the following items: the reserve for fair-value changes in respect of asset. When parts of an item of property or equipment have different available-for-sale securities (fair value reserve), the reserve for fairuseful lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major compovalue changes in derivatives in cash-flow hedges (hedge reserve) and nents) of property and equipment. Tangible assets are depreciated the reserve for remeasurement in respect of defined-benefit pension using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. Averplans (reserve for defined-benefit plans). age useful lives, depreciation methods and residual values are evaluated and tested annually. No depreciation is carried out from the time (m) Income tax that an asset is classified as an asset held-for-sale. Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxes. Current tax is tax expected to be payable on taxable (j) Intangible assets income for the financial year. Deferred tax includes deferred tax in Intangible assets comprise mainly the capitalized portion of investthe untaxed reserves of the individual Group companies and deferred ments in IT systems. Expenses that are directly attributable to large taxes on other taxable temporary differences. Deferred taxes on taxable investments in the development of IT systems are recognized as intantemporary differences are calculated with an expected tax rate of 22.0 gible assets if they are expected to generate future economic benefits. percent (2015: 22.0 percent). Deferred taxes are calculated on all taxThe capitalized portion of investments in IT systems includes expenses able temporary differences, regardless of whether a given temporary related to the intangible asset, such as consulting fees and expenses difference is recognized in profit or loss or through other comprehenfor Group personnel who have contributed to producing the intangisive income. ble asset. Each intangible asset is depreciated using the straight-line method over an estimated useful life from the date the asset is avail(n) Earnings per share able for use. Average useful lives are evaluated and tested annually. An Earnings per share are calculated as net profit divided by the average annual impairment test is performed on intangible assets not yet used. number of shares. There is no dilution of shares. (k) Employee benefits (o) Statement of cash flows SEK sponsors both defined benefit and defined contribution pension The Statement of Cash Flows shows inflows and outflows of cash and plans. cash equivalents during the year. SEK’s Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared in accordance with the indirect method, whereby oper(i) Defined-contribution plans ating profit is adjusted for effects of non-cash transactions such as A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under depreciation and loan losses. The cash flows are classified by operating, which an entity (SEK, in this case) pays fixed contributions into a sepinvesting and financing activities. Cash and cash equivalents include arate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay furcash at banks where amounts can be immediately converted into cash, ther amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution and short-term deposits where the time to maturity does not exceed pension plans are recognized as an employee benefit expense in profit three months from acquisition date. or loss at the rate at which they are accrued by employees providing services to the entity during a period. Prepaid contributions are recog(p) Critical accounting policies, assumptions and nized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future estimates payments is available. When applying the Group’s accounting policies, management makes judgments and estimates that have a significant effect on the amounts (ii) Defined-benefit plans recognized in the financial statements. These estimates are based on Defined benefit plans are post-employment benefit plans other than past experience and assumptions that the company believes are fair defined contribution plans. The net obligation in respect of defined and reasonable. These estimates and the judgments behind them affect benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the the recognized amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses as amount of future benefits that employees have earned in return for well as disclosures. Actual outcomes can later differ from the estimates their service in the current and prior periods. This benefit is discounted and the assumptions made. to determine its present value and the fair value of any plan assets is SEK assesses that the judgments made related to the following critideducted. cal accounting policies are the most significant: The cost for defined benefit plans is calculated using the “projected • Functional currency of the Parent Company unit credit method”, which distributes the cost of a plan over a cov• SEK is to considered an agent in respect of the S-system ered employee’s service period. The calculation is performed annually Furthermore, the company has identified the following key sources of by independent actuaries. The obligations are valued at the present estimation uncertainty when applying IFRS: value of the expected future disbursements, taking into consideration • Fair value assessments of certain financial instruments assumptions such as expected future pay increases, rate of infla• Provisions for probable credit losses tion, and mortality rates. The discount rate used is the equivalent of SEK Annual Report 2016  73 Notes Note 1, continued (i) Functional currency of the Parent Company whether the instrument is an asset or a liability. Developments in the SEK has established that the Swedish krona (Skr) is its functional curfinancial markets have to some extent affected the prices at which rency under IFRS. Large portions of its assets, liabilities and related SEK’s debt is issued. These changes, which are different in different derivatives are denominated in foreign currencies. Under IFRS, both markets, have been included in the calculation of fair value for these assets and liabilities are translated at closing exchange-rates and the liabilities. differences between historical carrying amounts and current values are SEK issues debt instruments in many financial markets. A large recognized as currency exchange-rate effects in the statement of comportion of these are compound financial instruments with embedded prehensive income. These differences largely offset each other, causing derivatives. SEK’s policy is to hedge the risks in these instruments the net result not to be of a material amount in relation to total assets using derivatives with corresponding structures in order to obtain and liabilities in foreign currency. This reflects the economic substance effective economic hedges. Such compound financial instruments are of SEK’s policy of holding assets financed by liabilities denominated classified as financial liabilities measured at fair value. As there mostly in, or hedged into, the same currency. See Note 27 for information on are no market quotes for this group of transactions, valuation models SEK’s positions in foreign currency. are used to calculate fair value. The gross value of these instruments and derivatives which effectively hedge each other requires com(ii) SEK is to considered an agent in respect of the S-system plex judgments regarding the most appropriate valuation technique, SEK has determined that the S-system should be considered an assignassumptions and estimates. If other valuation models or assumptions ment whereby SEK acts as an agent on behalf of the Swedish State, are used, or if assumptions are changed, this could produce other valrather than being the principal in individual transactions. This assessuation results. Excluding the impact on the valuation of credit spreads ment has been made based on a number of factors, such as the followon SEK’s own debt and basis spreads, such changes in fair value would ing: (i) although it does in form, SEK does not in substance bear risks generally offset each other. and make decisions associated with ownership; (ii) SEK does not have SEK uses derivative instruments to mitigate and reduce risks attribdiscretion in establishing prices; and (iii) SEK receives compensation utable to financial assets and liabilities. In order to mitigate counterin the form of a fixed commission. SEK has consequently presented party risk, i.e. the form of credit risk generated from derivative transthe economic activities of the S-system on a net basis in profit or loss, actions, SEK enters into such transactions only with counterparties rather than the gross amounts collected, in accordance with the owner with good credit ratings. Moreover, SEK endeavors to enter into ISDA instruction from the State. If SEK were regarded as a principal with Master Agreements with Credit Support Annexes with its counterparrespect to the S-system, all revenues and expenses in the S-system ties. This means that the highest allowed risk level is established in would be regarded as revenues and expenses of SEK. However, the net advance, regardless of what changes in market value may occur. Deriveffect on SEK’s operating profit would be unchanged. For information atives are valued at fair value with reference to listed market prices on the S-system, refer to Note 25. where available. If market prices are not available, valuation models are used instead. SEK uses a model to adjust the fair value of the net exposure for changes in SEK’s or the counterparty’s credit quality. The (iii) Fair value assessments of certain financial instruments models use directly observable market parameters if such are available. SEK recognizes a large part of the balance sheet at fair value, primarily At December 31, 2016, financial assets and liabilities for which valinterest-bearing securities recognized on the lines Treasuries/Governuation models had been used, and where market inputs with a signifiment bonds and Other interest-bearing securities except loans, derivcant effect on the recoded fair value are observable (level 2) amounted atives and issued (not subordinated) debt. When financial instruments to Skr 57 billion (48) and Skr 41 billion (39) (19 percent (17) and 14 perare recognized at fair value, these amounts are calculated on the basis cent (15) of total financial assets and total financial liabilities respecof market prices, valuation models, valuations conducted by external tively). For financial assets and liabilities for which valuation includes parties and discounted cash flows. SEK’s financial instruments are non-observable parameters, amounted to Skr 3 billion (2) and Skr 53 predominantly not subject to public trading and quoted market prices billion (43) (1 percent (1) and 19 percent (17) of total financial assets are not available. When recognizing the amounts for assets, liabilities and total financial liabilities respectively). The assessment of non-oband derivatives, as well as income and expenses, it is necessary to make servable parameters included in models for assessing market value assumptions and assessments regarding the fair value of financial are associated with subjectivity and uncertainty, which can impact instruments and derivatives, particularly if they comprise unquoted or the results recognized for specific positions. Despite SEK using approilliquid securities or other instruments of debt. Should the conditions priate valuation models which are consistent with those used in the underlying these assumptions and assessments change, the recogmarket, other models and assumptions for determining the fair value nized amounts would also change. See Note 27 for disclosure of change of financial instruments could result in other fair value estimates on in value of assets and liabilities if the market interest rate rises or falls the reporting date. At December 31, 2016, the total minimum and maxby one percentage point. Other pricing models or assumptions could imum effects of changing one or more non-observable parameters to produce different valuation results. reflect the assumptions under other reasonable circumstances for level SEK makes judgments regarding what the most appropriate valu3 instruments amounted to Skr -227 million (-222) and Skr 227 milation techniques are for the different financial instruments based on lion (225) respectively. Refer to Note 13 for information regarding value their categories. In all cases, the decision is based on a professional changes for assets and liabilities if non-observable market parameters assessment pursuant to SEK’s accounting and valuation policies. are changed and section (h) (viii) above for the Principles for determiThe use of a valuation model demands a validation and thereafter an nation of fair value of financial instruments. approval, in addition to approval of all models at least annually. The valuation models applied by SEK comply with accepted methods for pricing financial instruments. Fair value adjustments are applied when (iv) Provisions for probable credit losses there are additional factors that market participants take into account Provisions for probable credit losses are made if and when SEK deterand that are not captured by the valuation model. A CVA (Credit Value mines that it is probable that the obligation under a loan agreement or Adjustment) and DVA (Debt Value Adjustment) is made to reflect the another asset held by SEK, in each case together with existing guarancounterparty’s credit risk and SEK’s own credit rating, which affects tees and collateral, will fail to cover SEK’s full claim. If the judgment the fair value of the derivatives (see Note 12, for fair value changes underlying this determination were to change, this could result in a related to credit risk.) material change in provisions for probable credit losses. When financial assets or liabilities are recognized at fair value, the Impairment is recognized as the difference between the carryinstruments are recognized at their full fair value, including any credit ing value of a loan and the discounted value of SEK’s best estimate of spreads. When quoted market prices are not available for such instrufuture cash repayments. This estimate takes into account a number of ments, certain assumptions must be made about the credit spread factors related to the obligor. The actual amounts of future cash flows of either the counterparty or one’s own credit spread, depending on and the dates they are received may differ from these estimates and consequently actual losses incurred may differ from those previously 74 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 1, continued recognized in the financial statements. On December 31, 2016, total through other comprehensive income, as well as loan commitments lending amounted to Skr 209 billion (205) and the related impairment and financial guarantees, are to be subject to impairment testing, reserve amounted to Skr 244 million (228), of which the individual which is a change in relation to IAS 39, where collective provisions reserve accounted for Skr 84 million (66). If, for example, the actual are not posted for off-balance-sheet exposures or available-for-sale amount of total future cash flow were to be 10 percent higher or lower financial assets. The provision is based on the expected credit losses than the estimate, this would affect operating profit for the fiscal year associated with the probability of default in the next twelve months ended December 31, 2016 by an additional Skr 20-30 million (20-30) unless there has been a significant increase in credit risk since originaand equity at the same date by Skr 16-24 million (16-24). A higher total tion, in which case, the provision is based on the probability of default future cash flow would affect operating profit and equity positively, over the life of the asset. while a lower total future cash flow would affect operating profit and The assets are grouped into three stages depending on the degree of equity negatively. See Note 9 and Section (h) above for additional inforcredit deterioration. Stage 1 is where the loan is placed at initial recogmation. nition and which is encompassed by assets for where the credits has not increased significantly since initial recognition. The provisions (q) Forthcoming changes in regulatory framework not yet correspond to the 12-month expected credit losses. Under IAS 39, applied the impairment of assets corresponding to those in stage 1 has been The following new standards and amendments to standards and interassessed collectively, whereby the need for impairment is related to pretations not yet adopted are considered to impact SEK: losses that have occurred as of a period-end date but which have not yet been identified as individual impairment losses. Stage 2 comprises assets for which the credit risk has increased significantly since their (i) IFRS 9 Financial instruments initial recognition. For these assets, a loss allowance needs to be recogIn July 2014, IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the definitive nized based on their lifetime expected credit losses. Under IAS 39, these standard for the recognition and measurement of financial instruassets have also been included in the collective impairment assessments. IFRS 9 replaces the current standard IAS 39 Financial Instrument, but the impairment will probably increase under IFRS 9, since it ments: Recognition and Measurement, and becomes effective on will be required that the provisions will correspond to expected credit January 1, 2018. IFRS 9 was approved by the European Commission in losses throughout the entire remaining maturity. To assess of whether December 2016. During 2015, SEK initiated the implementation of IFRS there has been a significant increase in credit risk for an asset, SEK will 9 by setting up a project with participants from Risk, Credit, Lending, base the assessment on a relative deterioration in rating levels for each Finance and Administration and IT. The project has substreams for of the exposures, taking into account the change in the risk of default Classification and Measurement, Impairment, Hedge Accounting Disfor the various rating levels. The rating levels are determined by SEK’s closures and Finrep. The project is now in the implementation phase, internal rating model for the various exposures. As part of this basis for with parallel runs scheduled for the second half of 2017, and is schedtesting a significant increase in credit risk, SEK also considers taking uled to become effective on January 1, 2018. into account one or more of the parameters of past-due days, expected Classification and measurement. For financial assets, the current forbearance and recurring risk-elevating behaviors that could indicate categories will be removed but the three measurement methods will that a significant increase in credit risk has occurred. Stage 3 includes be retained: fair value through profit or loss, fair value through other assets that have been determined individually as credit impaired. The comprehensive income and amortized cost. To determine what should provisions correspond to the expected credit losses throughout the be accounted for in which way, a new valuation model is being introentire remaining maturity, and interest is credited to the net amortized duced based on the business model, which is assessed at portfolio cost of the loan after impairment. Assets in stage 3 according to IFRS 9 level, and type of cash flows, which is assessed at instrument level. correspond to the assets considered to be individually impaired under The option of deciding on initial recognition to choose to recognize IAS 39. financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss still remains For impairment for assets measured at fair value through other in those cases where this would eliminate or materially reduce meacomprehensive income, the carrying amount of the asset in the statesurement and accounting mismatches. The changes are expected to ment of financial position will not be reduced, since this is recognized have limited measurement consequences for SEK’s lending portfolios at fair value. An item corresponding to the impairment in profit or loss and, in the vast majority of cases, these will continue to be measured will instead be recognized in other comprehensive income as an accuat amortized cost. It is anticipated that financial assets and liabilities mulated impairment amount. measured at fair value through profit or loss will continue to be meaSEK will incorporate forward-looking information, such as macrosured at fair value through profit or loss. Most of the instruments claseconomic factors and economic forecasts, both in assesment of signifsified as available for sale under IAS 39 are expected to be measured at icant increase in credit risk and in the measurement of the expected amortized cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income, credit loss. The intention is to use three different scenarios: a base while a number of instruments are expected to be measured at fair case, a worse case and a better case. Both external and internal inforvalue through profit or loss, either because of the type of cash flows mation will be used in the forward-looking information. SEK continuor because of their business model. For financial liabilities, the poliously evaluates the effects of the new standard and, as parameters are cies have essentially been transferred from IAS 39. A material change developed according to the IFRS 9 policies, the simulated amounts will for SEK is that when own debt is measured at fair value through profit become more like amounts that can be used in the application of IFRS 9. or loss, changes in value due to the company’s own credit risk will no Since work to develop parameters according to IFRS 9 is still under way, longer affect profit or loss but will be separated and recognized directly it is not possible to arrive at a conclusion concerning the standard’s through other comprehensive income, which will probably entail impact on SEK’s financial statements, capital adequacy and large exporeduced profit volatility for SEK. sures. With respect to the impact on capital adequacy, this depends, Hedge accounting. As a result of the new general rules for hedge among other things, on whether capital adequacy regulations will be accounting, companies can better reflect their risk management in amended to reflect IFRS 9. the consolidated financial statements. IFRS 9 provides opportunities for improving and simplifying hedge accounting, which will primarily affect the hedge accounting process. SEK plans to implement hedge (ii) IFRS 15 — Revenue from Contracts with Customers accounting under IFRS 9 effective January 1, 2018. In 2014, the IASB issued the new standard, IFRS 15, which describes Impairment. One of the major changes compared with IAS 39 and a comprehensive model for the recognition of revenue from conwhich is expected to have the greatest consequences is that the loan tracts with customers and which replaces current IFRS standards and loss impairment methodology based on incurred losses under IAS 39 interpretations for revenue recognition, such as IAS 18 Revenue. The will be replaced with a forward-looking expected loss approach. IFRS standard is a five-step model, including accounting and measure9 states that all assets measured at amortized cost and at fair value ment requirements, as well as new disclosures. The standard does not apply to financial instruments or leasing contracts. The standard is not SEK Annual Report 2016  75 Notes Note 1, continued expected to have any material impact on SEK’s financial statements, (i) Income statement capital adequacy or large exposures. The standard has been approved by In accordance with ÅRKL requirements, the Parent Company presthe EU and will be applicable from January 1, 2018. ents an income statement and a separate statement of comprehensive income. (iii) IFRS 16 Leasing In January 2016, the IASB issued the new accounting standard for (ii) Shares in subsidiaries leases, with changes for lessees. All leases (with the exception of shortThe Parent Company’s investments in subsidiaries are measured at term and low-value leases) are to be recognized as right-of-use assets cost and dividends from investments in subsidiaries are recognized in subject to depreciation with corresponding liabilities in the lessee’s the income statement. balance sheet, and the lease payments recognized as repayments and interest expense. Lessor accounting remains essentially unchanged. (iii) Income taxes Further disclosures are also required. SEK’s preliminary assessment is In accordance with Swedish tax law, the Parent Company maintain certhat the standard will primarily affect SEK’s recognition of operational tain untaxed reserves. Untaxed reserves are disclosed in the balance leases for rental premises, which will not have any material impact sheet of the Parent Company and changes in untaxed reserves are dison SEK’s financial statements, capital adequacy or large exposures. closed in the income statement of the Parent Company. The standard is applicable from January 1, 2019 and has not yet been approved by the EU. (iv) Group contributions Other IFRS standards or IFRIC interpretations, or amendments, not Parent Company contributions to subsidiaries are recognized, taking yet effective are not expected to have any material impact on SEK’s into account their tax effect, as investments in shares in subsidiaries, financial statements, capital adequacy or large exposures. unless impaired. (r) Parent Company (v) Equity The financial statements for the Parent Company, AB Svensk ExportEquity in the Parent Company consists of the following items: share kredit (publ), have been prepared in accordance with Swedish legislacapital; legal reserve; development expenditure reserve; fair value tion, the requirements of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit reserve; retained earnings; and net profit for the year. Fair value reserve Institutions and Securities Companies (1995:1559) (ÅRKL), and Recomconsists of the following items: fair value reserve (value changes on mendation RFR 2, Accounting for Legal Entities, issued by the Swedish available-for-sale assets) and hedge reserve (value changes on derivFinancial Reporting Board (RFR), as well as the accounting regulations atives in cash-flow hedges). of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FFFS 2008:25). This means that IFRS standards have been applied to the extent permitted within the framework of ÅRKL and the accounting regulations of the (vi) Pension liability Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The accounting policies of The Parent Company applies a different basis for calculating the Parent Company are essentially unchanged, apart from amenddefined-benefit pension plans compared with what is stated in IAS 19. ments to ÅRKL and FFFS 2008:25. In the Parent Company, a new In the Parent Company, the BTP plan is accounted for as a defined-conrestricted reserve within equity, the development expenditure reserve, tribution plan and the Parent Company complies with the regulations has been established for the capitalization of expenditure on internally of the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the Swedish Finanworked up development in accordance with ÅRKL. The differences in cial Supervisory Authority. Except for the BTP plan being accounted accounting policies between the Parent Company and the Consolidated for as a defined-contribution plan, the primary differences as comGroup are as follows: pared to IAS 19 include how the discount rate is set, the calculation of defined-benefit obligations based on current salary levels without consideration of future salary increases and the fact that all actuarial gains and losses are included in earnings as they occur. 76 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 2. Net interest revenues Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Interest revenues were related to: Loans to credit institutions 546 544 546 544 Loans to the public 2,827 2,663 2,827 2,663 Interest-bearing securities 364 395 364 395 Impaired financial assets 3 0 3 0 Derivatives -552 -767 -552 -767 Total interest revenues1 3,188 2,835 3,188 2,835 Total interest expenses2 -1,441 -1,173 -1,441 -1,173 Net interest revenues 1,747 1,662 1,747 1,662 Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Interest revenues were related to: Available-for-sale financial assets 292 225 292 225 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 93 -5 93 -5 Derivatives used for hedge accounting -379 -470 -379 -470 Loans and receivables 3,182 3,085 3,182 3,085 Total interest revenues1 3,188 2,835 3,188 2,835 Interest expenses were related to: Available-for-sale financial assets -46 -46 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 12 -156 12 -156 Derivatives used for hedge accounting 2,452 2,484 2,452 2,484 Other financial liabilities -3,859 -3,501 -3,859 -3,501 Total interest expenses2 -1,441 -1,173 -1,441 -1,173 Net interest revenues 1,747 1,662 1,747 1,662 Interest revenues geographical areas Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sweden 1,358 1,353 1,358 1,353 Europe except Sweden 681 511 681 511 Countries outside of Europe 1,149 971 1,149 971 Total interest revenues1 3,188 2,835 3,188 2,835 Interest revenues per productgroup Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Lending to Swedish exporters 1,500 1,517 1,500 1,517 Lending to exporters’ customers3 1,042 978 1,042 978 Liquidity 646 340 646 340 Total interest revenues1 3,188 2,835 3,188 2,835 1 Negative effective interest rates on debt are reported as interest income. During 2016 they amounted to Skr – millon (2015: Skr million). See Note 1 for further information regarding negative interest rates. 2 Negative effective interest rates on assets are reported as interest expense. During 2016 they amounted to Skr -106 millon. The negative effective interest rates were immaterial during the previous year and were therefore not presented in the annual report. See Note 1 for further information regarding negative interest rates. 3 In interest revenues for Lending to exporters’ customers, Skr 116 million (2015: Skr 123 million) represent remuneration from the S-system (see Note 25). SEK Annual Report 2016  77 Notes Note 3. Net fee and commissions expense Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Fee and commissions earned were related to1 Financial consultants’ commissions 0 0 Other commissions earned 3 2 3 2 Total 3 2 3 2 Commissions incurred were related to1 Depot and bank fees -7 -6 -7 -6 Brokerage -4 -2 -4 -2 Other commissions incurred -21 0 -21 0 Total -32 -8 -32 -8 Net fee and commissions expense -29 -6 -29 -6 1 Skr -26 million (2015: Skr -3 million) includes financial assets and liabilities not measured at fair value through profit or loss. Fee and commission earned geographical areas Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sweden 1 1 1 1 Europe except Sweden 1 0 1 0 Countries outside of Europe 1 1 1 1 Total 3 2 3 2 Fee and commission earned per productgroup Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Lending to Swedish exporters 1 1 Lending to exporters’ customers 2 2 2 2 Total 3 2 3 2 78 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 4. Net results of financial transactions Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net results of financial transactions were related to: Derecognition of financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit or loss Available-for-sale financial assets Loans and receivables 4 -42 4 -42 Other financial liabilities Financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss1: Designated upon initial recognition (FVO) -2,779 4,526 -2,779 4,526 Held-for-trading 2,699 -4,324 2,699 -4,324 Financial instruments under fair-value hedge accounting: Net results of the hedging instrument -693 -290 -693 -290 Net results of the hedged item 661 536 661 536 Currency exchange-rate effects on all assets and liabilities excl. currency exchange-rate effects related to revaluation at fair value -2 -6 -2 -6 Total net result of financial transactions -110 400 -110 400 1 During 2016, SEK adopted a new valuation method for derivatives. The new valuation method led to a negative impact on operating profit. SEK’s general business model is to hold financial instruments meaWhen financial instruments are not held to maturity, realized gains sured at fair value to maturity. The net fair value changes that occur, and losses can occur, as in the cases when SEK repurchases own dept, or mainly related to changes in credit spreads on SEK’s own debt and basis if lending is repaid early and the related hedging instruments are terspreads and recognized in net results of financial transactions, could minated prematurely. These effects are presented under “Derocognicbe significant in a single reporting period. However, they will not affect ition of financial instruments not measured at fair value through profit earnings over time, since the changes in the instrument’s market value or loss”, “Financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or will be zero if it is held to maturity and is a performing instrument. loss” and “Financial instruments under fair-value hedge accounting”. Note 5. Personnel expenses Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Salaries and remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officers -6 -6 -6 -6 Salaries and remuneration to Senior Executives -18 -17 -18 -17 Salaries and remuneration to other employees -160 -141 -160 -142 Pensions -57 -62 -62 -62 Social insurance -58 -56 -58 -56 Other personnel expenses -9 -13 -9 -13 Total personnel expenses -308 -295 -313 -296 The combined total of the remuneration to senior executives, excluding the CEO of the Parent Company, amounted to Skr 18 million (2015: Skr 17 million). Of the remuneration to senior executives, Skr 17 million (2015: Skr 16 million) is pensionable. Of the remuneration to the CEOs of the Parent Company, Skr 4 million (2015: Skr 4 million) is pensionable. For all employees, excluding the CEO, SEK follows collective agreements between Banking Institution Employers’ Organization (BAO) and trade unions. SEK Annual Report 2016  79 Notes Note 5, continued Remuneration and other benefits to the Board of Directors Fee, and Senior Executives in the Consolidated Group includes Fixed 2016 committee remuneraOther Skr thousand fee tion1 ­benefits2 Pension fee3 Total Chairman of the Board of Directors: Lars Linder-Aronson4 -669 -669 Other members of the Board of Directors: Cecilia Ardström -216 -216 Jan Belfrage -225 -225 Susanne Lithander -240 -240 Lotta Mellström5 Ulla Nilsson -244 -244 Jan Roxendal resigned April 26, 20164 -109 -109 Teppo Tauriainen5 Magnus Uggla, from April 26, 20164 -186 -186 Senior Executives: Catrin Fransson, Chief Executive Officer (CEO)6 -4,487 -86 -1,332 -5,905 Karl Johan Bernerfalk, General Counsel -1,281 -11 -405 -1,697 Teresa Hamilton Burman, Chief Credit Officer (CCO) -2,253 -12 -460 -2,725 Stefan Friberg, Chief Risk Officer (CRO) -2,769 -12 -467 -3,248 Johan Henningsson, Head of Sustainability -1,124 -12 -379 -1,515 Jane Lundgren Ericsson, Head of Lending -2,355 -81 -616 -3,052 Sirpa Rusanen, Head of Human Resources -1,360 -91 -487 -1,938 Susanna Rystedt, Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) -2,164 -41 -676 -2,881 Edvard Unsgaard, Head of Communication -995 -11 -333 -1,339 Per Åkerlind, Head of Treasury and Capital Management and Executive Vice President -3,207 -86 -1,112 -4,405 Total -1,889 -21,995 -443 -6,267 -30,594 80 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 5, continued Remuneration and other benefits to the Board of Directors and Senior Executives in the Consolidated Group 2015 Fee, includes Fixed remuOther Skr thousand committee fee neration1 ­benefits2 Pension fees3 Total Chairman of the Board of Directors: Lars Linder-Aronson4 -614 -614 Other members of the Board of Directors: Cecilia Ardström -218 -218 Jan Belfrage -217 -217 Lotta Mellström5 Ulla Nilsson -236 -236 Jan Roxendal4 -327 -327 Teppo Tauriainen5 Susanne Lithander, from January 20, 2015 -209 -209 Senior Executives: Catrin Fransson, Chief Executive Officer (CEO)6 -4,379 -75 -1,295 -5,749 Karl Johan Bernerfalk, General Counsel -1,281 -10 -412 -1,703 Teresa Hamilton Burman, Chief Credit Officer (CCO), from August 3, 2015 -910 -5 -186 -1,101 Stefan Friberg, Chief Risk Officer (CRO), from May 15, 2015 -1,688 -8 -282 -1,978 Johan Henningsson, Head of Sustainability -1,139 -10 -366 -1,515 Per Jedefors, Chief Risk Officer (CRO), resigned with pension April 30, 2015 -1,390 -28 -228 -1,646 Jane Lundgren-Ericsson, Head of Lending -2,286 -50 -606 -2,942 Sirpa Rusanen, Head of Human Resources -1,266 -85 -473 -1,824 Susanna Rystedt, Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) -2,055 -91 -642 -2,788 Edvard Unsgaard, Head of Communication -1,000 -11 -297 -1,308 Per Åkerlind, Head of Treasury and Capital Management and Executive Vice President -3,134 -86 -1,103 -4,323 Total -1,821 -20,528 -459 -5,890 -28,698 1 Predetermined salary or other compensation such as holiday pay and 4 Remuneration is invoiced from their private companies in accorallowances. dance with the state guidelines. 2 Other benefits consist of, for example, car allowances and subsis5 Remuneration is not paid from the Company to the representatives tence benefits. on the Board of Directors, who are employed by the owner, the Swed3 Includes premiums for insurance covering sickness benefit for proish Government. longed illness and other public risk insurance as a result of collective 6 The retirement age of the CEO, Catrin Fransson is 65 years and the pension agreements. pension fee is 30 percent of her fixed salary. Total Expenditure on Remuneration in accordance with CRR 2016 Members of staff whose actions have a material Executive impact on the risk profile of the institution Skr thousand (if not number of beneficiaries) m ­ anagement (excluding executive management) Total amount expensed for remuneration -28,623 -122,002 of which fixed remuneration -28,623 -122,002 of which variable remuneration in cash number of beneficiaries 10 135 Outstanding vested deferred remuneration Outstanding unvested deferred remuneration -163 -3,262 Deferred remuneration awarded Deferred remuneration paid out -81 -3,542 Deferred remuneration reduced through performance adjustments Severance payments made number of beneficiaries Severance payments awarded SEK Annual Report 2016  81 Notes Note 5, continued Total Expenditure on Remuneration in accordance with CRR 2015 Members of staff whose actions have a material Executive impact on the risk profile of the institution Skr thousand (if not number of beneficiaries) m ­ anagement (excluding executive management) Total amount expensed for remuneration -26,716 -124,362 of which fixed remuneration -26,716 -124,362 of which variable remuneration in cash number of beneficiaries 11 137 Outstanding vested deferred remuneration Outstanding unvested deferred remuneration -244 -7,869 Deferred remuneration awarded Deferred remuneration paid out -163 -8 214 Deferred remuneration reduced through performance adjustments Severance payments made -3,487 number of beneficiaries 1 Severance payments awarded Finansinspektionens (the Swedish FSA’s) regulations (FFFS 2011:1) remuneration related to 2014 is included), and employees within the regarding remuneration systems in credit institutions, investment Risk Department and the Compliance Department. firms and fund management companies apply to SEK. Moreover, SEK The aim of the EIS has been to attract and retain staff, promote the applies the government’s guidelines on terms of employment for achievement of the Company’s long-term objectives, and encourage senior executives at state-owned companies. In accordance with these cooperation between different parts of the organization in order to regulations, SEK’s Board has prepared a proposal for a set of guidelines progress toward shared objectives. for the remuneration of senior executives at SEK, which was adopted If the resulting return, after adjustment for any non-operational at the 2016 Annual General Meeting. The guidelines stipulate that items and risk assumption, exceeds the budgeted return, those salary and remuneration to the senior executives of SEK should be fair employees encompassed by EIS receive a share of the excess return, and reasonable. They should also be competitive, capped and approhowever this is capped at an amount equal to two months’ salary, priate as well as contribute to good ethical principles and corporate including payroll taxes. The terms and conditions entail that the variculture. Remuneration should not be higher than at comparable comable remuneration never exceeds 16.67 percent of the fixed remunerpanies, and should be reasonable. Remuneration to senior executives ation. The final decision on the result and the amount to be paid out consists of fixed salary, pension and other benefits. Pension terms for under the EIS is taken by the Board. senior executives should be in the form of defined contribution plans. In autumn 2016, the Board decided that the EIS would cease to apply The Board’s proposed guidelines are essentially unchanged from from the end of 2016. Any remaining payments under the EIS attrib2016, however certain additions have been made to the guidelines to utable to results up until 2016 will be subject to the same rules that apply from the 2017 Annual General Meeting. The guidelines have been applied in the respective vesting years. In parallel, the Board decided clarified with information, such as the pension age for senior executhat permanent employees should be offered certain benefits related tives is 65, and the maximum scope for severance pay has been limited to wellness, healthcare and medical care. Moreover, the Board decided from 18 to 12 months and is subject to deductions for paid assignments to implement a system, over a three-year trial period, whereby it will (for example, board assignments). be possible to offer permanent employees with customer or business SEK’s remuneration system is designed to promote sound and effecresponsibility, with the exception of members of the executive mantive risk management and does not encourage excessive risk-taking. agement, the possibility of individual variable remuneration (IVR). IVR Remuneration to employees is mainly determined at fixed amounts. will be evaluated on an ongoing basis. The results of the evaluation will SEK’s Board of Directors’ Remuneration Committee (the “Remube referred to the Remuneration Committee. Following the trial period, neration Committee”) prepares proposals for decision by the Board of a more extensive evaluation will be performed. Directors (the “Board”) relating to remuneration policy for the ComIn the areas where IVR is applicable, the corresponding EIS rules pany, on total remuneration for the CEO, for other members of the apply. This includes the discretionary nature of the system, that all executive management, for the Head of Compliance, and for other outcomes are subject to deferred payment and that the Board takes employees reporting directly to the CEO, as well as on the terms and all decisions regarding results and payments. Before an individual conditions for and the outcome of the Company’s employee incentive receives any IVR payment, the payment is subject to testing at three system (EIS). The Remuneration Committee also prepares and handles different levels: the Company level, the Department level and the overall issues relating to remuneration (salaries, pension and other Individual level. The test at the Company level is the basis for any IVR benefits), measures aimed at applying SEK’s remuneration policy, outcome. The outcome at Company level is conditional on the actual and issues relating to succession planning. Further, the Remuneration return, following any applicable adjustment for the impact of non-opCommittee prepares overall instructions for remuneration issues that erational items and increases in the company’s total risk assumption it deems necessary. The Remuneration Committee also ensures that compared with the target risk assumption, exceeding a predetermined the relevant oversight department, together with the Remuneration target. Of the profit that corresponds to any excess return, a percentCommittee, annually reviews and evaluates the Company’s remunerage accrues to the IVR at the Company level. The outcome at Comation systems and also reviews whether such systems comply with the pany level is capped at a maximum of two months’ salary, calculated Company’s remuneration policy and relevant instructions regarding on the basis of all company employees entitled to IVR. In the case of a remuneration. The outcome is presented to the Board in a separate positive outcome at the Company level, the next step is to test at the report on the same day as the annual report is submitted. The RemuDepartment level. This test assesses the outcome at the Department neration Committee has met eight times in 2016. level in relation to the department’s quantitative targets. If the targets Since 2011, the Company has only one system for variable remunerhave not been reached, the outcome at the Company level is reduced ation, the employee incentive system (EIS). The EIS applies to all perfor all members of the department. The remainder after this test manent employees, with the exception of the executive management comprises the outcome at the Department level, which is capped at a (except for three newly appointed senior executives, where deferred maximum of two months’ salary, calculated on the basis of all depart82 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 5, continued ment’s employees entitled to IVR. The final test is at the Individual fit pension plan, the BTP plan, resulting from a collective agreement level. This test assesses the behavior and performance of individuals. between the BAO and the Financial Sector Union of Sweden, covering For each individual, the outcome following the test at the Individual employees in the banking and finance industries, the contribution for level is subject to a floor of zero and a ceiling of 1.5 times the amount retirement and survivors’ pension can exceed 30 percent. at the Department level. Accordingly, the maximum outcome for any For all the senior executives, SEK pays premiums for insurance for individual is three months’ salary. The total outcome for all employees sickness benefits for prolonged illness, other collective risk insurance encompassed by IVR in a department must be within the outcome at arising out of applicable collective agreements as well as travel insurthe Department level. The Company pays payroll taxes on any IVR paid, ance and health insurance. Other benefits include car and per diem which also carries pension entitlements. allowances. SEK’s remuneration policy is designed in such a way that the ComPer Åkerlind and Sven-Olof Söderlund have notice periods of six pany may decide that remuneration that is subject to deferred dismonths should termination be initiated by SEK and are entitled to sevbursement may be withheld, in part or full, if it subsequently transpires erance pay corresponding to 18 months’ salary. A deduction is made for that the performance criteria have not been fulfilled or if the employee any income arising from new employment. For other senior executives, has breached certain internal rules. The same applies if disbursement the notice period upon termination initiated by SEK follows collective would not be justifiable by the Company’s financial situation. Moreagreements. Upon resignation by the employee, the notice period is over, the outcome may also be adjusted if credit losses, or recoveries three or six months. of credit losses, have occurred after the relevant income year, but are Peter Yngwe stepped down from his position as CEO on April 28, deemed to be attributable to the said income year. 2014. Severance pay has been paid on a monthly basis to Peter Yngwe For all employees encompassed by EIS, the disbursement plan states and has been offset against any other income. that 40 percent of the outcome will be disbursed in April in the year following the income year to which the remuneration relates, and 20 Pensions percent will be disbursed in April in each of the three subsequent years. The employees at SEK have a collectively bargained pension plan To be able to identify, measure, manage, report and have control through the BTP plan, which is the most significant pension plan for over the risks associated with the Company’s business, the Company salaried bank employees in Sweden. The BTP plan is funded by means ensures that its remuneration system promotes sound and effective of insurance with the insurance companies SPP and SEB. risk management. As part of its strategic analysis and planning, the Company undertakes an annual process for internal capital and liquidThe total pension cost for defined benefit and defined ity assessment. The aim of this process is to identify and compile, in a contribution obligations are shown below comprehensive way, the Company’s risks and to evaluate its risk management, need for capital and need for liquidity. Accordingly, in this Skr mn 2016 2015 process, among other items, the appropriateness of the Company’s Service cost -4 -7 risk management is evaluated. As part of this evaluation, an analysis Interest cost, net 0 -2 is conducted with the aim of identifying employees, whose work duties have a material impact on SEK’s risk profile, including risks related Pension cost for defined benefit pensions, to the Company’s remuneration policy and remuneration system. incl. payroll tax -4 -9 The outcome of this analysis is taken into account when designing Pension cost for defined contribution pension the remuneration systems in order to promote sound and efficient cost incl. payroll tax -53 -53 risk management and to restrict excessive risk-taking. The number Pension cost recognized in personnel costs -57 -62 of employees that receive remuneration of EUR 1 million or more per fiscal year is zero. No new agreements containing variable remunerations have been established during the year. Actuarial gains and (losses) on defined benefit The CEO’s, Catrin Fransson’s, terms of employment comply with obligation during period -35 60 the Guidelines for Terms of Employment for Senior Executives in Return above expected return, gains and (losses) State-owned Companies (adopted April 20, 2009). on plan assets 5 -7 SEK pays a defined contribution pension insurance amounting to Change in the effect of the asset ceiling 30 percent of the CEO’s pensionable salary. The retirement age for the excluding interest 4 -4 CEO is 65. For the CEO, SEK pays premiums for insurance for sickness beneRevaluation of defined benefit plans -26 49 fits for prolonged illness, other collective risk insurance corresponding to those applicable under the BTP plan, healthcare insurance under Skandia Privatvård Plus and travel insurance. Other benefits payable The following table specifies the net value of defined to the CEO include car and per diem allowances. The CEO is entitled to six months’ notice prior to termination initiated by SEK and severance benefit ­pension obligations pay corresponding to 18 months’ salary. A deduction is made for any Skr mn 2016 2015 income arising from new employment. Defined benefit obligations 254 215 The retirement age is 65 for all senior executives. The pension terms, conditions for termination of employment and other terms of employPlan assets -216 -202 ment for the senior executives follow the current Guidelines for Restriction to net defined benefit asset due to Terms of Employment for Senior Executives in State-owned Comthe asset ceiling 0 4 panies (adopted April 20, 2009), where the BTP plan is included as an Provision for pensions, net obligation approved, collectively bargained, defined-benefit and defined-contri(see Note 21) 38 17 bution pension plan. Pension provisions for senior executives in SEK are limited to 30 percent of pensionable income for retirement and survivors’ pension. Due to SEK’s implementation of a defined-beneSEK Annual Report 2016  83 Notes Note 5, continued The following table shows the development of defined benefit ­obligations Skr mn 2016 2015 Defined benefit obligation, opening balance 215 267 Service cost 4 7 Interest cost 8 7 Pension Payments incl. special payroll tax -9 -7 Other Actuarial (gains) and losses, effect due to changed demographic assumptions Actuarial (gains) and losses, effect due to changed financial assumptions 38 -51 Actuarial (gains) and losses, effect due to experience based outcome -2 -8 Defined benefit obligation, closing balance 254 215 The following table shows the development of plan assets related to defined benefit obligation Skr mn 2016 2015 Fair value of plan assets, opening balance 202 201 Expected return on plan assets 7 5 Contributions by the employer 1 8 8 Benefits paid 2 -7 -5 Other Return on plan assets excluding interest income 6 -7 Fair value of plan assets, closing balance 216 202 1 Expected contribution from the employer in the following year is Skr 8 million (2015: Skr 8 million) excluding payroll tax. 2 Expected compensation paid in the following year is Skr 9 million (2015: Skr 7 million). The following table shows the distribution of plan assets related to defined benefit obligation Skr mn 2016 2015 Domestic equity investments 4 4 Foreign equity investments 4 12 Domestic government bonds 69 63 Domestic corporate bonds 69 63 Mortgage bonds 52 48 Properties 18 12 216 202 The following table displays principal actuarial assumptions used end of year % 2016 2015 Discount rate1 2.7 3.4 Assumption of early pension withdrawal 20.0 20.0 Expected salary increase 2.0 2.0 Expected inflation 1.6 1.6 Expected lifetime2 DUS14 DUS14 Expected turnover 5.0 5.0 84 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 5, continued Sensitivity analysis of essential assumptions Negative outcome Positive outcome 1 Discount rate –1% 1.7% +1% 3.7% Defined benefit obligation 314 208 Service cost 7 4 Interest cost 5 8 2 Expected lifetime +1 year –1 year Defined benefit obligation 264 243 Service cost 5 5 Interest cost 7 7 Net reconciliation of pension liabilities Skr mn 2016 2015 Pension liabilities, opening balance 17 66 Net periodic pension cost 4 9 Contributions by the employer -8 -8 Net pension payments -1 -1 Revaluations recognized in other comprehensive income 26 -49 Pension liabilities, closing balance 38 17 Pension cost Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 Pension commitments provided for in the statement of financial position Pension costs for the year, excluding taxes -1 -1 Pension commitments provided for through insurance contracts Pension costs for the year, excluding taxes -61 -61 Net cost accounted for pensions, excluding taxes -62 -62 Reconciliation of provisions for pensions Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 Opening balance, January 1 12 12 Provisions made / provision used 0 0 Closing balance, December 31 12 12 Net interest is calculated using the discount rate of pension obligaExpected early retirement tions, based on the net surplus or net deficit in the defined benefit plan. According to the transitional rule for § 8 in the BTP-plan, the calcuPension expense in 2016 for defined benefit pensions amounts to lation includes the assumption that 20 percent of the employees use Skr 4 million (2015: Skr 9 million). the possibility for early retirement. The earliest retirement age is 61 for As of December 31, 2016, the expected weighted average remaining employees born 1956 or earlier. Employees born 1967 or later have no service time for active employees was 19.07 years, (2015: 19,4 years) right to retire before age 65. the expected weighted average duration for the present value was 20.7 years (2015: 22.7 years) and the average salary for active employees was Expected return on plan assets Skr 0.8 million (2015: Skr 0.8 million). Expected return on plan assets is equal to the discount rate as regulated in IAS 19. Discount rate Swedish government bonds were previously used as the basis for calExpected salary increase culating pension liabilities. Since January 1, 2013 the calculation has The assumption of salary increase is based on SEK’s assessment. instead been based on the estimated interest curve of Swedish mortgage bonds, as this market is regarded as liquid enough to be used for Expected inflation this purpose. The discount rate is based on market expectations at the The expected inflation is in line with Swedish inflation-linked bonds. end of the accounting period, using bonds with the same duration as the pension liability. Expected employee turnover Expected employee turnover is based on SEK’s assessment of the longterm expected company staff attrition during one year. SEK Annual Report 2016  85 Notes Note 5, continued Parent Company Employee turnover 2016 2015 2014 2013 In the Parent Company, the BTP plan is accounted for as a defined Number of employees who left contribution plan. Defined benefit plans are not accounted for in employment 26 17 22 16 accordance with IAS 19 but are accounted for in accordance with Swedish standards, including the Swedish law on pensions, “Tryggande­ …of which women 9 5 10 5 lagen” and regulations prescribed by the Swedish Financial Supervi…of which men 17 12 12 11 sory Authority. The primary differences as compared to IAS 19 include …of which under the age of the discount rate and the calculation of defined benefit obligations 30 years 2 2 2 1 based on current salary levels without consideration of future salary increases. …of which between 30 and 50 years 17 11 14 13 …of which over 50 years 7 4 6 2 Average number of ­employees 2016 2015 2014 2013 …of which geographically Women 122 115 111 112 located in Sweden 26 17 21 16 Men 138 136 132 131 …of which geographically Total average number of located in Singapore 1 0 1 employees 260 251 243 243 …of which geographically Health, % 2016 2015 2014 2013 located in Sweden 260 250 242 241 Absence due to sickness 4.0 3.1 2.5 2.5 …of which geographically located in Singapore 0 1 1 2 Percentage of employees that use SEK's fitness allowance 84.0 79.0 93.0 93.0 Number of employees at yearend 2016 2015 2014 2013 Equality and diversity 2016 2015 2014 2013 Women 122 124 110 114 Allocation of women/men on the Men 134 139 131 135 Board of Directors 50/50 50/50 43/57 50/50 Total number of employees 256 263 241 249 Allocation of women/men in SEK's executive management 50/50 50/50 57/43 43/57 …of which geographically located in Sweden 256 262 240 247 Allocation of women/men in management positions 36/64 38/62 41/59 44/56 …of which geographically located in Singapore 0 1 1 2 Allocation of women/men at SEK in total 48/52 47/53 46/54 46/54 …of which full-time employees 250 257 236 244 Allocation of employees with …of which part-time employees 6 6 5 5 foreign/swedish background1 30/70 30/70 29/71 29/71 …of which permanent e ­ mployees 251 254 237 240 …of which temporary employees 5 9 4 9 1 Percentage of employees that state they are raised in another country or have at least one parent born in another country. …of which managers 33 32 39 43 …of which non-management 223 231 202 206 Employee development 2016 2015 2014 2013 Percentage of employees who Employees by age distribution 2016 2015 2014 2013 had a performance review (percent) 98 98 92 93 Total number of employees 256 263 241 249 Average number of training days … of which under the age of 30 per employee (all employees are years 16 22 19 24 white-collar workers) 3 2 2 2 … of which between 30 and 39 years 63 73 68 80 … of which between 40 and 49 years 90 90 91 87 … of which over 50 years 87 78 63 58 86 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 6. Other administrative expenses Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Travel expenses and marketing -10 -9 -10 -9 IT and information system (fees incl.)1 -141 -79 -141 -79 Other fees1 -47 -40 -47 -40 Premises2 -28 -27 -28 -27 Other -10 -9 -10 -9 Total other administrative expenses -236 -164 -236 -164 1 The increase is explained by development of IT systems due to adaptation to regulations and a higher portion of this expenditure has been expensed compared to the previous year. 2 SEK is a partner in rental agreements of office space in Stockholm and Gothenburg. SEK closed the office space in Singapore on July 1, 2016. Cost of operating leases Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Leases -27 -26 -27 -26 The primary cost relates to SEK’s office premises. Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Within 1 year -31 -26 -31 -26 Between 1 and 5 years -120 -145 -120 -145 More than 5 years Total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable ­operating leases -151 -171 -151 -171 Remuneration to auditors Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 EY: Audit fee1 -11 -11 -11 -11 Audit related fee2 0 0 0 0 Tax related fee3 0 0 0 0 Summa -11 -11 -11 -11 1 Fees related to audit of annual financial statements, reviews of interim financial statements, attestation services that are provided in connection with statutory, regulatory and stock exchange filings or engagements and services provided in connection with issuances of debt. 2 Fees charged for assurance and related services that are related to the performance of audit or review of the financial statements. 3 Fees for professional services rendered by the principal independent auditors for tax compliance and tax advice. In the financial statements remuneration to auditors is mainly included in Other administrative expenses. SEK Annual Report 2016  87 Notes Note 7. Tangible and intangible assets Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Tangible assets Office and building equipment Acquisition cost at the beginning of the year 90 83 90 83 Sales or disposals of the year -11 -1 -11 -1 Acquisitions of the year 10 7 10 7 Accumulated acquisitions 89 89 89 89 Accumulated depreciation at the beginning of the year -69 -57 -69 -57 Reversed depreciation due to sale or disposals 11 1 11 1 Depreciation during the year -9 -13 -9 -13 Accumulated depreciation -67 -69 -67 -69 Book value 22 20 22 20 Intangible assets 1 Acquisition cost at beginning of the year 373 314 369 310 Sales or disposals of the year Acquisitions of the year 29 59 29 59 Accumulated acquisitions 402 373 398 369 Accumulated depreciation at the beginning of the year -264 -179 -260 -175 Impairment -55 -55 Sales or disposals of the year Depreciation of the year -37 -30 -37 -30 Accumulated depreciation -301 -264 -297 -260 Book value 101 109 101 109 Net book value Property, land and equipment 22 20 22 20 Intangible assets 101 109 101 109 Total net book value 123 129 123 129 Depreciation and impairment during the year according to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income -46 -98 -46 -98 1 Intangible assets consist of the capitalized portion of investments in IT systems. The average useful life for intangible assets is 5 years. 88 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 8. Leasing All SEK’s leasing transactions, where SEK is the lessor, are classified as and the present value of minimum lease payments receivable at the financial leases. When making such classification all aspects regarding end of the reporting period can be found below. Future lease payments the leasing contract, including third party guarantees, are taken into receivable will mature in the following periods. account. A reconciliation between the gross investment in the leases ­ Consolidated Group Parent Company December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Present value Present value Present value Present value of minimum of minimum of minimum of minimum Gross inlease payGross inlease payGross inlease payGross inlease paySkr mn vestment ments vestment ments vestment ments vestment ments No later than one year 122 103 131 111 122 103 131 111 Later than one year and no later than five years 319 287 305 268 319 287 305 268 Later than five years 23 21 46 43 23 21 46 43 Total 464 411 482 422 464 411 482 422 Unearned finance income 53 60 53 60 Unguaranteed residual value Total 464 464 482 482 464 464 482 482 All lease agreements are classified as Loans and receivables. The leases are included in the line item “Loans to the public” in the statement of financial position. Note 9. Impairment and past-due receivables Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Credit losses -23 -33 -23 -33 Reversal of previous impairment 7 2791 7 2791 Net impairment and reversals -16 246 -16 246 Established losses -2111 -2111 Recovered credit losses 0 1 0 0 Net credit losses -16 36 -16 35 Reserve of impairment of financial assets Opening balance -236 -464 -228 -456 Reserves used to cover write-downs -9 -9 Net impairment and reversals -16 246 -16 246 Currency effects -2 -9 -2 -9 Closing balance -254 -236 -246 -228 1 An asset in the form of a collateralized debt obligation was sold during 2015 and the corresponding reserve of Skr 206 million was dissolved. The recorded loss amounted to Skr 211 million. SEK Annual Report 2016  89 Notes Note 9, continued Past-due receivables Receivables past due have been recorded at the amounts expected to actually be received at settlement. Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Past-due receivables1: Aggregate amount of principal and interest less than, or equal to, 90 days past-due 55 387 55 387 Aggregate amount of principal and interest more than 90 days past-due2 44 358 44 358 Principle amount not past-due on such receivables 3,778 4,923 3,778 4,923 Total Past-due receivables 3,877 5,668 3,877 5,668 1 A restructuring and refinancing of a larger, previously past-due, unpaid loan was effected during 2016. SEK considers the loan to be fully paid and it has been refinanced with a new loan at terms and conditions which mainly correspond to the terms and conditions of the old loan. The new loan is fully covered by adequate guarantees and therefore no loan loss has been recorded. As of December 31, 2016, SEK has one large unpaid amount, which represents the main part of total past-due loans outstanding. The unpaid amount, which became due during the fourth quarter of 2015, is, to a large extent, covered by adequate guarantees, which is why expected future credit loss is limited in relation to the amount included in past-due receivables above. The credit loss reserve for the second unpaid loan is Skr 40 million (year-end 2015: Skr 33 million). 2 Of the aggregate amount of principal and interest past due, Skr 38 million (year-end 2015: Skr 97 million) was due for payment more than three but less than, or equal to, six months before the end of the reporting period, Skr 4 million (year-end 2015: Skr 64 million) was due for payment more than six but less than, or equal to, nine months before the end of the reporting period, and Skr 2 million (year-end 2015: Skr 197 million) was due for payment more than nine months before the end of the reporting period. Note 10. Taxes Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Income tax Adjustment previous year 4 0 4 0 Current tax -382 -348 -381 -348 Deferred tax 156 0 0 0 Total income tax -222 -348 -377 -348 Income tax related to other comprehensive income Tax on items to be reclassified to profit or loss Current tax 27 -63 27 -63 Deferred tax 112 112 Tax on items not to be reclassified to profit or loss Deferred tax 6 -11 Income tax related to other comprehensive income 33 38 27 49 Reconciliation of effective tax rate The Swedish corporate tax rate, % 22.0 22.0 22.0 22.0 Profit before taxes 1,002 1,535 1,711 1,541 National tax based on profit before taxes -220 -338 -376 -339 Tax effects of: Non-deductible expenses -1 -2 -1 -2 Imputed interest on tax allocation reserve -3 -5 -3 -5 Dividend received 0 2 Other 2 -3 3 -4 Total tax -222 -348 -377 -348 Effective tax expense in % 22.2 22.7 22.0 22.6 90 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 10, continued Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Deferred tax assets concerning: Temporary differences, related to pensions 6 1 Other temporary differences 0 Total deferred tax assets 6 1 Deferred tax liabilities concerning: Untaxed reserves 565 721 Total deferred tax liabilities 565 721 Net deferred tax liabilities (+) / tax assets (–) 559 720 No deductible loss carry forwards existed per December 31, 2016, or December 31, 2015. Change in deferred taxes Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Opening balance 720 821 112 Change through profit or loss -156 0 Change in other comprehensive income -5 -101 -112 Total 559 720 0 Untaxed reserves Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Tax allocation reserve: Opening balance 3,277 3,280 Dissolution during the year -1,232 -454 Allocation during the year 520 451 Closing balance 2,565 3,277 Of which 2010 Tax allocation reserve 1,232 2011 Tax allocation reserve 471 471 2012 Tax allocation reserve 257 257 2013 Tax allocation reserve 418 418 2014 Tax allocation reserve 448 448 2015 Tax allocation reserve 451 451 2016 Tax allocation reserve 520 In the financial statements of the Consolidated Group, the untaxed reserves of the Group companies are allocated 78 percent to equity and 22 percent to deferred taxes included as deferred tax liabilities in the statement of financial position. Changes in the amounts reported as deferred taxes are included in taxes on net profit in the statement of comprehensive income. SEK Annual Report 2016  91 Notes Note 11. Loans and liquidity investments Consolidated Group Parent Company December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Loans: Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 46,222 48,107 46,222 48,107 Loans to credit institutions 26,190 29,776 26,190 29,776 Loans to the public 147,909 140,806 147,909 140,806 Less: Cash collateral under the security agreements for derivative contracts1 -11,621 -13,592 -11,621 -13,592 Deposits with time to maturity exceeding three months 0 0 Total loans 208,700 205,097 208,700 205,097 Liquidity investments: Cash and cash equivalents 7,054 2,258 7,031 2,234 Cash collateral under the security agreements for derivative contracts 11,621 13,592 11,621 13,592 Deposits with time to maturity exceeding three months 0 0 Treasuries/government bonds 3,687 2,006 3,687 2,006 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 49,901 40,831 49,901 40,831 Total liquidity investments 72,263 58,687 72,240 58,663 of which issued by public authorities 13,052 15,456 13,052 15,456 quoted on an exchange 61,092 71,641 61,092 71,641 1 Included in Loans to credit institutions Difference between book value amount and amount contractually required to be paid at maturity for interest-bearing securities not carried at fair value Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sum of amounts exceeding nominal 8 14 8 14 Sum of amounts falling below nominal -32 -36 -32 -36 Volume Development, Lending Consolidated Group of which the S-system CIRR­– Concessionloans ary loans Total Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2016 2016 2015 Offers of long-term loans accepted 54,856 104,583 10,804 10,804 50,825 Undisbursed loans at year-end 54,783 63,438 49,080 49,090 54,638 Loans outstanding at year-end 208,700 205,097 51,518 991 50,793 44,077 Outstanding loans as per business area Consolidated Group Parent Company of which the S-system December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Lending to Swedish exporters 94,962 86,813 94,962 86,813 Lending to exporters’ customers 113,738 118,284 113,738 118,284 50,793 44,077 Total lending 208,700 205,097 208,700 205,097 50,793 44,077 92 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 12. Classification of financial assets and liabilities The amounts reported concerns the Consolidated Group unless otherwise stated. The amounts reported for the Consolidated Group and the Parent Company are essentially the same. Financial assets by accounting category: December 31, 2016 Derivatives Financial assets at fair value used for hedge Loans and Consolidated Group through profit or loss accounting Availablereceivables1 Total Designated upon Held-forinitial recognition Skr mn trading (FVO) Cash and cash equivalents 7,054 7,054 Treasuries/government bonds 3,687 3,687 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 1,481 48,420 49,901 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 269 45,953 46,222 Loans to credit institutions 26,190 26,190 Loans to the public 147,909 147,909 Derivatives 6,371 5,634 12,005 Total financial assets 6,371 1,750 5,634 52,107 227,106 292,968 Financial liabilities by accounting category: December 31, 2016 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivatives used for Other financial Consolidated Group through profit or loss hedge accounting liabilities2 Total Designated upon Held-forinitial recognition Skr mn trading (FVO) Borrowing from credit institutions 3,756 3,756 Borrowing from the public 0 0 Senior securities issued 71,079 178,113 249,192 Derivatives 15,770 6,302 22,072 Subordinated securities issued 2,266 2,266 Total financial liabilities 15,770 71,079 6,302 184,135 277,286 Financial assets by accounting category: December 31, 2015 Derivatives Financial assets at fair value used for hedge AvailableLoans and Consolidated Group through profit or loss ­accounting for-sale receivables 1 Total Designated Held-forupon initial reSkr mn trading cognition (FVO) Cash and cash equivalents 2,258 2,258 Treasuries/government bonds 2,006 2,006 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 1,568 38,061 1,202 40,831 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 728 47,379 48,107 Loans to credit institutions 29,776 29,776 Loans to the public 140,806 140,806 Derivatives 6,213 6,459 12,672 Total financial assets 6,213 2,296 6,459 40,067 221,421 276,456 SEK Annual Report 2016  93 Notes Note 12, continued Financial liabilities by accounting category: December 31, 2015 Financial liabilities at fair Derivatives used for Other financial Consolidated Group value through profit or loss hedge accounting liabilities2 Total Designated Held-forupon initial reSkr mn trading cognition (FVO) Borrowing from credit institutions 5,283 5,283 Borrowing from the public 61 61 Senior securities issued 58,926 169,286 228,212 Derivatives 17,628 6,003 23,631 Subordinated securities issued 2,088 2,088 Total financial liabilities 17,628 58,926 6,003 176,718 259,275 1 Of loans and receivables, 8 percent (year-end 2015: 9 percent) are subject to fair-value hedge accounting. The remaining 92 percent (year-end 2015: 91 percent) are not subject to hedge accounting and are therefore valued at amortized cost. 2 Of other financial liabilities, 76 percent (year-end 2015: 72 percent) are subject to fair-value hedge accounting, the remaining 24 percent (yearend 2015: 28 percent) are not subject to hedge accounting and are therefore valued at amortized cost. Fair value related to credit risk Fair value originating from credit risk (liabilities The period’s change in fair value originating from credit increase/ + liabilities decrease) risk (+ income/ loss) Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Net CVA/DVA1 -14 -23 9 -4 OCA2 -383 -384 1 87 1 CVA (Credit value adjustment) and DVA (Debt value adjustment) reflect how the counterparties´ credit risk as well as SEK´s own credit rating affect the fair vale of derivatives. 2 OCA (Own credit adjustment) reflects how the changes in SEK´s credit rating affects the fair value of financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss. Reclassification As of July 1, 2008, and October 1, 2008, SEK reclassified certain assets, The reclassified assets consist of interest-bearing fixed rate bonds. At moving those assets to the category “loans and receivables” from the the time of the reclassification, the expected cash flows of the reclascategory “assets available-for-sale”. The reason for the reclassificasified assets were equal to the contractual amounts, including principal tion was that those assets had been illiquid due to the extraordinary and interest. market conditions which existed during late 2008 owing to the global Had not SEK chosen the reclassification option, other comprehenfinancial crisis, and SEK assessed itself to be able to hold the assets to sive income would have decreased by Skr -1 million for the period Janumaturity. Therefore there was no need for impairment of such assets. ary 1 to December 31, 2016 (2015: Skr -5 million). Skr mn 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Nominal Book Fair Nominal Book Fair Reclassified financial assets value value value value value value Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 57 60 60 420 439 440 94 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 12, continued Note 13. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value The amounts reported concerns the Consolidated Group unless otherwise stated. The amounts reported for the Consolidated Group and the Parent Company are essentially the same. Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 Surplus value (+) / Skr mn Book value Fair value Deficit value (–) Cash and cash equivalents 7,054 7,054 Treasuries/governments bonds 3,687 3,687 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 49,901 49,911 10 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 46,222 47,210 988 Loans to credit institutions 26,190 26,240 50 Loans to the public 147,909 150,338 2,4291 Derivatives 12,005 12,005 Total financial assets 292,968 296,445 3,477 Borrowing from credit institutions 3,756 3,756 0 Borrowing from the public 0 0 0 Senior securities issued 249,192 250,151 959 Derivatives 22,072 22,072 Subordinated securities issued 2,266 2,265 -1 Total financial liabilities 277,286 278,244 958 Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 Surplus value (+) / Skr mn Book value Fair value Deficit value (–) Cash and cash equivalents 2,258 2,258 Treasuries/governments bonds 2,006 2,006 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 40,831 40,874 43 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 48,107 48,982 875 Loans to credit institutions 29,776 29,771 -5 Loans to the public 140,806 142,619 1,8131 Derivatives 12,672 12,672 Total financial assets 276,456 279,182 2,726 Borrowing from credit institutions 5,283 5,267 -16 Borrowing from the public 61 61 Senior securities issued 228,212 229,128 916 Derivatives 23,631 23,631 Subordinated securities issued 2,088 2,077 -11 Total financial liabilities 259,275 260,164 889 1 Skr 1,721 million of the surplus value (year-end 2015: Skr 1,452 million) is related to CIRR loans within the S-system. See Note 25 for more information regarding the S-system. The majority of financial liabilities and some of the financial assets in SEK uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the statement of financial position are accounted for at full fair value the fair value of financial instruments based on valuation techniques: or at a value that represents fair value for the components hedged Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical in a hedging relationship. However, loans and receivables and other assets or liabilities; financial liabilities which are neither subject to hedge accounting nor Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significarried at fair value using fair value option, are accounted for at amorcant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or tized cost. indirectly; and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect Determining fair value of financial instruments on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market The best evidence of fair value is quoted prices in an active market. data. The majority of SEK’s financial instruments are not publicly traded, For more information on determining the fair value of financial and quoted market values are not readily available. transactions, see Note 1. Fair value measurements are categorized using a fair value hierarIn the process of estimating or deriving fair values for items chy. The financial instruments have been categorized under the three accounted for at amortized cost, certain assumptions have been levels of the IFRS fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of made. In those cases where quoted market values for the relevant inputs. The categorization of these instruments is based on the lowest items are available, such market values have been used. level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its The tables below show the fair values ​​of the items carried at amorentirety. tized cost or fair value. They are distributed according to the fair value hierarchy. SEK Annual Report 2016  95 Notes Note 13, continued Financial assets reported at amortized cost in fair value hierarchy Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 Loans and accounts receivable Fair value Book value Skr mn Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total Cash and cash equivalents 7,054 7,054 7,054 Treasuries/governments bonds Other interest-bearing securities except loans Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 800 46,141 46,941 45,953 Loans to credit institutions 26,240 26,240 26,190 Loans to the public 150,338 150,338 147,909 Total financial assets in fair value hierarchy 7,854 222,719 230,573 227,106 Financial liabilities reported at amortized cost in fair value hierarchy Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 Other financial liabilities Fair value Book value Skr mn Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total Borrowing from credit institutions 3,698 3,698 3,756 Borrowing from the public Senior securities issued 178,744 328 179,072 178,113 Subordinated securities issued 2,265 2,265 2,266 Total financial liabilities in fair value hiearchy 184,707 328 185,035 184,135 Financial assets reported at amortized cost in fair value hierarchy Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 Loans and accounts receivable Fair value Book value Skr mn Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total Cash and cash equivalents 2,258 2,258 2,258 Treasuries/governments bonds Other interest-bearing securities except loans 1,245 1,245 1,202 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 1,833 46,421 48,254 47,379 Loans to credit institutions 29,771 29,771 29,776 Loans to the public 142,619 142,619 140,806 Total financial assets in fair value hierarchy 4,091 220,056 224,147 221,421 Financial liabilities reported at amortized cost in fair value hierarchy Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 Other financial liabilities Fair value Book value Skr mn Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total Borrowing from credit institutions 5,267 5,267 5,283 Borrowing from the public 61 61 61 Senior securities issued 170,202 170,202 169,286 Subordinated securities issued 2,077 2,077 2,088 Total financial liabilities in fair value hiearchy 177,607 177,607 176,718 96 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 13, continued Financial assets reported at fair value in fair value hierarchy Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Available-for-sale Skr mn Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash and cash equivalents Treasuries/governments bonds 3,687 3,687 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 1,099 125 257 1,481 956 47,464 48,420 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 269 269 Loans to credit institutions Loans to the public Derivatives 9,743 2,262 12,005 Total, December 31, 2016 1,368 9,868 2,519 13,755 4,643 47,464 52,107 Financial liabilities reported at fair value in fair value hierarchy Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Skr mn Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Borrowing from credit institutions Borrowing from the public Senior securities issued 23,192 47,887 71,079 Derivatives 1 17,405 4,666 22,072 Subordinated securities issued Total, December 31, 2016 1 40,597 52,553 93,151 There were no transfers made between levels during 2016. Financial assets reported at fair value in fair value hierarchy Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Available-for-sale Skr mn Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash and cash equivalents Treasuries/governments bonds 2,006 2,006 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 1,191 116 261 1,568 1,244 36,817 38,061 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 271 457 728 Loans to credit institutions Loans to the public Derivatives 13 10,771 1,888 12,672 Total, December 31, 2015 1,475 11,344 2,149 14,968 3,250 36,817 40,067 SEK Annual Report 2016  97 Notes Note 13, continued Financial liabilities reported at fair value in fair value hierarchy Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Skr mn Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Borrowing from credit institutions Borrowing from the public Senior securities issued 20,217 38,709 58,926 Derivatives 23 19,169 4,439 23,631 Subordinated securities issued Total, December 31, 2015 23 39,386 43,148 82,557 There were no transfers made between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2015. Transfers to Level 3 of both assets and liabilities totaled Skr 236 million due to non-observable market data. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value in Level 3, December 31, 2016 Consolidated Group 2016 Gains (+) and losses (–) Currency exJanuary 1, Settlements Transfers to Transfers through profit change-rate December Skr mn 2016 Purchases & sales Level 3 from Level 3 or loss1 effects 31, 2016 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 261 -4 0 257 Senior securities issued -38,709 -15,279 10,176 -651 -3,424 -47,887 Derivatives, net -2,551 -1,259 -263 722 947 -2,404 Net assets and liabilities, 2016 -40,999 -16,538 9,913 67 -2,477 -50,034 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value in Level 3, December 31, 2015 Consolidated Group 2015 Gains (+) and losses (–) Currency exJanuary 1, Settlements Transfers to Transfers through profit change-rate December Skr mn 2015 Purchases & sales Level 3 from Level 3 or loss1 effects 31, 2015 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 266 261 -260 -5 -1 261 Senior securities issued -54,756 -11,970 30,443 -214 1,352 -3,564 -38,709 Derivatives, net 348 -986 -979 22 -2,304 1,348 -2,551 Net assets and liabilities, 2015 -54,142 -12,695 29,204 -192 -957 -2,217 -40,999 1 Gains and losses through profit or loss, including the impact of are not based on observable market data, a revaluation has been made exchange rates, is reported as interest net revenue and net result of by shifting the correlations. The basis for this sensitivity analysis is financial transactions. The unrealized fair value changes during the therefore the revaluation of the relevant part of the portfolio, where period for assets and liabilities, including the impact of exchange the correlations have been adjusted by +/– 10 percentage points. After rates, held as of December 31, 2016, amount to Skr 12 million profit the revaluation is performed, the max/min value for each transaction (year-end 2015: Skr 132 million profit) and are reported as net results is identified. For Level 3-instruments that are significantly affected of financial transactions. by non-observable market data, such as SEK’s own creditworthiness, a revaluation has been made by shifting the credit curve. The revaluaUncertainty of valuation of Level 3 instruments tion is made by shifting the credit spreads by +/10 basis points, which As the estimation of the parameters included in the models to calhas been assessed as a reasonable change of SEK’s credit spread. The culate the market value of Level 3-instruments is associated with analysis shows the impact of the non-observable market data on the subjectivity and uncertainty, SEK has, in accordance with IFRS 13, market value. In addition, the market value will be affected by observconducted an analysis of the difference in fair value of Level 3-instruable market data. ments using other established parameter values. Option models and The result of the analysis corresponds with SEK’s business model discounted cash flows are used to value the Level 3-instruments. For where issued securities are linked with a matched hedging derivative. Level 3-instruments with a longer duration where extrapolated disThis means that an increase or decrease in fair value of the issued secucount curves are used, a sensitivity analysis has been conducted with rity, excluding SEK’s own credit spread, is offset by an equally large regards to the interest. The revaluation of the portfolio is made using increase or decrease of fair value in the derivative because the underlyan interest rate shift of +/– 10 basis points. For the Level 3-instruments ing market data in the security is also used to evaluate the derivative. that are significantly affected by different types of correlations, which 98 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 13, continued Sensitivity analysis – level 3 Assets and liabilities December 31, 2016 Unobservable Range of estimates for Sensitivity Sensitivity Skr mn Fair Value input unobservable input1 Valuation method max min Interest rate 257 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 0 0 Sum other interest-bearing securities except loans 257 0 0 Equity -1,270 Correlation 0.74 (0.01) Option Model 3 -1 Interest rate 1,017 Correlation 0.09 (0.12) Option Model -220 207 FX -1,989 Correlation 0.83 (0.76) Option Model 31 -30 Other -162 Correlation 0.55 (0.04) Option Model 0 0 Sum derivatives, net -2,404 -186 176 Equity -21,515 Correlation 0.74 (0.01) Option Model -3 1 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 24 -24 Interest rate -26,224 Correlation 0.09 (0.12) Option Model 222 -211 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 125 -125 FX -4 Correlation 0.83 (0.76) Option Model -51 52 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 94 -94 Other -144 Correlation 0.55 (0.04) Option Model 0 0 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 2 -2 Sum senior securities issued -47,887 413 -403 Total effect on profit or loss2 227 -227 Sensitivity analysis – level 3 Assets and liabilities December 31, 2015 Unobservable Range of estimates for Sensitivity Sensitivity Skr mn Fair Value input unobservable input1 Valuation method max min Interest rate 261 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 0 0 Sum other interest-bearing securities except loans 261 0 0 Equity -997 Correlation 0.41 (0.74) Option Model -5 6 Interest rate 1,013 Correlation 0.18 (0.20) Option Model -179 175 FX -2,409 Correlation 0.71 (0.74) Option Model 51 -48 Other -158 Correlation 0.70(0.14) Option Model -1 1 Sum derivatives, net -2,551 -134 134 Equity -10,655 Correlation 0.41 (0.74) Option Model 5 -6 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 18 -18 Interest rate -23,865 Correlation 0.18 (0.20) Option Model 181 -174 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 110 -110 FX -4,049 Correlation 0.71 (0.74) Option Model -52 49 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 91 -91 Other -140 Correlation 0.70(0.14) Option Model 1 -1 Credit spreads 10BP (10BP) Discounted cash flow 5 -5 Sum senior securities issued -38,709 359 -356 Total effect on profit or loss2 225 -222 1 Represents the range of correlations that SEK has determined market participants would use when pricing the instruments. The structures are represented both in the security and the derivative hedging the bond. The sensitivity analysis is based on a shift in the interval for correlation between 0.1 and –0.1. The correlation is expressed as a value between 1 and –1, where 0 indicates no relationship, 1 indicates maximum positive relationship and -1 indicates maximum negative relationship. The maximum correlation in the range of unobservable inputs can thus be from 1 to –1. The table presents the scenario analysis of the effect on Level 3-instruments, with maximum positive and negative changes. 2 Of the total impact on profit or loss, the sensitivity effect of SEK’s own credit spread was Skr 244 million (year-end 2015: Skr 224 million) under a maximum scenario and Skr -244 million (year-end 2015: Skr -224 million) under a minimum scenario. SEK Annual Report 2016  99 Notes Note 14. Derivatives The amounts reported concern the Consolidated Group unless otherwise stated. The amounts reported for the Consolidated Group and the Parent Company are essentially the same. Derivatives by categories Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Assets Fair Liabilities Nominal Assets Fair Liabilities Nominal Skr mn value Fair value amounts value Fair value amounts Interest rate-related contracts 4,309 9,909 244,854 5,582 8,225 221,515 Currency-related contracts 7,115 10,302 137,656 6,548 13,745 116,290 Equity-related contracts 581 1,683 24,829 542 1,497 16,089 Contracts related to commodities, credit risk, etc. 178 2,662 164 1,978 Total derivatives 12,005 22,072 410,001 12,672 23,631 355,872 Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 of which derivatives used for economic ­hedges, accounted for as held-for-trading under IAS39 Assets Fair Liabilities Nominal Assets Fair Liabilities Nominal Skr mn value Fair value amounts value Fair value amounts Interest rate-related contracts 2,723 7,163 113,684 3,535 6,296 114,279 Currency-related contracts 3,120 6,841 94,521 2,136 9,671 71,631 Equity-related contracts 581 1,683 24,829 542 1,497 16,089 Contracts related to commodities, credit risk, etc. 178 2,662 164 1,978 Total derivatives 6,425 15,865 235,696 6,213 17,628 203,977 Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 of which derivatives used for hedge ­accounting Assets Fair Liabilities Nominal Assets Fair Liabilities Nominal Skr mn value Fair value amounts value Fair value amounts Interest rate-related contracts 1,586 2,746 131,170 2,047 1,929 107,236 Currency-related contracts 3,995 3,461 43,136 4,412 4,074 44,659 Equity-related contracts Contracts related to commodities, credit risk, etc. Total derivatives 5,581 6,207 174,306 6,459 6,003 151,895 of which cash-flow hedges of which fair-value hedges 5,581 6,207 174,306 6,459 6,003 151,895 Derivatives used as fair-value hedge Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 1 month 3 months 1 year ≤ Skr mn ≤ 1 month ≤ 3 months ≤ 1 year 5 years > 5 years Cash inflows (assets) 369 1,252 598 1,842 1,059 Cash outflows (liabilities) 130 -7 -234 -1,521 -702 Net cash inflow 499 1,245 364 321 357 Derivatives used as fair-value hedge Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 1 month 3 months 1 year ≤ Skr mn ≤ 1 month ≤ 3 months ≤ 1 year 5 years > 5 years Cash inflows (assets) 47 238 700 3,428 459 Cash outflows (liabilities) 8 56 -977 -1,526 -869 Net cash inflow 55 294 -277 1,902 -410 100 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 14, continued Cash-flow hedges reclassified to profit or loss during the by each counterparty in respect of all transactions outstanding in the year same currency under the agreement are aggregated into a single net amount payable by one party to the other. In certain circumstances, for Skr mn 2016 2015 example when a credit event such as a default occurs and all outstandInterest income 1691 217 ing transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination Interest expense value is assessed and only a single net amount is due or payable in settlement of all transactions. SEK endeavors to only enter into derivaTotal 169 217 tives transactions with counterparties in jurisdictions where such netting is enforceable when such events occur. 1 Relates to previously terminated cash flow hedges which compreThe above ISDA arrangements do not meet the criteria for offsetting hensive income are allocated over the previously hedged item’s in the statement of financial position. This is because such agreements remaining maturity. create a right of set-off of recognized amounts that is enforceable only following an event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of SEK or the In accordance with SEK’s policies with regard to counterparty, intercounterparties. In addition, SEK and its counterparties do not intend est rate, currency exchange-rate, and other exposures, SEK uses, and to settle on a net basis or to realize the assets and settle the liabilities is a party to, different kinds of derivative instruments, mostly various simultaneously. interest rate-related and currency exchange-rate-related contracts. The ISDA Master Netting Agreements are complemented by suppleThese contracts are carried at fair value in the statements of financial mentary agreements providing for the collateralization of counterposition on a contract-by-contract basis. party exposure. SEK receives and accepts collateral in the form of cash. SEK uses derivatives (primarily) to hedge risk exposure inherent in Such collateral is subject to the standard industry terms of ISDA Credit financial assets and liabilities. Derivatives are measured at fair value Support Annex. by using market quoted rates where available. If market quotes are not The disclosures set out in the tables below include financial assets available, valuation models are used. SEK uses models to adjust the and financial liabilities that are subject to an enforceable master netnet exposure fair value for changes in counterparties’ credit quality. ting arrangement or similar agreement that cover similar financial The models used include both directly observable and non-observable instruments. SEK only enters into derivative transactions that are submarket parameters. ject to enforceable master netting agreements or similar agreements. The majority of SEK’s derivative contracts are what are known as SEK has no financial assets or liabilities that are offset in the statement OTC (over the counter) derivatives, i.e. derivative contracts that are not of financial position. transacted on an exchange. SEK’s derivative transactions that are not transacted on an exchange are entered into under ISDA Master Netting Agreements. In general, under such agreements the amounts owed Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable netting arrangements and similar agreements master netting arrangements and similar agreements December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, 2016 2015 2016 2015 Skr mn Derivatives Derivatives Skr mn Derivatives Derivatives Gross amounts of recognized Gross amounts of recognized financial assets 12,005 12,672 financial liabilities 22,072 23,631 Amounts offset in the statement of Amounts offset in the statement of financial position financial position Net amounts of financial assets Net amounts of financial liabilities presented in the statement of presented in the statement of financial position 12,005 12,672 financial position 22,072 23,631 Amounts subject to an enforceable Amounts subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or master netting arrangement or similar agreement not offset in similar agreement not offset in the statement of financial position the statement of financial position related to: related to: Financial instruments -8,675 -8,733 Financial instruments -8,675 -8,733 Cash collateral received -3,104 -3,558 Cash collateral paid -8,854 -9,614 Net amount 226 381 Net amount 4,543 5,284 SEK Annual Report 2016  101 Notes Note 14, continued Note 15. Shares Venantius AB is domiciled in Stockholm, Sweden, and is wholly owned by AB Svensk Exportkredit. The net profit for the year amounts to Skr 0 million (2015: Skr 1 million). Dividend to parent company amounts to Skr 2 million (2015: Skr 8 million). Shares in subsidiaries December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Number of Number of Skr mn Book value shares Book value shares Venantius AB (reg no 556449-5116) 17 5,000,500 17 5,000,500 Note 16. Other assets Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Realized claim against the State 13 13 13 13 Unrealized claim against the State for revaluation of derivatives of the S-system 3,254 974 3,254 974 Cash receivables, funding operations 837 797 837 797 Other 63 70 63 70 Total 4,167 1,854 4,167 1,854 Note 17. Prepaid expenses and accrued revenues Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Interest revenues accrued 2,163 1,932 2,163 1,932 Prepaid expenses and other accrued revenues 21 40 21 40 Total 2,184 1,972 2,184 1,972 Note 18. Debt Consolidated Group Parent Company December 31, 2016 December 31, 2016 Total debt exTotal debt excluding ­senior cluding ­senior securities Total senior­ securities Total senior Skr mn issued ­securities issued Total issued ­securities issued Total Exchange-rate related contracts 42,052 42,052 42,052 42,052 Interest rate related contracts 3,756 183,090 186,846 3,756 183,090 186,846 Equity related contracts 23,906 23,906 23,906 23,906 Contracts related to raw materials, credit risk etc 144 144 144 144 Total debt outstanding 3,756 249,192 252,948 3,756 249,192 252,948 Of which denominated in: Swedish Kronor 1,594 1,594 Other currencies 251,354 251,354 102 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 18, continued December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Total debt exTotal debt excluding ­senior cluding ­senior securities Total senior­ securities Total senior Skr mn issued ­securities issued Total issued ­securities issued Total Exchange-rate related contracts 58,049 58,049 58,049 58,049 Interest rate related contracts 5,283 153,926 159,209 5,283 153,926 159,209 Equity related contracts 16,072 16,072 16,072 16,072 Contracts related to raw materials, credit risk etc 61 165 226 61 165 226 Total debt outstanding 5,344 228,212 233,556 5,344 228,212 233,556 Of which denominated in: Swedish Kronor 3,244 3,244 Other currencies 230,312 230,312 Contracts have been categorized based on the contracts’ main properties. If all properties were taken into account, a transaction could be contained in several categories. SEK has the following major Borrowing programs in place: Borrowing programs Value outstanding 1 Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Medium-term note program: Unlimited Euro Medium-Term Note Programme 111,358 117,239 Unlimited SEC-registered U.S. Medium-Term Note Programme 128,641 99,295 Unlimited Swedish Medium-Term Note Programme 371 247 Skr 8,000,000,000 Swedish Medium-Term Note Programme 105 Unlimited MTN/STN AUD Debt Issuance Programme 3,353 1,842 Commercial paper program: USD 3,000,000,000 U.S. Commercial Paper Programme 3,340 USD 4,000,000,000 Euro-Commercial Paper Programme 1,251 1 Amortized cost excluding fair value adjustments. Note 19. Other liabilities Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Cash payables, debt purchases 2,056 1,354 2,056 1,354 Other 318 283 318 283 Total 2,374 1,637 2,374 1,637 Note 20. Accrued expenses and prepaid revenues Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Interest expenses accrued 2,000 1,768 2,000 1,768 Other accrued expenses and prepaid revenues 36 144 36 144 Total 2,036 1,912 2,036 1,912 Note 21. Provisions Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Pension liabilities (see Note 5) 38 17 12 12 Long term employee benefit 4 13 4 13 Termination reserve 9 9 0 0 Total 51 39 16 25 SEK Annual Report 2016  103 Notes Note 22. Subordinated debt securities Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Fixed Rate Resettable Dated Subordinated Instruments1 2,266 2,088 2,266 2,088 Total subordinated debt outstanding 2,266 2,088 2,266 2,088 Of which denominated in: Swedish kronor Foreign currencies 2,266 2,088 2,266 2,088 2016 2015 2016 2015 Total räntekostnad 62 51 62 51 varav upplupen ränta2 9 8 9 8 1 Nominal value USD 250 million fixed rate resettable dated subordiarrears on May 14 and November 14 in each year commencing on May nated instruments due November 14, 2023 (the dated subordinated 14, 2019 and ending on the maturity date. instruments) were issued by SEK, 556084-0315, under the regulatory Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled, SEK’s framework in effect on November 14th, 2013 (the issue date) at a dated subordinated instruments will be redeemed at their principal price of 99.456 percent of the aggregate nominal amount. English amount on the maturity date. Subject to certain conditions as prolaw applies to the dated subordinated instruments. vided in the applicable terms and conditions, the dated subordinated SEK’s dated subordinated instruments will bear interest (i) from instruments may be redeemed at the option of SEK in whole, but (and including) the issue date, to (but excluding) November 14, 2018 not in part, (i) on the optional redemption date (call), (ii) at any (the optional redemption date (call)) at the rate of 2.875 per cent per time for certain withholding tax reasons or (iii) at any time upon annum payable semi annually in arrears on May 14 and November 14 the occurrence of a capital event (as defined in the applicable terms in each year commencing on May 14, 2014 and ending on November and conditions), in each case at their principal amount together 14, 2018 and (ii) from (and including) the optional redemption date with interest accrued to (but excluding) the date of redemption. (call) to (but excluding) November 14, 2023 (the maturity date) at a Redemption is subject to the prior consent of the Swedish Financial rate of 1.45 per cent per annum above the applicable swap rate for Supervisory Authority. USD swap transactions with a maturity of five years determined in 2 The accrued interest is attributable to subordinated borrowing and is accordance with market convention and payable semi-annually in included in ”Accrued expenses and prepaid revenues”. Subordinated debt means debt for which, in the event of the obligor being declared bankrupt, the holder would be repaid after other creditors, but before shareholders. Note 23. Equity Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Share capital 3,990 3,990 3,990 3,990 Legal reserve 198 198 Fund for internally developed software 29 Reserves/Fair value reserve Hedge reserve 96 228 96 228 Fair value reserve 35 -1 35 -1 Defined benefit plans -1 19 Retained earnings 13,016 12,592 10,811 9,862 Total Equity 17,136 16,828 15,159 14,277 The total number of shares is 3,990,000 with a quota value of Skr 1,000. positive changes in fair value amounted to Skr 4 million (2015: Skr 25 The hedge reserve comprises the cumulative effective portion million), Skr -37 million, (2015: Skr –22 million) represented interof hedging derivatives in connection with cash-flow hedges and is est-bearing securities with negative changes in fair value. reported in other comprehensive income. The hedge reserve is reported Fund for internally developed software represents expenses that are net after-tax. directly attributable to large investments in the development of IT sysThe fair value reserve is displayed as after-tax difference between tems. fair value and amortized cost recognized through other comprehensive The entire equity is attributable to the shareholder of the Parent income related to available-for-sale securities. In the cases in which an Company. asset available-for-sale is included in a hedge relationship, the reserve According to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Instituincludes the difference between the fair value and the amortized cost tions and Securities Companies, the non-distributable capital and the value revalued at fair value with regard to the risk being hedged. The distributable capital for the Consolidated Group at year-end are as foldifference normally consists of the cumulative change in the credit lows: spread. Of the reserve represented interest-bearing securities with 104 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 23, continued Consolidated Group Parent Company Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Restricted equity 6,218 6,744 4,217 4,188 Unrestricted equity 10,918 10,084 10,942 10,089 Total equity 17,136 16,828 15,159 14,277 The Legal reserve reported in the Parent Company represents preAt the disposal of the Annual General Meeting 10,942 vious demands for statutory provision to non-distributable capital. The Board of Directors proposes that the Annual The requirement was abolished January 1, 2006, and prior provisions General Meeting dispose of these funds as remain. For information on the objectives, policies and processes for follows: managing capital, see Report of the directors and the section on Risk Dividend to the shareholder of Skr 58.65 per share, and Capital Management. amounting to 234 Remaining disposable funds to be carried forward 10,708 Proposal for the distribution of profits The results of the Consolidated Group’s and the parent company’s operations during the year and its financial position at December 31, 2016, can be seen in the statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position and statement of cash flows for the Consolidated Group as well as the income statement, balance sheet and statement of cash flows for the parent company and related Notes. The following proposal regarding distribution of profits relates to the parent company. Note 24. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Collateral provided Cash collateral under the security agreements for derivative contracts 11,621 13,592 Contingent liabilities Guarantee commitments 3,027 4,081 Commitments Committed undisbursed loans 54,783 63,438 Binding offers 4,630 2,273 SEK Annual Report 2016  105 Notes Note 25. S-system Statement of financial position for the S-system In accordance with its mission in the owner’s instruction to the com(included in SEK’s statement of financial position) pany issued by the Swedish State, SEK manages the granting of loans in the Swedish State’s export credit support system, and the State’s December 31, December 31, related aid credit program (together the “S-system”). SEK adminSkr mn 2016 2015 isters the S-system for a compensation of 0.25 percent per year on Cash and cash equivalents 55 1 credit amounts outstanding at each date. The remuneration from the Loans 50,793 44,077 S-system to SEK in accordance with the owner’s instruction, which Derivatives 321 213 amounted to Skr 116 million for the period (2015: Skr 123 million), is Other assets 3,414 1,133 shown as a part of interest revenues in the statement of comprehensive income for SEK, see Note 1(f). The other items in the statement of Prepaid expenses and accrued revenues 352 328 comprehensive income for the S-system are not included in the statement of comprehensive income for SEK. The assets and liabilities of the Total assets 54,935 45,752 S-system are included in SEK’s statement of financial position. CIRR loans (Commercial Interest Reference Rate) represent one of the two Liabilities 50,982 44,215 loan types in the S-system, the other being concessionary loans. The Derivatives 3,576 1,186 net result in the S-system for 2016 amounted to Skr 182 million (2015: Accrued expenses and Skr 112 million), of which the net result for the CIRR loans represented prepaid revenues 377 351 Skr 235 million (2015: Skr 164 million). Equity Total liabilities and equity 54,935 45,752 Statement of comprehensive income for the S-system Commitments Skr mn 2016 2015 Committed undisbursed Interest revenues 1,185 1,222 loans 49,080 54,638 Interest expenses -1,012 -1,001 Binding offers 2,911 2,273 Net interest revenues 173 221 Interest compensation 121 13 Remuneration to SEK -116 -123 Foreign exchange effects 4 1 Reimbursement to (-) / from (+) the State -182 -112 Net result 0 0 Results under the S-System by type of loan CIRR loans Concessionary loans Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net interest revenues 224 271 -51 -50 Interest compensation 121 13 Remuneration to SEK -114 -120 -2 -2 Foreign exchange effects 4 0 Total 235 164 -53 -52 106 SEK Annual Report 2016 Notes Note 26. Capital adequacy Capital adequacy analysis Group Parent Company December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Capital ratios excl. of buffer requirements1 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 22.1% 21.6% 22.1% 21.6% Tier 1 capital ratio 22.1% 21.6% 22.1% 21.6% Total capital ratio 25.1% 24.5% 25.1% 24.5% Institution specific Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement incl. buffers2 8.0% 7.7% 8.0% 7.7% of which Capital conservation buffer 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% of which Countercyclical Buffer 1.0% 0.7% 1.0% 0.7% of which Systemic Risk Buffer Common Equity Tier 1 capital available to meet institution specific requirement3 20.6% 20.1% 20.6% 20.1% Total capital ratio according to Basel I floor4 22.8% 23.4% 22.8% 23.4% 1  apital ratios excl. of buffer requirements are the quotients of the relevant capital measure and the total risk exposure amount. The mini-mum C requirements according to CRR, which without regard to transitional period already have come into force in Sweden, are 4.5 percent, 6.0 percent and 8.0 percent for Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total Own Funds, respectively. 2 Inclusive of the minimum requirement of 4.5 percent, expressed as a percentage of total risk exposure amount. 3 Common Equity Tier 1 capital, as a percentage of the total risk exposure amount, available to meet the institution specific Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement. SEK does not have any additional Tier 1 capital, hence Common Equity Tier 1 capital is required to meet the difference between the minimum requirements on Tier 1 capital and Common Equity Tier 1 capital with the result that this indicator is 1.5 percentage points less than the Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio. 4 Refers to the so called Basel I floor. The minimum requirement is 8.0 percent. SEK Annual report 2016  107 Notes continued, Note 26 Own funds – adjusting items Consolidated Group Parent Company December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, Skr mn 2016 2015 2016 2015 Share capital 1 3,990 3,990 3,990 3,990 Retained earnings 12,236 11,404 9,477 8,667 Accumulated other comperehensive income and other reserves 130 247 358 425 Independently reviewed profit net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 546 830 1,100 840 Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital before regulatory adjustments 16,902 16,471 14,925 13,922 Equity-portions of untaxed reserves 2,000 2,556 Additional value adjustments due to prudent valuation -444 -429 -444 -429 Intangible assets -101 -109 -101 -111 Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash-flow hedges -96 -228 -96 -228 Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing 281 290 281 290 Total regulatory adjustments to Common Equity Tier 1 capital -360 -476 1,640 2,078 Total Common Equity Tier 1 capital 16,542 15,995 16,565 16,000 Additional Tier 1 capital Total Tier 1 capital 16,542 15,995 16,565 16,000 Tier 2-eligible subordinated debt2 2,267 2,088 2,267 2,088 Credit risk adjustments3 12 9 12 9 Total Tier 2 capital 2,279 2,097 2,279 2,097 Total Own funds 18,821 18,092 18,844 18,097 Total Own funds according to Basel I floor 18,809 18,083 18,832 18,088 1 For a detailed description of the instruments constituting equity, see Note 23. 2 For a detailed description of the instruments constituting Tier 2-eligible subordinated debt, see Note 22. 3 Expected loss amount calculated according to the IRB-approach is a gross deduction from own funds. The gross deduction is decreased by impairment related to exposures for which expected loss is calculated. Excess amounts of such impairment will increase own funds. This increase is limited to 0.6 percent of SEK’s risk exposure amount according to the IRB-approach related to exposures to corporates and financial institutions. As of December 31, 2016, the limitation rule had no effect (year-end 2015: no effect). 108 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes continued, Note 26 Minimum capital requirements exclusive of buffers Consolidated Group Parent Company December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Risk Min. Risk Min. Risk Min. Risk Min. exposure capital exposure ­capital exposure capital exposure ­capital Skr mn EAD1 amount req. EAD amount req. EAD amount req. EAD amount req. Credit risk standardized method Central governments 145,531 963 77 141,235 760 61 145,531 963 77 141,235 760 61 Regional governments 19,904 13,999 19,904 13,999 Multilateral development banks 1,900 24 1,900 24 Corporates 1,450 1,450 116 1,441 1,441 115 1,450 1,450 116 1,440 1,440 115 Total credit risk stan-dardized method 168,785 2,413 193 156,699 2,201 176 168,785 2,413 193 156,698 2,200 176 Credit risk IRB method Financial institutions2 44,947 14,089 1,127 51,805 16,437 1,315 44,926 14,084 1,127 51,782 16,431 1,314 Corporates3 95,519 51,104 4,088 81,575 46,990 3,760 95,519 51,104 4,088 81,575 46,990 3,759 Securitization positions 756 241 19 756 241 19 Assets without counterparty 123 123 10 129 129 10 139 139 11 146 146 12 Total credit risk IRB method 140,589 65,316 5,225 134,265 63,797 5,104 140,584 65,327 5,226 134,259 63,808 5,105 Credit valuation adjustment risk n.a. 2,526 202 n.a. 2,403 192 n.a. 2,526 202 n.a. 2,403 192 Foreign exchange-rate risks n.a. 999 81 n.a. 1,570 126 n.a. 999 81 n.a. 1,570 126 Commodities risk n.a. 14 1 n.a. 19 1 n.a. 14 1 n.a. 19 1 Operational risk n.a. 3,669 293 n.a. 3,969 318 n.a. 3,668 293 n.a. 3,958 317 Total 309,374 74,937 5,995 290,964 73,959 5,917 309,369 74,947 5,996 290,957 73,958 5,917 Adjustment according to Basel I floor n.a. 7,572 606 n.a. 3,262 261 n.a. 7,586 607 n.a. 3,272 261 Total incl. Basel I floor n.a. 82,509 6,601 n.a. 77,221 6,178 n.a. 82,533 6,603 n.a. 77,230 6,178 1 Exposure at default (EAD) shows the size of the outstanding exposure at default. 2 Of which counterparty risk in derivatives: EAD 4,515 million (year-end 2015: Skr 4,138 million), Risk exposure amount of Skr 1,784 million (yearend 2015: Skr 1,656 million) and Capital requirement of Skr 143 million (year-end 2015: Skr 132 million). 3 Of which related to specialized lending: EAD Skr 2,853 million (year-end 2015: Skr 4,085 million), Risk exposure amount of Skr 1,942 million (year-end 2015: Skr 2,806 million) and Capital requirement of Skr 155 million (year-end 2015: 224 million). SEK Annual report 2016  109 Notes continued, Note 26 Credit risk by PD grade The tables illustrate the exposure at default (EAD), the portion of the exposure that will be lost in the event of a default (LGD) and the probability of default or cancellation of payments by a counterparty (PD) for the exposure classes where PD is estimated internally. Average PD is calculated without consideration of PD floors. Average PD and LGD are weighted by EAD, average risk weight is the quotient of risk exposure amount and EAD. The amounts reported concern the Con-solidated Group, the amounts for the Parent Company are essentially the same. December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Consolidated Group AAA BBB+ to AAA BBB+ to to AAA+ to BBB– BB+ to CCC to D to AAA+ to BBB– BB+ to CCC to D 0.01%A– 0.05– 0.17– B–0.54– 28.60– 0.01%A– 0.05– 0.17– B–0.58– 28.52– Skr mn 0.04% 0.12% 0.34% 8.40% 100% 0.04% 0.12% 0.35% 8.68% 100% Financial institutions EAD 9,198 32,664 1,814 1,271 13,072 34,287 2,004 2,442 Average PD in % 0.04 0.08 0.20 0.84 0.04 0.08 0.22 0.58 Average LGD in % 36.7 43.3 45.0 45.0 41.3 40.9 45.0 45.0 Average risk weight in % 19.6 29.6 61.8 117.8 21.6 28.6 64.9 102.3 Corporates EAD 5,516 20,690 46,118 20,285 57 3,614 16,073 36,940 20,784 79 Average PD in % 0.03 0.10 0.24 0.87 81.32 0.04 0.11 0.22 0.94 79.71 Average LGD in % 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 45.0 Average risk weight in % 18.6 32.1 50.3 89.9 69.0 18.6 33.8 52.1 93.2 74.8 Credit risks Operational risks For risk classification and quantification of credit risk, SEK uses an Capital requirement for operational risk is calculated according to the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach. The Swedish Financial Superstandardized approach. The company’s operations are divided into visory Authority has approved SEK’s IRB approach. Specifically, SEK business areas as defined in the CRR. The capital requirement for each applies the Foundation Approach. Under the Foundation Approach, area is calculated by multiplying a factor depending on the business the company determines the probability of default within one year area by an income indicator. The factors applicable for SEK are 15 per(PD) of each of its counterparties, while the remaining parameters are cent and 18 percent. The income indicators consist of the average operestablished in accordance with CRR. Certain exposures are, by perating income for the past three financial years for each business area. mission from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, exempted from application of the IRB approach, and, instead, the standardized Transitional rules approach is applied. SEK has applied to the Swedish Financial SuperCRR states that the previously applicable transitional rules, i.e. the visory Authority for approval of an IRB approach for most of the expoBasel I floor, will continue to apply until year-end 2017. According to sures which currently are exempted and calculated according to the the transitional rules, the capital requirement should be calculated in standardized approach. For further information regarding these expoparallel on the basis of the Basel I rules. To the extent that the Basel sures see section “Risk measurement” in note 27. Minimum capital I-based capital requirement, reduced to 80 percent, exceeds the capirequirements for these exposures will increase when an IRB approach tal requirement based on CRR, the capital requirement under the above is applied. Counterparty risk exposure amounts in derivatives are calmentioned Basel I-based rules should constitute the minimum capital culated in accordance with the mark-to-market method. requirement. Credit valuation adjustment risk Capital buffer requirements Credit valuation adjustment risk shall be calculated for all OTC derivSEK shall meet capital buffer requirements with Common Equity ative contracts, except for credit derivatives used as credit protection Tier 1 capital. SEK has not been classified as a systemically important and transactions with a qualifying central counterparty. SEK calculates institution. The capital buffer requirements for systemically importthis capital requirement according to the standardized method. ant institutions that entered into force January 1, 2016 will hence not apply to SEK. There is no systemic risk buffer applicable for SEK that is Foreign exchange-rate risks active at the moment. A countercyclical capital buffer rate of 1.5 perForeign exchange-rate risk is calculated according to the standardized cent is applied to exposures located in Sweden as of June 27, 2016 and approach, whereas the scenario approach is used for calculating the going forward. As of December 31, 2016 the capital requirement related gamma and volatility risks. to exposures in Sweden is 69 percent (year-end 2015: 65 percent) of total capital requirement regardless of location, this fraction is also Commodities risk the weight applied on the Swedish buffer rate when calculating SEK’s Capital requirements for commodity risk are calculated in accordance countercyclical capital buffer. The Swedish countercyclical capital with the simplified approach under the standardised approach. The buffer rate will increase to 2 percent as of March 19, 2017. Buffer rates scenario approach is used for calculating the gamma and volatility activated in other countries may have effects on SEK, but as most caprisks. ital requirements from relevant credit exposures are related to Sweden the potential effect is limited. As of December 31, 2016 the contribution to SEK’s countercyclical capital buffer from buffer rates in other countries was 0.01 percentage points (year-end 2015: 0.01 percentage points). 110 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes continued, Note 26 Leverage ratio Note 27. Risk information For further information on SEK’s risk management, see the Risk and Consolidated Group capital management section, on pages 40–46. Skr mn December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 The amounts reported concern the Consolidated Group unless othExposure measure for the erwise stated. Under the supervisory regulations, the consolidated sitleverage ratio uation for SEK does not differ from the consolidation made under the consolidated accounts. The amounts reported for the Consolidated On-balance sheet Group and the Parent Company are essentially the same. exposures 278,324 256,889 The table of credit quality as per category in the statement of finanOff-balance sheet cial position and the table illustrating the link between the statement exposures 35,626 39,161 of financial position categories and exposures according to the CRR Total exposure measure 313,950 296,050 contain carrying amounts. Other tables show amounts in accordance Leverage ratio 5.3% 5.4% with the capital adequacy calculations, however before application of conversion factors. A leverage ratio measure has been introduced by the CRR, starting in 2015. Currently, there is no minimum requirement as to what a comCredit risk pany’s leverage ratio should be. The leverage ratio is defined as the Credit risk is the risk of the loss that could occur if a borrower or party in quotient of the Tier 1 capital and an exposure measure. The exposure another agreement cannot meet its obligations under the contractual measure consists of assets and off-balance sheet credit risk exposures, terms and conditions. Credit risk also includes counterparty risk, conthe latter of which are weighted with a factor depending on the type of centration risk and settlement risk. SEK’s credit risks are limited using exposure. Special treatment is given to for, inter alia, derivatives. a risk-based selection of counterparties and are further mitigated by the use of guarantees, netting agreements, collateral and credit derivatives. SEK’s appetite for credit risk is significantly greater than its Internally assessed economic capital excl. buffer appetite for other risks. Consolidated Group Skr mn December 31,2016 December 31, 2015 Risk management The Risk Policy and the Credit Policy form the foundation for risk manCredit risk 7,481 7,944 agement. Risk level is limited through risk reduction measures and Operational risk 182 318 setting limits. Market risk 1,597 1,447 Other risks 258 238 Credit Policy The Risk Policy and the Credit Policy issued by the Board, and the Credit Total 9,518 9,947 Instruction issued by the Board’s Credit Committee are the foundations SEK regularly conducts an internal capital adequacy assessment proupon which SEK’s credit risk management is based. These governing cess, during which the company determines how much capital is documents constitute the framework for the level of credit risk that needed in order to cover its risks. The result of SEK’s assessment of SEK can accept and describe the decision-making structure and credcapital adequacy is presented above. For more information regarding it-decision mandate, the credit process, fundamental principles for the internal capital adequacy assessment process and its methods, loan limits and the management of problem loans. The norm is a core please see the Risk and capital management section. concept for SEK’s credit granting and clarifies expectations in terms of credit quality. For a business transaction to be considered to fall within the norm, it is necessary for the proposition to satisfy the requirements for all of the following areas: 1. Operational criteria 2. Norm for risk level 3. Norm for lending terms 4. Know your customer (KYC) 5. Sustainability foundation The Board determines the risk strategy, including the credit strategy and risk appetite, and the overall limits within which the company is to operate. All credit decisions are to be made in line with the decision-making mandate structure established by the Board for delegated decision-making. SEK’s credit-decision structure and established mandates build on a decision-making structure based on the duality principle, thus ensuring thorough analysis and assessment of all credit propositions. Risk reduction SEK limits its credit risk by means of a methodical and risk-based selection of counterparties. The credit risk is further reduced through hedging various credit risks, in the form of guarantees, netting agreements, collateral and credit derivatives. The guarantors are predominantly government export credit agencies in the OECD, of which the Swedish Export Credits Guarantee Board (EKN) is the largest. Guarantees are also received from financial institutions and, to a lesser extent, non-financial corporations and insurance companies. Since the credit risk is allocated to a guarantor, SEK’s guaranteed credit-risk exposure in reports of its net credit risk expoSEK Annual report 2016  111 Notes Note 27, continued sure largely consists of exposure to government counterparties. To a that for these exposures SEK uses its own estimates of the probability lesser extent, credit protection is achieved through purchases of credit of default (PD) risk parameter which, per counterparty, reflects the default swaps (CDS). assigned internal rating. Other risk parameters, including loss given The counterparty risk associated with derivative contracts is always default (LGD) and credit conversion factors (CCF), are determined by documented using ISDA Master Agreements, which also entail a netthe Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR). All of SEK’s counterparting agreement, with the support of collateral agreements in the form ties are assigned an internal risk rating, apart from those cases where of a credit support annex (CSA). Approved collateral under the CSAs the Swedish FSA has granted SEK exemption from adopting the IRB signed by SEK always takes the form of liquid assets. approach. SEK’s permission from the Swedish FSA to use a foundaSEK also uses various types of collateral to reduce credit risks pertion IRB approach encompasses exposures to companies, including taining to certain types of credit granting. While collateral can be siginsurance companies and financial institutions. The Swedish FSA has nificant for individual transactions, it has limited impact on the total permitted SEK to apply certain exceptions from the IRB approach. The lending portfolio. exempted exposures, for which the standardized approach is used instead, are as follows: Limit setting and monitoring • Export credits guaranteed by the Swedish Export Credits GuaranSEK utilizes limits to restrict credit risks to a specified level. Limits tee Board (EKN) and equivalent export credit agencies in the OECD express the highest permissible exposure to a counterparty for spe(time-limited exception valid through December 31, 2018) cific tenors and for various types of exposures, such as corporate lend• Exposures to the Swedish government and Swedish regional goving, guarantees, counterparty risk in derivative contracts or liquidity ernments or county councils investments. Exposures must be encompassed within the limits that • Exposures to foreign governments, foreign regional governments have been decided for the particular counterparties. All limits are and multilateral development banks (time-limited exception valid reviewed at least once annually. Exposures assessed as problem loans, through March 30, 2017) meaning those for which SEK assesses that there is a high probability • Exposures in the Customer Finance business area (exception valid as that the undertaking according to the original agreement will not be long as these exposures are of minor importance in terms of scope fulfilled, are analyzed in greater detail and more frequently. The intenand risk profile) tion is to identify at an early stage exposures subject to an elevated risk • Guarantees for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises of loss and to adapt the exposure and ensure that the risk rating reflects (exception valid as long as these exposures are of minor importance the actual risk associated with the particular counterparty. in terms of scope and risk profile) SEK’s exposures are analyzed and reported regularly in respect of SEK has applied for permission from the Swedish FSA to apply the IRB risk concentration based on (i) the size of individual commitments, approach for exposures to the Swedish government, Swedish regional (ii) domicile and (iii) sector. The analysis refers to both direct expogovernments and county councils, and for exposures encompassed sure and indirect exposure from, for example, credit derivatives. The by the time-limited exceptions. Until such time as these permissions concentration risks mentioned above are reflected in SEK’s calculahave been granted, the standardized approach is applied for these tion of economic capital for credit risks, which leads to a higher capital exposures. requirement compared with the minimum capital requirement. When calculating capital requirements, the minimum capital requirement does not take concentration risks into account. Counterparty risk in derivative contracts Counterparty risk in derivative contracts — which is a type of credit For the purpose of monitoring and checking large exposures, SEK risk — arises when derivatives are used to manage risks. To limit this has defined internal limits, which impose further limitations on the risk, SEK enters into such transactions solely with counterparties with size of such exposures in addition to those stated in the CRR. The credit strong credit ratings. Risk is further reduced by SEK’s entering into portfolio is subject to regular stress tests. ISDA Master Agreements (ISDAs), with associated CSAs, with its counSEK’s risk and product rating, and risk estimates, comprise a central terparties before entering into derivative contracts. These bilateral feature of the reporting of credit risk to the Board, the Risk and CompliCSAs mean that the highest permitted risk levels, in relation to each ance Committee and the Credit Committee. The Chief Executive Officer individual counterparty, are agreed in advance. The formulation of and the Chief Risk Officer inform the Board of all significant changes these agreements is designed to ensure that agreed risk levels (known concerning SEK’s IRB system. SEK’s IRB system is validated by Risk at as threshold amounts) are not exceeded, regardless of market value least once annually. changes that may occur. ISDA and CSA agreements are reviewed continuously to be able to renegotiate the terms as necessary. For counterRisk measurement party exposures that exceed the threshold amounts under the relevant SEK uses, and has permission to use, a foundation internal ratCSAs due to market value changes, settlement is demanded so that the ings-based approach (IRB approach) for measuring the credit risk counterparty exposure is reduced to the pre-agreed level. inherent in exposures to a majority of SEK’s counterparties. This means 112 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes Note 27, continued Risk disclosures, credit risk The table below shows the maximum credit exposure. Nominal amounts are shown, apart from derivatives, which are recognized at the carrying amount December 31, 2016 Consolidated Group Maximum credit-risk exposure Assets at fair value Available-for-sale Loans and accounts Skr million through profit or loss assets receivable Cash and cash equivalents 7,054 Treasuries/government bonds 3,673 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 1,451 48,228 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 262 45,284 Loans to credit institutions 26,187 Loans to the public 201,974 Derivatives 12,005 Total financial assets 13,718 51,901 280,499 December 31, 2015 Consolidated Group Maximum credit-risk exposure Assets at fair value Available-for-sale Loans and accounts Skr million through profit or loss assets receivable Cash and cash equivalents 2,258 Treasuries/government bonds 2,005 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 1,481 37,965 1,210 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 708 46,773 Loans to credit institutions 29,750 Loans to the public 203,622 Derivatives 12,672 Total financial assets 14,861 39,970 283,613 Maximum credit-risk exposure for loans to credit institutions and loans to the public includes committed but undisbursed loans at year end, which are recognized in nominal amounts. The table below shows the credit quality following risk mitigation (net) per row in the statement of financial position. The figures pertain to carrying amounts. SEK uses guarantees, CDSs and insurance policies as credit risk hedges; also refer to the Risk and capital management section. Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 Skr million AAA AA+ to ABBB+ to BBBBB+ to BCCC to D Carrying amount Cash and cash equivalents 3,825 3,229 7,054 Treasuries/government bonds 442 3,245 3,687 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 18,003 31,896 12 -10 49,901 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 480 14,483 26,786 4,473 46,222 Loans to credit institutions 8,762 12,126 3,739 1,563 26,190 Loans to the public 79,643 30,213 21,172 16,840 41 147,909 Derivatives 9,912 2,093 12,005 Total financial assets 111,155 105,104 53,802 22,866 41 292,968 Committed undisbursed loans 50,604 2,631 871 677 54,783 SEK Annual report 2016  113 Notes Note 27, continued Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 Skr million AAA AA+ to ABBB+ to BBBBB+ to BCCC to D Carrying amount Cash and cash equivalents 2,258 2,258 Treasuries/government bonds 1,586 420 2,006 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 7,550 32,384 897 40,831 Loans in the form of interest-bearing securities 3,804 15,862 22,469 5,972 48,107 Loans to credit institutions 9,403 17,133 760 2,480 29,776 Loans to the public 78,698 29,415 17,631 15,005 57 140,806 Derivatives 12,091 581 12,672 Total financial assets 101,041 109,563 42,338 23,457 57 276,456 Committed undisbursed loans 59,227 1,980 1,025 1,206 63,438 The credit quality of financial assets is assessed using internal and external ratings. The table below illustrates the link between the statement of financial position categories and net exposures according to CRR. Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 CarAdjustment from Central Regional Multilateral rying carrying amount to governgoverndevelopment Financial CorpoSecuritization Skr bn amount exposure1 ments ments banks institutions rates positions Treasuries/government bonds 3.7 3.7 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 49.9 0.3 6.3 13.0 1.9 22.6 6.4 Loans in the form of interestbearing securities 46.2 0.2 0.6 3.9 41.9 Loans to credit institutions including cash and cash equivalents1 33.2 -11.8 6.9 6.2 7.6 0.7 Loans to the public 147.9 0.9 96.6 0.7 5.8 45.7 Derivatives 12.0 -7.5 4.5 Other assets 3.3 3.3 Total financial assets 296.2 -17.9 117.4 19.9 1.9 44.4 94.7 Contingent liabilities and Commitments2 62.4 56.3 0.8 5.3 Total 358.6 -17.9 173.7 19.9 1.9 45.2 100.0 Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 CarAdjustment from Central Regional Multilateral rying carrying amount to governgoverndevelopment Financial CorpoSecuritization Skr bn amount exposure1 ments ments banks institutions rates positions Treasuries/government bonds 2.0 2.0 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 40.8 0.2 4.5 6.4 27.7 1.6 0.8 Loans in the form of interestbearing securities 48.1 0.1 4.4 5.6 38.2 Loans to credit institutions including cash and cash equivalents1 32.1 -13.6 3.6 6.5 8.3 0.1 Loans to the public 140.8 0.7 94.4 1.1 5.5 40.5 Derivatives 12.7 -8.5 4.2 Other assets 1.0 1.0 Total financial assets 277.5 -21.1 109.9 14.0 51.3 80.4 0.8 Contingent liabilities and Commitments2 69.8 62.7 0.8 6.3 Total 347.3 -21.1 172.6 14.0 52.1 86.7 0.8 1 Skr 11.6 billion (2015: Skr 13.6 billion) of the book value for Loans to credit institutions is Cash collateral under the security agreements for derivative contracts. 2 Contingent liabilities and Commitments, except cash collateral. 114 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes Note 27, continued Derivative exposure after netting under current ISDA Master Agreements in accordance with the CRR’s management of the counterparty risk in derivative contracts amounts to Skr 3.3 billion (2015: SEK 3.9 billion). For more information on the counterparty risk in derivative contracts under the CRR, refer to the Risk and capital management section. Total credit exposures in the Group According to the internal risk follow-up, the amounts agree with the Net exposures are recognized after taking the impact of guarantees and capital adequacy calculations, although without the application of credit derivatives into account. Gross exposures are recognized withconversion factors. In tables showing the geographical breakdown of out taking the impact of guarantees and credit derivatives into account. exposures, North America is shown excluding Central America. Total net exposures Interest-bearing securities Committed undisbursed loans, Skr bn and lending derivatives, etc. Total December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Exposure class Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % Central governments 117.3 42.9 109.9 43.6 56.4 84.1 62.7 84.6 173.7 51.0 172.6 52.9 Regional governments 19.9 7.3 14.0 5.6 19.9 5.8 14.0 4.3 Multilateral development banks 1.9 0.7 0.0 0.0 1.9 0.6 0.0 0.0 Financial institutions 39.8 14.5 47.0 18.5 5.4 8.0 5.0 7.0 45.2 13.2 52.0 16.0 Corporates 94.7 34.6 80.6 32.0 5.3 7.9 6.2 8.4 100.0 29.4 86.8 26.6 Securitization positions 0.8 0.3 0.8 0.2 Total 273.6 100.0 252.3 100.0 67.1 100.0 73.9 100.0 340.7 100.0 326.2 100.0 Geographical breakdown of credit exposures by exposure class Geographical breakdown of gross exposures by exposure class, at December 31, 2016 Western Central Middle Europe and East/­ Asia excl. North Latin excl. Eastern Skr bn Africa Japan Japan America Oceania America Sweden Sweden Europe Total Central governments 2.1 8.2 2.8 43.1 10.0 3.2 69.4 Regional governments 0.6 11.5 1.7 0.0 13.8 Multilateral development banks 1.9 1.9 Public Sector Entity 0.4 0.4 Financial Institutions 1.9 1.3 0.9 8.3 0.6 1.3 11.8 16.5 0.3 42.9 Corporates 20.7 17.9 2.7 30.7 0.2 12.3 72.0 45.6 10.2 212.3 Total 25.7 27.4 6.4 39.0 0.8 56.7 105.3 68.9 10.5 340.7 Geographical breakdown of gross exposures by exposure class, at December 31, 2015 Western Central Middle Europe and East/AfAsia excl. North Latin excl. Eastern Skr bn rica Japan Japan America Oceania America Sweden Sweden Europe Total Central governments 2.2 9.9 1.3 42.8 1.2 2.2 59.6 Regional governments 0.6 5.6 1.1 0.0 7.3 Multilateral development banks 0.0 0.0 Financial institutions 2.5 4.7 0.0 4.7 2.2 2.1 13.4 17.6 0.4 47.6 Corporates 20.1 19.9 3.8 26.6 0.3 12.5 67.7 48.7 11.3 210.9 Securitization positions 0.8 0.8 Total 25.4 34.5 3.8 32.6 2.5 57.4 87.9 70.4 11.7 326.2 SEK Annual report 2016  115 Notes Note 27, continued Geographical breakdown of net exposures by exposure class, at December 31, 2016 Western Central Middle Europe and East/AfAsia excl. North Latin excl. Eastern Skr bn rica Japan Japan America Oceania America Sweden Sweden Europe Total Central governments 3.6 2.8 3.8 0.9 140.7 18.6 3.3 173.7 Regional governments 18.0 1.9 19.9 Multilateral development banks 1.9 1.9 Financial institutions 1.1 1.4 9.2 0.6 1.3 7.2 24.1 0.3 45.2 Corporates 3.9 1.8 1.4 2.4 3.2 68.7 18.4 0.2 100.0 Total 3.9 6.5 5.6 15.4 0.6 5.4 234.6 64.9 3.8 340.7 Geographical breakdown of net exposures by exposure class, at December 31, 2015 Western Central Middle Europe and East/AfAsia excl. North Latin excl. Eastern Skr bn rica Japan Japan America Oceania America Sweden Sweden Europe Total Central governments 4.9 5.9 0.8 137.6 20.3 3.1 172.6 Regional governments 12.7 1.3 14.0 Multilateral development banks 0.0 0.0 Financial institutions 2.5 4.6 0.5 3.9 2.2 2.1 8.6 27.2 0.4 52.0 Corporates 1.1 1.4 0.5 5.5 1.8 60.0 16.3 0.2 86.8 Securitization positions 0.8 0.8 Total 3.6 10.9 1.0 15.3 2.2 4.7 218.9 65.9 3.7 326.2 Impact of credit risk hedges by exposure class and hedge type The table below shows, on the basis of gross exposure class, a breakdown based on whether the amounts are covered or are not covered by credit risk hedges in the form of guarantees or credit derivatives that are included in the capital adequacy calculations. Credit insurance issued by insurance companies is thus counted as guarantees. Hedged amounts have been divided up in accordance with the hedge issuer’s exposure class and type of hedge. Accordingly, the tables show the hedge types that convert gross exposures to net exposures. Impact of credit risk hedges, at December 31, 2016 Gross exposures by exposure class Central Regional Multilateral Financial Public Securigoverngoverndevelopment instituCorpoSector tization Skr bn ments ments banks tions rates Entity positions Total Amounts related to hedges issued by: Central governments 51.2 0.6 2.6 100.7 0.4 155.5 of which, guarantees issued by the EKN 49.8 0.6 2.3 77.4 0.4 130.5 of which, guarantees issued by other export credit agencies 1.4 0.3 19.6 21.3 of which, other guarantees 3.7 3.7 Regional governments 0.0 6.3 0.4 6.7 Financial institutions 0.0 0.0 0.1 11.2 11.3 of which, credit default swaps 0.0 2.5 2.5 of which, guarantees 0.0 0.0 0.1 8.7 8.8 Corporates 0.0 3.2 3.2 of which, credit insurance from insurance companies 2.5 2.5 of which, other guarantees 0.0 0.7 0.7 Total hedged exposures 51.2 0.6 9.0 115.5 0.4 176.7 Unhedged exposures1 18.2 13.2 1.9 33.9 96.8 164.0 Total 69.4 13.8 1.9 42.9 212.3 0.4 340.7 1 Exposures whereby the hedge issuer belongs to the same group as the counterparty in the unhedged exposure have been reported as “Unhedged exposures”. The amounts for these were Skr 20.0 billion for corporates and Skr 0.2 billion for financial institutions. 116 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes Note 27, continued Impact of credit risk hedges, at December 31, 2015 Gross exposures by exposure class Central Regional Multilateral Securigoverngoverndevelopment Financial tization Skr bn ments ments banks institutions Corporates positions Total Amounts related to hedges issued by: Central governments 51.3 0.6 1.9 110.5 164.3 of which, guarantees issued by the EKN 49.9 0.6 1.5 84.3 136.3 of which, guarantees issued by other export credit agencies 1.4 0.4 21.9 23.7 of which, other guarantees 4.3 4.3 Regional governments 0.0 6.7 0.6 7.3 Financial institutions 0.0 0.0 0.0 13.0 13.0 of which, credit default swaps 4.0 4.0 of which, guarantees 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.0 9.0 Corporates 0.1 0.0 2.0 2.1 of which, credit insurance from insurance companies 1.3 1.3 of which, other guarantees 0.1 0.0 0.7 0.8 Total hedged exposures 51.3 0.7 8.6 126.1 186.7 Unhedged exposures 1 8.3 6.7 0.0 38.9 84.8 0.8 139.5 Total 59.6 7.4 0.0 47.5 210.9 0.8 326.2 1 Exposures whereby the hedge issuer belongs to the same group as the counterparty in the unhedged exposure have been reported as “Unhedged exposures”. The amounts for these were Skr 17.6 billion for corporates and Skr 1.3 billion for financial institutions. SEK Annual report 2016  117 Notes Note 27, continued Gross exposures Europe, excluding Sweden, breakdown by exposure class, at December 31, 2016 Central Regional Multilateral Financial Skr mdr ­governments ­governments ­development banks institutions Corporates Total Spain 0.1 18.0 18.1 United Kingdom 4.1 4.0 8.1 Finland 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.4 6.2 7.6 Denmark 1.5 2.4 3.2 7.1 Russia 6.6 6.6 The Netherlands 2.3 2.7 5.0 France 1.6 3.2 4.8 Norway 2.9 1.9 4.8 Luxembourg 1.9 1.3 0.0 1.2 4.4 Poland 3.3 3.3 Italy 2.3 2.3 Germany 0.5 1.7 2.2 Switzerland 1.0 0.8 1.8 Ireland 1.1 1.1 Iceland 0.6 0.6 Austria 0.5 0.0 0.5 Latvia 0.3 0.3 Belgium 0.0 0.3 0.3 Hungary 0.1 0.1 Portugal 0.1 0.1 Estonia 0.1 0.1 Ukraine 0.1 0.1 Greece 0.0 0.0 Other countries 0.0 0.1 0.1 Total 3.2 1.6 1.9 16.8 55.9 79.4 Gross exposures Europe, excluding Sweden, breakdown by exposure class, at December 31, 2015 Central Regional governgovernMultilateral develFinancial Securitization Skr bn ments ments opment banks institutions Corporates positions Total Spain 0.2 17.5 17.7 The Netherlands 5.4 3.2 8.6 United Kingdom 3.4 5.1 8.5 Russia 7.9 7.9 Finland 0.3 0.4 6.8 7.5 Denmark 0.7 1.8 2.9 5.4 France 1.7 3.7 5.4 Luxembourg 1.4 0.0 0.0 1.9 3.3 Poland 3.1 3.1 Norway 2.0 1.1 3.1 Italy 2.4 2.4 Switzerland 1.2 1.1 2.3 Germany 0.4 0.1 1.6 0.1 2.2 Ireland 1.2 0.8 2.0 Iceland 1.2 1.2 Austria 0.4 0.0 0.4 Latvia 0.3 0.3 Portugal 0.2 0.2 Hungary 0.1 0.1 Greece 0.1 0.1 Ukraine 0.1 0.1 Other countries 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 Total 2.2 1.1 0.0 18.1 59.9 0.8 82.1 118 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes Note 27, continued Net exposures Europe, excluding Sweden, breakdown by exposure class, at December 31, 2016 Central Regional Multilateral Financial Skr mdr governments governments development banks institutions Corporates Total France 10.3 3.7 0.0 14.0 United Kingdom 1.1 3.9 3.5 8.5 Denmark 0.1 1.6 4.0 2.7 8.4 Finland 0.8 0.3 0.6 0.5 5.6 7.8 Germany 3.1 3.0 0.8 6.9 Norway 0.6 4.2 1.1 5.9 Luxembourg 1.9 1.3 0.0 1.6 4.8 Poland 3.3 0.0 3.3 The Netherlands 2.5 0.3 2.8 Spain 0.4 1.7 2.1 Switzerland 1.3 0.3 1.6 Belgium 0.4 0.2 0.6 Austria 0.5 0.1 0.6 Ireland 0.0 0.4 0.4 Iceland 0.1 0.2 0.3 Latvia 0.3 0.3 Portugal 0.1 0.1 Estonia 0.1 0.1 Italy 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other countries 0.2 0.2 Total 21.9 1.9 1.9 24.4 18.6 68.7 Net exposures Europe, excluding Sweden, breakdown by exposure class, at December 31, 2015 Central Regional governgovernMultilateral develFinancial Securitization Skr bn ments ments opment banks institutions Corporates positions Total France 10.9 4.4 0.0 15.3 United Kingdom 1.3 4.7 3.2 9.2 Finland 1.1 0.5 0.8 5.8 8.2 Germany 3.7 0.1 2.7 1.0 7.5 The Netherlands 5.6 1.4 7.0 Denmark 0.1 0.7 3.3 2.5 6.6 Norway 0.6 3.4 0.3 4.3 Poland 3.1 3.1 Luxembourg 1.4 0.0 0.0 0.8 2.2 Switzerland 1.4 0.6 2.0 Ireland 0.3 0.8 1.1 Iceland 0.6 0.2 0.8 Spain 0.4 0.1 0.5 Austria 0.4 0.1 0.5 Belgium 0.4 0.0 0.4 Latvia 0.3 0.3 Portugal 0.2 0.2 Estonia 0.1 0.1 Italy 0.0 0.0 0.0 Greece Other countries 0.3 0.3 Total 23.4 1.3 0.0 27.6 16.5 0.8 69.6 On December 31, 2016, net exposures to counterparties in Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain amounted to Skr 2.6 billion (2015: Skr 1.9 billion). On December 31, 2016, gross exposures to counterparties in Greece amounted to Skr 0.0 billion (2015: Skr 0.1 billion). On December 31, 2016, gross exposures to counterparties in Ukraine amounted to Skr 0.1 billion (2015: Skr 0.1 billion). The gross exposures are guaranteed in their entirety by counterparties in countries other than Greece and Ukraine. On December 31, 2016, gross exposures to counterparties in Russia amounted to Skr 6.6 billion (2015: Skr 7.9 billion). On December 31, 2016, net exposures to counterparties in Russia amounted to Skr 0.1 billion (2015: Skr 0.1 billion). SEK Annual report 2016  119 Notes Note 27, continued Corporate exposures, broken down by industry (GICS) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Skr bn Gross exposure Net exposure Gross exposure Net exposure IT and telecom 74.8 10.7 73.6 8.4 Industry 45.2 34.5 49.1 34.0 Finance 28.6 15.1 22.3 7.2 Commodities 22.2 15.8 22.9 14.7 Consumer goods 16.3 13.4 15.9 12.2 Electricity, water and gas 13.4 4.4 14.8 4.0 Healthcare 6.1 5.3 6.2 5.4 Energy 5.3 0.8 5.6 0.9 Other 0.4 0.0 0.5 0.0 Total 212.3 100.0 210.9 86.8 Market risk Risk measurement Market risk is the risk of loss or changes in future earnings due to The following describes how SEK calculates and limits market risk changes in, for example, interest rates, exchange rates, commodity internally. For the impact on earnings and other comprehensive prices or share prices. Market risk includes price risk in connection with income due to the interest-rate risk, see page 122. Additional factors, sales of assets or the closing of exposures. such as different sensitivity calculations regarding the impact on economic value, earnings, equity and own funds, as well as a number of Risk management stress tests, are measured and reported but are not subject to limits. SEK’s Board establishes SEK’s market risk appetite and its strategy. In The government-supported S-system has been excluded since the govaddition, instructions established by the CEO regulate SEK’s manageernment compensates SEK for all interest-rate differentials, borrowing ment of market risks. The Board’s Finance and Risk Committee makes costs and net foreign-exchange losses within the S-system (see Note 1). decisions on limit structures, which clearly define and limit the permissible exposure to net market risk. The Chief Risk Officer decides Aggregated risk measure on the method for determining how market risks are to be calculated The aggregated risk measure is based on analyses of historical scenarios and proposes changes in limit structures in connection with reviews of with a monthly risk horizon. The scenarios are updated each month and risk appetite and limits. All instructions are re-established annually. comprise historical movements in risk factors from the entire period Market risk exposures are measured and reported on a daily basis to the from the end of 2006 until today. SEK’s aggregated risk measure estiCEO, and to the Board’s Finance and Risk Committee at its scheduled mates the impact on SEK’s equity by applying historically observed meetings. Cases where limits are exceeded are escalated without delay movements in the market factors that affect the volatility of SEK’s to the CEO, and the Board’s Finance and Risk Committee. equity. The exposure, which is based on the worst case scenario, is evalSEK borrows funds by issuing bonds or other debt instruments uated using SEK’s portfolio sensitivities to interest rate risk, cross curwhich, regardless of the market risk exposures in the bonds, are hedged rency basis swap price risk, credit spread risk in assets, credit spread by being swapped via derivatives to a floating interest rate. The comrisk in SEK’s own debt and currency risk. The limit is also based on the pany’s risk appetite for market risk resulting from unmatched cash worst case scenario, which at the close of 2016 was a scenario based flows is low. Borrowed funds are used either immediately for lending, on market movements from February 2009. The risk at year-end 2016 mainly at floating interest rates, or alternatively through derivatives at amounted to Skr 621 million (2015: Skr 624 million). The limit is set at a floating rate, or to ensure that SEK has adequate liquidity in the form Skr 1,300 million (2015: Skr 1,300 million). of liquidity investments and liquidity reserves. The aim is to hold assets and liabilities to maturity. Risk specific measures The duration of available borrowing matches that of lending and the The aggregated risk measure and stress tests are complemented with maturity profile of liquidity investments is adapted to ensure that funds risk-specific measures, including specific interest-rate-risk measures, are available for all accepted but as yet undisbursed lending. spread-risk measures, currency-risk measures, etc. Unrealized changes in fair value affect the value of SEK’s assets and The measurement and limiting of interest rate risk in SEK is divided liabilities and impact the volatility of both earnings and SEK’s own into two categories: funds. SEK’s largest net exposures are to changes in spread risk, mainly • Interest-rate risk regarding changes in the economic value of SEK’s to credit spreads associated with assets and liabilities and to cross curportfolio (EVE) rency basis swap spreads. Spread risks are managed by having estab• Interest-rate risk regarding changes in future net interest income lished limits and daily limit monitoring. (NII). 120 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes Note 27, continued Market risk, type Definition Risk profile Interest rate risk The interest rate risk regarding changes in The risk pertains to SEK’s overall business profile, particularly the regarding changes in economic value is calculated by means of a 100 balance between interest bearing assets and liabilities in terms of the economic value basis point parallel shift in all yield curves. volume and fixed interest terms. The risk measurement captures of SEK’s portfolio Positive and negative exposures are measured the long term impact of changes in interest rates. The risk amounted (EVE) separated and whichever is largest, in absolute to Skr 286 million (2015: Skr 124 million) at the end of 2016. At the terms, comprises the exposure. end of 2016, the interest-rate price risk limit amounted to Skr 600 million (2015: Skr 600 million). Interest rate risk The net interest income risk within one year The risk pertains to SEK’s overall business profile, particularly the regarding changes is calculated as the impact on net interest balance between interest bearing assets and liabilities in terms in future net interest income for the coming year if new financing and of volume and fixed interest terms for the next year. The risk income (NII) investment must take place following a positive measurement captures the short term impact of changes in interest interest rate shift of 100 basis points. For each rates. At the end of 2016, the risk amounted to Skr 188 million (2015: stress test, the risk per currency is totaled in Skr 202 million) and the interest-rate price risk limit amounted to absolute terms. Skr 250 million (2015: Skr 250 million). Credit spread risk in Credit spread risk in assets is calculated as a The risk is attributable to bonds in liquidity investments, including assets potential impact on SEK’s equity, in the form of liquidity reserves, credit derivatives that hedge the credit risk in a unrealized gains or losses, as a result of changes number of bonds, and securitizations. At the end of 2016, the credit in the credit spreads on assets for those assets spread risk in assets was negative Skr 274 million (2015: negative measured at fair value. Credit spread risk in assets Skr 279 million), and the limit for credit spread risk in assets measures the instantaneous change in value amounted to Skr 500 million (2015: Skr 550 million). that arises from a 100 basis point shift in credit spreads for all assets measured at fair value. Credit spread risk in Credit spread risk in own debt can have a potential The risk is attributable to SEK’s structured debt measured at fair own debt impact on SEK’s equity, in the form of unrealized value. At year-end 2016, the credit spread risk in own debt amounted gains or losses, as a result of changes in present to Skr 668 million (2015: Skr 603 million) and the limit for credit value after all of SEK’s credit spreads have been spread risk in own debt amounted to Skr 1,000 million (2015: Skr reduced by 20 basis points. 1,000 million). Cross currency basis The cross-currency basis spread risk measures a The risk is attributable to cross-currency basis swaps used by SEK spread risk potential impact on SEK’s equity, in the form of to hedge the currency risk in the portfolio. At the end of 2016, the unrealized gains or losses, as a result of changes in cross currency basis spread risk amounted to Skr 184 million (2015: cross currency basis spreads. The cross currency Skr 227 million) and the limit for cross-currency basis spread risk basis spread risk is measured, using sensitivities, amounted to Skr 450 million (2015: Skr 600 million). as the change in present value after an increase in cross currency basis spreads by a number of points (varying by currency in accordance with a standardized method based on volatility). Risk to NII from The 12-month risk to NII from cross-currency The risk is attributable to cases where borrowing and lending are cross currency basis basis swaps is measured as the impact on SEK’s not matched in terms of currency and, therefore, the future cost of swaps future earnings resulting from an assumed cost converting borrowing to the desired currency is dependent on crossincrease (varying by currency in accordance with currency basis spreads. The risk is primarily attributable to Swedish a standardized method based on volatility) for kronor, because SEK has a deficit of Swedish kronor and borrows transfers between currencies for which crossfunds in other currencies, which are swapped into Swedish kronor. currency basis swaps are used. For each stress At the end of 2016, the risk amounted to Skr 28 million (2015: Skr 34 test, the risk per currency is totaled in absolute million) and the limit for the risk to NII from cross-currency basis terms. swaps amounted to Skr 150 million (2015: Skr 150 million). Currency risk The risk is calculated as the change in value of The foreign exchange position excluding unrealized changes in fair all foreign currency positions at an assumed 10 value is reported separately since SEK’s hedging strategy entails that percentage point change in the exchange rate only foreign exchange positions excluding unrealized changes in fair between the respective currency and the Swedish value are to be hedged. The foreign exchange position mainly arises krona. on an ongoing basis due to differences between revenues and costs (net interest margins) in foreign currency. Currency risk excluding unrealized changes in fair value is kept low by matching assets and liabilities in terms of currencies or through the use of derivatives. In addition, accrued gains/losses in foreign currency are regularly converted to Swedish kronor. At the end of 2016, the risk amounted to Skr 2 million (2015: Skr 2 million) and the limit for currency risk was Skr 15 million (2015: Skr 15 million). Other risks (equities, These are attributable to structured borrowing SEK’s equities and commodities risks, as well as FX volatility risks, commodities and and are calculated with the aid of stress tests of only arise from structured borrowing. The structured borrowing volatility risks) underlying equity indexes or volatility. is hedged by being swapped to floating interest rates. While all structured cash flows are matched through a hedging swap, there could be an impact on earnings. This is because measurement of the bond takes account of SEK’s own credit spread, while the swap is not affected by this credit spread, and also because of changes in expected maturity for the structured borrowing. Interestrate volatility risk also arises from other transactions with early redemption options. These risks are calculated and limited. At the end of 2016, these risks and limits were low. SEK Annual report 2016  121 Notes Note 27, continued Stress tests scenarios, and continuously ensure that the risk measurement is effecSEK conducts regular stress tests by applying movements in market tive. factors that have been historically observed in the marketplace (historical scenarios) and movements that could happen in the future (hypoRisk information thetical or forward-looking scenarios). Analyses of this type provide For a supplementary and expanded account of the market risk-related management with insight into the potential impact on SEK’s operinformation, refer to the separate risk report, “SEK — Capital Adeations of significant movements in risk factors, or of broader market quacy and Risk Management Report — Pillar 3.” Change in value should the market interest rate rise by one percentage point Impact on the value of assets and liabilities, including derivatives, should the market interest rate rise by one percentage point (+1%). Consolidated Group 2016 2015 of which, financial of which, financial of which, financial instruments measured of which, financial instruments measured instruments meaat fair value through instruments measured at fair value through sured at fair value other comprehensive at fair value other comprehensive Skr million Total through profit or loss income Total through profit or loss income Foreign currency -10 237 -36 68 306 -58 Swedish kronor -213 101 -21 4 93 -10 -223 338 -57 72 399 -68 Change in value should the market interest rate decline by one percentage point Impact on the value of assets and liabilities, including derivatives, should the market interest rate decline by one percentage point (-1%). Consolidated Group 2016 2015 of which, financial of which, financial of which, financial inof which, financial instruments measured instruments meastruments measured at instruments measured at fair value through sured at fair value fair value through other at fair value through other comprehensive Skr million Total through profit or loss comprehensive income Total profit or loss income Foreign currency -8 -260 36 -62 -280 68 Swedish kronor 325 -102 24 79 -93 21 318 -362 60 17 -373 89 Assets, liabilities and derivatives denominated in foreign currency Assets, liabilities and derivatives denominated in foreign currency ance sheet were as shown in the table below (expressed in Swedish (meaning currencies other than Swedish kronor) have been transkronor per unit of the particular foreign currency). Share at year end lated to Swedish kronor using the exchange rates applying at year end is the share of the total volume of assets and liabilities denominated between the currency concerned and Swedish kronor. in foreign currency. Currency positions at year end are the net for each The relevant exchange rates for the currencies representing the currency of all assets and liabilities in the balance sheet. The figures largest shares in the Group’s net assets and net liabilities in the balpertain to carrying amounts. December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Exchange Share at year Currency positions at Share at year Currency positions at Currency rate end, % year end (Skr million) Exchange rate end, % year end (Skr million) SKR 1 91 n.a 1 93 n.a EUR 9.5407 3 -559 9.1350 3 -539 USD 9.0682 2 443 8.3524 1 252 JPY 0.07752 1 -311 0.06935 1 -136 GBP 11.2126 1 -155 CHF 8.4287 1 203 MXN 0.4832 0 -74 THB 0.2535 1 -131 Other 1 182 1 -223 Total foreign currency position 100 -531 100 -517 122 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes Note 27, continued Currency risk is limited to accrued net income and is hedged reguamounted to Skr 19 million (2015: Skr 2 million) at year end. Assets and larly. In accordance with SEK’s rules for risk management, currency liabilities denominated in foreign currency are included in the total positions attributable to unrealized changes in fair value are not volumes of assets and liabilities in the following amounts (in millions hedged. Currency positions excluding unrealized changes in fair value of Swedish kronor). December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Consolidated Consolidated Skr million Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Total assets, 299,442 299,436 280,411 280,403 of which, denominated in foreign currencies 237,516 237,516 226,981 226,981 Total liabilities, 282,306 281,712 263,583 262,849 of which, denominated in foreign currencies 238,047 238,047 227,498 227,498 Liquidity risk and refinancing risk and only divest them should circumstances so demand. The liquidity Liquidity and refinancing risk is defined as the risk of SEK not being able reserve, in which only securities regarded as highly liquid are included, to refinance its outstanding loans and committed undisbursed loans, or accounts for a portion of SEK’s liquidity investments. The purpose of being unable to meet increased liquidity requirements. Liquidity risk the liquidity reserve is to safeguard SEK’s short-term solvency, and to also includes the risk of having to borrow funds at unfavorable interfulfil the company’s requirement for the lowest liquidity coverage ratio est rates or needing to sell assets at unfavorable prices in order to meet (LCR). payment commitments. SEK’s borrowing strategy is regulated in the Financing Strategy Policy, which is established by the Board’s Finance and Risk CommitRisk management tee. The aims of the Financing Strategy include ensuring that SEK’s SEK’s Board has overall responsibility for liquidity and refinancing borrowing is well-diversified in terms of markets, investors, counrisks and establishes governing documents for liquidity risk manageterparties and currencies. With regard to maturity, no refinancing risk ment; in addition, the CEO establishes instructions for operational is allowed. For the purpose of ensuring access to short-term funding, management. Liquidity risk is managed operationally by the Treasury SEK has revolving borrowing programs for maturities of less than one function. Liquidity and refinancing risk is measured and reported reguyear, including a US Commercial Paper Program (UCP) and a European larly to the relevant manager, the Risk and Compliance Committee, the Commercial Paper program (ECP). SEK also has a swingline facility that CEO and the Board and its committees. functions as a back-up facility for SEK’s revolving borrowing program SEK has low tolerance for long-term structural liquidity risk and for maturities of less than one year. To secure access to substantial financing must be available throughout the maturity for all credit comvolumes of non-current borrowing, and to ensure that insufficient mitments, pertaining to both outstanding and committed undisbursed liquidity or investment appetite among individual borrowing sources loans. For CIRR loans, which SEK manages on behalf of the Swedish does not constitute an obstacle to operations, SEK issues bonds with government, the company’s credit facility with the Swedish National different structures, currencies and maturities. SEK also issues bonds Debt Office is also regarded as available borrowing. The credit facility, in many different geographic markets. granted by the government through the Swedish National Debt Office, SEK has a contingency plan for the management of liquidity crises, amounted to Skr 125 billion in 2016 (2015: Skr 80 billion) and is available which is issued by the Head of Treasury & Capital Management. The solely for CIRR loans. In December 2016, the state established that the plan describes what constitutes a liquidity crisis according to SEK and credit facility for 2017 will amount to Skr 125 billion. The credit facility what actions SEK intends to take if such a crisis is deemed to have is valid through December 31, 2017 and entitles SEK to receive financing occurred. The plan also describes the decision-making structure during over the maturities of the underlying CIRR loans. The credit facility is a liquidity crisis. An internal and external communication plan is also renewed annually and serves as a cushion in extreme stressad scenarincluded. The contingency plan is also closely linked to the results of ios. SEK has no intension to otherwise utilise the credit facility. the scenario analyses that are performed regularly, whereby various Borrowed funds not yet used to finance credits must be invested in actions are taken to increase the release of cash and cash equivalents interest-bearing securities, also known as liquidity investments. The that have been analyzed with a preventive purpose. management of liquidity investments is regulated in the Liquidity Strategy established by the Board’s Finance and Risk Committee. The Risk measurement size of the liquidity portfolio is adapted to cover outflows, outside the In the short term, liquidity risk is monitored mainly through measureS-system, attributable to: 1) committed undisbursed loans, 2) CSAs ment of the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), which shows SEK’s highly with derivative counterparties, 3) outflows attributable to short-term liquid assets in relation to its net cash outflows for the next 30 calenborrowing transactions and 4) budgeted new lending. The target for dar days. Cash-flow forecasts of up to one year are prepared regularly SEK’s new lending capacity is to facilitate at least 4 months of new according to various scenarios. SEK’s policy for long-term structural lending, in line with SEK’s estimated new lending requirements besides liquidity risk is not to accept refinancing risk. Forecasts are made of CIRR credits and still guaranteeing that SEK stays match funded. the relationship between borrowing, including equity, and lending over Instead of selling assets as funds are needed, the maturity profile of time. A net stable funding ratio (NSFR) is also estimated. The NSFR the liquidity investments is matched against funds expected to be paid measures the volume of available stable funding in relation to the need out. Investments must be made in assets of good credit quality. Issuof stable funding within a period of 1 year. SEK also performs regular ers in the liquidity portfolio must have an internal risk classification liquidity stress tests. of at least ‘A-’. For commercial paper and corporate bonds, however, an internal risk classification of at least ‘BBB-’ is permissible as long Risk information as the remaining maturity does not exceed one year and the domicile is For a supplementary and expanded account of the liquidity and refiin Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway or Germany. Such investments nancing risk-related information, refer to the separate risk report, should take into account the liquidity of the investment under normal “SEK — Capital Adequacy and Risk Management Report — Pillar 3.” market conditions and the investment’s currency must comply with established guidelines. SEK intends to hold these assets to maturity SEK Annual report 2016  123 Notes Note 27, continued Liquidity reserve at December 31, 2016 Skr billion Total SKR EUR USD Other Securities issued or guaranteed by municipalities or other public entities 6.4 4.7 1.1 0.6 Securities issued or guaranteed by sovereigns, central banks or multilateral development banks 5.1 2.8 2.2 0.0 Balances with other banks and National Debt Office, overnight 4.7 0.0 1.5 3.2 0.0 Covered bonds issued by other institutions 2.4 1.7 0.7 Total liquidity reserve 18.6 4.7 6.0 7.2 0.6 Liquidity investments by country and exposure type, at December 31, 2016 Regional SecuriMultilateral Financial Central govgovernCovered CDS-covered tization developinstitutions ernments ments bonds corporates positions Corporates ment banks Total1 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sweden 0 0.2 6.8 0.3 11.5 5.6 2.5 3.7 0.1 2.4 0.7 23.2 10.5 Canada 6.4 1.9 6.4 1.9 Japan 0.9 0.0 2.8 0.5 4.2 0 Denmark 0.8 0.4 1.6 0.7 1.4 1.2 3.8 2.3 Luxembourg 1.9 1.4 1.3 3.2 1.4 Norway 2.9 2.0 0 0.1 2.9 2.0 United Kingdom 2.0 1.3 0.4 0.4 2.4 1.6 The Netherlands 2.3 5.4 2.3 5.4 Germany 1.4 1.3 0.5 0.4 0.1 1.9 1.8 France 0.9 1.2 0.7 0.7 1.6 1.9 Qatar 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.3 Korea 0.9 1.4 2.7 1.4 3.6 United Arab Emirates 0.6 1.3 1.3 0.6 Switzerland 1.0 0.5 0.7 1.0 1.2 United States 0.9 0.5 1.3 0.9 1.9 Singapore 0.8 0.4 0.8 0.4 Malaysia 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Finland 0.6 0.6 Australia 0.5 2.2 0.5 2.2 Austria 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.4 Belgium 0 0 0 0 China 2.1 2.1 Ireland 0.8 0.8 Spain 0 0 Total 20.7 22.9 13.8 6.5 13.0 6.4 3.9 5.6 1.1 1.1 0.8 6.4 0.7 1.9 60.9 44.1 1 Total amounts in this table exclude collateral deposited. 124 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes Note 27, continued Liquidity investments by country and rating, at December 31, 2016 AAA AA+ to AAA+ to ABBB+ to BBBTotal 1 Country 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sweden 18.2 5.8 3.4 1.5 1.6 3.2 0.0 0.0 23.2 10.5 Canada 6.4 1.9 6.4 1.9 Japan 0.5 3.7 0.0 4.2 0.0 Denmark 1.6 0.7 2.2 1.6 3.8 2.3 Luxembourg 1.3 1.9 1.4 3.2 1.4 Norway 2.9 2.0 2.9 2.0 United Kingdom 2.4 1.6 2.4 1.6 The Netherlands 0.1 0.8 2.6 1.4 2.8 2.3 5.4 Germany 0.5 0.5 1.4 1.3 1.9 1.8 France 1.6 1.9 1.6 1.9 Qatar 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.3 Korea 1.4 2.7 0.9 1.4 3.6 United Arab Emirates 1.3 0.6 1.3 0.6 Switzerland 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.2 United States 1.3 0.3 0.9 0.2 0.9 1.9 Singapore 0.8 0.4 0.8 0.4 Malaysia 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Finland 0.6 0.6 Australia 0.1 1.9 0.5 0.3 0.5 2.2 Austria 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.4 Belgium 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 China 2.1 2.1 Ireland 0.8 0.8 Spain 0.0 0.0 Total 22.4 9.2 10.6 11.9 27.9 22.9 0.0 0.0 60.9 44.1 1 Total amounts in this table exclude collateral deposited. Liquidity investments by remaining maturity (“M”) SEK’s borrowing programs for shorter maturities 2016 2015 Type of program UCP ECP M ≤ 1 year 83% 73% Currency Several USD different 1 year < M ≤ 3 years 17% 25% Number of dealers 4 4 M > 3 years 0% 2% “Dealer of the day facility” 1 No Yes Size of program USD 3,000 USD 4,000 mn mn Utilized at Dec. 31, 2016 USD 0 mn USD 0 mn Maturity 270 days 364 days (maximum) (maximum)” 1 Dealer of the Day offers an opportunity for market participants who are not issuers to arrange individual issues under the corporate paper program. SEK Annual report 2016  125 Notes Note 27, continued Total long-term borrowing by region at December 31, 2016 New lending capacity Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 2016 2015 New lending capacity 9 months 4 months Europe, excl. Nordic countries 82.0 79.2 Volume, liquidity investments 72.3 bn SEK 58.7 bn North America 61.7 57.0 Volume, committed undisbursed loans 54.8 bn SEK 63.4 bn Japan 60.2 47.3 of which, S-system 49.1 bn SEK 54.6 bn Asia excl. Japan 31.3 28.7 Nordic countries 7.5 9.2 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Middle East/Africa 6.6 6.4 LCR according to the Swedish FSA Latin America 6.0 4.6 Total 383% 573% Oceania 0.6 0.7 EUR 2,603% 825% Total 255.9 233.3 USD 313% 312% LCR according to the EU Commision’s delegated act Total 215% – NFSR 132% 99.4% Contractual flows Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 Due Due Due Due 1 month ≤ 3 months 1 year ≤ 5 Due Total cash Discounting Carrying Skr million ≤ 1 month 3 months ≤ 1 year years > 5 years flow effect amount Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7,054 7,054 7,054 Treasuries/government bonds 15 479 156 3,047 3,697 -10 3,687 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 6,811 14,598 21,295 7,654 50,358 -457 49,901 Loans in the form of interestbearing securities -113 230 7,030 26,353 15,717 49,217 -2,995 46,222 Loans to credit institutions -59 12,029 2,016 8,676 4,394 27,056 -866 26,190 Loans to the public 3,219 7,407 25,890 88,428 36,956 161,900 -13,991 147,909 Derivatives 1,475 1,499 1,352 4,228 5,891 14,445 -2,440 12,005 Total 18,402 36,242 57,739 138,386 62,958 313,727 -20,759 292,968 Consolidated Group December 31, 2016 Due Due Due Due 1 month ≤ 3 months 1 year ≤ 5 Due Total cash Discounting Carrying Skr million ≤ 1 month 3 months ≤ 1 year years > 5 years flow effect amount Financial liabilities Borrowings from credit institutions -119 -3,865 167 -3,817 61 -3,756 Borrowing from the public Senior securities issued -9,299 -37,844 -46,345 -133,418 -52,974 -279,880 30,688 -249,192 Derivatives -56 -766 -1,914 -3,151 -57 -5,944 -16,128 -22,072 Subordinated securities issued -2,267 -2,267 1 -2,266 Total -9,474 -42,475 -48,092 -138,836 -53,031 -291,908 14,622 -277,286 Obligations Committed undisbursed loans -123 -3,534 -11,348 -10,080 25,085 0 54,783 Liquidity surplus (+)/ deficit (–) 8,805 -9,767 -1,701 -10,530 35,012 21,819 Accumulated liquidity surplus (+)/deficit (–) 8,805 -962 -2,663 -13,193 21,819 21,819 In addition to the instruments in the statement of financial position credit facility with the Swedish National Debt Office of Skr 125 billion, and committed undisbursed loans, SEK has outstanding binding offers which can be used within the Swedish State’s export credit support of Skr 4.6 billion as well as additional available funds consisting of a system. In December 2016, the Swedish parlament decided that the 126 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes Note 27, continued credit facility for 2017 should amount to Skr 125 billion. With regard Differences between book values and future cash flows for financial to deficit in cash flow with maturity between three months and five assets and financial liabilities are reported in the column “Discount years, SEK has the intention to refinance these through borrowing effect”. Cash flows for cash collaterals are assumed to have the same on the financial markets. Repayments subject to notice for liabilmaturity profile as related derivatives. ities and hedging derivatives are treated as if notice were to be given Items other than financial instruments with an approximate immediately, whether it is SEK or the counterparty that has the right expected recovery time within less than 12 months: other assets; preto demand early redemption. Assets with repayments subject to notice paid expenses and accrued revenues, other liabilities; and accrued are assumed to occur on the maturity date. “Subordinated securiexpenses and prepaid revenues. All other balance sheet items, other ties issued” which consists of a Dated Subordinated Instrument, were than financial instruments, have an approximate expected recovery assumed be repaid at the time of the first redemption date. The consertime of 12 months or more. For information regarding liquidity risk, see vative scenario for liabilities and hedging derivatives is not likely to be section “Risk and Capital Management”. The amounts above include the real outcome. interest, except for committed undisbursed loans. Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 Due Due Due Due 1 month ≤ 3 months 1 year ≤ 5 Due Total cash Discounting Carrying Skr million ≤ 1 month 3 months ≤ 1 year years > 5 years flow effect amount Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 2,258 2,258 2,258 Treasuries/government bonds 1 2,016 2,017 -11 2,006 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 3,291 10,820 14,257 12,933 41,301 -470 40,831 Loans in the form of interestbearing securities 494 1,520 7,882 27,389 15,010 52,295 -4,188 48,107 Loans to credit institutions 595 14,493 2,163 7,414 6,350 31,015 -1,239 29,776 Loans to the public 3,672 7,410 23,958 84,285 33,774 153,099 -12,293 140,806 Derivatives 408 385 1,426 6,256 7,450 15,925 -3,253 12,672 Total 10,718 34,629 51,702 138,277 62,584 297,910 -21,454 276,456 Consolidated Group December 31, 2015 Due Due Due Due 1 month ≤ 3 months 1 year ≤ 5 Due Total cash Discounting Carrying Skr million ≤ 1 month 3 months ≤ 1 year years > 5 years flow effect amount Financial liabilities Borrowings from credit institutions -382 -4,866 -5,248 -35 5,283 Borrowing from the public -61 -61 61 Senior securities issued -5,641 -17,278 -56,549 -128,725 -46,298 -254,491 26,279 228,212 Derivatives -95 -807 -2,772 -4,835 -2,116 -10,625 -13,006 23,631 Subordinated securities issued -2,088 -2,088 2,088 Total -6,118 -22,951 -59,382 -133,560 -50,502 -272,513 13,238 259,275 Obligations Committed, undisbursed loans 0 -5,517 -11,112 -10,493 27,122 0 63,438 Liquidity surplus (+) / deficit (–) 4,600 6,161 -18,792 -5,776 39,204 25,397 Accumulated liquidity surplus (+) / deficit (–) 4,600 10,761 -8,031 -13,807 25,397 25,397 Operational risk ing the risk at an aggregated level, and for monitoring the appropriOperational risk is the risk of losses resulting from inadequate or faulty ateness and efficiency of the way the company’s operational risk is internal processes or systems, human error, or from external events. managed. The Risk and Compliance Committee is responsible for monOperational risk also includes legal risk and compliance risk. itoring operational risk. The Risk function reports to the Risk and Compliance Committee and to the Board’s Finance and Risk Committee. Risk management SEK’s work on operational risk is conducted at all levels of the orgaOperational risk exists in potentially all functions within SEK. The nization to ensure that the company is able to identify and reduce risk. managers of all the various SEK functions have a responsibility for All risk-related events are registered in an IT-based incident-reporting effective management of operational risk within their own function. In system. The fundamental cause is analyzed and actions are then taken order to support operational risk management, SEK works in complito prevent a recurrence. By means of the new product approval process ance with policy documents in accordance with SEK’s risk framework. (NPAP), SEK prevents the company from unknowingly taking on risks The risk function is responsible for monitoring, analyzing and reportthat the company is unable to manage. The functions perform reguSEK Annual report 2016  127 Notes Note 27, continued lar self-assessments of the operations in order to identify and reduce Elevated sustainability risk major risks. The self-assessments and the subsequent analysis are The sustainability risk is considered to be elevated in the following coordinated with business planning and the internal capital assesscases: ment. The Risk function carries out aggregated monitoring and anal• Category A and B projects ysis of the risks and action plans, as well as of significant operational • Projects and operations subject to a high risk of corruption or human risk events. rights violations including labor conditions. • Areas affected by conflict Risk measurement • The mining and arms sectors SEK measures and reports operational risk levels at least each quarter. • Exporters or the exporters’ customers who are internationally The risk level is based on an assessment of the number of risks with black-listed or have been involved in a significant incident a high rating, the scope of losses due to incidents over the past four quarters and whether any breaches of rules related to the operations In-depth sustainability review requiring permits have occurred. SEK uses the standardized approach An in-depth sustainability review is performed in cases of elevated in calculating the capital requirement for operational risk. sustainability risk. The extent and form of the review depends on the scope of the financing, the level of the identified risks and SEK’s ability Sustainability risk to influence the situation. Where necessary, social and environmenSustainability risk is the risk that SEK’s operations directly or indirectly tal conditions are included in loan agreements, and site visits may be impact their surroundings negatively in respect of corruption, climate included as part of an evaluation. In the case of deviations from interand the environment, human rights including labor conditions, and national standards or other deficient management of sustainability business ethics including money laundering and the financing of terrisks, the counterparty is required to take actions to rectify this. Monirorism. toring during the tenor of the loan is conducted via continuous incident searches and via checks of compliance with the agreement’s sustainRisk management ability clauses. Sustainability risks are managed according to a risk-based approach and SEK only engages in transactions for which SEK has conducted Risk information know your customer activities. SEK’s measures to manage sustainabilSEK granted loans to the following category A and B projects in 2016: ity risks when lending are subject to national and international regulations and guidelines, along with the state’s ownership policy, SEK’s Category A project: Transmission line in Tanzania owner instruction, pertaining to the areas of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, climate and environmental consideration, Category B-projects: • A biogas facility in Norway anticorruption, human rights and labor conditions. We focus partic• Optical fiber cable between Sweden and EU countries ularly on sustainability risks when SEK grants credit to companies in • An European research facility in Sweden countries facing sustainability challenges. We set requirements on the • A destruction facility in the US operations and projects the company finances in order to mitigate neg• Converter stations in the UK ative environmental and societal impacts. The international guidelines pursued by SEK are described on page 54. Risk measurement In connection with new business opportunities, the potential sustainability risks are identified and assessed at country, counterparty and transaction level. • Country — Countries are classified according to the risk of corruption, human rights violations including labor conditions and the risk of money laundering, financing of terrorism and tax non-transparency. • Counterparty — Checks are conducted as part of know your customer, including checks of ownership and checks against international sanction lists, as well as whether the counterparty has been involved in significant sustainability-related incidents. • Transaction — Projects and project-related financing are classified based on their potential societal and environmental impact according to the OECD’s framework for export credits.Category A projects have a potentially material impact, category B projects potentially have some impact, and category C projects have little or no potential impact. Other business transactions are analyzed to assess the risk of negtive environmental impact, corruption, human rights violations including labor conditions and the risk of money laundering, financing of terrorism and tax non-transparency. 128 SEK Annual report 2016 Notes Note 27, continued Note 28. Transactions with related parties ted to the State’s export credit support (CIRR). In December 2016, the SEK defines related parties to the Parent Company as: credit facility was extended for 2017. SEK has not yet utilized the credit • the shareholder, i.e. the Swedish State facility. • companies and organizations that are controlled through a common SEK enters into transactions in the ordinary course of business with owner, the Swedish State entities that are partially or wholly-owned or controlled by the State. • subsidiaries SEK also extends export credits (in the form of direct or pass-through • key management personnel loans) to entities related to the State. Transactions with such parties • other related parties are conducted on the same terms (including interest rates and repayment schedules) as transactions with unrelated parties. The ConsoliSEK defines related parties to the Consolidated Group as: dated Group’s and the Parent Company’s transactions do not differ sig• the shareholder, i.e. the Swedish State nificantly. Internal transactions between the Parent Company and the • companies and organizations that are controlled through a common subsidiaries amount to Skr million (2015: Skr 0 million) for interest owner, the Swedish State expenses from the Parent Company’s point of view. For further infor• key management personnel mation see Note 1 (b), “Basis of consolidation” and Note 15, “Shares”. • other related parties Key management personnel include the following positions: The Swedish State owns 100 percent of the company’s share capital. • The Board of Directors By means of direct guarantees extended by the Swedish National Debt • The Chief Executive Officer Office and the Swedish Export Credits Guarantee Board, EKN, 36 per• Other executive directors cent (Year-end 2015: 36 percent) of the company’s outstanding loans on December 31, 2016 were guaranteed by the State. The remuneration For information about remuneration and other benefits to key manato EKN for the guarantees paid by SEK during 2016 amounted to Skr 31 gement personnel see Note 5, “Personnel expenses”. million (2015: Skr 75 million). SEK administers, for compensation, the Other related parties include close family members of key manaSwedish State’s export credit support system, and the State’s related gement personnel as well as companies which are controlled by key concessionary credit program (together referred to as the “S-system”), management personnel or controlled by close family members to key see Note 1(f) and Note 25. management personnel. During 2016 SEK had a Skr 125 billion (2015: Skr 80 billion) credit facility with the Swedish National Debt Office which was entirely relaSEK Annual report 2016  129 Notes continued, Note 28 The following table further summarizes the Consolidated Group’s transactions with its related parties: 2016 Companies and organizations The shareholder, controlled through a common i.e. the Swedish State owner, the Swedish State Total Assets/ Interest income/ Assets/ Interest income/ Assets/ Interest income/ Skr mn liabilities interest expense liabilities Interest expense liabilities Interest expense Treasuries/government bonds 442 1 442 1 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 3,4392 5 3,439 5 Loans in the form of interestbearing securities 1,948 16 1,948 16 Loans to credit institutions 2,548 33 2,548 33 Loans to the public 1,299 15 1,299 15 Due from the State1 3,267 3,267 Total 3,709 1 9,234 69 12,943 70 Borrowing from credit institutions Borrowing from the public Senior securities issued Other liabilities 235 235 Total 235 235 1 For information about due from the state, see Note 16 “Other assets” and Note 25 “S-system”. 2 SEK has invested a large volume in interest-bearing securities issued by the Riksbank during the fourth quarter of 2016. 2015 Companies and organizations The shareholder, controlled through a common i.e. the Swedish State owner, the Swedish State Total Assets/ Interest income/ Assets/ Interest income/ Assets/ Interest income/ Skr mn liabilities interest expense liabilities Interest expense liabilities Interest expense Treasuries/government bonds 250 0 250 0 Other interest-bearing securities except loans 633 8 633 8 Loans in the form of interestbearing securities 1,700 20 1,700 20 Loans to credit institutions 2,291 23 2,291 23 Loans to the public 866 9 866 9 Due from the State1 987 987 Total 1,237 0 5,490 60 6,727 60 Borrowing from credit institutions Borrowing from the public Senior securities issued Other liabilities 164 164 Total 164 164 1 For information about due from the state, see Note 16 “Other assets” and Note 25 “S-system”. Note 29. Events after the reporting period No events with significant impact on the information in this report have occurred after the end of the reporting period. 130 SEK Annual Report 2016 The Board of Directors’ signatures Proposal for the distribution of profits The Board of the Directors and the Chief Executive Officer consolidated group’s and parent company’s financial posiconfirm that the consolidated financial statements and the tion and results of operations. The Report of the Directors for parent company financial statements have been prepared the Consolidated Group and parent company provides a true in accordance with International Financial Reporting and fair overview of the Consolidated Group’s and parent Standards, IFRS, as issued by the International Accountcompany’s business activities, financial position and results ing Standard Board (IASB) and endorsed by the European of operations as well as the significant risks and unertainties Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 dated which the parent company and its subsidiaries are exposed July 19, 2002 and generally accepted accounting principles to. in Sweden, respectively, and give a true and fair view of the Stockholm, February 22, 2017 Lars Linder-Aronson Cecilia Ardström Jan Belfrage Chairman of the Board Director of the Board Director of the Board Susanne Lithander Lotta Mellström Ulla Nilsson Director of the Board Director of the Board Director of the Board Teppo Tauriainen Magnus Uggla Director of the Board Director of the Board Catrin Fransson Chief Executive Officer Our audit report on these annual accounts was submitted on February 22, 2017 Ernst & Young AB Erik Åström Authorized Public Accountan SEK Annual Report 2016  131 Audit Report Audit report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Aktiebolaget Svensk Exportkredit, corporate identity number 556084-0315 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual Opinions accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated provide a separate opinion on these matters. accounts of AB Svensk Exportkredit for the year 2016. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company Financial Instruments valued at fair value are included on pages 8-131 in this document. Financial instruments valued at fair value are classified in In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in different levels in a fair value hierarchy (level 1, 2 and 3), accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Instiwhere level 2 and 3 consist of instruments for which quoted tutions and Securities Companies and present fairly, in all market prices on active markets for identical assets or material respects, the financial position of the parent comliabilities are not available. The company’s financial assets pany as of December 31, 2016 and its financial performance and liabilities in level 2 amounts to Skr 57,332 million and Skr and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the 40,597 million respectively in the consolidated statement of Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities financial position and parent company balance sheet as of Companies. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in December 31, 2016. Financial assets and liabilities in level 3 accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Instiamounts to Skr 2,519 million and Skr 52,553 million respectutions and Securities Companies and present fairly, in all tively in the consolidated statement of financial position and material respects, the financial position of the group as of parent company balance sheet as of December 31, 2016. December 31, 2016 and its financial performance and cash For financial instrument in level 2 and 3, the fair value flow for the year then ended in accordance with Internais derived through valuation models, external party valuational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as published tion and assumptions regarding cash flows. The company by the International Accounting Standards Boards as well as makes an assessment on which valuation technique that is adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act for Credit most suited for different instruments. If a different valuaInstitutions and Securities Companies. tion technique would have been used, or if conditions which A corporate governance statement has been prepared. assumptions and estimates are based upon would change, The statutory administration report and the corporate reported numbers could be affected. Disclosures for financial governance statement are consistent with the other parts instruments valued at fair value are presented in Footnote 1 of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, and the and 13. corporate governance statement is in accordance with the The company’s valuation of financial instrument at fair Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities value has been assessed as a key audit matter in our audit Companies. due to the material amounts in the financial statements as We therefore recommend that the general meeting of a whole and the valuation requires management to make shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet assumptions and estimates. We have assessed the Compafor the Parent Company and the statement of comprehenny’s process for valuation of financial instruments, use of sive income and the statement of financial position of the valuation techniques and models as well as the reasonableConsolidated Group. ness in assumptions when calculating fair value. We have, among other procedures, tested the company’s controls Basis for Opinions and independently valued a sample of instruments with We conducted our audit in accordance with International the assistance of our valuation specialists. The result of our Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing independent valuation of a sample of instrument has been standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standcompared to the company’s valuation and possible differards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities ences have been analyzed. We have also examined whether section. We are independent of the parent company and the the presented disclosures in the financial statements regardgroup in accordance with professional ethics for accountants ing financial instruments are appropriate. in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Provision for impairment of financial assets We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is Loans to credit institutions, loans to the public and loans sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. in the form of interest bearing securities amounted to Skr 26,190 million, Skr 147,909 million and Skr 46,222 million, Key Audit Matters respectively, in the statement of financial position of the Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional group and parent company´s balance sheet. The company´s judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the provision for impairments of financial assets connected to annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current loans amounts to Skr 244 million as of December 31, 2016. A period. These matters were addressed in the context of our provision is made if and when management deems it proba132 SEK Annual Report 2016 Audit Report ble that the company won’t be able to obtain full payment. If In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated other underlying assumptions and estimates had been made accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director for impairments of financial assets, a different amount could are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the have been reported for impairment, thus we have identified group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, this as a particular important area of our audit. Disclosures as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the about loans and impairments of financial assets can be found going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis in Footnote 1, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 27. of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors We have assessed the company´s processes for valuation and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, of loans. We have, among other procedures, reviewed the to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do models used and assessed the reasonableness in assumpso. tions and estimates used for projections of future cash flows. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board Further, we have evaluated the company´s process for conof Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among tinuously monitor creditworthiness and indications of susother things oversee the company’s financial reporting pension of payment and insolvency for counterparts. In cases process. where provisions are made for an individual credit, we have examined the basis for the decision. For the part of the proviAuditor’s responsibility sion that refers to bad debts not linked to a specific counterOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about party, we have examined the model used for calculation and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts the assumptions, estimates and underlying data used in the as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether model. We have also examined whether the disclosures made due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that in the financial reports are appropriate. includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted Other Information than the annual accounts in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing and consolidated accounts standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstateThis document also contains other information than the ment when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on error and are considered material if, individually or in the pages 1-7 and 136-143. The Board of Directors and the Managgregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence aging Director are responsible for this other information. the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated annual accounts and consolidated accounts. accounts does not cover this other information and we do As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism other information in this auditor’s report. throughout the audit. We also: In connection with our audit of the annual accounts • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement and consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, information identified above and consider whether the inforwhether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit mation is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a mateand assess whether the information otherwise appears to be rial misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for materially misstated. one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, If we, based on the work performed concerning this inforforgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or mation, conclude that there is a material misstatement of the override of internal control. this other information, we are required to report that fact. We • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal have nothing to report in this regard. control relevant to our audit in order to design audit Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, Director The Board of Directors and the Managing Director but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the are responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts effectiveness of the company’s internal control. and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair pres• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used entation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and concerning the consolidated accounts, also in accordance related disclosures made by the Board of Directors and with IFRS, as published by the International Accounting the Managing Director. Standards Boards as well as adopted by the EU. The Board • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going for such internal control as they determine is necessary to concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as due to fraud or error. to whether any material uncertainty exists related to SEK Annual Report 2016  133 Audit Report events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on proposal in the statutory administration report and that the the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Direca going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertor be discharged from liability for the financial year. tainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual Basis for Opinions accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such discloWe conducted the audit in accordance with generally sures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our concluunder those standards are further described in the Auditor’s sions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or company and the group in accordance with professional conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled continue as a going concern. our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these require• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content ments. of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is including the disclosures, and whether the annual sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. accounts and consolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that Responsibilities of the Board of Directors achieves fair presentation. and the Managing Director • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regardThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for ing the financial information of the entities or business appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proactivities within the group to express an opinion on the posal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the directhe dividend is justifiable considering the requirements tion, supervision and performance of the group audit. which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size We remain solely responsible for our opinions. and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must position in general. also inform of significant audit findings during our audit, The Board of Directors is responsible for the compaincluding any significant deficiencies in internal control that ny’s organization and the administration of the company’s we identified. affairs. This includes among other things continuous assessWe must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement of the company’s and the group’s financial situation ment that we have complied with relevant ethical requireand ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so ments regarding independence, and to communicate with that the accounting, management of assets and the compathem all relationships and other matters that may reasonably ny’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicamanner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing ble, related safeguards. administration according to the Board of Directors’ guideFrom the matters communicated with the Board of Direclines and instructions and among other matters take meastors, we determine those matters that were of most signifures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in icance in the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accordance with law and handle the management of assets in accounts, including the most important assessed risks for a reassuring manner. material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless Auditor’s responsibility law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter or Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to matter should not be communicated in the auditor’s report obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable assurance because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonwhether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of ing Director in any material respect: such communication. • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or Report on other legal and regulatory requirements • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Opinions Companies Act, the Banking and Financing Business In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolAct, the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and idated accounts, we have also audited the administration Securities Companies or the Articles of Association. of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of AB Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed approSvensk Exportkredit for the year 2016 and the proposed priations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable assurance We recommend to the general meeting of shareholdwhether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies ers that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the Act. 134 SEK Annual Report 2016 Audit Report Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is ment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always relationships that are material for the operations and where detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to deviations and violations would have particular importance the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Comundertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other panies Act. circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the comjudgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout pany’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ the audit. The examination of the administration and the reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordbased primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit ance with the Companies Act. procedures performed are based on our professional judgStockholm, February 22, 2017 Ernst & Young AB Erik Åström Authorized Public Accountant SEK Annual Report 2016  135 Sustainability Report About the Sustainability Report SEK reports its sustainability efforts in accordance with Changes in the 2016 Sustainability Report the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4-Core) No significant departures were made for the reporting period standard. SEK’s Sustainability Report for 2015 was published and no significant restatements were made of information in March 2016. We comply with the GRI framework and provided in previous reports. guidelines in our presentation of results for the reporting period. The report corresponds to GRI In Accordance core Sustainability-related circumstances level and the selected indicators are reported in the GRI and the precautionary principle report on pages 138-139. The 2016 Sustainability Report has We identify our material sustainability aspects based on been reviewed by Ernst & Young. the circumstances in which we operate. SEK’s sustainability-related circumstances and updates of the sustainability Scope and boundaries of the Sustainability Report strategy are part of SEK’s yearly business planning. SEK SEK’s Sustainability Report for the 2016 fiscal year covers follows the precautionary principle by managing risks of the Parent Company and all subsidiaries. That is, companies negative social and environmental impact in accordance with whose financial and operational policies and procedures international guidelines. are controlled by the Parent Company. To varying degrees, SEK exercise influence over large defined projects that SEK Scope of the Sustainability Report finances. SEK reports on its governance and management of SEK’s material impact on economic, social and environmensocial and environmental risks in its lending in accordance tal issues arise among its clients when lending to Swedish with the GRI’s supplement for the financial services sector. exporters or lending to buyers of Swedish export, in other SEK’s operations are limited to Commercial and Corporate words, outside of SEK’s operations and control. This means Banking under the GRI’s definition. Accounting policies perthat, through its role as lender, SEK has clear limits in its taining to individual indicators are stated in conjunction with reporting of information about projects and businesses the reporting of the respective indicator. For more informafinanced by the company. In many cases, Swedish business tion, please contact SEK’s Head of Sustainability. confidentiality legislation limits SEK’s ability to report information about individual transactions. Non-disclosure Significant sustainability aspects of business confidentiality is a key component of SEK’s busiSignificant sustainability aspects reflect SEK’s significant ness ethics measures. Requirements for greater transparency economic, environmental and social impact, and the areas about the social and environmental impacts of large projects that can materially influence our stakeholders’ assessments arise through the development of international standards and decisions. A combination of internal and external factors with which SEK complies, particularly within the OECD. SEK have been used to establish what information the sustainais actively involved in efforts to improve transparency at bility report should contain. These include SEK’s mission and international level. SEK has a responsibility to the Swedish sustainability-related circumstances, issues highlighted by export industry, to ensure that disclosure requirements are our stakeholders, societal expectations and our influence on reasonable, based on requirements in competitor countries suppliers and clients. SEK’s supplier are for example compain line with agreed standards and practice. nies supplying IT-systems, consultants and officies supplies. Export credits are regulated by international standards and Stakeholder engagement principles agreements that SEK is expected to apply, see page 54. Stakeholders consist of groups and individuals that can reasonably be expected to be affected by our operations or whose SEK’s method for defining material sustainability aspects actions can reasonably be expected to materially impact our comprises three steps: ability to create value over time. Stakeholders may consist • Stakeholder dialogues identify relevant sustainability of financial capital providers, employees, clients, suppliers, issues and sustainability aspects as well as the sustainabusiness partners, local communities, non-governmenbility related circumstances within which SEK operate. tal organizations, environmental groups, legislators and • The executive management prioritizes material sustaindecision-makers. Our key stakeholders are identified by the ability aspects and validates the content of the Sustainexecutive management. Form and outcome of the dialogue ability Report. are presented on page 26. • The sustainability strategy and sustainabiility targets are established by the Board in connection with the business Measurement of environmental impact plan. SEK measures the indirect environmental impact of green loans based on the method stated in the International FinanSEK’s main impact is downstream in the production chain, cial Institution Framework for a Harmonised Approach to that is, in connection with our lending. Greenhouse Gas Accounting, November 2012 and in accordance with SEK’s Framework for Green Bonds, September 2014. The estimated reduction in carbon dioxide is based on calculations received by SEK from project owners, exporters or from environmental reports prepared in connection with 136 SEK Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Report the project. The estimates are prepared on a project basis, and reductions in CO2 emissions are estimated for these using a typical year once the project has been completed, and projects. SEK’s framework for green bonds contains eight are reported in proportion to SEK’s share of the total project categories of Swedish exports of environmental expertise financing. with certain limitations. These limitations mean, among Reporting of the environmental effects of SEK’s operaother things, the exclusion of any fossil fuel in the definition tions are measured according to the GHG Protocol and apply and that only small-scale hydropower or the expansion of operational control as the consolidation method. The method existing hydropower can be included as dark green projects. states how the emissions should be categorized and ranked SEK’s framework can be find on www.sek.se. Light green (based on SEK’s control over the emissions source). The GHG projects leads to or aim for significant or demonstrable Protocol categorizes emissions according to three scopes with progress towards the goal of sustainable development, either control declining as scope increases. The climate reporting by reducing the environmental impact or achieving a more utilizes the number of annual full-time equivalents (FTEs) at efficient and responsible use of resources. The definition is the end of the year, which was 256. The majority of the values based on the EU’s definition of ECO innovation. stated comprise measured values. The standards applied in the calculations pertain to material, taxi journeys and comMeasurement of indirect economic and social impact muting. All environmental data is associated with a degree The indirect impact of SEK’s new lending on Sweden’s GDP of uncertainty. This is attributable to scientific uncertainty and employment is calculated using sector-based multipliers regarding the measurement methods as well as uncertainties developed by Statistics Sweden, according to the SNI 2007 surrounding the data that the measurement methods are standard. This model calculates the Swedish content in an applied to. This applies particularly to the measurement of export order or in an investment. SEK finances many differindirect environmental impact from green loans, where SEK ent types of transactions and not all of them necessarily fit relies on project data and information prepared and supplied this model precisely. These calculations can therefore only be by the exporter. Uncertainty also exists vis-à-vis SEK’s share made at a general level and the results should be interpreted of financed projects, which is based on assumptions by SEK. with caution. Categorization of green projects Policy for external assurance Green projects are categorized as dark green or light green. In accordance with the owner policy and the Board’s decision, Dark green projects follow SEK’s framework for green bonds. external assurance is provided by the company’s auditors. Dark green projects are financed through SEK’s green bonds SEK Annual Report 2016  137 Sustainability Report GRI Index, Global Compact reporting, the UN’s Sustainability Development Goals and the Fossil Free Sweden initiative Those indicators that SEK reports in its Annual Report and 2016 Sustainability Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 — Core are listed below. As part of SEK’s participation in the UN Global Compact (UN GC) we are submitting our Communication on Progress for 2016 below. A statement of continued support for the UN GC can be found in the statement by the CEO section on page 6. In addition to reporting in line with the GRI and the UN GC, reports on activities within the framework of the UN’s Sustainability Development Goals and the Fossil Free Sweden initiative can be found below. UN GC prinIndicator Indicator’s content Reference ciple GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-1 Statement from the organization’s most senior decision-maker Page 6-7,47 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization Page 68 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Page 16-17 G4-5 Location of the organization’s head office Page 68 G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Page 68 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 68 G4-8 Markets served Page 20-21 G4-9 Scale of the organization Page 36,68,86 G4-10 Employees Page 86 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements Page 79 G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain Page 32 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Page 6-7,47 G4-14 Precautionary principle Page 136 G4-15 External regulatory frameworks, standards and principles Page 54 G4-16 Memberships of labor and/or industry associations Page 29 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the financial statements Page 68 G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries Page 136 G4-19 List of material aspects Page 27 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organization Page 136 G4-21 Aspect boundaries outPagee the organization Page 136 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and Page 136 the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect Page 136 boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Page 26 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Page 136 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement principles Page 26 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement Page 26 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Page 136 G4-29 Publication date of most recent report Page 136 G4-30 Reporting cycle Page 136 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Page 136 138 SEK Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Report UN GC prinIndicator Indicator’s content Reference ciple G4-32 The report has been prepared in line with the G4 – Core option Page 136 G4-33 External assurance Page 136,137 G4-34 Report on the governance structure of the organization, including the Board’s Page 48-55 committees Ethics and integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior in the Page 35,53,54 form of codes of conduct and codes of ethics SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Indirect economic impact Management approach Page 11,15 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impact Page 35,137 Environmental Management approach – Page 28,55 Principle energy 7, 8, 9 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Page 35 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Page 28,35 Management approach – Page 28,55 emissions G4-EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Page 35 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions Page 35 Social Diversity and Equal Opportunity Management approach Page 31 Principle 3 G4-LA12 Composition of Board of Directors and management, and breakdown of employPage 86 ees per category according to gender, age group and other indicators of diversity. Human rights Principle 1, 2, Management approach Page 28, 29,55 4, 5, 6 G4-HR1 Credit decisions that have undergone human rights screening Page 35 Principle 2 Anti-corruption Management approach Page Principle 10 28,29,52,55 G4-SO3 Analysis of operations for risks related to corruption Page 28 Principle10 G4-SO4 Training on anticorruption policies and procedures Page 35 Principle 10 Product responsibility Management approach Page 29,54 G4-FS6 Lending portfolio broken down by region and sector Page 20-21 G4-FS8 Products with environmental benefits Page 17,35 SEK Annual Report 2016  139 Sustainability Report The UN’s Sustainability Development Goals At the UN’s summit meeting on September 25, 2015, heads of government of the world’s leading countries adopted 17 Sustainability Development Goals (SDG). In 2016, SEK clarified how these goals are linked to our strategies, goals and activities, which are reported below. SEK:s activities SEK:s activities • Green bond page 30 • Equality and diversity page 31 • Green loans page 30 plan and targets • Fossilfree operation page 28 • Partnership with the page 31 Red Cross and My Dream Now • Equality and diversity plan page 31 • Green loans page 30 and tagrets • Environmentally page 28 certified office building • Carbon offset own page 28 operation • Adheres to international page 28 • Support UN Global page 7 sustainability guidelines Compact • Contributes indirectly to page 15 • Stakeholder dialogue page 26 creating jobs in Sweden page 15 • Contributes indirectly to GDP growth in Sweden The Fossil Free Sweden initiative The Fossil Free Sweden initiative aims to showcase participants that, through their operations, contribute to solving climate issues and to reaching the goal of a fossil-free society. In 2016, SEK became a member of the Fossil Free Sweden initiative and participated in one network meeting during the year. The following activities support the initiative. SEK:s activities • Green loans page 30 • Green bond page 30 • Fossilfree operation page 28 140 SEK Annual Report 2016 Sustainability Report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on AB Svensk Exportkredit’s Sustainability Report To AB Svensk Exportkredit Introduction the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of AB Svensk analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The proExportkredit to undertake a limited assurance engagement of cedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary AB Svensk Exportkredit’s Sustainability Report for the year in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable 2016. The Company has defined the scope of the Sustainaassurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s bility Report to the pages referred to in the GRI index on the Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing pages 138-139. standards. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the system of quality control including documented policies and Executive Management for the Sustainability Report procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report requirements. The procedures performed consequently do in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become page 136-137, and are the parts of the Sustainability Reportaware of all significant matters that might be identified in a ing Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not (GRI)) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as express a reasonable assurance conclusion. well as the accounting and calculation principles developed Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by by the Company. This responsibility also includes the interthe Board of Directors and the Executive Management as nal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the Report that is free from material misstatements, whether preparation of the Sustainability Report. due to fraud or error. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion Responsibilities of the Auditor below. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we Conclusion have performed. Based on the limited assurance procedures we have perWe conducted our limited assurance engagement in formed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports believe that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the Board of Directors and Executive Management. Stockholm, February 22, 2017 Ernst & Young AB Erik Åström Authorized Public Accountant SEK Annual Report 2016  141 Definitions Definitions A and B projects is performed by sustainability analysts at SEK. The effects Projects and project-related financing are classified based that the loan will give rise to, such as reduced emissions of on their potential societal and environmental impact GHG, are monitored and reported. The term green project according to the OECD’s framework for export credits. is assigned the same meaning as the term green loan. The Category A projects have a potentially material impact green loans are categorized as dark or light green. Dark green and category B projects have some potential impact. loans are categorized under SEK’s framework for green bonds and light green loans finance products or services that lead After-tax return on assets to significant and demonstrable progress toward sustainable Net profit, expressed as a percentage per annum of the curdevelopment, either through a reduction in environmental rent year’s average total assets (calculated using the opening impact or through more efficient use of resources based on and closing balances for the report period). the EU’s definition of ECO innovation. After-tax return on equity Indirect impact on GDP growth and jobs in Sweden Net profit, expressed as a percentage per annum of the current SEK’s lending has indirect impacts in Sweden, including the year’s average equity (calculated using the opening and closing GDP growth and jobs created by export transactions. The balances for the report period). indirect impact of SEK’s new lending on Sweden’s GDP and employment is calculated using sector-based multipliers Annual carbon dioxide reductions from green projects developed by Statistics Sweden, according to the SNI 2007 Calculated as an annual CO2e reduction for a normal year standard. This model calculates the Swedish content in an when the project is up and running, for more details refer to export order or in an investment. SEK finances many differthe calculation principles on pages 136-137. ent types of transactions and not all of them necessarily fit this model precisely. These calculations can therefore only be Average interest-bearing assets made at a general level and the results should be interpreted This item includes cash and cash equivalents, treasuries/ with caution. government bonds, other interest-bearing securities except loans, loans in the form of interest-bearing securities, loans Interest-bearing assets to credit institutions and loans to the public, and is calculated The total of cash and cash equivalents, treasuries/government using the opening and closing balances for the report period. bonds, other interest-bearing securities except loans, loans in the form of interest-bearing securities, loans to credit institutions Average interest-bearing liabilities and loans to the public. Calculated using the opening and closing This item includes outstanding senior debt and balances for the report period. subordinated securities issued and is calculated using the opening and closing balances for the report period. Interest-bearing liabilities The total of outstanding senior debt and subordinated securities Basic and diluted earnings per share (Skr) issued. Calculated using the opening and closing balances for the Net profit divided by the average number of shares, which report period. amounted to 3,990,000 for each period. Large companies C/I ratio Companies with an annual turnover of more than Skr 5 billion. Total operating expenses in relation to net interest revenues and net fee and commission expense. Leverage ratio Tier 1 capital expressed as a percentage of the exposure measured CIRR loans as percentage of new lending under CRR (refer to Note 26). The system for officially supported export credits. Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) Climate risk The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) — is a liquidity metric that Climate change leads to climate risks, which can affect physshows SEK’s highly liquid assets in relation to the company’s net ical assets when average global temperatures continue to rise cash outflows for the next 30 calendar days. An LCR of 100 percent resulting in gradually rising sea levels and increased average means that the company’s liquidity reserve is of sufficient size to rainfall. enable the company to manage stressed liquidity outflows over a period of 30 days. Unlike the Swedish FSA’s rules, the EU rules Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio take into account the outflows that correspond to the need to The capital ratio is the quotient of Common Equity Tier 1 capital pledge collateral for derivatives that would arise as a result of the and the total risk exposure amount. effects of a negative market scenario. Green lending and green loans Loans, outstanding and undisbursed SEK’ s green lending comprises green loans that promote Lending pertains to all credit facilities provided in the form the transition to a low-carbon economy. The classification of interest-bearing securities, and credit facilities granted by traditional documentation. SEK considers these amounts to be 142 SEK Annual Report 2016 Definitions useful measurements of SEK’s lending volumes. Accordingly, Outstanding senior debt comments on lending volumes in this report pertain to amounts The total of borrowing from credit institutions, borrowing from based on this definition (see the Statement of Financial Position the public and senior securities issued. and Note 24). Sustainable terms Medium-sized companies SEK’s mission is to ensure access to financial solutions for Companies with annual sales of between Skr 500 million and Skr the Swedish export industry on commercial and sustainable 5 billion, inclusive. terms. Sustainable terms is defined as conducting operations in a manner that benefits sustainable development. This New lending means acting responsibly and minimizing the risk of negaNew lending includes all new committed loans, irrespective tive impact, and of leveraging opportunities for sustainable of tenor. Not all new lending is reported in the Consolidated value creation. Statement of Financial Position and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows since certain portions comprise committed Swedish exporters undisbursed loans (see Note 9). The amounts reported for SEK’s clients that directly or indirectly promote Swedish exports. committed undisbursed loans may change when presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position due to changes in Tier 1 capital ratio exchange rates, for example. The capital ratio is the quotient of total tier 1 capital and the total risk exposure amount. New long-term borrowing New borrowings with maturities exceeding one year, for which Total capital ratio the amounts are based on the trade date. In the Consolidated The capital ratio is the quotient of total own funds and the total Statement of Cash Flows, amounts are shown based on risk exposure amount. settlement dates. Differences can occur between these amounts, since trade dates and settlement dates can differ and occur in Transition risk as a result of climate change different reporting periods. Actions taken to limit climate risks, such as legislative and regulatory changes, raised climate-related taxes, changed Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) production and consumption patterns, and new technolThis ratio measures stable funding in relation to the company’s ogy can lead to transition risk for companies. SEK could illiquid assets over a one-year, stressed scenario in accordance potentially be exposed to credit losses due to the companies with Basel III. financed being exposed to transition risk that they were unable to manage. Unless otherwise stated, amounts in this report are in millions (mn) of Swedish kronor (Skr), abbreviated “Skr mn” and relate to the Consolidated Group consisting of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. The international code for the Swedish currency (SEK) is not used in this report to avoid confusion with the same three-letter abbreviation that has been used to denote AB Svensk Exportkredit since the company was founded in 1962. AB Svensk Exportkredit (SEK), Swedish corporate identity number 556084-0315, with its registered office in Stockholm, Sweden is a public limited liability company as defined under the Swedish Companies Act. In some instances, a public company is obliged to add “(publ)” to its company name. SEK Annual Report 2016  143
