Our Contribution To Social, Environmental & Economic Sustainability 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report able of Contents ssage from the CEO ......................................................... 3 out GLOBAL CSR ............................................................... 4 ial Sustainability .............................................................. 6 ironmental Sustainability ............................................. 12 nomic Sustainability ..................................................... 14 2 ESSAGE FROM THE CEO performance in 2016. The report also includes our objec for the future. ur purpose is to promote sustainable development. s a given, we act in accordance with the principles It is important to GLOBAL CSR that we continuo we advise clients to apply. We believe that the contribute to, whilst managing adverse impacts ernationally agreed upon principles for sustainable internationally agreed principles for sustainable so evelopment add needed quality to the field of CSR. environmental and economic development. We continu he Principles-Based Approach to CSR enables us to support the UN Global Compact using the UN Gui address impacts in areas essential to sustainable Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) / O cial, environmental and economic development. The Guidelines to provide for a consistent and transparent sys management system designed by the UN Guiding for managing adverse CSR impacts. We acknowledge Principles from 2011 provides for cost-efficient importance of the UN Global Compact in streamli approaches to manage adverse impacts on the international principles for sustainable development internationally agreed principles. We intend to business and of the UNGPs in establishing the mini aintain our leadership position in the field ensuring required practice in – or the minimum standard for CS that fulfilling our purpose is also profitable. To put the principles into practice, we rely on the enthusi is my pleasure to present our 6th Corporate Social creativity and inspiration of our clients, associates sponsibility (CSR) report on our efforts during 2016. relationships inspiring businesses to adopt strategies OBAL CSR was established as a consultancy in 1996. As sustainable develpment. e of the first professional advisors on CSR worldwide we Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO tinue to optimise the social, environmental and economic pacts of our business. The report describes our top orities for action and provides information on our 3 BOUT GLOBAL CSR OUR WORK OBAL CSR is a privately owned consultancy firm located in GLOBAL CSR assists and advises corporations in develo penhagen, Denmark. As a leading Corporate Social and implementing strategies in line with internatio sponsibility (CSR) consultancy firm, we specialise in recognised principles covering the triple bottom line. ating sustainable solutions for private companies, public named this the Principles-Based Approach to CSR. horities and organisations in a range of countries and We have more than 20 years of practice in CSR and ustries. Since 1996, GLOBAL CSR has carried out advised many of the leading corporations in the worl ignments in all parts of the world. CSR. OBAL CSR is recognised as leading experts on the Our goal is to continue to develop innovative and c plication of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and effective solutions and tools to address impacts man Rights (UNGPs), referencing the International Bill of sustainability, enabling our customers to fully benefit man Rights, as the basis of CSR activities in relation to their investments in CSR. Our primary goal in these year ial sustainability. to leverage best practices in meeting the globally ag minimum standard for managing adverse impact on s egrity is pivotal to the way we do business. We offer advice sustainability – i.e. the UNGPs. t leads to long term sustainable solutions for our tomers and society. Furthermore we only support CSR GLOBAL CSR has experience working with the full cycl ivities that genuinely manage their adverse impacts on CSR implementation from pre-assessment, im tainable development. assessments, risk & opportunity analyses, vision stateme strategies, policies (policy commitment), cap development, project design, action plann implementation (prevention, mitigation and remediati responsible sourcing, responsible investments, respon distribution and accounting (both on the ground in for 4 cking performance and communicating and annual GLOBAL CSR will run a profitable business by: orting). In addition, our team has vast experience in • Performing work for sustainable development base luating both corporate and public programmes. the Triple Bottom Line: social, environmental r comprehensive understanding of business realities in economic sustainability. st sectors and for all sizes of businesses allows us to fully • Inspiring and assisting corporations, governments dress the needs and wishes of our clients. organisations in developing and implementing CSR thereby creating shared value qualified by internati UR VISION principles. • Maintaining high professional integrity while delive envision a world of social, environmental and economic innovative, cost-effective and simple solutions, w undance and sustainability; in which all human beings create value for our customers. oy the full realisation of their human rights in appreciation heir diversity. A world where businesses live by principles ential to co-creating a brighter future for our planet, for manity – and for economic development. UR MISSION OBAL CSR’s mission is to be a catalyst for positive social elopment. We enjoy the ability to function as a preferred tner in advising corporations, governments, multilateral anisations and non-governmental organisations on how to ke core international principles for sustainable elopment operational and manageable. 5 OCIAL S USTAINABILITY New Practices on Human Rights Impact Assessment With the UNGPs, new practices around Human Rights Impact h the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Assessments need to be developed. To our knowledge no pre-2011 NGPs) endorsed in June 2011, the world’s businesses practices or tools were aligned with the UNGPs. GLOBAL CSR has conducted extensive research in the area since 1996. The UNGPs eived an authoritative globally recognized reference point require companies to assess impacts on all 48 human rights from the respecting human rights, including the core labour rights. International Bill of Human Rights (UNGP 12). When conducting the Assessment on all 48 rights in all business units, we are expected to engage – as a minimum – with affected stakeholders (UNGP 18). e UNGPs describe what should be expected from any GLOBAL CSR reviewed the few publicly available assessments. It appears that companies seek to meet the new requirements by siness in the world in terms of managing adverse impacts applying pre-2011 approaches. As an example, some assessments human rights, i.e. the rights that are also referenced in seek to predetermine the scope to a few human rights only (typically including impacts on 8-12 human rights). Some assessments first 6 principles of the UN Global Compact. combined limiting the scope of rights with a preconceived notion of typical human rights impacts from a certain ‘business function’, in addition to assessing impacts from a limited number of business s Communication on Progress (COP) demonstrates how functions only. Finally, some assessments focus attention to preOBAL CSR implements the UNGPs, thus ensuring respect defined issues involving human rights aspects, such as migration, land issues, etc., rather than adopting a rights based approach. human rights in the organisation. We hope to inspire other sinesses that are about to do the same. Also GLOBAL CSR is concerned that very large corporations appear to outsource the entire assessment to experts like us. Considering that assessments have to take place in all operational units and with addition we will outline where we work beyond compliance, regular intervals such practice will not be sustainable; focus should be oriented towards local capacity development to conduct assessments. tributing to fulfilling specific human rights principles. Companies need to develop capacity locally, empowering local management to take responsibility and ownership of the process. To support this purpose, GLOBAL CSR developed a Human Rights Impact Assesment tool in 2014 that companies can use to conduct assessments of their own and this year we went further by developning a new Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) tool.The tool iwas launched March 2016. Thus, local capacity can be developed using this tool ensuring sustainability in corporate practices. www.csrCloud.com 6 SR C O M P L I A N C E in 2016 and will be a step towards more companies mee the process requirements in the UNGPs. sic human rights principles are essential for the dignity, GLOBAL CSR also implements the UNGPs. We ll-being and development of all people. Dignity, well-being embedded a commitment to respect all human ri d development of people are essential for conducting and throughout our organization, and we continuously work anding business. Ensuring respect for human rights is our customers and other relationships to enable them t od for business. ‘Respecting human rights’ for business is the same. We did not cause or contribute to any se w defined by having in place a management system that, adverse impacts in 2016. a minimum, meets the standards outlined by the UNGPs. short the UNGPs enable all businesses to know their We are advising several large companies aroound the w ential and actual adverse impacts and to show what they Thus, we are directly linked to severe potential and a doing to address such impacts. adverse impacts on human rights. We are using our leve as advisors to establish solid systems implementing companies regardless of where they operate will have both UNGPs, and whenever we identify severe human ri ential and actual adverse human rights impacts. impacts through our work or such impacts are other ditionally, all companies have experiences managing such brought to our knowledge, we provide – confidential ad pacts; e.g. efforts to create safe and healthy working addressing such impacts. Our legal privilege, as regist ditions. We are now expected to identify potential and attorney, enables us to keep such information confidenti ual impacts, and show what we do to manage such pacts this in relation to all human rights; not just the In addition we have identified less severe potential adv ht to safe and healthy working conditions. impacts on 25 human rights – of 48 human rights wher take action to prevent and mitigate such adverse impact ring 2014 -2016 GLOBAL CSR created the Human Rights pact Assessment (HRIA) tool based on the feedback vided by our clients using the tool. The tool was launched 7 licy Commitment Due Diligence Process all our activities we seek to identify potential and actual The first step of the due diligence process is identificatio verse impacts on all 48 human rights included in the potential and actual adverse impacts. We continuousl ernational Bill of Human Rights. In addition we dialogue with all our employees and our clients for tinuously seek to influence our relationships, primarily our identification process. The list below provides for an over nts, to respect human rights as well. of rights where potential adverse impacts were identifie our firm. enever actual adverse impacts are identified in our value ins, where we did not cause or contribute to such impacts, • 2. Right to non-discrimination • 8.b Right to adequate clothi • 3. Right to work • 9. Right to health intend to use our leverage to make the party or parties • 4.a Right to equal pay for • 11.a Right to take part in equal work cultural life t are causing or contributing to such impacts act in • 4.b Right to a living wage • 11.b Right to benefit from ordance with the UNGPs. • 4.c Right to safe and healthy scientific progress working conditions • 11.c Right to material gains • 4.d Right to equal from inventions opportunities for everyone to • 11.d Moral rights of authors r commitment to human rights is evident throughout the be promoted • 12. Right to life • 4.e Right to rest, leisure, and • 23. Right to privacy anisation. On a daily basis we communicate to our paid holidays • 24. Right to freedom of ployees and assist business relations on how to respect • 5. Right to form and join trade thought, conscience and unions and the right to strike religion man rights in alignment with the UNGPs. The publication • 6. Right to social security, • 25.a Right to freedom of including social insurance opinion uman Rights Explained for business” provides an • 7.a Right to protection of • 25.b Right to freedom of mothers before and after expression essible way to understand the 48 human rights from the childbirth • 29. Right to protection of th • 7.b Right to children's and family and the right to marr ernational Bill of Human Rights in a business context. The young people's protection from • 31. Right to participate in ok is now used in all of our client relations and meetings to exploitation public affairs • 8.a Right to adequate food and prove their general understanding of the full range of its fair distribution man rights that need to be addressed when implementing UNGPs. 8 OBAL CSR regularly conducts Human Rights Impact Remediation essments engaging our employees while accommodating In 2016 GLOBAL CSR experienced no legal or professi UNGPs criteria of meaningful participation of the conduct actions. entially affected stakeholders in identifying adverse pacts. The Assessments also serves as a way to further B E Y O N D CSR C O M P L I A N C E elop employees’ capacities on the UNGPs and human hts. Where potential adverse impacts are identified We recognise that knowledge is our primary resource. ployees are asked to present ideas for addressing such success of our business depends on our knowledge pacts effectively. competencies and our abilities to communicate knowledge. It is important for GLOBAL CSR to continuo e exercise of identifying and assessing was executed using improve our competencies on CSR and sustain OBAL CSR’s own Human Rights Due Diligence tool – development in theory as well as in practice. It is w.csrCloud.com. Fully aligned with the UNGPs, the tool important for us to share our knowledge; support ables us to conduct and update our Human Rights Impact development of the CSR field to find better, more c essments across the organisation. The identified potential efficient and innovative ways to address global challeng d actual adverse impacts on 25 different human rights are relation to social sustainability. Two key principles of s tinuously addressed and we measure the effectiveness of sustainability, which we promote through our know-how efforts. We have not received complaints on adverse products are: (i) The right to education and (ii) freedo pacts in 2016. information. ”Our primary contribution to social sustainabilit through the actions of the clients we advise” As a consultancy firm we assist corporations that are experienced within the field of CSR as well as corporat that have only just begun addressing their societal imp 9 a structured manner. Our services also span across The greatest global challenge in implementing the UNGPs ders, both when we provide services to international “Limited capacity is a far greater obstacle to rapid progress i porations. business and human rights than we tend to acknowledge; it’ much easier to blame someone. Limited capacity affects th advise clients to address CSR in all their business ability of all stakeholder groups, including governments ations; both in supply chains, downstream (distribution) businesses, NGOs and the UN system to play their necessar d in investments. By assisting our clients to strategically roles.” John Ruggie, December 4th, 2012, UN Forum, Genev us contributions, while complying with the globally agreed nimum standard for social sustainability, we ensure that R efforts optimise shared value in the best way possible. In 2016 GLOBAL CSR gave presentations at nume are experts in identifying both CSR challenges and national as well as international seminars, worksh portunities through direct application of the globally agreed trainings and debates on CSR with a special emphasi nciples for sustainable development. developing capacity and awareness on the UNGPs. In add an effort to contribute to sustainable development, we GLOBAL CSR continues to invest and focus heavily re our knowledge by advising organisations and initiatives developing tools for businesses: t are key players in the continued development of CSR • GLOBAL CSR has concentrated its resources on cap pacity development on UNGPs and human rights development and training in the UNGPs and human rig while targeting corporations, we also engage govern civil society, academia and CSR experts. During 201 e of the greatest challenges ahead in globally scaling up informed and trained more than 500 individuals in responsibility to respect human rights among businesses UNGPs, including app. 60 corporate representatives ains to be awareness and capacity development. Because received in-depth training. our competencies and position in the field, we recognise • The guide “Constructive Campaigning” continues important role GLOBAL CSR can play in addressing this provide information to clients and is used within the bal challenge. 10 community, who also contribute by distributing the guide ‘Human Rights Impact Assessment Lab’ and ‘RSC to others to help spread our message further. alignment with the UNGPs’. GLOBAL CSR’s e-learning platform, learnCSR has GLOBAL CSR regularly participates in public debate continued to receive great feedback and has in 2016 been business and human rights and the principles-b a popular tool for its ability to train many people in an approach to CSR. We regularly publish articles effective, flexible and cost-efficient manner; see participate in national and international working gr www.learncsr.com. related to the 10 UNGC principles, the UNGPs and CSR. GLOBAL CSR continues to promote and sell our booklet, devote time to engage in debates as we believe this br Human Rights Explained – for business. The booklet added value to our clients and to society. provides employees and managers with basic understanding of all 48 human rights contained in the Thus, continuing to promote social sustainability an International Bill of Human Rights. Concrete scenarios on particular the UNGPs is an ongoing objective for GLOBAL adverse impacts, the application of the UNGPs and positive and an area where we can make a difference. contributions demonstrate the relevance of all rights in a business context. Human Rights Explained – for business is an important tool for businesses seeking to respect human rights and can be purchased from GLOBAL CSR. GLOBAL CSR has in 2014-2016 developed an online Human Rights Impact Assessment Tool. The tool enables business to assess own adverse impacts on human rights and to manage it business relationships; e.g. suppliers. in collaboration with corporate relationships. See www.csrCloud.com. GLOBAL CSR continues to offer its three capacity developing one day workshops: ‘UNGPs Compliance Lab’, 11 NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY Due diligence We continuously seek to reduce our environmental imp mpanies of every size and type have adverse impacts on by always using the most environmentally friendly mea environment through their business operations and transportation. All executives and employees cycle, ivities. When preventing and mitigating our adverse public transportation, or carpool as the predominant m pacts on the environment we address the subject areas of transportation. When possible we have meetings thro ered by UN Global Compact’s principles 7-9. video and teleconferences, to minimize our use of air tra SR C O M P L I A N C E Our e-learning platform, learnCSR has allowed u decrease the environmental impact of our company and “We aim to minimise our negative environmental clients even further, since our consultants and co impacts and where possible enhance our positive participants can avoid travelling to specific location environmental impacts” participate in lessons, but can enjoy the latest lear licy technology and knowledge regarding social sustainability anti-corruption regardless of time or space. Several thou OBAL CSR supports and strives to demonstrate employees have already been trained through learn vironmental responsibility through our work, as well as constituting a significant CO2 abatement. ernally in our business. We aim to minimise our vironmental impacts and where possible enhance our Nonetheless, being a consultancy that serves clients aro itive environmental impacts. Our external contribution to the world, we cannot eliminate air travel. Our phy vironmental sustainability stems from assisting businesses presence is often needed as part of our work. Ensuring minimising their negative environmental impacts on the quality service often requires that we perform o net. assessments of clients’ operations and branches. Ch management and capacity development are esse 12 mponents of our work and both require interpersonal In 2016, we assisted our clients in meeting the gro mmunication and presence. environmental challenges, requirements and expectat that they face today. endeavour to maintain and expand our position as ntrunners in the field of CSR. This requires that we We work in cooperation with strategic partners that ticipate in debates to develop the field; which often leading experts on environmental sustainability. We olves presenting at international conferences. Thus, the advised clients to perform environmental im k of our CO2 emissions stems from international air travel. assessments, life cycle assessments, carbon and w footprint assessments. mediation In addition, we have participated in seminars and worksh as well as facilitated and held several seminars OBAL CSR will collaborate with public authorities and other workshops on, for instance, the cradle to cradle and circ tners, if we identify any major adverse impacts on the economy concepts, as part of raising public awareness vironment. No such events were identified in 2016. meeting the growing need for education on CSR and YOND CSR C O M P L I A N C E business case for being environmentally responsible. OBAL CSR works to promote environmental sustainability THE FUTURE CHALLENGES AND WORK W h our clients. In 2016, GLOBAL CSR assessed and advised ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY eral Danish and international clients on principles 7-9 of UNGC into their core business operations. These three It is our goal for 2017 -2018 to expand our Human Ri nciples serve to support precautionary approaches to Due Diligence tool to include both environmental vironmental challenges, to undertake new initiatives on economic sustainability. . vironmental responsibility and to encourage the elopment and diffusion of environmentally friendly hnologies. 13 CONOMIC S USTAINABILITY porations seek to incorporate their contributions to Due diligence tainable development into their core business strategies, le ensuring that no functions have adverse impacts. Besides GLOBAL CSR is a value based company and we are proa using on making a profitable business, economic in encouraging positive norms and values amongst tainability also means ensuring that we do not have employees and business relations. We are also a financ gative impacts on the economy in particular in relation to transparent company and seek to foster an open ruption and bribery. transparent culture internally in the organisation. In add to having an external accountant, we communicate abou SR C O M P L I A N C E budget internally amongst all employees. We consider t practices to be proportionate to our size and the risks Our mission is to run a profitable business through the company faces. promoting sustainable development” We are aware that we run higher risks when operating ab licy commitment in markets where bribery is commonplace, compare Denmark. Thus we are diligent in communicating our va OBAL CSR has a zero tolerance stance on bribery and as the basis for doing business; and making sure to ruption in the business and in relations with our clients business relationships based on trust and com d partners. In line with UN Global Compact principle 10, understanding. work against corruption in all its forms, including ortion, and facilitation payments. We are committed to ply definitions from internationally recognised instruments, h as the UN Convention referenced by the Global Compact nciple 10. 14 mediation e risks of being involved with corruption and bribery vary m one business culture to the next. GLOBAL CSR has THE FUTURE CHALLENGES AND WORK W eloped two e-learning modules on anti-corruption, ‘AntiECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY ruption for employees’ and ‘Anti-corruption for managers’; a tool to build capacity with businesses and employees in GLOBAL CSR intends to continue to participate in ieving a corruption free business environment; see contribute to both national and international debates on w.learnCSR.com. establishment of viable international principles for busi to apply when planning and executing tax payments YOND CSR C O M P L I A N C E international operations. ereas corporate economic responsibility initiatives need Also GLOBAL CSR continues to develop practical solution y address the international principles on anti-corruption, applying the UN Guiding Principles (UNGPs) in Soc also advise our clients in relation to good corporate Responsible Investments (SRI). The UNGPs provid vernance and the up-coming issue of sustainable tax standardised reference point, thus reducing costs yments. investors while contributing to scaling up the corpo responsibility to respect human rights. ough our work we contribute to the elimination of ruption, as we advise clients on corporate economic ‘Our contribution’ is published in English only and wil ponsibilities and opportunities. In cooperation with our permanently available for download on unglobalcompact.org ategic partners we help our clients implement the 10th feedback or further information, please contact us at info@gl nciple of the UNGC strategically into their businesses. csr.com or +45 44 99 55 06. 15
