The United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) Name of Organization: SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd Sector: Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Website: www.squarepharma.com.bd Country of Headquarter: Dhaka, Bangladesh Reporting Period: January 2016 to December 2016. Page 1 of 16 Our Statement of continued support for UN Global Compact SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is one of the pioneer signatories of UN Global Compact in Bangladesh. UNGC principles are aligned with company's culture from the very outset. So, signing UNCC was a public endorsement ofwhat SQUARE had already been practicing. The Management Team leads the entire range of activities with dedication and continues to identify sustaining ways of meeting our commitments to the UNGC. We strongly agree as an organization to increase the momentum and practical steps to meet our commitment made to UNGC. We run our business with transparency, under ethical standard and scaling up CSR activities to our stakeholders. I, as the Managing Director, feel obliged to express our commitment towards UNGC and will continue our efforts going forward in 201 7. Ta Chowdhury Managing Director Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  Informing Physician Community on Latest  These clinical meetings and seminars have the following Human Rights We at SQUARE strive to Development in Medical Science impacts: ensure that our activities Being in the pharmaceutical sector, the Company  A wealth of knowledge is shared among medical Businesses support the fundamental maintains a very close relation with the physician professionals. should support human rights, set out by community. The management believes a better  A close relation with the physician community is and respect the the United Nation’s Bill informed and educated doctor community creates a maintained protection of of Rights. win-win situation for all the stakeholders. For this  Knowledge of products is increased significantly. internationally purpose, SQUARE takes multiple initiatives under its  Medical professionals receive updated information proclaimed Continual Medical Education (CME) programs. on different drugs and other relevant information. human rights  A better informed and educated community of and make sure Our AgroVet Division also conducts seminar and clinical doctors creates a win-win situation for all the they are not meeting across Bangladesh for Veterinary Doctors, stakeholders. complicit in Farmers and Quacks to disseminate the regular  The physician community is supported with human rights updated information of different drugs. These meetings contemporary and critical issues related to medicine, abuses. are organized by Veterinary Graduates of Veterinary disease, medical innovation etc. Services Department (VSD).  These meetings are organized aiming to upgrade the (UNGC Principles  The number of Continual Medical Education day-to-day developments in medical sector. These 1-2) (CME) programs conducted in 2016 by Medical meetings act as a forum for training and knowledgeServices Department were 511 and the sharing among the medical professionals and often number of participants were 37544 attended by experts on the respective subject as key-note speakers.  Continual Medical Education (CME) program for the healthcare professionals was held in Kenya to update them about recent treatment option & advancement in Medicine on May 2016 & October 2016.  SQUARE provided most recent scientific articles & printed materials of medications for Fiji College of General Practitioners Medical Conference held on June 24th 2016 at Nadi, Fiji. Page 3 of 16  Healthcare professionals were participated in Dermatological Conference and Pediatric Conference held at Colombo, Sri Lanka in June, 2016 which was about health hygiene.  100+ Gynecologists took part in Gynecological Conference on 3rd week of May’16 at Maternity Hospital, Tajikistan and by this conference they learned about advanced healthcare medicine.  40 Gastroenterologists of Tajikistan Human Rights participated in Gastroenterology Conference on 23rd Sep’ 16 at the Scientific Research & (UNGC Principles Clinical Institute of Gastroenterology which 1-2) was about cutting-age ailment options.  The number of seminars and clinical meetings conducted in 2016 by Veterinary Services Department was 465 and the number of participants was 8200. Doctors of veterinary medicine are also conducted some seminars.  SQUARE Publications: SQUARE publishes  As a result of this initiative, the physician community is bulletins on a quarterly & half-yearly basis supported with contemporary and critical issues related to which are distributed among the physicians of medicine, disease, medical innovation etc. Bangladesh. These are Product Guide, Oshudh Nirdeshika, The SQUARE, Diabetes Newsletter, American Family Physician Journal, Women's Health, Neurotale, Insight Heart, GI café, Dermatological Newsletter etc. In 2016, SQUARE published 8 journals & 213000 copies of newsletters. “The SQUARE”-journal has been published in both English (69000 copies) & Bengali (18000 copies) languages. Page 4 of 16  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has introduced  Employees can take home loan at nominal service charge & Housing Scheme for the employees with a with longer repay time to fulfill their dream of own sweet fund of BDT 1 Billion. Till now, 08 persons are home. enjoying this facility.  The employees of SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. are enjoying 50% discount on treatment  Employees and their families are getting quality treatment for self, spouse, parents & children at SQUARE from world class standard hospital in Bangladesh and Hospitals Ltd. reputed doctors at affordable cost.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has participated in the career fest for the Intern Doctors of all  Students of different Medical colleges & Universities medical colleges on 19 Feb 2016 and 3rd attended the career fair to enrich their career knowledge. Pharma career fair at State University of Bangladesh on 22-23 April 2016. Human Rights  This initiative has been taken to ensure safe drinking water  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. has donated for students & to support them for maintaining health two water filter machines to Mohakhali (UNGC Principles Primary School, Dhaka on 28th February, hygiene. 1-2) 2016.  SQUARE shared humanitarian aid by  This type of continuous initiative has been taken to support donating medicine for the Cyclone affected Fijians in April 2016. the victims from natural disaster.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. supports 'School  As a result of this donation, institution received the of Hope' (a non-profit, non-political, nonnecessary resources to function efficiently and the children religious educational institute) medicines & can enjoy healthy life. This also creates the future customers other daily-need appliances. The school for SQUARE. provides quality education & health-support to 250 underprivileged children every day. The donation was handed over to the school principal. The donation includes both medicines and toiletries products.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. arranged free  This program was arranged to increase awareness about Diabetes Screening & Awareness Program Diabetes & its prevention. 2016: Powered by Ansulin for the employees of Head Quarter of SQUARE Group on 19-20 July, 2016. In this event, different medical tests have been conducted e.g., Blood Glucose Level (Fasting/Random), Blood Pressure & BMI (Body Mass Index). Page 5 of 16  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides pick & drop  Boosts the morale of the student. services with school buses for the children of Creates future customers for SQUARE. factory employees. Currently, 125 students are The service generates employee satisfaction. enjoying this service. The children enjoys hassle free journey.  SQUARE HOSPITALS LTD. has launched corporate office based health awareness  SQUARE HEALTH TALK helps to create awareness as well as program “SQUARE HEALTH TALK”. Initially practical knowledge on “HOW TO LEAD A PRODUCTIVE AND started with Grameen Phone & SQUARE HEALTHY LIFE”. Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Corporate Office. The topic for Grameen Phone was “Pain & Stress” & for SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. was “Smoking cessation” and “Healthy Living”. This is a health awareness program conducted by a team of reputed physicians of SQUARE Human Rights HOSPITAL. (UNGC Principles  SQUARE Kindergarten, High School & College provides education and educational facilities to  This initiative enables the children of the employees to 1-2) the boys & girls of the employees as well as to receiving quality education at a subsidized rate and the children of the local community. As of creates employee satisfaction. The children of the local 2016, there are 565 students in SQUARE community are equally benefitted with standard Kindergarten, High School & College out of education. which 285 are female and 280 are male. Total 61 teachers out of which 17 are male and 44 are female and 19 staffs are there to provide adequate services.  SQUARE established Dishari Computer  The initiative offers an alternative training solution to the Training Institute in Pabna to train the section of the community unable to afford costly training underprivileged community and enable them programs. Trainees are empowered as prospective users of to build their future with contemporary future technology enabling them to build their future with knowledge in computer science. In 2016, a contemporary knowledge in computer operations. This also total of 341 students received training out of helps to get them job and to become self-employed. which 198 are female and 143 are male. 13 students trained from Dishari Training Institute are working at SQUARE group at present. Page 6 of 16  SQUARE operates a fuel station named Eakub  The station generates employment opportunities to rural Filling Station which is run by women women allowing them to be self-sufficient. Women are employees. empowered as they are able to have their own source of income.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. is partnering one of the  Product awareness and demand increases in those areas and projects of CARE by empowering women of helps the poor rural women to experience the better & safer JITA and BRAC. CARE, JITA and BRAC are way of living. humanitarian organizations committed to helping families in poor communities improve their lives and alleviate poverty. The project enables rural women to purchase our products from hubs at Trade Price (TP) and sell it to households at Maximum Retail Price (MRP), Human Rights keeping the margin (not less than 10%) for themselves. (UNGC Principles  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. provides health & hygiene information to adolescent girls under  This campaign educates them about menstruation facts and 1-2) the brand “Senora” & “Femina”. This is a free made them ready for a healthier future. It also introduced campaign in association with “Campaign for our products to them. Popular Education (CAMPE)” that creates awareness among High School girls. Female garment workers are also covered under the campaign. This awareness program covered 3.8million girls till 2016 (over last 4 years)  “Meril Baby” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries  Mothers are benefitted with adequate knowledge on Ltd.) takes initiatives to make life better for breastfeeding, helping them guide their babies to a healthy Bangladeshi mothers by informing them of future. breastfeeding benefits and by helping them guide their babies to a healthy future. SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also disseminates vaccination information for Polio elimination from Bangladesh. 3.7 million mothers were benefitted under this program. SQUARE also arranged breast feeding & diaper changing room at International Trade Fairs and also gave free samples of supermom diapers in Bus station & Rail station of Dhaka during Eid festivals. Page 7 of 16  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. along with ‘Save the  Mothers took advice for their babies’ health problems Children and ‘Bill & Melinda Gates foundation’ through this helpline. initiated a 24/7 helpline system for young mothers named ‘Supermom’. More than 01 lac mothers took advice through this helpline in 2016.  Maasranga Television (a sister concern of  This initiative creates health awareness among the mass SQUARE Group) broadcasts live “SQUARE population. Valuable information and advice on various Hospital Doctor’s Chamber” every Friday. This important topics related to diseases & treatment can be is a program where Doctors and senior provided. consultants communicate directly with patients over telephone, providing valuable information and advice on various important topics related to diseases & treatment. In 2016, some Human Rights important topics were Heart disease misconceptions, Mouth cancer, Urinal stone, (UNGC Principles Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, World health day & diabetes prevention, Deadly COPD for 1-2) smokers, Breast cancer awareness & prevention, Rheumatic fever and arthritis, Epilepsy etc.  Maasranga Television also on aired some TVC  These TVCs create awareness among mass people. regularly to make awareness among people. For example, Careless Driving, Food Poisoning, How to behave with domestic workers, Road Cleanliness, Traffic Awareness, Sexual Harassment in Workplace.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. has been a part of postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) reduction  Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) declined by 66% over the intervention of ICDDRB. past 9 years; the Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) in Bangladesh is now 176 per 100,000. Page 8 of 16  “Meril Splash” (a brand of SQUARE Toiletries  There are a limited number of psychiatrists against a huge Ltd.) engaged Dr. Mehtab Khanom, an eminent number of patients (10 million). As a result everyone does educationist and activist in the field of psychonot get easy access to this few psychiatrists. Through this initiative, SQUARE made it easier for people to receive social counseling for psychological counseling psycho-social counseling. through Supermom number (0961-2222-333 & websitesupermombd.com) regarding various complexities and problems related to health and psychology of babies that parents face during rearing them. She and her associates’ advice not only about baby’s mental health but also about mental health of elders.  SQUARE Toiletries provide free blood pressure  This initiative creates health awareness among the mass check-up & 6 lakh Zerocal sachets (free) to the population. Human Rights morning walkers. (UNGC Principles  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. took initiative to educate children to clean germ from hands  This program is helping children to make a habit of washing 1-2) their hand when they are exposed to dirt and germs. through “Hand Sanitization Program” in different schools. SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also placed Sepnil Hand Sanitizer & Sepnil Hand Wash for free in the washroom of around 23 premises of 12 schools in Dhaka city.  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. arranged a competition  This program is helping children to be socialized and for children from age 0 to5 named “Supermom make a habit of physical sports rather than engaged Baby Olympiad”. In 2016, More than 300 with computer games. participants played 6 different games and for each game 3 kids were winner. Page 9 of 16  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. stood beside the people  This initiative provided the poor with comfort and who were suffering from cold winter by very much needed warm clothes. partnering with JAAGO Foundation (a nonprofit organization catering to the education needs of children from socially and economically disadvantaged background) for a winter clothing drive. The whole country was connected through social and mainstream media to create awareness among the mass. There were many collection points in almost every corner of the country and JAAGO distributed the blankets in the most impoverish areas. Human Rights  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. and Dhaka University jointly started 3 years fellowship program  This fellowship program is very much helpful & (UNGC Principles named “CGS (Center for Genocide Studies)encouraging for the meritorious students. 1-2) SQUARE Fellowship 2015-2017”. This fellowship is provided to the meritorious students who studied genocide studies. In 2016, 6 students got the fellowship.  These festivals encourage the teenage girls & boys to listen  SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. arranged Folk Fest & and practice classical as well as folk music so they can have Bengal Music Festival. “Magic”oral care brand, SQUARE Toiletries Ltd. also arranged Folk the essence of the richness of our traditional culture. Competition (a talent hunt program) called Through “Magic Bawliana”program the hidden talents of “Magic Bawliana”. folk music got limelight.  SQUARE Food & Beverage arranged an award  This award is provided to those female who achieve program to celebrate International Women’s success in their relevant field. It’s recognition to Day. In 2016, 3 women got “Radhuni Kirtimoti Shommanona 2016”. The award is given under show respect to their work. the areas of journalism, entrepreneurship & social welfare. Page 10 of 16 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established  The door to negotiation with management is open as a result Labour Standards Workers’ Trade Union named “SQUARE of this Trade Union. Various concerns of the workers are We respect the right of Kormochari Samity” (Registration No: 1322). There addressed. Businesses workers to join an are around 1474 members of the Trade Union. should uphold association and engage in the freedom of constructive dialogue with  Detailed background and reference verification is  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law. association, the the workers’ done as a part of recruitment & selection process effective representatives. We to ensure no child is employed. recognition of follow ethical practices the right to and labor standards at  Competency based recruitment system are carried  Any possibility of discrimination based on gender, race or collective workplace. At SQUARE, out. Employees are selected based on their skills religion is eliminated. bargaining, the we do no recruit any child and competence. Last year a total of 622 elimination of labor and do not have any employees were recruited under the system. all forms of forced/bonded labor forced and engagement policy. We  HR policies are continuously updated as per the  Gratuity & Provident Fund (PF) policy for the employees has compulsory also provide safe working Labour Law of the country. been implemented as per the amendment in the Labor Law. labor, the conditions for all. We appreciate the  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. runs the program  All unionized employees can take loan to purchase necessary effective individuality of our “Shohoj Kisti Reen Prokalpa” under which all home appliances to improve their standard of living. abolition of workers and treat them unionized employees can take loan to purchase child labor and fairly, equally and necessary home appliances with a small service the elimination respectfully regardless of charge. In 2016, a total of 423 employees were of personal characteristics benefited by this scheme. discrimination such as nationality, in respect of gender, age, ethnicity,  Female employees do not work during night shift  This ensures security and work-life balance for the female employment and religion, or disability. operations. employees. occupation.  All of our employees are covered under mandatory  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law and employee (UNGC Principles Group Life Insurance. satisfaction. 3-6) Page 11 of 16  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. allows festival leave,  This ensures compliance with the Labor Law and employee sick leave, casual leave & annual leave for all its satisfaction. employees. Factory employees get free medical & medicine facilities for sickness at workplace.  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. is providing profit  The plan promotes healthy employer-employee relationship. sharing through WPPF (Workers’ Profit The plan is an additional earning for employees as it is paid Participation Fund) which is a direct payment & in addition to salary and bonuses. equally distributed to the employees Labour Standards depending on company's profitability. (UNGC Principles 3-6)  SQUARE Pharmaceuticals Ltd. established  Ensures compliance with the Labor Law and its amendments. “Safety Committee” & “Participation “Safety Committee” helps to maintain proper safety of Committee” in which the number and employees. responsibilities of Owner & Worker Representatives are equal.  SQUARE Textiles Ltd. provides day care &  Employees are satisfied and feel tension-free during work. Breast feeding center facilities to the children of women workers. There are 5 babysitters taking care of 32-35 children from 8 am to 5 pm. There are breast feeding center, where near about 8-9 female workers are availing this facility right now. Page 12 of 16 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  We utilize Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) in our  Our stakeholders are satisfied and there are no formal Environment We strive to be a leader in manufacturing plants. Purified water through ETP complaints regarding environment. all aspects of is used to maintain Green belt around plants. Businesses environmental protection SQUARE’s Environmental license has been updated ETP’s treated water is re-used for gardening & plantation should support and systematically identify on a continuous basis. Chemical Oxygen Demand purpose. It is reducing the use of underground water a precautionary and manage (COD) of our ETP is 200 mg/L. (International consumption. approach to environmental risks in our Standard for COD has to be less than 400 mg/L for environmental activities and over the the efficacy of ETP). challenges and entire value chain of our undertake products and services. We  We use incinerators for disposing solid wastes to  The cooling of exhaust temperature prevents the initiatives to make efficient use of protect the environment from pollution. The atmosphere from warming. promote greater natural resources and exhaust temperature is cooled down to 200 deg C environmental minimize the from 1100 deg C during operation using cyclonic responsibility. environmental impact of water scrubber. In 2016, a total of 19000 kilograms Businesses our activities and products waste was disposed through incinerator. should also over their life cycle. encourage the  We maintain large greeneries around SQUARE  Soil erosion is prevented. establishments. Green landscaping & roof garden development Increases aesthetics around the compounds. have been developed on different floors & levels and diffusion of at our plant in Kaliakoir. More than 85,000 sft area Helps to protect from global warming. environmentally has been developed & about 1,44,000 sft area is friendly under development. Approximately 2500 plants of technologies. different types have been planted. (UNGC Principles  In the office areas, canteen, café & reception  This ensures daylight in those areas. 7-9) areaslarge glass wall panels have been placed  A lake has been designed in our plant. Most of the  It will be used as a reservoir of fire water and also to increase portion of that lake is already developed & rest of aesthetic beauty of the plant. It plays a vital role on diversity. the portion is under development to store surface Allocated 1,00,000 sft area for reservation of natural water water. will help to keep biodiversity at plant premises. Page 13 of 16  Energy saving & LED lamps have been installed for  Reduced the power consumption and saves energy. street & indoor lights. 170 LED street lights & thousands of energy savings lamps have been installed.  Motion sensors for lights have been introduced in  Reduced the power consumption and saves energy. big corridors of the building & other places where there is less personnel movement.  No environmental pollution is being taken place from  All exhausts from the production buildings during production process since all air borne particles are arrested production process are HEPA filtered and water in HEPA filter & in water scrubber. Environment scrubber controlled. (UNGC Principles 7-9)  All generator & boiler exhausts are made as per  Environmental friendly practices ensure the protection of standard height. Exhaust is being released at a environment. high level (24 m) from ground level.  At Sabazpur Tea Co. Ltd. (a sister concern of  Environmental friendly practices ensure protection of SQUARE Group), we use organic fertilizer to wildlife and maintenance of biodiversity. Soil fertility is produce tea. The tea garden uses natural pest & increased. Use of toilets are ensuring the proper sanitation & controls weed manually. It uses only renewable hygiene of the garden workers as well as protecting the resources and maintains the soil’s fertility. Our environment from being polluted. garden established 6 toilets (Men & Women) in the garden field.  Sabazpur Tea Company Ltd. has been received Organic Certificate (EU & NOP) from Lacon GmbH Germany in 2016. This is the first time green tea (along with black tea) has been incorporated & certified as well in the certification. Page 14 of 16  Apart from the fact that there are about 65,000 marginal  SQUARE Herbal & Nutraceuticals ltd. (SHNL) seeks farmers/families who are earning through this medicinal to reduce and reverse the adverse effects on the plant cultivation, there are a number of environmental environment by Green Product Designs especially impacts of this initiative: for ‘Basak cultivation’ (Medicinal Plant). The company produces herbal medicine such as  The medicinal plant cultivation and marketing model “Adovas” which not only impacts in environment enhances social integrity through arranging interaction positively but increases social values and integrity. among the farmers. We have provided adequate training targeting  Huge cultivation of medicinal plant in the abundant mostly women and unemployed youth. 5 land has enhanced forest development (450 KM road cultivator got help from SHNL to cultivate side) medicinal plants so far & they are from Rajshahi,  Use of natural pesticides and organic fertilizer Environment Narayanganj, Sirajganj, Sunamganj and Bandarban enhanced the caring for environment. (UNGC Principles districts.  Roadside basak cultivation decreased soil erosion. 7-9) Page 15 of 16 Category Commitment Activities and Projects Impacts and Results  SAP ERP Systems integrates the core business  Transparency in the transactions of the company is ensured. Anti-Corruption At SQUARE, we do not functions/processes tolerate any forms of  Company assets are safeguarded against misappropriation Businesses bribery and corruption.  We follow & ensure “Zero Tolerance” against all and fraud. should work Our employee code of kinds of corruption & we have an “Internal Audit”  Operations of company are run effectively and efficiently. against conduct describes various department which specifically deals with this issue. corruption in all policies and practices The head of “Internal Audit” directly report to the  Cost of the company is optimized. its forms, regarding appropriate Managing Director to ensure better control.  Built awareness in newly joined employees. including conduct that are aimed to promote acceptable  Regular external and regulatory audits (both local  Fair and legal transactions are processed end-to-end and extortion and standards for the business & foreign) are conducted in SQUARE. data inconsistencies are eliminated. bribery and provides the  Every transactions are monitored (UNGC employees a professional  All newly joined employees went through Principle 10) work environment. We orientation program on business ethics & antiobserve the highest corruption. standards of professionalism in daily business activities. Page 16 of 16
