Table of Contents About Asteven…………………………………………………….…………….. (2) Our Commitment ............................................................................................(3) Asteven Group Value……………………………………………………………..(4) United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles ..............................(5) United Nations Global Compact Labour Standards Principles ...........................(6) United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles ..................................(7) United Nations Global Compact Anticorruption Principle ................................ (8) Asteven Group is a leading supplier of green technology and services, active in the fields of Clean Energy Solutions. Our business sector ranges from Residential, Commercial and Industrial solar applications, being a leading solution provider of clean energy to Africa rural regions. We consult, design, develop, produce and implement renewable energy and energy efficiency solutions for Africans, with a wide range of applications. The Group also assists in solving the problem of energy poverty by tackling the issues of non-availability of reliable and sustainable power supply, quality, reliable standard solar power pumping, solar electricity, engineering design, installation techniques, facility management, empowerment program and maintenance. Asteven Group of companies is the parent company to all AS Companies and with roughly 8 subsidiaries around West, Central and East Africa. Including sales and service partners, Asteven Group (AS Solar manufacturing and sales network covers Germany, Nigeria, Cameroon, Rwanda and Kenya with (ongoing expansion in Uganda, DRC and Burkina Faso)) We have always believed in driving a brighter and sustainable future for all. We take a holistic approach to sustainability, ensuring that our solutions do not only provide sustainable energy, but that, they are also manufactured, deployed and managed in a sustainable way. We are pioneer in the development of clean energy network through capacity development, information, sensitization, community support program. We help hundreds of companies and organizations in Africa to measure, manage, and reduce their greenhouse gas emission by making a switch to carbon reduction technologies. Stabilizing the global climate is one of the most urgent challenges in coming decades; this warming world affects all people and ecosystems, particularly the poor who already suffer disproportionately from climate-change impacts. Our goal is to play a greater role in stimulating the adoption of efficiency and sustainability practices in doing business in Africa, with our customers, partners, stakeholders and employees across the world. Asteven Group is deeply committed to ensuring that its business is conducted, in all respects and at all times, according to rigorous ethical, professional, legal standards, and principles set by United Nation Global Compact, which prevails all the time. We are also committed to creating a workplace at all our working locations so as to minimize stress harassment and discrimination. We hold to a very high esteem the respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human and labour rights. Our commitment extends to the protection of the health, security and safety of our employees, contractors, guests and neighbours. I am pleased to renew our commitment to the UNGC and to the ten (10) principles. We have areas of strong performance across each and every principle and are determined to play an active role in the sustainability agenda while, delivering long-term growth for our business. We undertake training and communication efforts to build awareness and understanding among our employees on anti-corruption so as, to guide their behavior. Any form of corruption is completely at odd with Asteven’s standards of doing business. It is contrary to free markets, undermines the rule of law, and dilutes public trust in business and government. We know that our refusal to participate in corrupt activities may make doing business more difficult in some markets, but bribery is simply unacceptable at Asteven’s, and we have proven times without numbers again that we can ultimately achieve our business objectives without resorting to and DR. SUNNY AKPOYIBO compliance conduct, in other for every employee of the organization to adhere and MD/CEO ASTEVEN GROUP comply with the rules and regulations of the organization. My passion for humanitarian services and vision for providing cheap, sustainable, efficient energy solutions which will guide against climate change and mitigate carbon emission across African countries, had led me to create massive awareness on climate change, global warming, sensitize the public on the environmental, health and financial benefits of using renewable, clean, efficient, sustainable energy solutions across various communities and institutions in Africa. Also, we have built a training institute where green vendors, service providers, installers, technicians, entrepreneurs, who are interested in renewable energy sector will be trained thereby, maintaining a sustainable legacy in the society. We have distributed various technological innovations across Africa. Our solar shop which is an autonomous business hub enables new business opportunity to spring up and empower local communities especially, women to become models for self-sustainability. It is affordable, sustainable, durable, flexible, scalable, controllable, and maintain an eco-friendly environment. We recognize the challenges ahead and that a collaborative approach is key to success. ASTEVEN GROUP VALUES: Our commitment to sustainability and providing environmentally friendly solutions and innovations has led to fulfilling our business goals with effective, efficient operations which guarantees sustainability. We maintain our standards with; INTEGRITY: This is our core value at Asteven Group, we built the structure of the organization on integrity. We maintain our standards on honesty with others and ourselves. We meet the highest ethical standards in all business dealings. We do what we say, accept responsibility and hold ourselves accountable for our work and our actions. TRUST: We trust, respect and support ourselves and external stakeholders by taking the risk of taking people for their words and striving to earn the trust of our colleagues and partners through our performance PROTECTING PEOPLE AND THE ENVIRONMENT: We place priorities on health and safety of our workforce together with, the protection of our assets and environment. We aim to be admired for world-class performance through disciplined application of our management system and distribution of our clean development mechanism across Africa. PARTNERSHIP: We believe we can maintain our standards by having an unwavering commitment to being a good partner focused on building productive, collaborative, trusting and beneficial relationships with governments, other companies, our customers, our communities and each other. DIVERSITY: We learn from and respect the cultures of our host communities, we value and demonstrate respect for the uniqueness of individuals and the varied perspectives and talents they provide. We have an inclusive work environment and actively embrace diversity of people, ideas, and experiences. In the following table, we are providing a summary of the various ways in which we have been working to implement the Global Compact’s principles in Asteven Group. HUMAN RIGHTS AND SUSTAINABILITY POLICY What are human rights? These are generally defined as basic standards of treatment to which all people are entitled, regardless of gender, race, economic status, nationality, or religion. Asteven Group human rights policy endorses internationally proclaimed human rights and rebuke human rights abuses. This commitment is comprehended in our code of ethics and compliance conduct and other corporate policies that ensure we operate safely, responsibly and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Principle 1:  Asteven Group is committed to creating a conducive work environment at all her working locations to avoid intimidation and physical or mental harassment. Businesses should support  We treat our employees with dignity and respect and promote diversity in our and respect the workplace. protection of internationally  Our workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination and harassment in all of its proclaimed forms, including that related to values, race, gender, sexual orientation, age, human rights. pregnancy, caste, disability, ethnicity, religious beliefs or any other factors protected by law.  We encourage open communication and direct contact between workers and management in situations where representation and collective bargaining are restricted by law.  We respect employees’ rights to privacy of their personal information. Principle 2:  We support gender equality and as increased the opportunity for woman to succeed economically, by recruiting 35% of females staffs despite the fact that it’s an Businesses engineering firm. We believe this is the most powerful way to promote human rights should make and community stability. sure that they are not  Our code of ethics and compliance conduct establishes our commitment to human complicit in rights. Even our business partners agree and sign our code of conduct when signing up human rights with us. abuses  We help our employees to understand and obey local laws and act consistently with our policies and procedures by organizing ethics and compliance training regularly. Principle 3:  Asteven Group acknowledges, supports and respects its employees’ rights to freedom Businesses of association, provided that, all actions are legal and that they do not interfere with should uphold the employees' duties, responsibilities and assignments. the freedom of association and  We do not force staffs to perform any task that is hazardous or detrimental to their the effective health or well-being rather, we recommend our diligent staffs for honors. recognition of the right to collective  Our operations in every country and states comply with the established local laws. bargaining;  We are strongly committed to protecting the rules regarding child labour in every country we operate for installations and other functions. Principle 4:  Firstly, we ensure that the employees have a full understanding of what forced-labour is; The elimination of all forms of  We ensure that large-scale development operations do not rely on forced-labour in any forced and phase; compulsory labour;  We carefully monitor supply chains and subcontracting arrangements.  We encourage supplementary health and nutrition programs for workers removed from dangerous forced labour and also, provide medical care to assist those affected by occupational diseases and malnutrition as a result of their involuntary work; Principle 5:  Our company policy is to only hire people who are 18 or older. Our selection and hiring process requires the presentation of government issued identification letter, as The effective well as a rigorous investigation of the person's data. abolition of child labour  We exercise influence on subcontractors, suppliers and other business affiliates to combat child labour  We support and train children/youths who are interested in renewable energy industry, thereby imbibing in them the entrepreneurship knowledge and skills.  We give opportunity for communication and direct contact between workers and management in situations where representation and collective bargaining are restricted by law. Principle 6:  We keep up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion that provide a transparent view of opportunities for employees and their progression within the The elimination organization. of discrimination  We encourage and motivate all employees without discriminating. in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7:  We have been able to reach out to various communities where they have security challenges at night, due to power failure in Africa. Businesses  We have been able to educate our employees and the general public about should support environmental hazard and damages caused by carbon emission in the society. a precautionary  We have been able to create massive awareness on climate change and global approach to warming in our society. environmental challenges; Principle 8:  We have been able to organize green campus initiative sensitization campaign across institutions in Africa, for youth development and to promote greater environmental Undertake responsibility. initiatives to  We have been able to organize green growth rallies to create massive awareness on promote greater climate change and carbon reduction across Africa countries. environmental  We innovates various clean development mechanism to reduce carbon emission in our responsibility; society.  We built a training institute where green vendors, service providers, installers, technicians, entrepreneurs, are trained on renewable energy, thereby maintaining and promoting a sustainable legacy in the society Principle 9:  Asteven key principles that guide our effort towards environmental excellence includes, manufacturing and selling of clean development mechanisms for mitigating Encourage the climate change and ensure good environmental management. development and diffusion of  We handle clean energy projects, designed and installed solar tunnels in Kwara Stateenvironmentally Nigeria which is first of its kind in sub-Sahara Africa. All efforts geared towards friendly mitigating carbon emission and also add to the economic value of the state. technologies  We schedule affordable and flexible payment plan for our clients. Giving room to them to pay on installment basis so as to ensure they use clean energy solutions. ANTI-CORRUPTION This is a robust risk management platform that enables the automatic monitoring of business affiliates and flags any adverse actions or relationships that are indicators of risk to our organization. We monitor our agents, distributors, consultants and vendors on ways and manners they conduct business. Businesses  Our code of ethics and compliance conduct establishes our anti‐corruption should work against corruption in all commitment. We have zero tolerance for bribery in any form. its forms, including  To keep everyone up to speed with a firm understanding of the values and extortion and expectations outlined in our code of ethics and compliance conduct, we organize bribery trainings and communicate often our policies on human rights issues to our employees and partners regularly.  Avoiding conflicts of interest in all our business decisions is essential to our values of Integrity and Trust.  We avoid and do not tolerate conflict of interest in our dealings because, it has a negative impact on our business interests, negatively affects our reputation or relations with others, interferes with an employee’s judgment in carrying out his or her duties.  Our anti-corruption policy demonstrates our expectations and global standards and is continuously updated to reflect the latest developments and corresponding regulations. Copyright © 2017 Asteven Group All rights reserved. Asteven, its logo, and High Performance Delivered are trademarks of Asteven.
