Summary of the Communication on Progress 2017 and concordance with the Integrated Corporate Responsibility Report of Atos, GRI G4 Comprehensive Option For the fifth year, Atos has elaborated an Integrated Corporate Responsibility Report composed of two documents, which received the Global Reporting Initiative’s highest transparency and exhaustiveness recognition level (GRI G4 Comprehensive Option): The Registration Document which is the document for investors’ community and official registration to the French Autorité des Marchés Financiers. It contains the whole set of KPIs aligned with the GRI G.4 Guidelines – Comprehensive Option, and the results of materiality assessment, fully integrated with the financial statement of Atos. The Corporate Responsibility Report (CR Report) which engages Atos for general public. It contains the main Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), highlighting key initiatives and cases studies, and the GRI-G4 Content Index Table. 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer The commitment to support the Global Compact is reported in the Registration Document 2016 (especially G.6.1) and in the CR Report; in addition, the Atos Group CEO & Chairman is renewing Atos’ ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles by letter to the United Nations Secretary General, to be published on the Global Compact’s website. 2. Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. The materiality assessment in line with AA1000 SES (2011) standard, performed in 2016, has defined the GRI G.4 aspects which are material for us. Human Rights aspect was not considered as material (methodology explained in D.1.3 of the 2015 Registration Document). Nevertheless, Atos ensures the respect of Human Rights internally (statement in D.2.2.1 of the 2016 Registration Document) and toward its suppliers : suppliers are requested to adhere to the respect of the Human Rights, as the other principles listed in the UN Global Compact, by signing the Atos Suppliers Sustainability Charter. Business Partners such as agents or external consultants must undergo an automated screening on ethics and compliance, which include a checking of the practices regarding Human rights.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. The materiality assessment in line with AA1000 SES (2011) standard, performed in 2016, has defined the GRI G.4 aspects which are material for us. Human Rights aspect was not considered as material (methodology explained in D.1.3 of the 2015 Registration Document). Nevertheless, Employees can use any tool to report potential claims, such as hierarchy, employee representatives, external auditors, public authority. The New Code of Ethics, approved by Atos Board of Directors the 28th of May 2015, introduces the right of any Group employee to disclose behaviors or actions deemed inconsistent with the values and principles of the Code of Ethics, which include any kinds of non-discrimination. The Code of Ethics clearly states that any employee who report fairly may not be subject to any penalty or retaliatory measure or discrimination, provided that he/she acted in good faith and without the intention to cause harm, even if the events relating to the alert prove inaccurate or no action is subsequently taken. If necessary, the employee’s protection may be assured, on his/her request, by mobility within the Group. Atos has developed a partnership with Ecovadis, to assess its suppliers regarding compliance with the 10 principles of the Global Compact, including Human Rights requirements. The majority of suppliers assessed through the Ecovadis assessment are not located in countries which are identified as risky. EcoVadis assessments are done on four levels: Environment, Labor practices, Fair business practices and Supply chain. Suppliers are asked to answer to a detailed questionnaire about their engagement and required to provide documents supporting their answers. The Purchasing rules concerning suppliers’ selection and evaluation criteria (QCDIMS) include 10% rating on sustainability. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. The materiality assessment in line with AA1000 SES (2011) standard, performed in 2015, has defined the GRI G.4 aspects which are material for us. Human Rights aspect was not considered as material (methodology explained in D.1.3 of the 2015 Registration Document). Nevertheless, all purchasers have signed the Purchasing Code of Ethics. In 2016, 103 suppliers have been scored by EcoVadis – taking into account the compliance with Human Rights standards) representing 49% of the total spend and 41% of our strategic suppliers [AO17] and [G4-SO3]. 3. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. The materiality assessment in line with AA1000 SES (2011) standard, performed in 2016, has defined the GRI G.4 aspects which are material for us (methodology explained in D.6.1.5 of the 2016 Registration Document). The following GRI G.4 labour aspects are considered as material: Employment; Training and education; Diversity and equal opportunity; Equal remuneration for women and men. These aspects respond to the first challenge of Atos: being a responsible employer. HR policies in Atos ensure the respect of Labour rights, and of highest standards (e.g. minimum wage higher that the local one, diversity, collective bargaining, etc). In all the countries where it is necessary, the social dialogue with work councils is strictly respected. In addition, Atos has built an European Work Council, became the Societas Europaea Council in 2013, which is consulted for any major event related to Atos. Atos has created also a new committee called the Participation Body so that employee representatives from the Societas Europaea Council could discuss and share information on strategic and critical topics discussed at the Atos Board of Directors. Suppliers are requested to adhere to the respect of the labour rights, as the other principles listed in the UN Global Compact, by signing the Atos Suppliers Sustainability Charter. Business Partners such as agents or external consultants must undergo an automated screening on ethics and compliance, including respect of Labour regulations. In addition, the Integrated Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 mentions Atos actions related to Labour, with express reference to UN Global Compact principles in the GRI-G4 Content Index Table (Registration Document D.2; CR Report “GRI-G4 Content Index Table”).  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Atos ensures that a continuous communication with employee representatives exists. Atos management regularly exchange with local and regional employee representatives, especially in the Societas Europaea Council, during 6 formal meetings in 2016. In term of diversity, the Diversity Program contemplates four main dimensions: Gender, Cultural Diversity, Disability, and Senior Capital and it is targeted at the further development of diversity within our Group as a way to bring excellence in people management and to improve our Group’s operational performance. The Program is sponsored by a Steering Committee with Group Executive Committee members. All along 2016, Atos has continued progressing in the further development of the Program with a clear focus on four main areas of action: “Engage” (taking firm commitments and making the Group’s engagement in this domain more and more visible), “Exchange” (listening to our staff and making the Diversity Program a program made with and for the employees), “Embrace” (embedding Diversity in our Group’s ways of working) and “Execute” with the implementation of a substantial number of initiatives both at Group level (transversal campaigns) and in the different geographies with a “Think Global and Act Local” approach. The multiplicity of profiles engaged in the initiative, certainly, helps to ensure that the rolling out of the Diversity Program is made in a transversal manner at both global and local levels. Details in the Registration Document, D.2.2.2. Atos launched at the end of 2010 a global survey in order to measure the “Well Being at Work” initiative and employees satisfaction. In 2016, 63 Atos countries took part in the Great Place To Work (GPTW) survey, with 56,458 employees participating, representing 63% of the persons invited to take part to the survey (90,025 employees). Details in the Registration Document, D.2.3.2. Training and education are a key priority, as well as career development: details are provided in the Registration Document, D.2.1.2, and interview from the Group Head of Human Resources in the CR Report.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. The Great Place to Work survey’s 2016 results show that in average 50% of responses to “Taking everything into account, I would say this is a great place to work” are positive or very positive [AO2]. In addition, the HR Reporting monitors the follow up of labour KPI, such as working conditions, actions for discrimination, etc. the full set of KPI is indicated in Registration Document D.2.4). Please refer to the Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 (“People”). 4. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. The materiality assessment in line with AA1000 SES (2011) standard, performed in 2016, has defined the GRI G.4 aspects which are material for us (methodology explained in D.1.3 of the 2015 Registration Document). The following GRI G.4 Environmental aspects are considered as material: Energy; Emission; Product Responsibility compliance. Protecting environment and limit Atos’ carbon footprint are ongoing challenges in Atos, which are divided in several concrete actions (Carbon intensity, Energy efficiency, and Environmental Management System (EMS) based on ISO 14001 Certification). Atos has developed a sustainable portfolio to assist clients in achieving environmental excellence. The goal is to help develop a low carbon economy by providing its customers with services and solutions that combine energy efficiency, carbon reductions and financial savings. The Ambition Carbon Free demonstrates that decarbonizing business strengthens and develops the company’s profitability. The solution is designed to help companies identify levers that can both reduce carbon emissions and achieve energy efficiencies. As a result, it combines carbon reduction and economic performance. The program addresses the entire lifecycle of an organization, process, product, data centers or IT for example (raw material extraction, manufacturing, transport, usage, end of life) and not only the energy consumption during the usage phase as it is often the case. The Atos Integrated Corporate Responsibility Report mentions Atos actions related to Environment, with express reference to UN Global Compact principles in the GRI-G4 Content Index Table (Registration Document D.5; CR Report “Environment” and “GRI-G4 Content Index Table”). 124 Atos sites were already certified ISO 14001 by the end of 2016.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. As examples of its “Environmental ambition”, Atos went on implementing its actions towards greener data center, through virtualization of servers, cloud computing, reducing electricity consumption. Specific actions have been taken: Please refer to the Atos Integrated Corporate Responsibility Report where Atos actions related to Environment are reported (Registration Document D.5.; CR Report “Environment”).  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. No claim regarding Environment was reported in the period covered by the COP. The Atos headquarters in Bezons was the first office building in France to obtain the triple certification: HQE (high quality standard) for construction, HQE for operations and THPE (Very High Energy Performance). In 2015, Atos managed to halve its overall CO2 emissions between 2008 and 2012 and achieved a 50% carbon intensity reduction target (Ton CO2eq/M€ revenue) between 2012 and 2015. Please refer to the Atos 2015 Registration Document which contains Atos actions related to monitoring and evaluation of the environmental performance, (all set of KPI at this end of the section D.5). 5. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. The materiality assessment in line with AA1000 SES (2011) standard, performed in 2016, has defined the GRI G.4 aspects which are material for us (methodology explained in D.1.3 of the 2015 Registration Document). The GRI G.4 aspects “anti-corruption”, “compliance” and “procurement practices are considered as material. Principle of no corruption is expressly part of Atos Code of Ethics, which is distributed to all employees in the group, and available to third parties via Atos web site. A mandatory web-based training on the Code of Ethics, including this issue, is followed by all Atos employees. In 2016, Atos continued to provide the classroom training on the Code of Ethics for the managers: ETO²S training (“Ethics in Tier One Organization School) presents the responsibilities and the risks of non-compliance for Atos and for the managers, including in case of corruption, explains the main Atos policies and processes to ensure compliance with Anti-Corruption regulations, and gives concrete advices to be an ethical manager in the daily work. Suppliers are requested to comply with Anti-Corruption regulations, as the other principles listed in the UN Global Compact, by signing the Atos Suppliers Sustainability Charter before any conclusion of contract. Business Partners such as agents or external consultants must undergo a screening on ethics behavior which includes due diligence and questions on potential links with political parties or place of payment for their services, and which needs to ensure ethical reputation of the partner on the market. A compliance department has been created in January 2010, which defined the update of Code of ethics and anti-corruption policy as first goal. A reinforcement of the Compliance governance was approved by the Group Executive Committee of Atos and was implemented in 2015. This new governance aims to achieve the three following objectives:  An even stronger connection to the Group Top Management through the Group Compliance Steering Committee (“Tone from the Top”): The Compliance Steering Committee focuses on strategies and priorities of the Compliance program, as defined by the Group Legal Compliance Team, and is led by the Atos Group Chief Compliance Officer, member of the Group Executive Committee.  A stronger involvement of operations through the Atos Divisions and increased crossfunctional approach in the Operational Compliance Committee: Chaired by the Group Head of Compliance, the Operational Compliance Committee focuses on cross-functional compliance actions.  Implementation a global compliance approach by way of the establishment of GBU Compliance Committees into the local operations: As of the end of 2015, all GBUs have launched their local Compliance Committees. The objective for 2017 is to maintain frequency and prominence of the GBU Compliance Committees, thus increasing a consistent approach to Compliance at Atos, by rolling out and monitoring compliance matters in accordance with the Group Operational Compliance Committee (top down) and by reinforcing the compliance related reporting to the Group Compliance Steering Committee (bottom-up). Please refer to the 2016 Registration Document which reports Atos actions related to Ethics and prevention from corruption, for more information (D.4.1.1).  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Management Training on the Code of Ethics (N-1, N-2 and N-3 employees) adopted by the Board of Directors in October 2010 started in December 2010. In 2014, a new classroom training on the Code of Ethics was elaborated and deployed in some GBUs to replace the former content: ETO²S training (“Ethics in Tier One Organization School) presents the responsibilities and the risks of noncompliance for Atos and for the managers, including in case of corruption, explains the main Atos policies and processes to ensure compliance with Anti-Corruption regulations, and gives concrete advices to be an ethical manager in the daily work. Since 2014, 642 managers were trained in classroom trainings. Since July 2013, a mandatory web-based training on the Code of Ethics for all employees has been launched, and explains in details what it is forbidden according to Anti-Corruption Regulations. Since the launch in 2013 of the e-learning on the Code of Ethics, 86% of employees have been trained (cumulative figures). In 2016, Atos has established an alert system that grants the right for all employees to raise an alert in the event of a suspected non-compliance with the values and principles of the Code of Ethics, including corruption and bribery. The Code of Ethics alert system has been established in compliance with the requirements of the French Data Protection Authority. With this alert system, any allegations of corruption detected within the Company can be reported to the Head of Compliance and/or to the Group Head of Internal Audit, who will launch the Internal Investigations procedure. The Internal Investigations procedure was reviewed in 2016, to reinforce the governance of any internal investigation, enhance collaboration between global function and local teams and provides clear guidelines on how to conduct internal investigation. Such Internal Investigations are properly tracked at corporate level, and communicated to Group Executive Committee, through the annual review of internal investigations during a Group Compliance Steering Committee. In 2016, compliance internal controls were reviewed and the Group’s Compliance Policy is under review. Please refer to the Atos 2016 Registration Document for more information on the awareness on corruption issue and other compliance topics (section D.4.1.1).  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. In 2016, the Group suffered of one significant fine for non-compliance with laws and regulations [G4SO8], and no claim with clients or suppliers related to corruption was levied against the Group [G4SO5]. Please refer to the Atos 2016 Registration Document for Atos actions related to Ethics and no corruption (Set of KPIs at the end of the D.4).
