SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 2 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index GRI G4-28 Dear reader, welcome to our Sustainability Report 2015 & 2016! This publication aims to present Embraco’s most important events and achievements between January 1, 2015 and December 31, 2016, as well as the economic, social and environmental impacts of our activities. The next pages contain information about our strategy, the principles that guide us, how we produce, the profile of our talents, the impacts we generate, and all of this in a simple and integrated manner. In order to help us gather all of these aspects into a single document, we voluntarily use – for the 13th consecutive time – the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, an organization created to provide a framework for reporting sustainability, which is now adopted in more than 60 countries. We appreciate your interest and we hope you will discover new information about how we produce the cold, transform the present, and lead the future. Good reading! SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 3 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index CONTENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 4 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Survey with Stakeholders Material Aspects GRI Indicators CONTENT Material Aspects In order to use the input generated by the stakeholder survey and to discover what aspects they consider to be the most relevant, we place the aspects gathered during the survey onto a relevance matrix that balances our internal publics on one axis and the external on another. The most relevant aspects for both publics (internal and external) are considered as “material aspects” and now drive the process of surveying Survey with Stakeholders and gathering information. GRI G4-18 | G4-19 | G4-23 | G4-24 | G4-26 | G4-27 | G4-29 | G4-30 The result of this process identified, in this period of 2015 and 2016, the following material aspects, which guide this report: The Sustainability Report is a document that aims to be interesting and relevant to all our stakeholders. That’s why, in order to define the Materiality Matrix MATERIAL ASPECTS content – that is, to select which aspects of our operation should be addressed here – we consult these publics seeking the most relevant 1. Research and innovation in product development; EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER themes to our operation. 2. Encourage best socio-environmental practices in the supply chain; 3. Ability to retain workforce; This survey was conducted in 2014 which involved face-to-face 4. Employee training, education and development; meetings, for more in-depth information, and online questionnaire to increase our sampling and listen to the largest number of 5. Occupational health and safety management; stakeholder representatives. 6. Process waste and effluent management; and 7. Financial management of risks and climate change opportunities. INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER Embraco’s main stakeholders: GRI Indicators Shareholders, customers, companies from the Group, Once the material aspects were identified, we correlated them with the GRI Guideline’s aspects and selected a series of indicators that helped us address employees, suppliers, communities surrounding our each of these issues in more depth. operations and third parties. Collection of these indicators was done by a transdisciplinary work group, made up of professionals from different areas of Embraco, and the information generated is marked in the text by the symbol GRI G4. It’s also possible to have an overview and to know all the GRI indicators in the reference index, located on page 62. MESSAGE FROM LEADERSHIP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 6 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Message from Leadership MESSAGE FROM To transform our value chain in the long term, in 2015 we began a LEADERSHIP scientific study that maps and quantifies the potential environmental impacts generated by our products (before, during and after being produced and marketed), called Life Cycle Assessment. With LCA, we’ve also been able to identify critical points to further reduce our ecological GRI G4-1 footprint. In our factories, we introduced WCM (World Class Manufacturing) to The world is changing fast. The refrigeration market has quickly evolved. achieve the desired transformation. This is an operational excellence Innovation is part of our company’s DNA and, more than just keeping up program, strong in people development, started in 2013, and is being with this evolution with agility, we seek to be true protagonists of what’s deployed in all our plants. WCM showed us that it’s possible to dream to come. about “zero”: zero defect, zero accident, zero breakdown. More than this, the methodology has taught us that it’s possible to realize this dream Our Vision “To be leader everywhere by 2020 and recognized by integrating teams and rigorously executing the manufacturing and by customers as the preferred partner” is what drives our way operations process. of doing business. In the last two years, we’ve intensified the cultural transformation within the company aiming to become even simpler, Another important sustainability initiative has advanced significantly more innovative and customer-centric. The challenge of doing things in the last two years: Nat.Genius. This operation has transformed the differently has brought new opportunities in all our units, whether in reverse logistics process of electro-electronic waste into a profitable This report’s publication gives me the chance to once again renew our revenue generation, cost optimization or working capital improvements. business and has begun recycling several product lines, consequently commitment to the 10 Global Compact principles and to reinforce our helping to manage our own waste and of other customers in Brazil, support for the 17 Sustainable Development Goals established by the In this dynamic of transformation, we’ve maintained sustainability in our Europe and North America. United Nations (UN). plans as an essential part of our strategy. Therefore, with the mission to offer innovative solutions for a better quality of life, we operate We’re proud of the journey we’ve traveled so far and this has only been In the next pages, you’ll have the opportunity to know in more depth the through three complementary work streams: Sustainable Products, possible because we count on an extremely high-caliber engaged team, main highlights of a biennium in which we decided to reinvent ourselves Sustainable Value Chain and Engaged People. an industry benchmark, full of the spirit of winning and passionate in and overcome barriers. And how we’re making it happen. creating, day after day, extraordinary experiences through innovation. With the goal to have increasingly sustainable products, we continuously invest in Research and Development (R&D). Our focus on We constantly seek to develop our employees through challenges – we transforming technology into innovation challenges us to go further and value diversity and, above all, we attach great importance to everyone’s keeps us as a global benchmark in the refrigeration market. safety as well as the quality in everything we do in our plants. Luis Felipe Dau CEO Embraco PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 8 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy PROFILE 46 years bringing a better quality of Close to 600 people Annual R&D life to people. involved in Research and investment of 3% Development, 120 of which to 4% of net revenue 1/5 of the About Us are in partner universities planet’s food is GRI G4-3 | G4-4 | G4-5 | G4-6 | G4-8 | G4-9 preserved using 1,700 patents in force. Embraco technology We’re Embraco, a reference in technology for household and commercial refrigeration, with 46 years of history, 47 research laboratories and one of the world’s largest manufacturers of on four continents EMBRACO SLOVAKIA hermetic compressors, the main component responsible EMBRACO RUSSIA Spisská Nová Ves for producing cold inside refrigerators. Moscow Compressor and Office Cooling Systems Factory Our compressors are used around the world in Košice equipment such as refrigerators, freezers, as well as Shared Services Center industrial machines such as refrigerated counters. With global operations and annual production capacity of 40 million units, we offer solutions that are differentiated for their innovation and energy efficiency. By the end of EMBRACO ITALY 2016, we had approximately 11,000 employees present Riva Presso Chieri EMBRACO in seven countries. Compressor Factory UNITED STATES Duluth Office and Distribution Center OUR GLOBAL EMBRACO MEXICO EMBRACO BRAZIL PRESENCE Monterrey Compressor factory Joinville EMBRACO CHINA Headquarters, Foundry Beijing and Compressor Factory Compressor Factory Itaiópolis Qingdao Component and Cooling Electronics Factory Systems Factory SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 9 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy Our principles Embraco Leadership Model GRI G4-56 MISSION To provide innovative solutions for a better quality of life. VISION To be leader everywhere by 2020 and recognized by our customers as the preferred partner. VALUES Respect Integrity Diversity & Inclusion Team work Spirit of winning SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 10 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy Corporate Governance COMPOSITION OF PRESIDENT’S STAFF GRI G4-34 | G4-38 We have a solid corporate governance structure that leads our business and strategy with experience and pioneering spirit. Within this structure, the highest body – and consequently the highest decision-making power – is the president’s staff, a structure composed of the president, six vice President presidents, and a director (see figure below), who are mainly responsible to monitor the performance of the organization and executives by creating directional goals that align with the company’s Mission and the organization’s long-term goals. CONTROLLER In 2006, after a shareholder reorganization, we merged with the appliance manufacturer Six Vice-Presidents Multibrás, forming Whirlpool S.A. in Brazil. It’s controlled by the North American Whirlpool Sustainability VP Corporation, the largest household appliance manufacturer in the world. As Embraco provides Sustainable growth and development are refrigeration solutions to the entire market, clear drivers of the company’s strategy and it maintains an independent management of its relationship with stakeholders. That’s with a strong shield policy that ensures why we have a Sustainability Vice Presidency confidentiality of information, protecting its on the president’s staff. The theme is seen as business as well as that of its customers. a competitive differential and is part of the company’s decision-making process. One Director SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 11 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy ETHICS GRI G4-56 REPORTING CHANNELS To discuss, manage and review issues around ethical principles For operational management of the Ethics issue, we have a Compliance We provide a reporting channel to employees, suppliers, third parties that should guide the conduct of employees, suppliers and other area, which is responsible to conduct training and communications and consumers, by telephone 0800-891-4247 and online, through stakeholders, we have an Ethics Committee, made up of related to the topic, periodic document analysis, reporting channels, the address: www.whirlpoolethicshotline.com. representatives from the Corporate Compliance, Audit, Security among other continuous improvement measures. and Labor Relations Departments. We constantly carry out communication actions to inform employees Our suppliers also have a specific Code of Conduct, a document about the existence and functioning of the reporting channel, reinforcing To know what behaviors Embraco expects and to learn more about that directs our business chain so that they align with our principles guaranteed confidentiality, anonymity and non-retaliation of those matters such as anti-corruption and money laundering, as well as and values. submitting a report. antitrust actions, our employees also have the support of the following documents: In addition, we follow the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), a US law designed to reduce the risk of financial fraud, and we conduct periodic operational audits in our units. In 2016, 100% of our leaders conducted content training linked directly to ethics. They were: Global Organizational • Annual compliance certification Code Ethics and Principles • Anti-corruption of Ethics Compliance and Values • Data privacy Policies Letter SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 12 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy Our Transformation Strategy HOW IT WORKS Over the years, we’ve become one of the world leaders in the hermetic We established 12 work streams in which we diagnosed that there was compressor industry and a reference in innovation throughout the room for improvement through the transformation of processes, systems, refrigeration market. However, staying in the comfort zone has never been products, logistics and other factors. From then on, executives and part of our day to day, and we know that in order to innovate and be ahead employees from different areas formed working groups and began to hold of competitors, it’s necessary to constantly dive into new challenges. weekly meetings to draw up and execute an action plan based – mainly – on changing corporate behavior. Since 2013, we’ve been observing a less favorable sectoral scenario, mainly due to the growth of our competitors, who have been increasingly bold. It In order to have an idea of the dimension of the project’s intensity, between became clear that to maintain leadership, we had to completely change our 2015 and 2016 we involved more than 400 professionals, who performed game. It was then that we decided to make a great change in strategy and more than three thousand actions globally, encompassing all our plants and pursue a new Embraco: simpler, more innovative and one that has offices, and dozens of areas in Embraco. the customer at the center of all discussions and decisions. Parallel to this process, another group of professionals began meeting With these values in mind, we initiated a cultural transformation that aimed weekly to discuss our culture and find the best ways to foster a mindset of to change the way we make decisions, manage processes, and explore new constant transformation. Our goal is to shorten change cycles to provide the possibilities. For this change in mentality to succeed, we needed to directly market with an ever-faster response to their demands. interfere with how our people viewed day-to-day opportunities and thus generate more determination and energy. VISION OF THE FUTURE This is how Transformation came about, an ongoing transformation project that reflects the desire and need for change to ensure the In 2017, Transformation begins a new cycle and focuses on new points sustainability and growth of our business. and aspects of our operation. We believe that this continuous search for improvement will build an organization that is increasingly more agile To achieve this transformation, the Program uses a bias towards action by and able to offer the best solutions, in the best response time, while at establishing work streams and intensive approaches to reach short-term the same time creating a work environment where all our talents are results – and to shape our culture in the long run. motivated and engaged to always overcome challenges. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 13 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy Business Segments BUSINESS INNOVATION To become leader everywhere by 2020 and gain the position of preferred partner by our customers, we consistently invest in improving our products Reinforcing our leadership culture, we invest in other business areas and processes. Every day, we look to anticipate market trends, bringing the most modern technologies to customers and final-consumers to make that aim to anticipate market trends and diversify our business model. their life better. To achieve our goals, in 2015 and 2016, we continued operating in our Core Business and Business Innovation segments. In the Business Innovation operation, we identified five promising markets: Energy Management, Refrigeration, Internet of Things, Food Preservation and Recycling. The following stand out: CORE BUSINESS NAT.GENIUS We produce compressors and condensing units for refrigeration that preserve the food of thousands of families and commercial establishments around With the Nat.Genius operation we generate revenue through the world. To better serve our customers, we have three segments linked to the core business: reverse logistics and recycling compressors and electro-electronics (more information on page 33). PARTNERSHIP WITH DORIN In 2016, we entered into a commercial agreement with Dorin, the Italian semi-hermetic compressor manufacturer with a strong presence in Europe. Through this business, we began distributing Dorin products in the Brazilian market and, in this way, we enriched our portfolio, which now includes large-scale solutions such as refrigeration systems for supermarkets, transportation, cold storage among other applications. HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATION COMMERCIAL REFRIGERATION DISTRIBUTION AND RETAIL START UPS Hermetic compressors for cooling Dedicated to producing hermetic We also have a segment focused on In 2016, we acquired the Brazilian startup UpPoints, which developed an household freezers, refrigerators compressors, condensing units and sealed distributing replacement parts to innovative system of image recognition and product sales performance and mini-fridges. units for commercial establishments, distributors, retailers, installers and analysis at the point of sale as well as consumer behavior through a which can be used in equipment such as contractors – the professionals who camera that captures images from the store shelf and sends data and wine coolers, supermarket and bakery perform the equipment maintenance in information in real time for companies to base their strategic decisions. refrigerated exhibitors, medical and homes and commercial establishments scientific equipment, among others. (more information on page 32). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 14 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy Products and Technologies EVOLUTION OF EFFICIENCY GRI G4-EN7 NEW APPLICATION POSSIBILITIES Wisemotion was already designed with an efficiency similar to the WISEMOTION top-of-the-line Fullmotion compressors. And this technology will evolve even more! Our R&D professionals are continuously working Wisemotion can be applied in Renewable Energy Source to increase its efficiency in the coming years. systems, as it offers the following features: HOUSEHOLD | COMMERCIAL Launched in 2014, Wisemotion is the first oil-free hermetic LOWER STARTING POWER compressor for household refrigerators – since it uses the refrigerant Wisemotion’s oil-free linear mechanism doesn’t require itself to lubricate the parts. In addition, the solution uses approximately a large power surge to turn it on 50% less raw material than conventional compressors and saves 20% EFFICIENCY LEVEL future in the refrigerant charge. BENEFITS 1st wisemotion Smaller batteries Because it’s smaller, Wisemotion saves internal space in the Smaller solar panels refrigerator, providing up to an additional 20 liters in the equipment. Longer battery life Its handling on the assembly line is easier and, by eliminating the use of lubricant oil, it offers more flexibility in transport and inventory, since ON-OFF FULLMOTION WISEMOTION it allows storage in several positions, benefiting the logistic chain. single speed variable speed variable displacement Moreover, Wisemotion is 20% more efficient than the best-selling high1974 1998 2014 efficiency compressors in the world. The technology also allows better food conservation by automatically regulating its power according to the refrigerator’s demand, and brings a modern noise control solution, making the traditional refrigerators’ “on-off” noise almost imperceptible to the human ear. As we’ve confirmed through the Life Cycle Assessment tool (more information on page 18), taking into account all these features, Wisemotion generates 30% less negative environmental impacts when compared, for example, to the efficient Fullmotion technology. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 15 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy FULLMOTION VESF ON-OFF HOUSEHOLD | COMMERCIAL The most efficient and quietest among Fullmotion compressors. HOUSEHOLD | COMMERCIAL Launched in 1998, Embraco Fullmotion Inverter is variable speed Thanks to its reduced minimum speed of 950 rpm (rotation per On-Off compressors have won the trust of our customers and compressor technology. Among its benefits are a decrease by up minute), VESF is able to reduce the refrigerators’ energy consumption end-users. Launched over 40 years ago, solutions with this technology to 40% in electric energy consumption, noise reduction and better by more than 25% – when compared to conventional technology have continued to evolve to comply with energy regulations, serving a food preservation. and achieve a noise level lower than a library. large part of the market. Among the products with this technology, the following stand out: In a market increasingly focused on energy consumption and new energy regulations, Fullmotion has been gaining a great deal of space EME and meeting consumers’ needs. Among the products that rely on this technology, the following stand out: Since the first generation of EME, we’ve made compressors of this line increasingly more efficient, quieter and with less oil. The EME household refrigeration compressor brings an energy efficiency gain of up to 5% when compared to its predecessor. EMC MORE EFFICIENCY, LESS IMPACT FULLMOTION X The EMC is one of the world’s most efficient single speed compressors. With commercial application, the product uses R290, a natural To evaluate the technology’s Fullmotion X is a compressor that will significantly contribute towards refrigerant that doesn’t impact the ozone layer and doesn’t contribute environmental impact we made the making Fullmotion Inverter technology mainstream in the global to global warming significantly. In addition, this compressor consumes refrigeration market since it has simple communication and Plug & Play, up to 30% less energy than its predecessors. following calculation: if we add up all which allows it to replace, for example, On-Off compressors without the Fullmotion compressors sold in the need to change anything in the refrigerator. The EMC was designed to equip beverage coolers, automatic vending last 10 years, we generate an energy machines, under-counters and reach-ins. By being smaller and reaching savings equivalent to nine billion KWh the same capacity of compressors that are generally larger, the (when compared to using conventional compressor makes more internal space available in refrigerators. compressors). This amount of energy could supply, for example, all of Croatia for six months. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 16 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy PLUG N’ COOL COMMERCIAL Simple and compact, Plug n’ Cool is a commercial refrigeration sealed unit, in other words, a complete cooling system, which aims to optimize resources (operational time and cost) in installation and maintenance. The technology enables the use of the R290 natural refrigerant, which allows our customers to meet global efficiency and refrigerant standards. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 17 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy Sustainability GRI G4-2 For us, Sustainability goes beyond developing smart solutions and continuous improvement, being present also throughout our value chain – including employees and suppliers. In our Vision, relationships and processes need to be sustainable as well as products and manufacturing plants. Additionally, we believe in our potential to transform realities in the communities that live around our plants and offices globally. With these principles in mind, we develop sustainability through three workstreams: SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS ENGAGED PEOPLE SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN EXAME SUSTAINABILITY GUIDE We seek to create products that, We develop and engage employees in Our sustainability Vision extends In 2016, we participated for the throughout their life cycle, have lower our culture to promote their safety and throughout our value chain, from the raw seventh time in the ranking of negative impact on the environment and professional growth, value our diversity material to the end of the useful life of our Brazil’s most sustainable companies, society. Within this context we invest in and contribute to the communities in products. In the supply chain, we work in according to the Exame Sustainability developing innovative solutions, in which which we are located through social partnership with our suppliers so that they Guide. This time, we were recognized energy efficiency and reducing the use of programs and volunteer work. incorporate the sustainability principles into for the Zero Landfill Project, focused raw materials are paramount. their daily practices. In post-consumption, on solid waste management in the we have a circular economy program that electro-electronics sector (more promotes recycling the product after being information on page 42). discarded by the final consumer. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 18 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy SUSTAINABILITY IN THE VALUE CHAIN LIFE CYCLE OF OUR PRODUCTS In 2015, we began an in-depth study on the environmental aspects and impacts of our products, considering a science-based approach: Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). Intermediate Manufacturing and products and inputs packaging According to the standards defined in the ISO 14000 series, LCA aims to quantify the potential environmental impacts of a product or service from the extraction of raw materials, through manufacturing, its use and final destination, that is, covering its entire life cycle. To carry out this study, we counted on the Inova Talents Program and partnerships with research laboratories from the Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC), such as Ciclog – one of Brazil’s most renowned LCA research groups. We’re also part of the Brazilian Business Network for Life Cycle Assessment (LCA Network), an environment of cooperation among companies interested in using LCA in Brazil. LIFE CYCLE Applying LCA allows us to: ASSESSMENT • identify critical points in the compressor’s life cycle, driving our efforts to deliver increasingly sustainable products; • promote to our areas a holistic view of our products, so that they can recognize their contribution to the chain as a whole, strengthening engagement and collaborative work among the areas; • stimulate the product development team’s creativity to innovate in an even more sustainable manner. This way, conducting LCA studies connects and further reinforces our sustainability work streams: engaged people, sustainable value chain and sustainable products. Extraction of End of Use raw materials useful life And this is just the beginning! The outcomes of this study have generated new opportunities for us to apply life-cycle thinking, such as developing new environmental indicators, which will be integrated into the design of new products to ensure even more sustainable choices – based on scientific criteria – from the beginning of the process. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 19 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Corporate Our Transformation About Us Our principles Business Segments Products and Technologies Sustainability Governance Strategy COMMITMENTS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES TO SUSTAINABILITY GRI G4-15 RESPECT STIMULATE Aligned with these pillars, we have been signatories and support internationally recognized all practices that eliminate any form of the Global Compact since 2004 and we support human rights in your area of influence of discrimination at the workplace the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), both initiatives proposed by the United Nations (UN), ENSURE ASSUME Network Brazil which are explained in more detail on the side. that your company does not participate a responsible, preventive and proactive WE SUPPORT in any way in the violation of human rights posture towards environmental challenges Sustainable Energy for All: in 2012, we became the first company SUPPORT DEVELOP based in Brazil to sign the commitment proposed by the UN that freedom of association and recognize initiatives and practices to promote and promotes access to energy, increase global energy efficiency and to open collective bargaining divulge socioenvironmental responsibility increase the share of renewable sources in the energy matrix. PROMOTE Letter of Commitment for Sustainable Solid Waste ELIMINATE the development and dissemination of Management: created by the Ethos Institute, it reinforces the all forms of forced or compulsory labor environmentally responsible technologies commitment to sustainable development and the implementation of the National Solid Waste Policy. ERRADICATE FIGHT Brazilian GHG Protocol: in 2016, we mapped our operation’s all forms of child labor in your corruption in all of its forms, greenhouse gas emissions for the fifth consecutive year (more productive chain including extortion and bribery information on page 40). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Gender and Race Pro Equity program: in 2016, we signed the Commitment Agreement of the Program’s 6th edition, organized by the Brazilian government, which proposes new conceptions in people management and organizational culture to achieve gender and race equality in the labor market. INNOVATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 21 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Partnerships for Innovation Innovation Compass INNOVATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY Innovation is at the center of our strategy and encompasses not only the development of new compressors, but also new business models, Partnerships for Innovation Transformation and R&D services and processes. In addition to investing in our R&D area, we seek innovation from The Transformation team strategic relationships with universities and customers. We are a global benchmark in the refrigeration industry and we has been working alongside challenge ourselves daily to be at the forefront of the market in the R&D area to shorten the developing new technologies. We contribute significantly to research in Refrigeration – we’ve already development cycle. produced more than 100 scientific articles on the subject – and we work Since the action was Every year, we invest 3% to 4% of our total revenue in the in partnership with universities that are world references in engineering. initiated, the time between Research & Development (R&D) area, which has more than the creation and the 600 professionals – 120 in partnerships with universities – and They include: production of a new product 47 laboratories, located on four continents. In return, 59% of the went from 35 to 16 months. revenue of the last five years comes from products launched in this • Federal University of Santa Catarina (Brazil) same period. • University of the State of Santa Catarina (Brazil) • SENAI Institutes of Innovation (Brazil) Currently, we have more than 1,700 patents registered globally. • SENAI Institutes of Technology (Brazil) • Regional University of Blumenau (Brazil) • Unisociesc (Brazil) EMBRACO INNOVATION AWARD • Instituto Euvaldo Lodi (Brazil) • Politehnica University Timisoara (Romania) Since 2011, we’ve held the Embraco Innovation • Fraunhofer Institute (Germany) Award, an award that encourages Chinese students • RWTH Aachen University (Germany) and researchers to develop high energy efficiency • University of Illinois (USA) cooling solutions. In 2016, the award received • University of Glasgow (United Kingdom) 234 projects from 84 universities and 14 Chinese • University of Shanghai (China) companies – a number 300% higher than the previous edition. Press photo Hub/UFSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 22 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Partnerships for Innovation Innovation Compass RECOGNIZED INNOVATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT In the last two years, we received several awards that GRI G4-16 recognized our work in R&D: • Occupational Health and Safety Professionals Association We actively participate in formulating public policies that contribute to of Joinville and Region (APSSOJ); 2015 • Finep Innovation Award, the most important recognition developing our industry, focused on issues related to innovation, energy • Joinville Business Association (ACIJ); of innovation in Brazil, in the Large Company category; efficiency, professional development and regulation of the refrigeration • Latin American Electrical and Electronic • 3rd place in the Stemmer Catarinense Innovation Award, in the sector. We also partner with research centers and universities in the Industrial Association (Alainee); Innovation Protagonist category, with the Wisemotion case; countries where we are present in order to develop new technologies • National Association of Manufacturers of • 2nd place in the Brazil-Germany Innovation Award, in the applied to our products and processes. Among the main organizations Electro-electronic Products (Eletros); Innovation Challenge category, with the Wisemotion case; that count on our cooperation include: • National Research, Development and Engineering • 10th place in Best Innovator award, promoted by AT Kearney; Association of Innovative Companies (Anpei) • Anpei Technology Innovation Conference, in the Exhibition • American Chamber of Commerce in Slovakia; • Human Resource Development Association – Slovakia; of Innovative cases category; • AHR Innovation Award, in the Refrigeration category; • Brazilian Electrical and Electronic Industry Association (Abinee); • Business Leaders Forum – Slovakia; • Innovation Champions Award, promoted by Amanhã • Brazilian Association of Advertisers (ABA); • American Chamber of Commerce Slovakia; Magazine; and • Brazilian Foundry Association (Abifa); • Electricity Utility Company of Santa Catarina (Celesc); • 3rd place in the Innovation Ranking Brazil 2015, promoted • Brazilian Association of Industrial Internet (ABII); • Center of Industries of the State of Santa Catarina (Ciesc); by Valor Econômico newspaper and Strategy& Consulting, • Brazilian Association of Technical Standards (ABNT); • Joinville Architect and Engineer Center (Ceaj); in the capital goods sector. • Brazilian Human Resources Association (ABRH); • Joinville – Spisská Nová Vês Sister City Committee; • • Brazilian Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Ventilation • National Confederation of Industry / Brazilian Business Coalition; 2016 and Heating Association (Abrava); • National Council for Scientific and Technological • We were the national champion of Innovation in Slovakia • Itaiópolis Commercial and Industrial Association (ACII); Development (CNPq); with the NEU and EME compressor cases, in an award • Association of the Equipment and Electrotechnical • Federation of Industries of Santa Catarina (Fiesc); offered by European Business Award. Industry Slovakia; • Federation of Industries of São Paulo (Fiesp); and • Brazil 2016 Innovation Ranking, promoted by Valor • Brazilian Foreign Trade Association (AEB); • International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). Econômico newspaper and Strategy& Consulting, in which we were elected the third most innovative company in the capital goods sector and 9th in the overall ranking (jump of 15 positions compared to 2015). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 23 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Partnerships for Innovation Innovation Compass Innovation Compass When we develop new technologies, we seek to meet the needs of our customers and their final consumers. For this, when we think BRAZILIAN ASSOCIATION about innovating, we think about: OF INDUSTRIAL INTERNET In 2016, we became co-founders of the Brazilian Association of Industrial Internet (ABII), an organization created to promote growth and strengthen industrial internet in Brazil. Through the ABII, we’ll have the opportunity to discuss ENERGY EFFICIENCY NATURAL REFRIGERANTS and share challenges, learnings, and initiatives to GRI G4 EN7 inspire the use of embedded technology in products. We are pioneers in using natural refrigerants that, when compared It’s important to remember that the region of Joinville Aiming to reduce energy consumption and bring more comfort and to other fluids, have negligible contribution to global warming and (Brazil), where we have our headquarters is a hub for well-being to the consumer, we work to achieve high levels of energy are harmless to the ozone layer. In addition to these benefits, natural technology development, with many skilled talents. efficiency in our products, which in addition to reducing the consumer’s refrigerants also contribute significantly to reduce energy consumption. energy costs, reduces their environmental impact. We adopted propane (R290) as a refrigerant and, in addition to the The concept of Industrial Internet is an adaptation of environmental benefits, we helped our customers manage the risk of the Internet of Things (IoT) and is closely connected any possible regulations that may arise in the market. to Industry 4.0, a movement considered the fourth industrial revolution, which aims to ensure the competitiveness of manufacturing in an increasingly dynamic global market. By co-founding ABII, we aspire to bring together IT companies, industries and educational institutions to create integrated and innovative technological MINIATURIZATION COST REDUCTION solutions for society’s demands. We strive to create increasingly smaller and lighter products, demanding An essential factor for an increasingly competitive market, we’ve sought fewer raw materials. Because of this goal, in 2015 and 2016 we saved to reduce our production cost by investing in improving operational and close to 7,000 tons of material in our global production. administrative processes. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 24 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Partnerships for Innovation Innovation Compass NATURAL REFRIGERANTS HIGHLIGHT IN NATURAL REFRIGERANTS Marek Zgliczynski, our Commercial Refrigeration and Product Engineering Manager in Europe, was recognized by the R290 RESULTS scientific journal Accelerate America as one of the 25 most important people in North We used R290 (instead of R404A) in three applications America to advance the adoption of natural and had the following results by unit: refrigerants. The recognition was due to the work developed by Marek, who has Ice cream freezer: R290 generated a 16% reduction in energy promoted globally the use of this class expenditure, which means a real gain of US$ 26 per year for the of refrigerants. consumer and 1,954 kg less CO2 in the atmosphere in 10 years. Point-of-sale glass door freezer: R290 provided a 32% energy reduction, a real gain of US$ 38 per year for the retailer, and 2,277 kg of CO2 emission was avoided over 10 years. Vertical freezer: 43% reduction in electricity consumption, representing savings of US$ 226 per year, and 12,764 kg of CO2 less in the atmosphere in 10 years. RESPONSIBILITY AND EFFICIENCY IN THE VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 26 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy RESPONSIBILITY AND EFFICIENCY IN THE VALUE CHAIN We’re committed to sustainable development and it’s part of our business strategy to analyze the entire value chain of our products in search of opportunities to increase our efficiency and reduce our direct and indirect impacts. For this reason, in 2015 we introduced a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study, which maps the environmental impacts generated by our products throughout their value chain (more information on page 18). Transformation and Procurement Following this commitment, in addition to producing increasingly efficient products and with less raw material, we seek to act in other links in the chain to The Transformation team has also contribute to a process that offers less and less social and environmental impacts. In the next few lines we’ll discuss a little about what we’ve accomplished worked with the Procurement area in the last two years to have an increasingly sustainable value chain. to develop a Global Certification project, designed to integrate and simplify the approval and development process of new suppliers. Suppliers GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION GRI G4-12 | G4-HR11 OF SUPPLIERS IN 2016 In 2016, we worked with 390 direct materials suppliers, present on four 10% continents. In order to leverage our key suppliers, since 2012 we’ve developed the Supplier Excellence Program that offers workshops and 35% multidisciplinary work to improve the performance of our chain in aspects 21% related to service, quality, costs and sustainability, thus generating more competitive advantage. In the last two years, we’ve consolidated the Supplier Excellence Program in order to transform it into a standard Embraco process. To do this, we 34% reformulated our Supplier Excellence guidelines to align them with the World Class Manufacturing methodology (more information about WCM on page 29) and to track its expansion to the supplier’s public, thereby Asia Europe creating a World Class Supply Chain. South America North America SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 27 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy STIMULATING BEST PRACTICES GRI G4-EN32 | G4-HR10 | G4-LA14 SUPPLIER DAY Our work with suppliers also involves stimulating best sustainability Once a year, we bring together the main companies in our supply chain practices, since we require 100% adherence to our Code of Conduct for to hold Supplier Day, a global relationship event that aims to engage new suppliers. Explained in this document are, besides anti-corruption and recognize this strategic public in our values and our Vision to be issues, our non-tolerance of child labor, slave-like labor, discrimination, leader everywhere by 2020. deforestation or other environmental infractions, non-compliance with labor laws in the country, and other issues sensitive to sustainability. Between 2015 and 2016, more than 160 suppliers participated in the events held in China, Brazil, Slovakia and Mexico, and were able to discuss topics highly relevant to our business, such as efficiency BIENNIAL SELF-ASSESSMENT using natural resources, utilizing natural refrigerants and developing GRI G4-EN33 | G4-HR11 | G4-LA15 increasingly more sustainable products. To map actual and potential risks in the value chain, we use a SelfThe suppliers’ public is essential to achieve operational excellence in Assessment process, which assesses the adherence of our suppliers to WCM, so we take advantage of the event’s to present success stories in our ethical principles (which includes issues related to environmental which we recognize supplier companies that have aligned themselves impacts, respect for human rights and labor issues) through a with our strategy and achieved extraordinary results by implementing questionnaire that contains questions about their profile, labor relations, WCM principles. environmental impacts and their supply chain. In 2013, we mapped the entire supplier base and in 2015/2016 we Additionally, as a form of recognition, during Supplier Day we award the carried a work to improve these companies with action plans and visits best companies of the year, following the evaluation criteria: quality, – whenever appropriate. logistics, cooperation and sustainability. In the last two years, no significant negative (actual or potential) impacts regarding labor practices, human rights and the environment were found in our supply chain. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 28 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy Revolutionizing our way of producing Since 2013, we’ve adopted in our operations the World Class Manufacturing (WCM) methodology, a management program aimed at pursuing globally operational excellence through continuous improvement and simplification of the production process. Three years after its implementation began, WCM has proven to be an important lever in our sustainability strategy, since the methodology requires a holistic view of all employees and encourages integration among our different areas, which work together to overcome challenges, improve their processes, promote safe behavior and achieve higher operational standards and results. WCM acts directly on ten technical pillars, through seven management steps (see figure below), and has direct impacts on productivity, quality, safety and environment, through the continuous pursuit for ZERO: zero accident, zero defect, zero scrap, zero loss and zero waste. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 29 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy WCM METHODOLOGY 7 STEPS 1. SAFETY Transformation and WCM 2. COST DEPLOYMENT 3. FOCUSED IMPROVEMENT Transformation and WCM have 10 PILLARS 4. AUTONOMOUS ACTIVITIES created great synergy. By working to bring STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 STEP 6 STEP 7 5. PROFESSIONAL MAINTENANCE more simplicity and agility to our culture 6. QUALITY CONTROL 7. LOGISTICS and thus facilitate all change processes, 8. EARLY EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT Transformation has accelerated and 9. PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT enhanced WCM implementation in the plants. 10. ENVIRONMENT & ENERGY By the end of 2016, all of our plants had PARTNERSHIP WITH JURAN INSTITUTE already implemented WCM – at different maturation levels. The compressor plants In early 2016 in the constant pursuit to improve our in Italy, Brazil and Slovakia were the quality, we sought Juran Institute. Created in 1979, the institute is named after its founder, Dr. Joseph first to work with the methodology, and Juran (1904-2008), one of the world’s leading already show significant results. You can references when it comes to quality management learn more about our environmental and and whose ideas have a strong influence on our safety performance, respectively on pages 37 and 52. production process. By applying the methodology, in the last two years, we simultaneously Between March and October, the Juran Institute improved our productivity and quality management. With WCM’s conducted an assessment in all of our compressor and electronics factories, covering the entire introduction, in addition to reducing the incidence of defects, we began manufacturing process – including WCM. At the end to perceive zero defect through a work that even involved engagement of this period, we received the result of this study and development of our suppliers so that they develop themselves and that pointed out our strengths (where we are a collaborate with our objectives. benchmark in addressing quality – according to the study) and also brought improvement suggestions so that we can evolve and better serve our customers with lower production costs. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 30 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy CERTIFICATIONS We’re prepared to serve the most diverse markets on a global scope and we have the following certifications: ISO 9001 It aims to improve a company’s management and quality Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors QUALITY CONTROL CIRCLE (QCC) Foundry Electronics level by standardizing systems and processes. Components Since 1997, our operation’s quality in Brazil has been supported by Quality Control Circles OHSAS 18001 (QCC), a voluntary program through which hourly employees organize themselves into groups to Focused on people, it guides best practices in occupational Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Foundry Electronics identify possible faults and create simple, creative health and safety management. Components and effective solutions. IECQ QC 080.000 Created to stimulate and value the creative potential of professionals committed to excellence, the program assists in people’s personal and ! It establishes procedures for management of substances hazardous to the environment. Compressors Foundry Components Compressors Electronics Compressors Compressors professional development and provides work environment improvements. ISO 14001 In 2016, 42% of our hourly employees (direct and indirect) participated in QCCs. During the same It guides implementation of environmental management systems Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors period, 413 Circles were promoted, with an average aiming at compliance with any internal and external assessments Foundry Electronics Components of 9.3 suggestions per circle and a total of 9,285 and impact reductions. implemented projects. ISO TS 16.949 Focused on the automotive industry, it aligns international quality system standards, and specifies the requirements for the design and development, Foundry production, installation and maintenance of automotive products1. 1. Our foundry plant is the only one that serves the automotive sector, therefore only this factory has this certification. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 31 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy Working in partnership with SATISFACTION SURVEY our customers Listening to customers is essential to offer them the best experience. To In 2016, we carried out co-branding actions on products from customers know the level of satisfaction of this public in relation to our brand and the in Asia, Europe and Latin America using Fullmotion technology, as it We are a company oriented to our customers and we work to always main factors that influence their purchasing decision, since 2012, we’ve is a solution that offers attributes that are highly relevant to the endoffer the best experience before, during and after acquiring our products. conducted an annual survey, whose results have helped us to increasingly user, such as energy consumption reduction, fast cooling, better food Through this strategy, we aspire to achieve our Vision and become better meet their demands. preservation and more comfort due to its low noise level. leader everywhere by 2020, and recognized by this public as the preferred partner. In 2016, our Customer Satisfaction Survey was conducted in 10 languages and 242 people participated, in 53 countries, by answering Our relationship with our customers is characterized by a long-term approximately 25 questions about the items that guide their purchasing partnership, because in this way we are able to follow their different decision, the main attributes they’re looking for in a compressor among moments, understand what the main challenges of their market are and other topics that involve their relationship with Embraco. Seal applied on offer the best solutions in a shorter response time. refrigerators in Argentina, In the same year, in synchrony with our customer centric strategy, we promoting the use of In addition, another fundamental part of this partnership is the began a new global survey focused on the customer’s perception of our Fullmotion technology constant co-development actions, through which we combine the with a 10-year warranty. quality. Conducted monthly, we monitored 146 companies and obtained qualities and competences of the companies (Embraco + customer), More information at an average of over 92% satisfaction. promote the brands and generate business opportunities with new www.embraco.com/ competitive advantages. fullmotion Strategically, we also put our expertise in different segments at the CO-BRANDING disposal of our key commercial partners so that they develop and grow their business. In practice, this means that in addition to refrigeration, We have a brand that has a great amount of our relationship with customers involves other topics relevant to their credibility, and one that is a reference in innovation, business – such as services, design, branding, internationalization, quality, efficiency and sustainability for the market. among others. When our customers grow and gain market share, we During the last two years, we’ve started carrying grow with them. out some co-branding initiatives, inserting our brand on the refrigerators that use our compressors and relaying the benefits of our technology to endusers, consequently generating more added value to our customers’ products. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 32 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy Relationship with Contractors TOOLBOX APPLICATION Contractors are a very important public for us. They’re responsible for household and commercial refrigerator maintenance, and their purchase recommendation directly impacts our Distribution and Retail area. Therefore, we seek to keep these professionals informed about our product portfolio, as well as invest in their training. In 2016, we promoted 45 lectures in 14 Latin American countries and trained more than 5,000 contractors. In 2016, we launched the Toolbox application, which offers a set of virtual tools and assists Additionally, for more than 30 years we’ve produced a magazine the contractor’s day to day through dedicated to retailers and technical assistants in the refrigeration seven functionalities: segment. Refrigeration Club is one of the sector’s most important publications and in 2016 it had a quarterly circulation of 14,000 copies • Nearest distributor search tool; (in Portuguese and Spanish) distributed free-of-charge in 15 Latin • Embraco product catalog; American countries. • Cross-reference product guide; • Unit converter; • Refrigerant ruler; NEW REFRIGERATION CLUB WEBSITE • Tool to identify causes of the main cooling system problems; and In 2016, Refrigeration Club got a new website and a number of new • All Refrigeration Club content. features. Among them are: an interactive forum – space dedicated for contractors to exchange experiences –, exclusive materials available for Toolbox is available in all countries throughout download, training and lecture schedule and even a Club card (which can the world in more than 10 languages. be printed). With more than 50 thousand visits/month, the website is no longer just an extension of the Refrigeration Club magazine but has become a reference in industry news and practices. To check out the result, simply access www.refrigerationclub.com. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 33 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy Innovation in Circular Economy EXPANDING OPERATIONS Inspired by nature, where the cycles are closed and the elements are In the last two years, Nat.Genius has evolved significantly, from being reused at the end of their useful life, Nat.Genius seeks to generate a project to become a global business area – acting beyond Brazil as a ELLEN MACARTHUR FOUNDATION positive impacts for the environment and value both for Embraco as consulting service provider also in Europe and North America. In the same well as for stakeholders. Through reverse logistics work, the program period, in addition to compressors and the white line, we began recycling Nat.Genius is one of the operations recycles several discarded electro-electronic products at the end of green, brown, and blue line products (description of each line below) and to considered a reference by the Ellen Macarthur their useful life. offer waste management service. Among our customers are some of the Foundation in Brazil. The Foundation was largest Brazilian manufacturers of white goods and large companies in the created in 2010 with the goal of accelerating With Nat.Genius, waste and electro-electronic equipment parts at the segments of ice cream and soft drinks. the transition to a circular economy around end of their useful life go through upcycling processes that add value the globe, influencing the agenda of decision to the materials, turning them into high quality raw materials for new • White line – refrigerators, stoves, washing machines, among others; makers in the world of business, products or partners. Through the work and creativity of our team, • Green line – desktop computers, monitors, mobiles, tablets; government and academia. a refrigerator’s metallic parts can become raw material for our own • Brown line – televisions and audio devices such as micro-systems; customers; or plastic pieces become inputs to produce parts used • Blue line – hair dryers, mixers, blenders, among others. in construction. Currently we have strategic partners to ensure to our customers With these actions, Nat.Genius expanded its activities in order to recycling of 100% of the materials present in white goods appliances become continuously more prepared to meet market demands, and commercial refrigerators. Additionally, we engage our Research anticipating the needs created from the National Solid Waste Policy, & Development professionals to design products that focus on a measure from the Brazilian government that foresees shared disassembly and reuse, and challenge our suppliers to develop exclusive responsibility for the product lifecycle and the sectoral agreement recycling technologies, enhancing their products and services. for reverse logistics. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 34 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy CIRCULAR ECONOMY OF NAT.GENIUS PRODUCT The product reaches the FACTORY final consumer’s hands. DISCARD In the factory, inputs are NATURE transformed into the final product. At the end of their useful life, products are discarded, become Inputs are taken from waste and are subsequently collected the environment. and transported. PROCESSING Recyclable materials are processed and treated to return to the factory as an input. ENGINEERING Nat.Genius has a commercial team, which establishes partnerships with customers to understand their needs and Through a logistical plan, the waste offer appropriate materials (input). At the end of the process, DISASSEMBLY arrives at Nat.Genius’ plants, where a final disposal certificate (FDC) is issued, which ensures it’s sorted, based on transformation Still in the Nat.Genius plant, that the product has been properly disposed. engineering that defines the reuse waste is disassembled so that potential of each product. each part is properly disposed. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 35 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Revolutionizing our Working in partnership Relationship with Innovation in Suppliers way of producing with our customers Contractors Circular Economy NAT.GENIUS RESULTS RECYCLING Materials recycled by Nat.Genius (in t) GRI G4-EN28 Materials 2015 2016 Total Steel 2,361 3,295 5,656 Between 2015 and 2016, through Nat.Genius we recycled: Iron 1,452 1,594 3,046 Aluminum 72 72 144 • 5,656 tons of steel – enough to produce more than Copper 305 310 615 ZERO WASTE WEEK four thousand cars1; Oil 30 27 57 • 3,046 tons of iron – 42% of what was used to build Plastic 480 624 1,104 In 2015 and 2016, Nat.Genius also collaborated to the Eiffel Tower2; Total 4,700 5,922 10,622 raise awareness in the community who lives close • 144 tons of aluminum – enough to produce more to its operation regarding correct disposal than 10.5 million cans3; of electro-electronic waste. • 615 tons of copper; Recycled materials (in t) • 57 thousand liters of oil; and Through Zero Waste Week, residents from Joinville • 1,104 tons of plastic. (Brazil) were the target of a socio-environmental 5,922 education campaign, and were able to properly 4,700 1,033 dispose of electro-electronics, household 1. Source: http://motordream.uol.com.br/noticias/ver/2011/11/28/ voce-sabe-do-que-e-feito-um-carro 887 appliances and portable appliances, taking them to 2. Source: https://blogdopetcivil.com/2014/02/28/a-construcao-da-torre-eiffel/ 1,594 3. Source: http://www.re9recicle.com.br/2011/curiosidades/ Nat.Genius’ plants or schedule collection services. 1,452 3,295 The initiative is organized by Zero Waste Brazil 2,361 Institute, a civil, non-profit organization which is part of the Zero Waste International Alliance, 2015 2016 an international organization that works to defend the environment. Steel Iron Others SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 36 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 37 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Water consumption ENVIRONMENTAL Evolution of Embraco’s Energy Consumption (GJ) Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) 2014 2015 2016 Var. 2015 PERFORMANCE 1,632,940 1,638,865 vs. 2016 1,504,833 Direct 541,008 597,435 603,861 1.08% Energy 1,035,505 1,035,004 Indirect 963,825 1,035,505 1,035,004 -0.05% 963,825 Energy In addition to focusing on miniaturization, energy efficiency, reuse Total 1,504,833 1,632,940 1,638,865 0.36% and recycling, we seek to be even more efficient in our production process and, consequently, generate increasingly less impact on 541,008 597,435 603,861 the environment. 2014 2015 2016 Since 2013, our biggest ally to continually evolve in environmental efficiency has been WCM (learn more on page 29). Implemented in all of Direct Energy Indirect Energy our plants – still at different maturity levels – World Class Manufacturing has directly collaborated to make our production increasingly “lean” and therefore improve our environmental performance. Also part of our sustainability strategy is the constant effort to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), not only to demonstrate our commitment to combat climate change, but also to mitigate risks related to environmental legislation to which we and our customers are subjected to. Energy consumption GRI G4-EN3 | G4-EN5 | G4-EN6 In absolute numbers, in 2016 we consumed globally 1,638,865 GJ of energy, a number practically stable when compared to the previous year. When we look at the relative global number, we observed that the ratio of GJ per compressor produced in electric energy was 0.032604 in 2015 and 0.032481 in 2016, which means that we used, on average, 0.4% less electric energy per unit produced. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 38 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Water consumption Energy consumption (cont.) Evolution of our Energy Consumption by Source (GJ) Energy intensity (GJ/compressor) Fuel 2014 2015 2016 Energy intensity rate TOTAL Direct Energy (GJ/ compressor) 2014 2015 2016 Natural gas 492,082 574,091 584,553 Direct Energy Methanol 862 409 424 Natural gas 0.015764 0.018076 0.018345 Propane 4,545 4,066 4,204 Methanol 0.000028 0.000013 0.000013 GLP 13,380 14,171 10,238 Propane 0.000146 0.000128 0.000132 Diesel oil 2,760 3,333 3,107 GLP 0.000429 0.000446 0.000321 Gasoline 166 1,123 1,139 Diesel oil 0.000088 0.000105 0.000098 Ethanol 32 137 123 Gasoline 0.000005 0.000035 0.000036 Kerosene 181 105 71 Ethanol 0.000001 0.000004 0.000004 TOTAL Direct Energy 541,008 597,435 603,861 Kerosene 0.000006 0.000003 0.000002 Indirect Energy Average Direct Energy 0.017332 0.018811 0.018951 Electric Energy 963,825 1,035,505 1,035,004 Indirect Energy TOTAL Global Electric Energy 0.030877 0.032604 0.032481 TOTAL Global 1,504,833 1,632,940 1,638,865 Average Global Energy used per 0.048209 0.051414 0.051432 compressor produced SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 39 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Water consumption INITIATIVES TO REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION GRI G4-EN6 Implementation of WCM, especially the Energy Pillar, encouraged At the Compressor Plant in China, we began to periodically inspect adoption of several energy efficiency initiatives in our plants. In the and maintain the plant’s piping, and to completely shut off power and period covered by the report, we had several actions that aimed at compressed air from the inlet of all assembly line machines when not reducing consumption. The main ones are listed below. producing. Additionally, in 2016 we replaced incandescent lights for 100% RENEWABLE ENERGY LEDs in the plant and office, which also led to a reduction IN SLOVAKIA In Brazil, with Energy Pillar actions (WCM), we reduced the compressor in consumption. unit’s Electric Energy consumption by 11%. Improvements were We received a certificate from Slovenské implemented that involved: high efficiency electric motors, In Mexico, we made improvements in the Air Treatment Unit, which Elektrárne, Slovakia’s leading power company, compressors for high efficiency compressed air, inverters, automatic has a contribution of 670,000 kWh, and in Italy, we made the attesting that all the energy we consume machine shutdowns in non-productive periods, natural lighting, LED compressed air room and electric motors more efficient, in addition in the country is from renewable sources. lighting, HVAC, along with awareness and educational campaigns for to replacing the boilers. The label also recognizes our contribution energy consumption. to sustainable development and towards preventing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In Slovakia, in 2015 we installed a refrigeration system for R&D laboratories, which generated a savings of 324 GJ per year. In 2016, we installed a technology that generated a 20% reduction in electric energy consumption for cooling the assembly line. In the same period, we replaced neon lamps with LED, which resulted in savings of 100.2 GJ per year. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 40 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Water consumption Emissions GHG Emissions (in tCO2e) DIRECT EMISSIONS IN 2016 GRI G4-EN15 | G4-EN16 | G4-EN19 19% 100,936 101,828 95,940 In 2016, we emitted globally 95,940.25 tons of CO2e, which means a 5.8% reduction of our greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) compared 35,875 37,809 38,799 2% to 2015, which represents approximately 7 thousand tons of CO2e – equivalent to the emission generated by more than 200 trips of a 65,062 64,019 Boeing 737 in a route of approximately 1 hour or 360 km. 57,141 79% Analyzing our emissions, it’s possible to observe that 40.4% of 2014 2015 2016 them were direct (scope 1) and 59.6% of them indirect (scope 2), that is, referring to the purchase of electric energy. It was precisely Indirect Direct Stationary Mobile Fugitive in energy consumption that we were more successful, achieving a 10.7% reduction thanks to introducing WCM, which allowed us to be increasingly more efficient in this theme. GHG EMISSIONS IN 2016 Stationary: arising from burning fuel in stationary sources (example: furnaces and boilers) to generate electricity, heat or steam; Mobile: arising from burning fuels in mobile sources owned or hired by the company (for example, forklift trucks to transport materials or waste, 40.4% cars to transport employees, among others); and 59.6% Fugitive: arising from the intentional or unintentional release when GHG LABEL using refrigeration equipment (example: leaks of refrigerant gas used in laboratory tests, air conditioners, etc.). In 2016, we received, for the 5th consecutive time, the silver label from the Brazilian Indirect Direct More information on page 55. GHG Protocol for publishing all GHG direct emissions of all our units. The GHG Protocol is an international organization that encourages companies to calculate and publish their emission inventories. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 41 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Water consumption Waste GRI G4-EN23 In 2016, we generated 116,200 tons of waste globally, 6.3% more than WASTE GENERATION (t) DESTINATION OF HAZARDOUS/ NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE IN 2016 in 2015. Of this total, 97.1% was considered as non-hazardous waste, 86.3% was recycled and 13.4% was sent to landfills. 116,200 0.1% 0.2% 13.4% 111,413 3,421 When we analyzed the total number of compressors produced globally, 109,357 4.5% we observed that in 2016, for each compressor produced, we sent 490 g 3,405 of waste to landfills, practically stable compared to 2015, but 10.2% less 3,289 112,778 than in 2014. 108,008 106,069 81.8% 2014 2015 2016 Economic recycling Environmental Recycling Non-Hazardous Hazardous WASTE GENERATION (t) Landfill Construction/ waste waste 2014 2015 2016 Var. 2015 Incineration remedial waste vs. 2016 Non-Hazard108,008 106,069 112,778 6.3% ous Waste Hazardous 3,405 3,289 3,421 4.0% Waste Our global target is to zero out sending compressor plant waste to TOTAL 111,413 109,357 116,200 6.3% landfills by 2018 and the Foundry by 2022. Considering industrial waste, we reached this goal in 2015 at Brazil’s compressor plant and in 2016 at China’s electro-electronics plant. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 42 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Water consumption The 5Rs of Waste ZERO WASTE sent to landfills from Brazil’s compressor plant In 2015, the Compressor factory in Joinville (Brazil) was the first unit to With implementation of these measures, and driven by WCM’s eliminate sending industrial waste (such as various non-recyclable and Environmental Pillar, in two years we were able to reduce the average Refuse contaminated materials) to landfills. With this result, we avoid sending amount of waste (including industrial and others) sent to landfills by more than one thousand tons – which corresponds to the load of 70 83.5%, as shown in the following chart: Reduce dump trucks – to landfills. Average amount of waste sent to landfills Reuse To achieve ZERO discard in landfills, we’ve adopted the five “Rs” of WCM per compressor BR Plant (g) to Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and Recover products that cause Recycle significant environmental impacts to the environment. This led us to re-evaluate each material consumed in our plant and seek alternative -50.5 Recover disposal of its waste. One of the solutions found was to send waste for % -85.3 % composting and cement co-processing, a process in which the residue 78 -70.2 is used as fuel for cement kilns, substituting virgin raw materials such as % 38 coal and natural gas. Another example was the destination of the iron fines for briquetting, so that this residue is used as an industrial input. 11 2014 2015 2016 ZERO industrial ZERO industrial waste to landfills waste to landfills In addition, we began prioritizing local suppliers, which besides reducing environmental impacts generated by the logistical process (with this measure we avoided 5t of CO2e), contributes to developing the local economy. More information on page 55. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 43 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Water consumption Water consumption WATER REUSE In 2016, we consumed 654,669 m3 of water, a number practically Of all the water we consumed in 2016, on average, 27% was reused stable when compared to 2015. Of this total, 66% came from water WATER CONSUMPTION PER UNIT PRODUCED (as in the previous year), with special emphasis on the compressor supply networks and 34% was taken from wells. In analyzing the water plants in Brazil, China and Mexico, as shown in the table below. consumption index per compressor produced, we observed that in the last three years we used 0.02 m3 (or approximately 20 liters) of water per compressor, less than 1/4 of what’s needed to produce 500g of plastic1 Plants that stand out for the reutilization of water and approximately 0.02% of what’s consumed to produce a smartphone2. 2015 2016 20 China Compressors 17% 15% 1. To produce 500 g of plastic, 91 liters of water are needed (SOURCE: http://revistaepoca.globo. Mexico Compressors 30% 34% com/Sociedade/noticia/2013/03/quantos-litros-de-agua-sao-usados-na-fabricacao-de-cadaliters 1 EMBRACO produto.html) Brazil Compressors 44% 45% 2. To produce one smartphone, 12,760 liters of water are needed (SOURCE: http://www. COMPRESSOR akatu.org.br/Temas/Consumo-Consciente/Posts/Quanta-agua-e-gasta-na-producao-do-seusmartphone) In addition to the treated effluent reuse system, we also have Water consumption (m3) – GLOBAL a rainwater collection system in Brazil’s compressor plant, with 2014 2015 2016 Var. 2015 an area of approximately 900 m², which in 2015 collected more vs. 2016 than 4,000 m3 of water. Water supply 410,832 344,543 434,022 26.0% 91 networks liters 1/2 kg Wells 207,198 295,864 220,647 -25.4% TOTAL 618,029 640,407 654,669 2.2% OF PLASTIC WATER CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE IN 2016 34% 12.760 66% liters 1 SMARTPHONE Wells Water supply networks ENGAGED PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 45 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities ENGAGED PEOPLE A Team of Talents BEST COMPANIES TO WORK FOR Our employees are essential to our business. Present on different continents, with diverse nationalities and cultures, we have a team of In 2016, for the 5th time, we were included on the list of talents marked by diversity and we consider this characteristic as one Best Companies to Work for by Você S/A Guide. of our main competitive differentials. Years in which we were elected one of the best companies to work for: Following our people strategy, we seek to provide the tools necessary for our talents to have an excellent work experience and achieve • 2011 extraordinary results. To reach this goal, we work on three pillars: • 2012 • 2013 • 2014 • 2016 EXTRAORDINARY PERFORMANCE A highly effective organization that consistently delivers results above expectations. GREAT PEOPLE Diverse talents, prepared to be leaders of the future. WINNING CULTURE Internally and externally recognized as a great place to work. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 46 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities EMPLOYEE PROFILE RESPECTING LABOR RELATIONS GRI G4-10 Present in seven countries, we are always attentive On December 31, 2016, we had 10,966 employees, 1.6% higher to comply with local labor laws: than in 2015. EMPLOYEES BY GENDER IN 2016 Employees by job category in 2016 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements GRI G4-11 President and Vice-presidents 9 Percentage of Executive Board 23 Unit employees covered 29% Senior Managers 86 Brazil 100% Leaders 208 China (Compressors) 95% 71% Administratives 1,852 China (Electronics) 0% Operational (Direct and Indirect) 8,662 United States N/A1 TOTAL 10,966 Italy 100% Slovakia 100% Mexico 70.67% Women Men Russia N/A2 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT IN 2016 1. The operation in the United States is run through a sales office and a warehouse, EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY IN 2016 which – according to US law – does not require a collective bargaining agreement. 2. In Russia we have only one sales office – which does not require a collective 0% 0% bargaining agreement. 4% 21% 12% 46% 96% 5% 16% Brazil Slovakia Full Workday No control of workday China Italy United States Mexico Russia SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 47 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities TURNOVER Hirings were carried out as follows: GRI G4 LA1 Hirings in 2015 and 2016 by gender and age China China United In 2016, we hired, globally, 1,898 people, 94.3% more than in 2015, By Brazil Italy Mexico Slovakia Russia TOTAL Electronics Compressors States when we hired 977 people. In the same period, we reduced the gender 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 number of dismissals by 24.1% from the previous year. Male 207 525 8 10 93 203 7 2 39 250 107 352 5 3 0 0 466 1,345 Female 111 149 20 9 23 53 1 2 294 168 60 166 2 4 0 2 511 553 The turnover rate in 2016 was 18.8%, 6.4% lower than that of Total 318 674 28 19 116 256 8 4 333 418 167 518 7 7 0 2 977 1,898 2015, when we registered a turnover of 25.2%. China China United By age Brazil Italy Mexico Slovakia Russia TOTAL Electronics Compressors States group 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 < 30 218 461 11 10 65 94 4 2 176 232 78 264 0 0 0 0 552 1,063 years from 30 to 50 94 203 17 9 49 160 4 2 154 185 75 235 6 6 0 2 399 802 years > 50 6 10 0 0 2 2 0 0 3 1 14 19 1 1 0 0 26 33 years Total 318 674 28 19 116 256 8 4 333 418 167 518 7 7 0 2 977 1,898 Dismissals were performed as follows: Dismissals in 2015 and 2016 by gender and age China China United By Brazil Italy Mexico Slovakia Russia TOTAL Electronics Compressors States gender 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Male 1,072 561 9 13 192 210 21 13 108 205 134 246 1 10 0 0 1,537 1,258 Female 504 308 40 30 104 86 10 2 465 301 58 78 3 3 0 0 1,184 808 Total 1,576 869 49 43 296 296 31 15 573 506 192 324 4 13 0 0 2,721 2,066 China China United By age Brazil Italy Mexico Slovakia Russia TOTAL Electronics Compressors States group 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 < 30 835 501 8 8 155 148 2 0 239 222 42 152 0 0 0 0 1,281 1,031 years from 30 to 50 617 308 41 35 113 117 21 11 319 272 95 137 4 10 0 0 1,210 890 years > 50 124 60 0 0 28 31 8 4 15 12 55 35 0 3 0 0 230 145 years Total 1,576 869 49 43 296 296 31 15 573 506 192 324 4 13 0 0 2,721 2,066 Turnover 30.9% 17.1% 3.3% 2.9% 119.4% 129.8% 5.4% 2.7% 43.4% 40.1% 9.4% 13.9% 9.5% 32.5% 0.0% 0.0% 25.2% 18.8% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 48 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities HIRINGS GRI G4-EC6 IDENTIFYING SUCCESSORS Our recruitment process is conducted by trained recruiters located Regardless of the career path the employee wishes to pursue – in each of the plants. For more specific positions we count on local administrative, technical or projects – we have tools to identify or global specialized consultancies to search for professionals LEADERSHIP MODEL the growth potential of each of our talents. in the market. Since 2014, we’ve been working with a Leadership Model that aims to Administrative and project career professionals have their potential Selection is carefully conducted based on our Leadership Model, guide employees about the attitudes and behaviors expected by Embraco. evaluated in a Succession Committee, which uses as a base our Values and Strategy taking into account the specifics of each position. succession planning, leadership model and 9 box methodology. This model is based on the premise that everyone is a leader, whether of We promote speed and quality in our selection processes, as well the business, a function, a team, or themselves. Therefore, all employees People focused on a technical career are evaluated by a Technical as the candidate’s experience. We value and encourage constant should be protagonists of their career and their development within the Succession Committee to identify future growth possibilities. communication with candidates and always have with them a company. Our Leadership Model is divided into four attributes: relationship of respect and transparency. The onboarding process begins during the selection phase, where the candidate will have Live and Lead the Embraco Values – our values are the basis for what the opportunity to be in touch with our business concepts and we do every day and sustain the attributes described below. other relevant information. Create a compelling and inspiring strategy – the best way to create a compelling and inspiring strategy is by having passion for our products and our brand, challenging ourselves and playing to win with LOCAL HIRING (LEADERSHIP POSITIONS*) determination and persistence. Brazil 86% China Compressors 100% Build and sustain broad followership – there’s no better way to build China Electronics 100% and sustain a broad followership than by developing people to their full Italy 100% potential and by breaking barriers. Slovakia 100% Mexico 100% Drive differentiated results – the only way to achieve differentiated United States 75% results is by leading with speed, having ownership and using straight talk Russia 100% to deliver assertive feedbacks and messages. * Leadership positions are: president, vice president, administrative, executive board and leaders SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 49 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities PROFIT SHARING PROGRAM ENGAGEMENT PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT In addition to the fixed compensation, offered to all employees, we use We conducted an annual survey to map the level of employee To enhance the professional growth of our talents we use the Career a Profit Sharing Program (PPR) to motivate teamwork and the spirit of engagement and contribute to the success of our strategy. The survey Compass, a tool that helps employees map out, discuss and document winning of our talents. Besides our corporate goals, each country has is carried out globally with all our professionals (salaried and blue a career plan that identifies potential next roles and experiences for its own local goals. collars) and also evaluates the employees’ perception regarding the their development. performance of our leaders, identifying strengths and opportunities PENSION PLAN for improvement. GRI G4-EC3 In 2016, 89% of our employees responded to the survey, while in 2015 The plants in Brazil, Italy, China and the office in the US offer a pension that number was 90%. W CAREER plan to its employees. The survey is confidential and our leaders use the results for In order to enable all our talents to evolve in the areas in which they most Brazil: all employees can participate in the pension plan contributing identify, we use a Career W model to develop and retain people with improvement actions with their teams. 1% of the nominal salary up to R$7,260.00. Above this amount you different leadership profiles. Depending on the area of activity and the can choose to contribute up to 5.5% of the difference. Our contribution activities performed, the employee will have a different career path, always COMPENSATION varies according to the professional’s age, corresponding to between aligned with their objectives: GRI G4-EC5 50% and 200% of the value chosen by the employee. Technical – employees working in research and engineering functions Following our goal to achieve extraordinary results, we seek to recognize our Italy: joining the pension plan is voluntary and is foreseen in collective involved in product transformation processes. talents for their efforts. For this, our salary policy follows meritocratic criteria agreements. The contribution is 1.4% (employees) and 4% (managers). We contribute with the same value. Projects – employees who work on large projects defined in the to reward our professionals according to their performance and potential. GPL (Global Product Leadership), with high technological and China: has statutory pension insurance for all employees, and the managerial complexity. Ratio of the lowest wage compared to local minimum wage contribution is 8% by the employee and 20% by us. Administrative – employees working in administrative and support areas, Units 2015 2016 not involved in product transformation processes. Brazil 174,77% 176,56% United States: all employees are eligible for the benefit and can China Compressor 113,78% 105,08% contribute with a percentage of their salary – up to the annual limit Until they reach a certain level, Technical and Project career professionals China Electronics 118,75% 111,11% accepted by the country’s tax agency. We contribute with 75% of are part of a Talent Pool, in which they have the opportunity to try out Italy 136,76% 136,76% the value. different areas and have a more general view so as to later on become Slovakia 100,88% 100,00% project leaders or specialists on a given subject. Mexico 268,62% 257,80% United States 193,10% 193,10% Russia 500,20% 590,55% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 50 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities CORPORATIVE EDUCATION In the last two years, trainings were offered as follows: TOTAL HOURS OF TRAINING IN 2015 GRI G4-LA9 (BY JOB CATEGORY) 1,882 hours 6,358 hours To achieve our 2020 Vision, we provide a Development Programs Hours of Training in 2015 (0.4%) (1.5%) Executives Catalogue based on EEE learning methodology: Experience, Exposure Average Hours Average (President, ViceJob Category Presidents, Directors and Education. The goal is to guide employees on development F M Hours actions to support them throughout their career path. and Senior Managers) Executives (President, Vice-Presidents, Directors and 14.0 16.3 16.1 Leaders Senior Managers) Leaders 25.9 32.5 30.3 Employees 425,871 hours Employees (Administrative, (98.1%) (Administrative, 20.2 51.1 40.7 Operational and Others) Operational and Others) Experience Exposure Education Average per employee 20.3 50.3 40.2 means possibilities means challenge means discovery TOTAL HOURS OF TRAINING IN 2016 Hours of Training in 2016 (BY JOB CATEGORY) Our trainings use a BDA structure (Before, During and After classroom Average Hours Average activities) thus reinforcing the sustainability of the knowledge acquired. Job Category 2,492 hours 4,761 hours F M Hours (1.1%) (2.1%) Executives Some types of knowledge transfer used are: Executives (President, (President, ViceVice-Presidents, Directors and 19.6 21.3 21.1 Presidents, Directors • Technology: online tools such as videos and e-learning methodologies; Senior Managers) and Senior Managers) • Relationship: coaching, mentoring and feedback practices; Leaders 24.7 22.2 22.9 Employees (Administrative, Leaders • Classroom: classes, seminars and face-to-face training; and 14.3 23.3 20.7 • Practice: workshops, benchmark studies, and job rotation to provide Operational and Others) Employees a holistic view of the business to our professionals. Average per employee 14.6 23.3 20.8 220,548 hours (96.8%) (Administrative, Operational and Others) In 2016, we used 227,800 hours to train our employees. On average, in More information on page 55. the last year we offered 28.8 hours of formal training per employee – in the previous year, this number was 40.2 hours. The reduction is due to the In order for employee development to gain even more scope and breadth, in the period covered by the report we strengthened the figure of transformation moment that we’re going through. Strategically, during the “Knowledge Ambassadors”, who are internal multipliers of the training programs. past year, through Transformation (more on page 12) we’ve been focused on revising our culture to become simpler, more innovative, and focused In addition to internal programs, we also invest in scholarships so that employees between the operational and administrative levels take technical, on our customers. undergraduate or postgraduate courses. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 51 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT GRI G4-LA11 EMBRACO’s JOURNEY To evaluate the performance of our talents, we carry out an individual assessment based on the Extraordinary Performance & Results (EP&R) model, In 2015, we launched Embraco´s Journey, structured in five dimensions and divided into two aspects. an online platform that consolidate all processes and tools regarding career and What was delivered: development in a single place to make it • Results vs. objectives even easier to our employees to get on • Job scope board on the People Management tools. Leadership and employees can find what How deliverables were made: Align is expected from them in each step of the • Demonstrate Values Embraco’s Journey. & Commit • Leadership and management skills • Talent and personal development In terms of process, our assessment follows the Embraco’s Journey (more information in the box below) and foresees three main steps for the year: Embraco • • Align and Commit– setting goals for the year based on our strategy. Develop and Deliver – a mid-process review to assess what has Journey already been delivered and, if necessary, make adjustments to the path. • Confirm and Reward – at the end of the year we assess deliverables and, according to the results, the employee receives his variable remuneration. Confirm Develop & Reward & Deliver At the end of this process, all administrative employees receive personalized feedback, which aims to support their professional development. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 52 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities HEALTH AND SAFETY BEHAVIOR-BASED SAFETY AND SMAT Our employees’ safety is a priority goal for the management of our Since 2011, we’ve adopted globally Behavior-Based Safety (BBS), a business. To monitor and administer this theme, as of 2016 each one of program that seeks to create a safe work environment by observing our plants started to hold weekly meetings, always with the presence of the employee behavior and providing regular feedback to professionals plant’s vice president and director, as well as other guests to discuss safety connected to manufacturing activities. issues. The theme is also addressed monthly in the leadership meeting, composed of the president, vice presidents and directors from all the With the introduction of WCM, we began a transition from Behaviorcompany’s units. Based Safety to SMAT, a tool that, like BBS, focuses on the behavioral phenomenon with the goal of changing the safety culture. In order to manage operational safety, since 2013 we’ve counted on the support of the WCM methodology that, within this theme, has as a clear INTERNAL COMMISSION FOR ACCIDENT PREVENTION (CIPA) objective to achieve and maintain the goal of ZERO accidents. Additionally, in 2016 we conducted more than 140 events globally to prevent accidents. Our units in Brazil count on the Internal Commission for Accident Prevention (CIPA), which complies with the Regulatory Standard 5 Through all these actions, it was possible to achieve a 46% reduction in the (NR-5) of the Brazilian Ministry of Labor. number of accidents with time away in 2015. In 2016, we had 156 members in CIPA, who conducted several safetyIn addition to the WCM tools for the Safety pillar, employees in our plants focused procedures, such as meetings, inspections and campaigns, have other programs, which are described below. along with the Internal Week of Prevention of Accidents in the Workplace and Environment (SIPATMA). SAFETY GOLDEN RULES WORKFORCE REPRESENTED BY FORMAL Our Safety Golden Rules guide the daily behavior in all activities HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES performed in the plants by our employees, suppliers and visitors. In GRI G4-LA5 2015 and 2016, we worked to disseminate these rules globally. All our plants have formal health and safety committees. Globally, 348 employees are part of these committees and represent 99.6% of our workforce. The other 0.4% includes employees from Russia and the United States, countries where we work only with sales offices with a small number of professionals and therefore do not require such committees. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 53 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities SAFETY PERFORMANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY ISSUES COVERED BY FORMAL GRI G4-LA6 AGREEMENTS WITH TRADE UNIONS GRI G4-LA8 In 2016, our occupational safety indexes were better than those presented in 2015 – with the exception of occupational illness, which remained practically stable. The main highlights were the rates of injuries and absenteeism, which reduced respectively 0.97 p.p. and, 54 p.p.. The formal health and safety agreements established between us and the trade unions are carried out country by country and involve the following themes: Health and Safety in 2015 & 2016 Injury Occupational Illness Days Away Absenteeism Brazil: job stability after 60 days of leave from the National Social Units Rate Rate Rate Rate Security Institute (INSS). 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Brazil Compressors 1.71 1.13 0 0 0.06 0.07 2.91 2.6 Slovakia: use of PPE; medical examination based on job position; China Compressors 0.75 0.7 0 0 0.13 0 1.55 0.7 periodic training in fire safety and protection; participation of the union in Italy Compressors 3.98 1.87 0 0 1 0.27 2.72 2.67 investigations into possible accidents or occupational illnesses; provision Slovakia Compressors 3.57 1.86 0 0.02 0.11 0.26 0.12 2.67 of appropriate information in the event of a change in technology or Mexico Compressors 3.93 1.93 0 0 0 0.16 1.78 2.23 equipment that may have an impact on safety; and periodic meetings with Brasil Foundry1 0 0 3.19 3.14 staff members of the formal health and safety committee. Brazil Components1 0 0 2.62 2.04 China Electronics 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.07 0.73 Italy: safety assessment through the occupational health program; and United States 0 0 0 0 0 0 5.6 0 periodic meetings with the union, upper leadership and responsible doctors Russia2 (labor medicine) to discuss issues related to health and safety at work. GLOBAL AVERAGE 2.22 1.25 0.00 0.00 0.11 0.10 2.40 1.86 Mexico: use of PPE; and compliance with the health and safety legal requirements. 1. Injury rates and days away at the Itaiópolis plant are accounted for in the line “Brazil (Compressors)”. 2. Our operation in Russia has only one sales office – therefore the rates of injuries, occupational illnesses, days away and absenteeism are not measure. United States: use of PPE; and compliance with the health and safety legal requirements. China: use of PPE; and compliance with the health and safety legal requirements. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 54 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index A Team of Talents Transforming Communities Transforming Communities MAIN ACTIONS Held in Brazil since 1992, the Embraco Ecology Award is our main social EMBRACO SPORTS ASSOCIATION (ADE) We believe in the potential of transforming realities in the communities in which we operate and engage our employees so investment action in Brazil and aims to strengthen environmental education in early childhood education and elementary schools. In its more than 24 editions (the For 41 years we’ve offered leisure and recreation to the that they act in some locality of their interest, carrying out different last two in 2015 and 2016), the award has already received 823 projects, of which entire community of Joinville (Brazil), where we maintain our activities that directly benefit the population that lives around our 106 were selected and implemented under the company’s sponsorship. With more headquarters. At the Embraco Sports Association (ADE) it’s plants and offices worldwide. than 100,000 beneficiaries, it was ranked among the best practices of the United possible to enjoy quality-of-life moments in a safe, pleasant Nations’ Global Compact. place, surrounded by nature. The volunteer work of our employees aspires to value the Among the activities offered are gym, gymnastics, martial communities that receive our units worldwide. Aiming to transform Following the Brazil plant’s model, Slovakia has also held the Embraco Ecology arts and a running group. For the children to spend their and generate shared value, in 2015 and 2016 we invested in social Award in the local community since 2007. In 2015, four kindergartens and four energies, ADE offers schools for Volleyball, Soccer, Judo projects and voluntary activities in communities in Brazil, China, primary schools received our support to carry out their school projects. In 2016, we among other activities. The Association’s infrastructure also Slovakia, Italy and Mexico, which benefited and contributed to the wellexpanded the number of schools and kindergartens that could submit their projects. houses an athletic track, park, restaurant, space for events, being of more than 35 thousand people. bowling and sports courts. In the last two years, we also offered close to five thousand hours The next step is to motivate these institutions to join the others and also to carry of community work around the world, with the support of more than out ecological projects. 500 volunteers, at events such as Global Volunteer Day (“Prove” a Different Day). Another of Slovakia’s highlight in 2015 was a Project with the Slovak University of Technology, through which we provided financial support for students to build an electric race car, encouraging the development of innovative and sustainable solutions. In Mexico, the main actions involved the family of our employees, who had the opportunity to visit our plant and learn more about Embraco, as well as kids with disabilities, who participated in activities with our volunteers on Children´s Day. In Beijing, China, the main activity was Education for Migrant Children, a project carried out for three years by 12 Embraco volunteers who are connected with these TRANSFORMING THE PLANET students through monthly letters and biannual face-to-face meetings. In Qingdao (China), to engage the community, employees carried out a collective cleaning effort, In 2015 we once again received the Via emphasizing the importance of voluntary work and preserving the environment. Bona Slovakia awards in the Community Partner category and the Golden Ant Award In Italy, we worked on environmental education with a local school to raise in recognition of our social responsibility children’s awareness of how today’s decisions impact our future. actions in Slovakia. ADJACENT INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 56 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Employee Profiles Corporate education ADJACENT INFORMATION Energy consumption GRI G4-EN5 Energy intensity per plant (GJ/unit) Brazil Brazil Brazil China Slovakia Italy Mexico China United Energy used per Compressors Foundry Components Compressors Compressors Compressors Compressors Electronics States compressor produced Fuel 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Direct Energy Natural Gas (m3) 0.014468 0.014711 0.139302 0.126180 0.000000 0.000000 0.009668 0.009956 0.021780 0.022025 0.060780 0.068295 0.015745 0.016080 0.000000 0.000000 0.051960 0.000029 0.018076 0.018345 Methanol (L) 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000007 0.000010 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000013 0.000013 Propane (L) 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000072 0.000099 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000128 0.000132 GLP (kg) 0.000476 0.000364 0.052222 0.066329 0.000066 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000446 0.000321 Diesel (L) 0.000122 0.000121 0.000000 0.000718 0.000000 0.000000 0.000047 0.000028 0.000131 0.000102 0.000366 0.000318 0.000000 0.000023 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000105 0.000098 Gasoline (L) 0.000011 0.000012 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000155 0.000159 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000035 0.000036 Ethanol (L) 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000015 0.000012 0.000004 0.000005 0.000012 0.000015 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000004 0.000004 Kerosene (L) 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000009 0.000007 0.000005 0.000003 0.000013 0.000009 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000000 0.000003 0.000002 Indirect Energy Electric Energy (kWh) 0.023764 0.022085 2.926780 2.973878 0.000291 0.000359 0.016926 0.017157 0.025532 0.025571 0.071251 0.079289 0.020558 0.020612 0.001521 0.001380 0.016938 0.019358 0.032604 0.032481 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 57 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Employee Profiles Corporate education Emissions GRI G4-EN15 | G4-EN16 | G4-EN19 GHG emissions by unit 2015 and 2016 (tCO2e) Var. 2015 Var. 2015 Scope 1 Var. 2015 Unit Scope 1 Scope 2 vs. 2016 vs. 2016 + Scope 2 vs. 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Brazil Compressors 15,471 16,018 3.5% 11,358 7,041 -38.0% 26,829 23,059 -14.1% China Compressors 3,920 4,406 12.4% 17,634 17,487 -0.8% 21,553 21,893 1.6% Italy Compressors 3,363 3,130 -6.9% 3,932 3,618 -8.0% 7,295 6,749 -7.5% Slovakia Compressors 7,638 7,758 1.6% 9,238 9,338 1.1% 16,876 17,096 1.3% Mexico Compressors 5,817 6,335 8.9% 12,194 12,691 4.1% 18,010 19,027 5.6% Brazil Foundry 859 905 5.3% 7,527 5,209 -30.8% 8,386 6,113 -27.1% Brazil Components 475 247 -48.1% 568 344 -39.3% 1,043 591 -43.3% Brazil Electronics1 0 0 191 0 -100.0% 191 0 -100.0% China Electronics 0 0 1,123 1,142 1.6% 1,123 1,142 1.6% United States 266 0 -100.0% 254 271 6.4% 520 271 -48.0% Total Embraco (Global) 37,809 38,799 2.6% 64,019 57,141 -10.7% 101,828 95,940 -5.8% 1. Brazil’s Electronics plant was deactivated at the beginning of 2015 however, some missions were still accounted in this period. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 58 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Employee Profiles Corporate education Waste GRI G4-EN23 Waste Generation (t) Slovakia Mexico Brazil Compressors China Compressors Italy Compressors Brazil Foundry Brazil Components China Electronics2 United States Russia3 TOTAL Compressors Compressors 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Non-hazardous waste Economic recycling 44,569 44,625 5,303 4,715 21,363 22,900 4,418 3,498 12,455 13,800 189 2,013 1 448 21 26 553 2,727 0 0 88,872 94,751 Environmental 414 692 129 108 85 175 416 438 868 245 62 905 58 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,032 2,574 recycling Landfill1 422 119 327 291 178 164 185 107 166 179 13,525 14,444 1 26 2 0 215 1 0 0 15,022 15,330 Construction/ 143 124 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 143 124 remedial waste SUBTOTAL 45,548 45,559 5,759 5,114 21,626 23,239 5,019 4,043 13,489 14,224 13,776 17,361 61 484 22 26 768 2,728 0 0 106,069 112,778 Hazardous waste Economic recycling 241 230 29 21 41 49 0 0 0 0 0 15 5 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 317 316 Environmental 329 466 5 1 1,716 1,900 43 42 38 99 0 56 49 58 0 0 0 0 0 0 2,179 2,621 recycling Landfill 109 42 0 0 191 65 33 79 173 50 38 61 3 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 547 298 Incineration 0 0 143 120 0 0 0 0 85 52 0 0 0 0 18 14 0 0 0 0 246 187 SUBTOTAL 679 738 177 142 1,948 2,014 76 121 296 201 38 131 57 61 18 14 0 0 0 0 3,289 3,421 TOTAL 46,227 46,297 5,936 5,256 23,574 25,253 5,095 4,164 13,785 14,425 13,814 17,493 118 545 40 40 768 2,728 0 0 109,357 116,200 1. Brazil’s compressor plant zeroed out sending industrial waste to landfills in 2015, but we still send other types of waste to them. 2. China’s electronics plant zeroed out sending industrial waste to landfills in March 2016, so the accumulated total for the year still included 0.24 tons of waste sent to them. 3. In Russia we only have an office, so no relevant waste is generated (compared to the countries where we have factories). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 59 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Employee Profiles Corporate education Employee Profiles GRI G4-10 Profile of Employees in 2016 Brazil China Compressors China Electronics Italy Mexico Slovakia United States Russia TOTAL Employees by Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men employment type Full workday (8h) 1,142 3,540 313 1,155 178 50 169 383 428 799 783 1,504 15 17 6 4 3,034 7,452 Without workday control 79 318 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 29 8 31 2 6 0 0 96 384 Total 1,221 3,858 313 1,155 178 50 169 383 435 828 791 1,535 17 23 6 4 3,130 7,836 Employees by job Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men category Vice-presidents and 1 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 8 President Directors 1 20 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 22 Sr Managers 5 40 5 6 0 1 2 9 0 4 0 8 1 3 0 2 13 73 Leaders 17 63 15 24 2 2 4 7 7 23 11 29 1 2 1 0 58 150 Administrative 201 654 111 181 28 32 28 65 36 121 131 224 15 18 5 2 555 1,297 Operational (Direct & 952 2,991 182 944 148 15 135 301 392 680 649 1,273 0 0 0 0 2,458 6,204 Indirect) Others 44 82 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 44 82 Total by gender 1,221 3,858 313 1,155 178 50 169 383 435 828 791 1,535 17 23 6 4 3,130 7,836 Total by country 5,079 1,468 228 552 1,263 2,326 40 10 10,966 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 60 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Employee Profiles Corporate education Employee Profiles GRI G4-10 Profile of Employees in 2015 Brazil China Compressors China Electronics Italy Mexico Slovakia United States Russia TOTAL Employees by Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men employment type Full workday (8h) 1,211 3,516 355 1,081 197 51 174 402 870 412 704 1,328 15 20 5 4 3,529 6,814 Without workday control 73 293 0 28 0 0 0 0 9 28 0 9 2 5 0 0 84 363 Total 1,284 3,809 355 1,109 197 51 174 402 879 440 704 1,337 17 25 5 4 3,613 7,177 Employees by job Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men category Vice-presidents and 1 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 7 President Directors 1 16 0 2 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 23 Sr Managers 4 44 4 5 0 0 2 8 0 6 0 7 0 3 0 2 10 75 Leaders 20 54 18 31 3 2 5 9 11 17 9 26 3 1 1 0 70 140 Administrative 216 650 117 196 27 35 32 66 67 86 100 205 12 15 3 2 574 1,255 Operational (Direct & 1,005 2,972 216 874 167 14 135 316 801 331 595 1,098 2 5 1 0 2,922 5,610 Indirect) Others 37 66 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 37 67 Total by gender 1,284 3,809 355 1,109 197 51 174 402 879 440 704 1,337 17 25 5 4 3,615 7,177 Total by country 5,093 1,464 248 576 1,319 2,041 42 9 10,792 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 61 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index Energy consumption Emissions Waste Employee Profiles Corporate education Corporate education GRI G4-LA9 Training Average 2016 Average Average Brazil China Compressors China Electronics Italy Mexico Slovakia United States Russia by job by gender Job Category category Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Executive (President, VP, 15.7 19.9 21.1 27.2 137.0 24.3 14.7 28.8 30.0 43.3 4.0 19.6 21.3 21.1 Director, Sr Manager) Leaders 24.4 22.2 21.7 35.9 51.5 92.0 74.6 18.1 2.3 3.8 20.8 20.2 45.0 40.0 4.0 24.7 22.2 22.9 Employee (Administrative, 4.3 8.5 73.4 108.4 64.2 48.3 4.3 10.9 1.9 1.7 5.5 10.4 5.0 5.0 8.8 4.0 14.3 23.3 20.7 Operational and Others) Average per employee 4.7 8.9 70.1 106.4 64.1 51.8 6.2 11.1 1.9 1.7 5.7 10.6 8.8 13.0 8.0 4.0 14.6 23.3 20.8 Training Average 2015 Average Average Brazil China Compressors China Electronics Italy Mexico Slovakia United States Russia by job by gender Job Category category Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Executive (President, VP, 4.1 4.8 26.3 17.6 0.0 0.0 19.5 32.1 0.0 0.3 67.2 32.0 1.5 14.0 16.3 16.1 Director, Sr Manager) Leaders 23.1 23.8 25.0 39.5 66.7 152.0 56.7 64.8 2.0 1.9 36.4 41.9 22.0 30.0 1.0 0.0 25.9 32.5 30.3 Employee (Administrative, 10.5 11.2 100.8 259.5 54.7 42.8 32.1 26.2 1.1 3.9 10.9 16.6 5.4 4.5 4.0 1.5 20.2 51.1 40.7 Operational and Others) Average per employee 10.6 11.3 96.1 251.8 54.9 52.0 32.7 27.2 1.1 3.7 11.2 17.4 8.3 9.9 3.4 1.5 20.3 50.3 40.2 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 63 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index GRI index GRI INDEX GRI G4-32 PROFILE Direct response Ref. Description Global Compact SDG or page indication 1. Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker about the relevance of sustainability to the organization 6 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 17 2. Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 8 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 8 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 8 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 8 Whirlpool S.A. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form compressor unit G4-8 Markets served 8 G4-9 Scale of the organization 8 G4-10 Profile of the workforce 46 8 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 46 3 8 G4-12 Description of Company's supply chain 26 In the period covered by the G4-13 Significant structural changes during the reporting period report there were no relevant changes in the structure G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 19 17 Significant participation in advocacy associations and/or national/international entities in which the organization: has seats in groups responsible for G4-16 22 17 corporate governance; participates in projects or committees; contributes with substantive funding beyond the basic rate as an associated organization SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 64 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index GRI index Direct response Ref. Description Global Compact SDG or page indication 3. Identified Material Aspects and Limits For strategic reasons this G4-17 List of entities included in the financial statements information is not disclosed G4-18 Process to define report content and boundary 4 G4-19 List of material aspects identified in the content definition process 4 The materiality process did not G4-20 Limit of each material aspect for the organization include the definition of the limit of each aspect. The materiality process did not G4-21 Limit of each material aspect outside the organization include the definition of the limit of each aspect. There are no restatements G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports of information provided in previous reports. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, limit of aspects addressed 4 4. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4 Identification and selection of G4-25 Basis used to identify and select stakeholders for engagement stakeholders for engagement based on internal studies G4-26 Approach adopted by the Company to engage stakeholders and frequency of engagement 4 G4-27 Main topics raised during the stakeholder engagement and measures adopted by the Company to address them 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 65 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index GRI index Direct response Ref. Description Global Compact SDG or page indication 5. Profile of Report G4-28 Reporting period 2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Biennial G4-31 Contact data for questions regarding the report 68 This report complies with the G4-32 Option for applying (core or comprehensive) GRI index guidelines and external verification G4 Core option Guideline Our Sustainability Report 2015 G4-33 Policy and practice to submit the report to an external assurance & 2016 has not been subjected to external assurance 6. Governance G4-34 Governance structure, including committees 10 7. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organizational values, principles, standards and norms of behavior, such as conduct and ethics codes 9 and 11 6 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 66 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index GRI index PERFORMANCE Direct response Ref. Description Global Compact SDG or page indication Economic Performance EC3 Coverage of pension plan obligations defined that the organization offers 49 EC5 Variation in proportion of lowest wage compared to local minimum wage in significant operational units. 49 5 and 8 EC6 Proportion of upper management hired from the local community in significant operating units 48 8 Environmental EN3 Energy consumption inside the organization 37 7 7, 12 and 13 EN5 Energy intensity 37 and 56 7 7, 12 and 13 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 37 and 39 7 and 8 7, 12 and 13 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements related to products and services 14 and 23 7, 8 and 9 7, 12 and 13 EN15 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 1) 40 and 57 7 3, 12 and 13 EN16 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) from the acquisition of energy (Scope 2) 40 and 57 7 3, 12 and 13 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) 40 and 57 7 3, 12 and 13 EN23 Total weight of waste, broken down by type and disposal method 41 and 58 7 3, 6 and 12 There were no significant leaks EN24 Total number and volume of significant leaks 7 3, 6 and 12 during the reporting period. EN28 Percentage of products and their packaging recovered in relation to the total products sold, by product category 35 7,8 and 9 12 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on environmental criteria 27 7 and 8 12 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified in the supply chain and measures taken 27 7 and 8 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 67 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index GRI index Ref. Description Direct response or page indication Global Compact SDG Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Total and rates of new hires of employees and turnover by age group, gender LA1 47 6 5 and 8 and region Percentage of workforce represented in formal health and safety committees, LA5 consisting of employees from different hierarchical levels, which help monitor 52 8 and orientate health and safety programs at work Rates of injury, occupational illnesses, days away, absenteeism and work-related LA6 53 3 fatalities by region and gender LA8 Themes related to health and safety covered by formal agreements with unions 53 3 3 and 8 Average hours of training per year per employee, broken down by gender and job LA9 50 and 61 4, 5 and 8 category Competence and continuous learning management programs that support the LA10 We offer different training options for our employees, however, none of them is focused on preparing for retirement 8 continued employability of employees in preparation for retirement Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA11 51 5 and 8 analysis, broken down by gender and job category LA14 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on criteria relating to labor practices 27 1, 2, 4 and 5 8 and 16 Real significant negative and potential impacts for labor practices in the supply LA15 27 1, 2, 4 and 5 8 and 16 chain and measures taken in this regard Social: Human Rights Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and We have no reports on child, forced, or slave-like labor in our direct supply chain. In 2015, we disassembled one of our compressors HR5 1, 2, 4 and 5 8 and 16 measures taken to contribute to eliminating child labor with the aim of analyzing the possible materials used that could contain raw materials known as 3TG (Tungsten, Tantalum, Tin, and Gold), which have a high risk of being sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries, known as the Conflict Mineral Zone, and which uses child, forced, or slave-like labor for extraction. After identifying that no direct suppliers have any facilities located in these regions, we forwarded a survey to our suppliers to specify Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or materials that they use in producing components supplied to Embraco, with the intent to map them so that there are no materials HR6 slave labor and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced 1, 2, 4 and 5 8 and 16 sourced from there in the second link of the chain. or slave-like labor Of the 145 suppliers analyzed in 2015, 46 were rated as High Risk of purchasing materials from the Conflict Mineral Zone. The survey for 2016 is still ongoing and the new supplier base rating should be ready by 2017. HR10 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on criteria relating to human rights 27 1, 2, 4 and 5 8 and 16 Real significant negative and potential impacts on human rights in the supply HR11 26 and 27 1, 2, 4 and 5 8 and 16 chain and measures taken in this regard SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 & 2016 68 message from innovation for responsibility and efficiency environmental engaged adjacent GRI content profile credits leadership sustainability in the value chain performance people information index credits CREDITS GRI G4-31 General Coordination Embraco – Corporate Communication & Sustainability Writing, GRI Consulting, Translation, Review Layout, and Production RICCA RI Photos Embraco Archive Embraco Corporate Communication & Sustainability Rua Rui Barbosa, 1.020, caixa postal 91 CEP: 89219-901 Joinville – Santa Catarina, Brasil. If there are questions, suggestions or comments about the content of the report, contact us by e-mail corporate.communication@embraco.com.
