2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Cover Guangdong Province is one of China’s most important economic hubs, but is heavily exposed to natural disasters. In 2016, we helped to launch a major pilot scheme offering insurance protection against tropical cyclones and excessive rainfall in the province. You can read about More information online: this and other solutions building risk reports.swissre.com/corporateresilience on pages 18–27. responsibility-report/2016/ The 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report sets out our commitment as a responsible company and describes the actions we have taken to put this commitment into practice. CONTENTS Executive statement  2 Who we are and what we do  4 Our approach to corporate responsibility  8 Creating solutions for sustainability 18 Extending our risk intelligence  28 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape 42 Reducing our environmental footprint 52 Engaging our people 62 Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance  74 The Swiss Re Foundation 78 Other Swiss Re publications 80 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich 82 Memberships, commitments, awards and index listings 84 The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI): Our Public Disclosure of Progress 86 GRI Content Index, with UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) references 87 Executive statement Dear stakeholders Welcome to the 2016 edition of our Corporate Responsibility Report. With this annual publication, we seek to explain what being a responsible company means to us and give you an account of our key activities and achievements. Swiss Re’s overall vision is to make the world more resilient, which requires tackling significant environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. In 2016, we carried out a review of the most relevant ESG topics facing our company, based on our own risk know-how and insights from dialogue with our stakeholders. We have condensed the findings into a graphic Corporate Responsibility Map, which you can view on page 13. Walter B. Kielholz As in recent years, the current report also serves as our official disclosure document for two commitments we have made to the United Nations: the UN Global Compact and the UNEP Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). We remain committed to both of these important initiatives. In 2016, we also played an active role in developing the Financial Stability Board’s Climaterelated Financial Disclosures. We have started to integrate these new disclosure requirements in the “Corporate responsibility” chapter of our 2016 Financial Report and invite you to read this in parallel with the present publication. Below we would like to summarise our recent achievements in the main areas in which we address our ESG priorities: In our core re/insurance business, we Christian Mumenthaler continued to work closely with our clients and partners to help them tackle climate and natural disaster risks and 2 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report improve food security. Highlights infrastructure”. We also hosted many completed in 2016 include a pioneering events at our Centre for Global Dialogue, The Swiss Re Foundation scheme protecting UK homeowners including our fourth data protection in 2016 – Shared skills, against flood risks, two major natural symposium focusing on ethics and resilient futures catastrophe pilots in China, and solutions e-health in insurance – an important This separate report describes offering better insurance protection to topic raised by digitalisation. how the Swiss Re Foundation small businesses and smallholder farmers helps communities to build in Guatemala, Kenya and Indonesia. Swiss Re is a knowledge company. resilience to risk. In addition, we supported sustainable As such, the environmental impact energy solutions by becoming co-lead of our operations is relatively small. insurer of two large offshore wind Nevertheless, we believe that farm projects. minimising our environmental footprint is an important aspect of being a While our re/insurance solutions aim responsible company. Indeed, as part to improve resilience to specific risks, of our Greenhouse Neutral Programme in risk management our goal as a we roughly halved our CO2 emissions responsible company is to recognise per employee since 2003 and have and avoid certain risks we do not offset the remainder. Our current goal want to underwrite – because of is to combine our growth strategy their loss potential, ethical concerns in new markets with keeping our peror both. Through our Sustainability capita emissions steady. We have Risk Framework, we carried out due committed to using 100% renewable diligence checks on more than 7 000 energy by 2020 and are currently potentially sensitive transactions, building a large solar power plant at abstaining or proceeding with conditions our US headquarters in Armonk. if warranted. We also sharpened In our supply chain, we have started guidance for our underwriters on how to implement EcoVadis, a collaborative to spot and deal with potential antiplatform that will allow us to screen bribery and corruption risks. Our highly the sustainability performance of our regarded SONAR publication again suppliers more systematically. presented our insights on selected emerging risks; in this Corporate Reflecting our long-standing Responsibility Report, you can read commitment and the comprehensive a case study about human-induced range of our efforts as a responsible earthquakes. company, we were confirmed insurance industry group leader in the prestigious As we said at the beginning, ongoing Dow Jones Sustainability Indices in and open dialogue with you, dear 2016 – the tenth time we have earned stakeholders, gives us important insights this accolade since 2004. We are on the issues we should tackle to help particularly proud of this achievement, make the world more resilient. In 2016, because it represents an important we continued to foster dialogue on stakeholder’s view of Swiss Re. topics we also address through our re/insurance solutions, ie climate and Such continued success as a responsible natural disaster risks, food security, company would not be possible without funding longer lives, and sustainable our employees, of course. We would energy. A highlight among several like to take this opportunity to thank them new publications we published was sincerely for the professionalism and WE SUPPORT a three-part report produced together dedication they showed again through­ with the World Energy Council and out the past year. In this report you Marsh & McLennan Companies on can also find out how we engage with “financing resilient energy our people through Swiss Re’s unique culture of being “smarter together”. Zurich, 16 March 2017 Walter B. Kielholz Christian Mumenthaler Chairman of the Board of Directors Group Chief Executive Officer Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Who we are and what we do Our vision: We make the world more resilient. Swiss Re at a glance Working with our clients and partners, Germany, Canada, Japan, Switzerland, we help to protect assets and lives Ireland and France. They accounted The Swiss Re Group is a leading around the globe – for a resilient future. for 79% of the Group’s total business wholesale provider of reinsurance, over the year. insurance and other insurance-based Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, forms of risk transfer. Dealing directly Swiss Re has operations across the Swiss Re Ltd, the Group’s holding and working through brokers, our world. At the end of 2016, we had company, is a joint stock company, listed global client base consists of insurance over 80 office locations in more than in accordance with the International companies, mid-to-large-sized 30 countries. Based on “net premiums Reporting Standard on the SIX Swiss corporations and public sector clients. earned and fee income from policyExchange, domiciled in Zurich, and From standard products to tailor-made holders”, our ten biggest markets organised under the laws of Switzerland. coverage across all lines of business, in 2016 were: the United States, the No other Group companies have we deploy our capital strength, expertise United Kingdom, China, Australia, shares listed. and innovation power to enable the risk-taking upon which enterprise and progress in society depend. OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE Europe (including Middle East and Africa) Net premiums earned and fee income in 2016 (USD billions) 10.9 (USD 10.3 billion in 2015) Number of office locations as of 31 December 2016 28* (24 in 2015) Number of employees (regular staff) as of 31 December 2016 8 531 (7 689 in 2015) For more information see swissre.com/about_us/ * Counting all Zurich premises as one location 4 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Our strategic framework Our Group strategy helps us to meet our You can get more information on our financial targets and to make the world strategy in the 2016 Business Report at: more resilient. reports.swissre.com/2016/businessreport/our-strategy.html Systematically Broaden and Optimise resources Emphasise allocate capital to diversify client and platforms differentiation risk pools/revenue base to increase to support capital streams access to risk allocation Americas Asia-Pacific Total 15.1 7.2 33.2 (USD 13.2 billion in 2015) (USD 6.7 billion in 2015) (USD 30.2 billion in 2015) 42 15 85 (36 in 2015) (15 in 2015) (75 in 2015) 3 595 1927 14 053 (3 367 in 2015) (1 711 in 2015) (12 767 in 2015 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Who we are and what we do The Swiss Re Group Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Life Capital Reinsurance is Swiss Re’s largest Corporate Solutions serves mid-sized Life Capital manages closed and business in terms of income, providing and large corporations, with product open life and health insurance books. about 85% of gross premiums and offerings ranging from traditional The Business Unit provides alternative fee income through two segments – property and casualty insurance to access to the life and health risk pool, Property & Casualty and Life & Health. highly customised solutions. helping to generate stable returns and Reinsurance aims to extend Swiss Re’s Corporate Solutions serves customers seize attractive new opportunities. industry-leading position with from more than 50 offices worldwide. For our clients and partners, it provides disciplined underwriting, prudent a primary insurance balance sheet, portfolio management and diligent efficient policy administration services, client service. life and health expertise and knowledge for reaching more markets and offering new products. Operational Group structure Group CEO Group CFO Group Finance Group CRO Group Risk Management Americas Group CUO Group Underwriting Regional Group Presidents EMEA Functions Group CIO Group Asset Management Asia Group COO Group Operations Group CSO Group Strategy Business Corporate Reinsurance Life Capital* Units Solutions * Since 1 January 2016 Admin Re® is part of the Business Unit Life Capital. 6 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Financial highlights USD millions 2015 2016 Total assets 196 135 215 065 Total investments 137 810 155 016 Total liabilities 162 529 179 349 Total debt 12 812 11 351 Common shareholders’ equity 32 415 34 532 Total revenues 35 714 43 786 Premiums earned and fee income 30 214 33 231 P&C Reinsurance 15 090 17 008 L&H Reinsurance 10 616 11 527 Corporate Solutions 3 379 3 503 Life Capital 1 129 1 193 Total expenses –30 395 –39 414 Claims and claim adjustment expenses –9 848 –12 564 Life and health benefits –9 080 –10 859 Net income 4 597 3 558 Attribution of 2016 Group Attribution of Group income to key stakeholders income (in USD millions) USD millions (unless otherwise stated) 2015 2016 10% Variable compensation Income before tax and variable compensation 5 758 4 773 Variable compensation1 510 466 16% Income tax expense Income tax expense 651 749 54% Net income paid out as US GAAP net income attributable to shareholders 4 597 3 558 dividend or share buy-back of which paid out as dividend2 1 561 1 572 20% Net income added to of which share buy-back 1 018 1 0173 retained earnings of which added to retained earnings within shareholders’ equity 2 018 969 1Aggregate compensation for all employees was CHF 2 265 million in 2016. See 2016 Financial Report, page 140. 2 FY  2016 is estimated based on average year-to-date CHF/USD FX rates as of February 2017. The dividend is subject to Annual General Meeting (AGM) approval and the amount depends on the final number of dividend eligible shares and FX rates upon dividend payout. 3 Includes  shares bought back between 4 November 2016 and 9 February 2017 as part of the buy-back programme authorised at the AGM 2016. The total amount represents an estimate translated at the 2016 average CHF/USD FX rate. The financial figures in the table at the The information in the lower table shows top provide information on the scale the distribution of Group income to key of the Swiss Re Group and income stakeholders (employees, government generated: total capitalisation broken and shareholders). down in terms of debt and equity, sales/revenues, operating costs and net income. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to being a responsible company. Contributing to sustainable, long-term value creation serves as a guiding principle for our actions. Our commitment to corporate We first began to address a specific Based on our commitment to long-term responsibility sustainability issue almost 30 years ago value creation, we have signed up when we drew attention to the potential to a number of external charters and Swiss Re has a long-standing risks created by climate change. Building initiatives: commitment to being a responsible on this, we gradually began to form a company. A key element in our under­ commitment to sustainable, long-term ̤̤ EP100: see page 54 standing of what this means is the value creation and identified the areas ̤̤ Principles for Responsible desire to contribute to sustainable value of our business we considered relevant Investment (PRI): see page 39 creation, for the benefit of our clients to supporting this goal. We first gave and society at large. This long-term view formal expression to this through our ̤̤ RE100: see page 54 helps us to pursue our vision of making Sustainability Mission Statement and, ̤̤ Task Force on Climate-related the world more resilient and is embedded in parallel, began to provide specific Financial Disclosures (FSB-TCFD): in our value framework, which means information in dedicated reports, starting see page 17 and 2016 Financial “doing business the Swiss Re way”. with a Corporate Environmental Report Report, pages 123–130 covering the business year of 1998. It is also in our own best interest, though: ̤̤ UNEP FI Principles for it strengthens our capabilities to identify In the following years, we broadened Sustainable Insurance (PSI): for and address both risks and opportunities our commitment to “corporate our Public Disclosure of Progress, manifesting themselves in the longer responsibility”. Still based on the key see page 86 run and, as a consequence, to retain our notions of long-term value creation ̤̤ UN Global Compact: for our licence to operate. and sustainable progress, we began Communication on Progress, to place more emphasis on social and see pages 87–91 governance aspects. Our current, overarching commitment is shown ̤̤ Carbon Disclosure Project on page 9. (www.cdp.net) ̤̤ ClimateWise (www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/) For more information see swissre.com/about_us/our_values/ For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ 8 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Our values mean doing business the Swiss Re way: B  eing open, honest and transparent in everything we do; T reating everyone with respect – both inside and outside the company; T aking the long-term view and playing our part in enabling sustainable progress – for stakeholders and society in general; C  reating an inclusive culture that encourages diversity of thought and opinion. Our general commitment to corporate responsibility: “Corporate responsibility” expresses Swiss Re’s commitment to being an open, honest and transparent organisation that treats all its stakeholders – employees, shareholders, clients, government agencies and the general public – with respect and integrity. In particular, we aim to take a long-term view and to play our part in enabling sustainable progress. Sustainability as a guiding principle: Sustainable progress – or sustainability – can be described as development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. To be sustainable, progress must improve economic efficiency, protect and restore ecological systems, and enhance social wellbeing. In all our main activities aimed at implementing corporate responsibility, the principle of sustainability is a key criterion. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our approach to corporate responsibility How we determine materiality We also maintain a formal process to Complementing the insights we gain identify emerging risks called SONAR directly through dialogue with our A key question for any company that (“Systematic observation of notions stakeholders, we also evaluate and understands corporate responsibility as associated with risk”). This enables us to use data provided by specialised thirdtaking a long-term view and enabling spot, at an early stage, newly developing party organisations such as RepRisk sustainable progress is what this means or changing risks that may have an (www.reprisk.com), Sigwatch in the context of its own business and impact on our business, including risks (www.sigwatch.com), MSCI industry: which topics are “material” related to environmental, social and (www.msci.com) and Sustainalytics to achieving this goal? governance (ESG) issues. (www.sustainalytics.com) as well as the results of academic research. In order to identify our most relevant Insights from dialogue with our “Corporate Responsibility Topics”, we stakeholders Our process to identify Corporate use both our internal risk expertise and Our role as ultimate risk taker in society Responsibility Topics ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. means that we have an intrinsic interest When identifying material Corporate in maintaining active and ongoing Responsibility Topics, we draw both on Insights from our internal dialogue with our key stakeholders. our internal, embedded risk expertise risk expertise Generally speaking, this dialogue works and the insights we gain from our As a leading re/insurer, we act as in both directions: our partners expect stakeholder dialogue. In addition, we ultimate risk taker in society, which us to share our risk expertise, thus take into account the views of various requires us to have a very sound helping them – and society at large – standard setters on materiality, eg: understanding of the risk landscape. to form effective responses. In turn, reporting requirements, materiality This risk expertise embedded in our we also benefit from this exchange, definitions by sustainability rating company and the deep understanding because it helps us to sharpen our agencies, multilateral discussions such of re/insurance markets also give us understanding of key risks, including as the UN Sustainable Development a solid foundation to identify material ESG issues, and to set priorities. Goals (see page 12), relevant academic sustainability issues. In many areas research and regulatory developments. of our business, we have special teams, With regard to such issues, we consider functions and processes to identify the following groups as our principal To process the information from these and address issues relevant to stakeholders: three key sources, we use the following sustainable development. ̤̤ Financial community: investors/ steps: shareholders, rating agencies, ̤̤ Expert analysis by our Group In our core re/insurance business there shareholder associations and stock Sustainability Risk unit; are special units, such as our Global exchanges in addressing ̤̤ Interviews with key internal decision Partnerships function in the Group or sustainability concerns; makers, our sustainability risk the Environmental & Commodity Markets ̤̤ Clients: cedents, brokers and stakeholders (eg investor meetings, department in our Corporate Solutions corporate clients; events at the Centre for Global Business Unit, that identify underinsured ̤̤ Employees; Dialogue, project and business related markets and risks, and seek to expand ̤̤ Political and legal entities: multilateral interactions) and external experts re/insurance protection through organisations (UN), governments, (academia, NGOs, consulting firms); commercially viable solutions. regulators, standard-setting boards; ̤̤ Validation of final topics by the Group ̤̤ Civil society: general public, NGOs, Sustainability Risk unit; In our risk management, meanwhile, media, academia. ̤̤ Approval and endorsement by the we have a process and the capabilities Risk Management Executive Team, to identify risks we feel we should With the Centre for Global Dialogue Group Executive Committee, Board not re/insure, be it for ethical reasons, near Zurich, we have our own in-house of Directors; because they might lead to losses, conference centre. Part of the Swiss Re ̤̤ List of material topics finalised by or both. We conduct this analysis Institute as from 1 March 2017, it allows Group Sustainability Risk unit; through our Sustainability Risk us to actively manage and encourage ̤̤ Development/adjustment of Framework and other tailor-made collaboration with our stakeholders. In sustainability strategy based on final risk management tools. 2016, we held or hosted more than Corporate Responsibility Map. 100 stakeholder events at the Centre. Our publications form a second important element of our stakeholder dialogue: in 2016, we published 15 new expertise publications and 25 new fact sheets. For more information see institute.swissre.com/about/the_centre/ For more information see swissre.com/library/ 10 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report ̤̤ Two topics we have so far addressed These three terms express different Review of our Corporate under other headings now appear stages of relevance and maturity: Responsibility Topics as entries in their own right (“Investing responsibly” and “Reducing our Exploration: Topics with increasing Based on the sequence of steps environmental footprint”); relevance from an internal perspective described above, we conducted a ̤̤ Finally, our review has led us to and an expected increase in stakeholder comprehensive review of the key specify two new topics, “Advancing inquiries. Warrant further analysis. Corporate Responsibility Topics we are access to insurance” and “Navigating faced with as a global re/insurer, and the digital transformation”. Management: Topics recognised have developed a graphic Corporate as being relevant and for which we Responsibility Map on this basis. All Reflecting our two main insight have well-established management in all, the survey has revealed a high sources and in line with current best procedures. Stakeholder interest in degree of continuity, but has also practice, eg the recommendations them varies, though. resulted in some important adjustments of the Global Reporting Initiative to the topics we want to address: (www.globalreporting.org), our Priority: Topics with high stakeholder ̤̤ Seven topics we identified in the past Corporate Responsibility Map is expectations as well as high internal remain highly relevant to our efforts structured along the two axes of relevance. Require continuous high as a responsible company; “Stakeholder expectations” and attention and effort. ̤̤ For the topic “Empowering our “Relevance for Swiss Re” – in terms of people” we have chosen the more the risks as well as the opportunities comprehensive description “Engaging they may create. We have positioned our people”; all our Corporate Responsibility Topics ̤̤ The topic “Empowering communities” within this map and classified them has been added to the map to into “exploration”, “management” account for all the activities carried and “priority”. out by the Swiss Re Foundation; Our Corporate Responsibility Map: Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Our approach to corporate responsibility Commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Swiss Re endorses the UN Agenda 2030. Many of our activities described in the present report contribute to one or several of the agenda’s 17 global goals, in particular: ̤̤ Ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy (SDG 7); ̤̤ Taking action to combat climate change and its impacts (SDG 13); ̤̤ Ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns (SDG 12); A community in Indonesia grappling with a flooded street. Helping to ̤̤ Partnering for the goals (SDG 17). reduce the risk of natural catastrophes by advancing the climate transition remains one of our top priorities. We are currently exploring how we can further align our activities with the SDGs. Climate change Climate change has been our most important sustainability issue www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/ for many years: For a reinsurer, it constitutes a key topic because it sustainable-development-goals/ will lead to an increase in the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as floods, storms, excessive rainfall and drought. In combination with growing asset concentrations in exposed areas and more widespread insurance protection, this will cause a steady rise in losses. Of our current Corporate Responsibility Topics shown on page 11, two are directly connected to climate change: ”Managing climate and natural disaster risk“ and ”Advancing sustainable energy solutions“. Since detecting the long-term threat posed by climate change almost 30 years ago, we have been an acknowledged thought leader on the topic. To tackle the issue, we pursue a comprehensive strategy with four pillars. These are described below: The four pillars of our climate change strategy ̤̤ Advancing our knowledge and understanding of climate change risks, quantifying and integrating them into our risk management and underwriting frameworks where relevant; ̤̤ Developing products and services to mitigate or adapt to climate risk; ̤̤ Raising awareness about climate change risks through dialogue with clients, employees and the public, and advocating a worldwide policy framework for climate change; ̤̤ Tackling our own carbon footprint and ensuring transparent, annual emissions reporting. For more information see swissre.com/eca/our_climate_change_ strategy.html 12 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Goals for our Corporate Responsibility Topics For all our existing as well as the revised and new Engaging our people Corporate Responsibility Topics we have set goals – some ̤̤ Continue to build an organisation of diverse people quantitative, others qualitative. The overview on page that have a passion to make the world more resilient; 15 shows where you can find information on the progress ̤̤ Achieve a top-quartile employee engagement score we have made on these goals. (EES >71%). Managing climate and natural disaster risk Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance ̤̤ For general strategic objectives, see special section ̤̤ Continuously assess our corporate governance against on our climate change strategy on page 12; best practices and new stakeholder demands; ̤̤ Based on our commitment made to the UN, offer ̤̤ Regularly update our compliance policies as appropriate, USD 10 billion protection against climate risks oversee effective implementation thereof and to 50 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns by 2020. deliver meaningful training and communication to our employees. Advancing sustainable energy solutions ̤̤ Use our capacity and technical expertise to Investing responsibly provide effective risk covers for complex offshore ̤̤ Meet our investment target for green bonds of at least wind farm projects. USD 1.0 billion. Funding longer lives Reducing our environmental footprint ̤̤ Use our capacity, technical expertise and natural offset ̤̤ Keep per-capita CO2 emissions from our own operations of our mortality business to offer our clients risk transfer at 2013 levels, which we had reduced by 49.3% in the solutions for their longevity risk. ten years since 2003; ̤̤ Reduce our energy intensity by an average 2% per year; Partnering for food security ̤̤ Obtain 100% of power used for our own operations from ̤̤ In cooperation with key stakeholders, create solutions renewable sources by 2020; to improve food security by giving farmers protection ̤̤ Include our tier 1 and tier 2 vendors in the EcoVadis against natural perils; platform by 2020. ̤̤ Through our commitment to the Grow Africa Partnership, offer up to 1.4 million smallholder farmers in SubSwiss Re Foundation: Empowering communities Saharan Africa protection against weather risks by 2017. ̤̤ Contribute to resilient societies by increasingly engaging Swiss Re employees with their skills and expertise. Managing sustainability risks ̤̤ Consistently identify potential sustainability risks Advancing access to insurance in our business transactions and abstain from them ̤̤ Advance our understanding of the societal impact of if warranted; insurance and develop metrics to measure our impact ̤̤ Increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the Sensitive on stakeholders. Business Risk (SBR) process by advancing automation of sustainability risk screening with our proprietary SBR Navigating the digital transformation Assessment Tool; ̤̤ Refine our understanding of societal challenges related ̤̤ Engage with clients and industry partners on how to the digital transformation. to address and reduce sustainability risks in business transactions, especially in high growth markets. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Our approach to corporate responsibility Implementation areas Active in society Playing an active role in society beyond We seek to address our Corporate our core business is important to us. Responsibility Topics across all the areas Globally, we empower vulnerable of our business where our activities can communities to become more resilient make a contribution to sustainable value to risk and, where we have offices, creation. These areas are listed below: we encourage volunteering activities and support local institutions. Business solutions Within our core business of re/insurance Governance and compliance and asset management, we strive to By adhering to the highest standards develop innovative solutions that help of governance and compliance, we to tackle key environmental and social seek to maintain effective checks and challenges. To achieve this, we work balances between the top corporate with our clients and partners in both the bodies and to ensure the application private and public sectors. of laws and ethical standards in our business. Swiss Re’s commitment to Risk intelligence sustainability is fully integrated into We develop and apply tailor-made the Code of Conduct. tools to extend the scope of our risk management. This enables us to The overview on the right shows identify and appropriately address in which implementation areas we sustainability-related and emerging addressed which Corporate risks in our core business. Responsibility Topics in 2016, and where you can find corresponding Stakeholder dialogue information in the present publication Through regular dialogue with our or in “The Swiss Re Foundation clients and other stakeholders, we help in 2016” report. The overview reflects to develop effective responses to our new Corporate Responsibility Map sustainability and other key issues, and thus comprises all our Corporate by raising awareness of both the risks Responsibility Topics, including those and opportunities arising from them. singled out, added and newly included at the “exploration” stage. Our footprint We apply best-practice standards of resource management to our properties and logistic operations as well as guidelines to our sourcing activities. In doing so, we continually reduce Swiss Re’s direct environmental impact. Our people Drawing on the know-how and experience of a diverse, multigenerational group of people, we want to ensure our employees can contribute to an organisation that is constantly looking for new ways to improve the wellbeing of society – where how we achieve results is as important as what we achieve. 14 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Overview: where and how we have addressed our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Topics Implementation Business Risk Stakeholder Our Active in Corporate areas solutions intelligence dialogue operations society governance – Footprint & compliance CR Topics – Our people Managing climate and pages 18–25 page 35 pages 45–46, pages 52–61 SRF natural disaster risk 48, 50 Advancing sustainable pages 26–27 pages 43–44 pages 54–55 SRF energy solutions Funding longer lives page 27 page 45 SRF Partnering for food security pages 22–23, pages 46–48 SRF 25 Managing sustainability risks pages 28–33 pages 32–33 Engaging our people pages 62–73 SRF Ensuring good corporate page 31 pages 74–77 governance and compliance Investing responsibly pages 38–41 Reducing our environmental pages 52–61 footprint Swiss Re Foundation: pages 78–79, Empowering communities SRF Advancing access to pages 21–25 pages 46–47, SRF insurance 50 Navigating the digital pages 48–49 page 77 transformation SRF = “The Swiss Re Foundation in 2016 – Shared skills, resilient futures” report Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Our approach to corporate responsibility Board and senior management Content definition responsibility The structure of the present report reflects the “implementation areas” in At Swiss Re’s highest governance level, which we address our Corporate the task of overseeing implementation Responsibility Topics: each of these of our commitment to corporate areas is covered by an individual chapter responsibility has been assigned to – with one exception: Our role as an a committee of the Board of Directors: active citizen in society is described It is one of the responsibilities of the in a separate report published by the Chairman’s and Governance Committee Swiss Re Foundation (see pages to monitor the Group’s sustainability 78–79). Thus, the report includes the principles. following six main chapters: ̤̤ Creating solutions for sustainability Regarding the development and adoption ̤̤ Extending our risk intelligence of relevant policies and strategies, the ̤̤ Exploring and shaping the risk role of the Board of Directors is to endorse landscape them, while the Group Executive ̤̤ Reducing our environmental footprint Committee approves them. Group Risk ̤̤ Engaging our people Management is responsible for ̤̤ Ensuring good corporate governance maintaining a suitable risk policy and compliance framework, and the Business Units drive strategic implementation within their The content presented in these chapters respective areas. primarily reflects our Corporate Responsibility Topics, as shown in On an operational level, various divisions, the overview table on page 15. departments and units are involved in implementing Swiss Re’s commitment Scope and publishing rhythm to corporate responsibility in daily Our Corporate Responsibility Report business. The Group Sustainability Risk covers the whole Swiss Re Group as it unit drives the development of Group was organised by 31 December 2016, risk policies and related strategic ie the publicly listed holding company projects and coordinates communication, Swiss Re Ltd, its three Business Units dialogue and engagement efforts across Reinsurance, Corporate Solutions and the Group. In addition, it is responsible Life Capital, and all directly or indirectly for producing Swiss Re’s Corporate held subsidiaries. Our new Life Capital Responsibility Report, which is reviewed Business Unit was established on by senior management and approved 1 January 2016, comprising the existing by the Board of Directors. Admin Re® business. There were no other changes to the Group’s organisational structure during the year. Disclosure and accountability We have voluntarily reported on our As in past years, the scope of the report performance as a responsible company is limited to Swiss Re’s own operations. since 1998. Over the years, the range Although we provide information on of topics covered in these yearly reports our sourcing and procurement policies, has gradually widened. While early we do not report on the performance of editions had a strong focus on our suppliers because the re/insurance environmental concerns, later editions business does not involve an extensive gradually extended their focus to social supply chain. However, since 2013, and governance issues. Since 2007, we have been disclosing some of the we have published a comprehensive emissions caused along our supply Corporate Responsibility Report, chain (Scope 3 emissions). guided by best practice in corporate responsibility reporting. 16 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report The present report follows the 2015 ̤̤ Although we engage actively in In the 2016 reporting edition and covers the calendar year of dialogue with our stakeholders, we cycle, we have also started 2016 ending 31 December 2016. We do not currently have a formalised to integrate the disclosure plan to maintain our annual publishing process for them to comment on recommendations recently cycle and to present our next Corporate our selection of the GRI’s “material developed by the Financial Responsibility Report in the first quarter aspects” and hence neither on Stability Board’s Task of 2018, covering the year of 2017. the content of our Corporate Force on Climate-related Responsibility Report. Financial Disclosures To get a complete overview of our ̤̤ We do, however, carefully analyse (www.fsb-tcfd.org). In actions as a responsible company, this what kind of information key view of their clear focus report should be read in conjunction sustainability raters request of us on financially relevant with Swiss Re’s Annual Report and and include this in our reporting if information, we are using the report published by the Swiss Re we perceive a widespread demand the dedicated “Corporate Foundation (see pages 78–79). (see below). responsibility” chapter of our 2016 Financial Report Independent assurance Note on Indicators G4-21 and G4-22 on for this purpose (see pages All the main chapters of the 2016 internal and external “aspect boundaries”: 123–130). Corporate Responsibility Report have Of the material aspects to which we received independent assurance refer in the present report, we regard from PricewaterhouseCoopers. Their most as material inside the assurance report is included on organization . Those aspects that are pages 82–83. also or primarily material outside the organization relate to our supply chain Reporting frameworks (supplier assessments regarding The present report incorporates our environment, labour practices, human 2016 Communication on Progress rights and impacts on society), the for the UN Global Compact human rights performance of our (www.unglobalcompact.org/). investees and re/insurance clients References to the Compact’s ten (investment, freedom of association principles are incorporated into the and collective bargaining, child labour, GRI Content Index (see pages 87–91). forced or compulsory labour, and For the third consecutive year, assessment) and the environmental and we also report against the Principles social performance of our investees for Sustainable Insurance, PSI (active ownership). (www.unepfi.org/psi). You can find our Public Disclosure of Progress Furthermore, we include the two on page 86. aspects water and effluents and waste of the environmental category in Note on our implementation of our reporting, even though they are not the GRI G4 Guidelines highly material for a non-industrial In this edition of our Corporate company. However, many rating Responsibility Report, we include organisations expect information and Standard Disclosures of the G4 data on them from companies in the Guidelines of the Global Reporting financial services sector, too. Initiative (GRI), as far as is practical for a business-to-business company As a rule, all the material aspects we in financial services. The way we cover in the report are “material for all identify material issues has important entities within the organization”, that implications for how we do this: is, for the Swiss Re holding company ̤̤ Our understanding of materiality is and all three of its Business Units. This based on the risk expertise embedded statement only needs to be qualified in our business, our broad, interactive for two indicators of the Financial stakeholder dialogue and the view Services Sector Supplement: FS7 and of various standard setters. We have FS8 on products with a specific social selected the GRI’s “material aspects” or environmental benefit are not relevant accordingly and refer to the associated for our Life Capital Business Unit. indicators as far as we see fit for a re/insurer and can provide the data. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Creating If governments and communities are financially protected against risks such as windstorms, earthquakes, drought solutions for and flooding, they can better cope with the immediate consequences of a disaster. sustainability Just as importantly, our solutions help to create the conditions for sustained social and economic development, as they help to safeguard investments, allow governments to stabilise budgets and give people the financial stability required to build and maintain businesses. Natural catastrophes and climate change Our re/insurance By managing risks and covering losses, Natural catastrophes are a key risk in re/insurance creates stability and our Property & Casualty (P&C) business. solutions help to address enables economic growth. However, The damage caused by floods, storms, key environmental some environmental and social earthquakes and other natural disasters challenges can undermine sustainable can affect millions of lives and the and social challenges. progress if left unaddressed. Helping economies of entire countries. In 2016, We focus on natural our clients and society tackle such risks the total worldwide economic losses is a key part of our commitment as a from natural and man-made catastrophes catastrophes and climate responsible company and of our vision were estimated at USD 175 billion – of change, food security, to make the world more resilient. these, USD 54 billion were insured. Having access to effective re/insurance renewable energy, Currently, we focus on the following protection against natural catastrophes funding longer lives themes: natural disaster and climate creates significant benefits for our risks, food security, sustainable energy clients and for society at large. In 2016, and advancing access and funding longer lives. We develop we received USD 2.5 billion of to insurance. our solutions as part of our established P&C Reinsurance premiums for natural risk modelling and underwriting catastrophe covers (for losses larger activities or by creating innovative new than USD 20 million), which was products in close cooperation with equivalent to approximately 15% of total our clients and partners. premiums in this business segment. Thus, our solutions frequently include: On average, both economic and insured ̤̤ Public-sector partners: Besides direct losses caused by natural catastrophes insurers and corporate clients, we have increased steadily over the past develop risk transfer solutions for, and 20 years. The key reasons have been USD in cooperation with, governments and various public-sector organisations; ̤̤ Index-based insurance products: We economic development, population growth, urbanisation and a higher concentration of assets in exposed areas. 2.5 bn are a pioneer in creating innovative insurance solutions that use an index to determine payments; ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities (ILS) or This general trend will continue. But crucially, losses will be further aggravated by climate change. The scientific Natural catastrophe cat bonds: We are a leading consensus is that a continued rise in premiums in our P&C developer of these products, which average global temperatures will have enable cedents to transfer large a significant effect on weather-related Reinsurance business risks to the capital markets. natural catastrophes. According to the Special Report on Extremes (SREX, (USD 2.6 billion in 2015) Across our efforts, we seek to develop 2012) and the Fifth Assessment Report solutions that improve access to (AR5, 2014), published by the insurance protection, especially in Intergovernmental Panel on Climate emerging and developing countries. Change (IPCC, www.ipcc.ch), a 18 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report A coastline in the US being battered by a hurricane. Understanding the impact of climate change on the frequency and intensity of natural catastrophes is vital for our business. changing climate gradually leads to While the impact of climate change Natural catastrophe data shifts in the frequency, intensity, spatial will increase gradually over the coming In our 2016 Financial Report extent, duration and timing of extreme decades, most of our business is we provide detailed weather events. renewed annually and our risk models quantitative information on are refined every few years. Risks are natural catastrophe perils: If climate change remains unchecked, normally covered for 12 months (up the four perils with the highest the makeup of the main drivers will to five years for cat bonds). Thus, expected annual losses thus gradually shift, with climate change reinsurance premiums do not reflect (page 125) and the liquidity accounting for an increasingly large expected loss trends over the coming requirements stemming from share of natural catastrophe losses. decades. Rather, for underwriting four extreme loss scenarios and risk management purposes, our (“insurance risk stress tests”, To assess our Property & Casualty models provide an estimate of the page 73). business accurately and to structure current risk. But as natural catastrophe sound risk transfer solutions, we need losses continue to rise as a result of to clearly understand the economic the different factors described above, impact of natural catastrophes and the our models will gradually factor in effect of climate change. This is why this trend, since they are updated and we invest in proprietary, state-of-the-art refined at regular intervals. natural catastrophe models and regularly collaborate with universities In addition to providing re/insurance and scientific institutions. covers, we offer our clients strategic expertise and integral risk assessments of natural disasters and climate adaptation. These include our Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) studies, free access for our clients to Swiss Re’s For more information see swissre.com/global_partnerships/ For more information see swissre.com/climate_action/ Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 CREATING SOLUTIONS FOR SUSTAINABILITY CatNet® tool and our expertise Strengthening risk resilience: Climate change adaptation publications. You can see a sample 2016 highlights Our solutions offering of our recent publications on re/insurance protection pages 51 and 80–81. Hereafter, we describe some key against extreme weather transactions and initiatives we were events and weather volatility CatNet®: free natural hazard involved in during 2016 to strengthen help communities to adapt information for our clients risk resilience. Covering a range of to climate change by making CatNet®, Swiss Re’s online natural natural disaster and weather risks, them more resilient against hazard atlas, makes regions’ risk profiles they help communities become more such risks. visible. Clients can view these profiles resilient to such shocks by ensuring in maps that are complemented by a that adequate funding is in place for geographical database with detailed quick and effective responses. information on natural hazards such as earthquakes, tropical cyclones, winter Helping to make New Orleans storms, tsunamis and floods. CatNet® more resilient thus provides a professional overview More than ten years have passed since and assessment of risk exposures September 2005 when New Orleans across the globe, quickly and easily. was hit by Hurricane Katrina and suffered massive damage through the We completely overhauled our CatNet® ensuing storm surge and flooding. tool in 2016. It is browser-based and Culminating its fight back from disaster, available free of charge to our clients. the city’s leadership launched Resilient You can find more information by visiting New Orleans (“Resilient Nola”, swissre.com/catnet www.resilientnola.org) in 2015, the world’s first comprehensive urban resilience strategy. We have played a prominent part in For more information see this initiative, joining up with utility swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ company Veolia to help make the city’s natural_disaster_risk/ vital systems more resilient to disasters, on the one hand, and to facilitate For more information see speedy relief and recovery on the other. swissre.com/clients/client_tools/about_ At a ceremony celebrating Resilient catnet.html Nola’s first anniversary in September Insurance-linked securities We are a leading player in the ILS are particularly well-suited to In 2016, our registered broker-dealer insurance-linked securities (ILS) sector. provide protection against peak risks – subsidiaries arranged non-life ILS ILS are capital market instruments, events that happen infrequently but worth USD 1.33 billion, all of them for typically in bond or derivative format, tend to lead to large losses, for example clients. This was equivalent to about a designed to meet the risk or capital earthquakes or windstorms. ILS are fifth of total new issuance in the nonmanagement needs of a transaction used for both risk and capital life ILS market. sponsor. In exchange for a coupon or management purposes in the P&C and premium payment, the sponsor the L&H business. For reinsurers they receives single or multi-year are attractive because they free up collateralised protection for specified scarce capital; for insurers and risk events. If such an event occurs, the corporate clients they provide multiFor more information see sponsor receives all or part of the year collateralised protection; and for swissre.com/climate_action/ principal; otherwise this is paid back to investors they offer attractive the investors in full at maturity. diversification possibilities, as they are For more information see relatively uncorrelated with other asset swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ For more information see natural_disaster_risk/ classes. swissre.com/investors/ils/ 20 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 2016, the project’s key measures were impact of climate change on northern Ramping up natural disaster presented to the public. Since then, the European winter storms, this trend will insurance in China baseline exposure and existing resilience likely continue or even increase. In 2016, we helped to establish two of all the city’s water, sanitation and significant insurance pilot programmes related energy assets has been assessed Based on a partnership between the UK against natural disaster risks in China. to today’s risk as well as the expected government and the insurance industry, Both offer protection of up to around risk in 30 years’ time, based on Swiss Re’s Flood Re manages a central fund that USD 350 million, which makes them proprietary catastrophe modelling and allows insurers to pass on the flood risk the largest commercial natural disaster climate risk analysis. of individual policies. When a homeowner insurance schemes in China to date. suffers damage from flooding and makes Furthermore, both use parametric With this analysis in hand, New Orleans a valid claim, the scheme reimburses triggers, which means they can pay is exploring ways to utilise the capacity the respective insurer out of this fund. out quickly in the event of a disaster. of the private sector to ensure the city This reduces insurance premiums for can respond faster after a disaster and flood-prone homes. The first of the two programmes involves safeguard its economic future. the government of Heilongjiang Province Swiss Re supports the programme as and the Sunlight Agriculture Mutual Protecting homeowners in the UK a lead reinsurer. In total, Flood Re has Insurance Company of China. It protects against flood risk secured GBP 2.1 billion of reinsurance farmers in 28 poor rural counties of In the UK, we started to provide support cover, making it one of the five largest the province against the financial to Flood Re (www.floodre.co.uk), a natural disaster schemes in the world. consequences of natural catastrophes, pioneering scheme to make flood Ultimately, it is expected to reach some specifically floods, excessive rain, insurance more affordable for residential 350 000 households in the UK, drought and low temperatures. homeowners at risk. In recent years, providing valuable learnings for other Combining a weather index product and floods have risen in frequency and countries at high risk of flooding. a satellite-based parametric product, intensity in the UK, causing the programme covers harm to lives unprecedented damage. Given the and property as well as loss of income. Many towns in the north of England have been hit by major floods in recent years. In 2016, we started to support Flood Re, a pioneering scheme set up to offer vulnerable UK homeowners more affordable flood insurance. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 CREATING SOLUTIONS FOR SUSTAINABILITY As the programme’s sole reinsurer and insurance companies and farmers. To the event of a strong earthquake, technical adviser, we used advanced overcome this obstacle and scale up they have the means to help their modelling techniques to design this the scheme, we have worked closely small business clients to stay afloat innovative solution – the first of its kind. with the Thai government over the last and rebuild. Swiss Re supports this two years. innovative solution with product In the second pilot, we act as sole structuring, pricing and underwriting, reinsurer to protect ten prefectures As a result of these efforts, the scheme as well as reinsuring the risk. of Guangdong Province against damage was approved for a milestone budget from tropical cyclones and excessive of THB 3 billion (approximately Protecting Kenyan livestock farmers rainfall, in cooperation with local insurers, USD 90 million) in 2016, with the goal against drought including the People’s Insurance of covering two million rice farmers. Droughts are responsible for Company of China (PICC, www.picc.com). The plan for the future is to extend the approximately 75% of livestock deaths This, too, is a parametric product, using scheme to further crops and to widen in the Horn of Africa, repeatedly leaving rainfall and wind speed indices to allow the policy covers. herders, their families and entire for faster payouts. Having quick access communities destitute. To protect to emergency funding after a natural Enabling MFIs in Indonesia to cope pastoralists against this persistent threat, disaster is particularly important in with earthquakes we helped to launch the Kenya Livestock Guangdong. It is one of China’s most The provinces of Aceh and West Insurance Program (KLIP), the first-ever important economic hubs and home Sumatra in Indonesia are highly prone government livestock insurance scheme to many global companies, but faces to earthquakes. The devastation caused in Africa. a severe natural disaster risk. by the tsunami of 2004, which was triggered by a magnitude 9.1 earthquake, KLIP was successfully piloted in late You can read more about the is still in everybody’s minds. Five years 2015 in Wajir and Turkana, two counties background of these pilot programmes later, in 2009, an earthquake with a in the country’s north, and is now being on page 48. magnitude of 7.6 occurred 55 kilometres scaled up to benefit herders in remote west of Padang, the capital of West areas across the whole of Kenya. It is an Supporting a national rice insurance Sumatra Province. It is estimated to have index-based livestock insurance scheme scheme in Thailand caused total losses of approximately that uses satellite imagery to assess the Thailand is one of the world’s top rice USD 2.5 billion, of which only state of grazing conditions by measuring producers. Rice farming is prevalent USD 55 million were insured. deviation in the colour of ground across the entire country and provides vegetation. When a certain threshold large parts of the population with Such earthquakes not only cost many is reached, the insured herders their livelihoods. However, rice farmers lives and destroy homes and buildings, automatically receive a lump sum in the country face the latent threat they also have serious consequences payment, allowing them to provide their of natural disasters, in particular floods for economic growth and development livestock with feed and water. and droughts. To address this, a rice in the region. Responding to this threat, insurance scheme, complementing we have partnered with PT Asuransi The programme was developed with the Government Disaster Relief Wahana Tata (Aswata, www.aswata.co.id) the support of Kenya’s Ministry of Programme, was launched together and Mercy Corps (www.mercycorps.org.uk) Agriculture (www.mygov.go.ke), the with the Thai General Insurance in Indonesia to develop the first World Bank (www.worldbank.org), local Association (www.tgia.org) a decade parametric insurance solution benefiting insurers and the International Livestock ago, offering further financial assistance microfinance institutions (MFIs) in the Research Institute (www.ilri.org) in to farmers whose crops have been area. It is triggered by the measured Nairobi, with Swiss Re acting as the damaged by destructive weather strength of an earthquake and then pays main reinsurance provider. Wholly conditions. out automatically. funded by the Kenyan government, the programme involves preselection Unfortunately, a typical problem of such MFIs are crucial for economic of beneficiaries from vulnerable traditional crop insurance schemes is development in the area because they households by county governments that their administration costs are often provide credit and insurance to under the Hunger Safety Net Program too high in the early stages when they numerous small businesses that could (www.hsnp.or.ke). It covers up to five do not yet have the critical mass of not survive otherwise. As the insured animals per household, but herders can policies to make them viable for their MFIs receive emergency funds quickly in choose to insure more animals at their key stakeholders, ie governments, own expense. For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/food_security/ 22 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report A mother and daughter team preparing fresh black tortillas for a small restaurant in the northwest of Guatemala. Working together with MiCRO and other partners, we help to insure small businesses and smallholder farmers in the country against natural disaster and weather risks that may threaten their livelihoods. Helping to insure small businesses In 2016, MiCRO launched a new The agriculture and small business in Guatemala product in Guatemala offering insurance sectors are vital to the further After the devastating earthquake that protection against losses resulting development of Central American struck Haiti in 2010, Swiss Re helped from excessive rainfall, severe drought economies in general, but are highly set up the Microinsurance Catastrophe or earthquakes. It is an index-based vulnerable to weather-related risks. Risk Organisation, or MiCRO for short solution, paying out automatically On top of this, climate change is (www.microrisk.org). Combining according to predetermined parameters expected to aggravate extreme weather the capital efficiency of the reinsurance and event data from objective sources, events, increasing both their frequency market with donor capital, MiCRO including NASA satellites. Local partners and intensity. MiCRO plans to expand specialises in developing attractive and Banrural (www.banrual.com.gt) and such index-based insurance products affordable insurance solutions for lowAseguradora Rural to further countries, and has already income populations, especially micro(www.aseguradorarural.com.gt) sell the submitted one for approval in El Salvador. entrepreneurs and smallholder farmers. policies. Swiss Re provided technical The goal is to reach 250 000 people assistance during product development in the region by 2019. and reinsures the risks. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 CREATING SOLUTIONS FOR SUSTAINABILITY Payouts to our clients in 2016 In southern China, Typhoon Haima Innovative solutions, as described on fortunately had a less severe human toll these pages, all help to extend insurance but destroyed many houses and crops. protection. Three such solutions we The city of Shanwei in Guangdong have helped develop in recent years Province is one of the prefectures that showed their practical benefits in 2016 earlier in the year had signed up to by making payouts to their clients. our parametric insurance programme against natural disaster risks and so In the Caribbean, Hurricane Matthew received a payout less than a week after caused many casualties and brought the impact. widespread destruction across the region. CCRIF SPC (www.ccrif.org), In Mexico, the MultiCat cat bond, formerly the Caribbean Catastrophe which we helped to develop in 2009 Risk Insurance Facility, which we have in cooperation with the World Bank, been reinsuring since 2008, made made a payout of USD 50 million to the payouts totalling USD 29 million to the Mexican government early in the year. governments of Haiti, Barbados, St. The payment was triggered by Hurricane Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines Patricia in October 2015. When the within two weeks of the disaster. This storm formed off Mexico’s western coast, brought the total of emergency payouts it was one of the strongest hurricanes to 21 since 2007, worth USD 68 million. on record. Fortunately, it weakened before making landfall and took a track over more rural areas, sparing many lives. 24 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Our commitments ... to the United Nations Many of our recent efforts to expand insurance protection cover losses from natural catastrophes and weather volatility (eg drought or excessive rainfall). As climate change is predicted to increase these losses, such transactions also help communities to strengthen their climate resilience. Furthermore, we have found that partnering with public sector clients, especially national and regional governments, is an effective way to USD develop solutions. Building on these experiences, we made a significant commitment to 3.9 billion the United Nations at its Climate Summit in September 2014. Personally addressing the government leaders present at the summit, our then Group CEO Michel M. Liès made the following pledge: “By the year 2020, Swiss Re commits to having advised 50 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns on climate risk resilience and to have offered them USD 10 billion Total amount of against this risk.” climate protection We have agreed with the United Nations to report publicly on the offered to sovereigns progress we make on this commitment. By the end of 2016, we had and sub-sovereigns advised 26 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns on climate risk resilience and offered them a total of USD 3.9 billion in re/insurance protection. since 2014 ... to the Grow Africa Partnership In our work to bring risk protection to underinsured communities, in recent years we have put a focus on the African continent, in particular Sub-Saharan Africa. In 2012, we made a commitment to the Grow Africa 1 million Partnership (www.growafrica.org), an initiative launched by a number of organisations to promote public-private collaboration and investment in African agriculture. As most smallholder farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa have had no access to insurance protection to date, addressing this Smallholder farmers problem is crucial to protect families’ livelihoods, facilitate economic benefiting from development and reduce poverty. the Grow Africa Our commitment to the Grow Africa Partnership centres on the following Partnership in 2016 three goals: ̤̤ Give farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa access to tools such as weather and yield index insurance products; ̤̤ Invest in resources equivalent to about USD 2 million per year to support the development of sustainable agricultural risk management markets; ̤̤ Provide agricultural insurance for up to 1.4 million smallholder farmers. Working together with different partners, we helped to bring weather insurance to 1 million smallholder farmers in 11 Sub-Saharan countries by the end of 2016. This is less than the 1.6 million recorded in the previous year. The reasons for this decrease are twofold: Firstly, developing schemes that promise to become commercially viable continues to face significant challenges, in particular regarding the creation of effective distribution networks and overcoming market fragmentation. Secondly, the entry of additional capacity providers into some existing schemes has led to a reduction of Swiss Re’s participation share in them. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 CREATING SOLUTIONS FOR SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable energy solutions well as other insurers. As a result, we Climate change mitigation are now considered a “lead market” for Sustainable energy sources play a By facilitating the construction offshore wind risks. crucial role in reducing CO2 emissions of offshore wind farms, these and securing future energy supplies. solutions support efforts In the last five years, Swiss Re Corporate Given our strategic focus on climate to reduce CO2 emissions and Solutions has participated in 35 offshore change, we are keen to support energy hence mitigate climate change. wind projects, including wind farms, generation from renewable sources. standalone offshore substations and But as sustainable energy projects standalone export cables. In 2016, we increase in scale and complexity, were involved in nine offshore wind farm so do the risks associated with them. projects worldwide and were the lead However, innovative risk transfer insurer in five of them. solutions can help reduce these risks and drive investment in the sector. Rentel offshore wind farm These five projects include two we Offshore wind is considered one of the signed in 2016 as co-lead insurer. most promising renewable energy One of them is Rentel (www.rentel.be) 35 sources. But like renewable energy in in the Belgian North Sea, situated general, it presents very complex risks. approximately 34 km from Zeebrugge Unlike traditional lines, there is no long and 40 km from Ostend. It is being loss history to refer to. Underwriting developed by a consortium of eight such risks is therefore challenging from Offshore wind an insurance perspective. Belgian shareholders with a strong track record in offshore wind, who joined projects we have forces in a strategic competence centre. Swiss Re Corporate Solutions takes a participated in over special interest in offshore wind as it has The insurance cover offers Rentel compensation for material damage and the last five years both the large capacity and the technical loss of profit, both in the construction expertise to help manage the associated phase and the first three years of the risks. We are continually enhancing farm’s operational phase. our understanding of these risks and share our insights with our clients as Offshore wind farms come with complex risks. Swiss Re Corporate Solutions has the financial capacity and the technical know-how to offer effective insurance for such risks. 26 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Rentel will comprise 42 wind turbines of largest owner of wind energy capacity Demand for commercial health 7.35 megawatts each, in total producing in Australia. This hedge is the first of insurance solutions has also been 309 megawatts at peak. The turbines its kind because it looks at actual energy growing, driven by several major are connected to an offshore transformer production across multiple sites. In demographic and socio-economic station, from which the power will be contrast, traditional wind protection trends. These include: the greater transmitted to an onshore substation solutions are tied to single sites and are healthcare needs of ageing societies; at Zeebrugge and fed into the grid. The based on modelled wind speed indexes. rising healthcare expectations of the electricity generated by the wind farm new middle class, especially in growth will supply approximately 285 000 In practice, the new product pays markets; and healthcare finance reform, households with climate-friendly energy. Infigen Energy a fixed amount for each particularly in mature markets. We offer Construction started in early 2017 and megawatt hour of energy production a variety of health reinsurance solutions is expected to be completed by the end lost due to low wind, below a specified to meet these needs, from short-term of 2018. trigger across its entire 557 megawatt protection against the risk of volatility Australian portfolio of six wind farms. in medical expenses for insurers or Merkur offshore wind farm This helps our client to raise cash flow employers, to very long-term protection The second new facility we underwrote predictability and to reduce earnings against the financial impact of disability in 2016 is Merkur Offshore Wind Park volatility. As renewable energy or critical illness. in the German sector of the North Sea, investment continues to grow, we 45 km off the island of Borkum. It is a expect demand for effective risk Longevity solutions joint venture between Windreich and management solutions such as this to With life expectancy rising, pension Belgium-based DEME. Merkur, too, is increase substantially over the next few schemes face the risk that they will not insured against material damage and years. We already won this award in be able to meet all their commitments. loss of profit in its construction phase 2015 for a solar hedge for photovoltaic Longevity transactions cover this risk and the first three years of its operational power plants in China, underlining by insuring the schemes’ liabilities phase. Beyond this, the insurance cover our ability to respond to this demand. in case their members live longer than also protects the manufacturers of the expected. wind turbines and foundations. Life & health insurance and In recent years, we have completed Merkur will consist of 66 wind turbines funding longer lives a number of landmark longevity of 6 megawatts each, resulting in a total transactions with different clients in installed capacity of 396 megawatts. As Life and health (L&H) insurance products the UK: the wind park is located a considerable play a crucial role in creating stability ̤̤ The Scottish & Newcastle Pension distance away from the German for individuals and society. They provide Plan (19 000 members) mainland, the power it generates will financial security in the event of death ̤̤ The Aviva Staff Pension Scheme be transmitted to a converter station or illness, give access to medical (19 000 members plus partners) currently being built (DolWin gamma) treatment and offer dependable income ̤̤ One of AkzoNobel’s pension funds and converted to direct current. This in retirement. We help primary (17 000 members) technology makes it possible to L&H insurers and other clients from ̤̤ The LV= pension fund (more than minimise transmission losses over the the private and public sector to manage 5 000 members) 80 km long sea cable. such risks efficiently, thanks to our ̤̤ The Royal County of Berkshire specialist knowledge of mortality, Pension Fund (11 000 members). Award for an innovative wind risk morbidity and longevity trends. hedge We have described these transactions In 2016, Swiss Re Corporate Solutions Longevity and health insurance in more detail in recent editions of our won the second consecutive award from remained two of our strategic priorities Corporate Responsibility Report. Environmental Finance magazine for a in the L&H business. The demand for particularly innovative transaction in the longevity solutions is expected to grow “weather risk management” category. further as demographics shift. We have The award recognised a wind risk hedge invested in research and development we developed for Infigen Energy, the to improve our ability to predict mortality and longevity trends. For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_ energy/ For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Extending responsibly. The risk assessments we make through our Sustainability Risk Framework, in particular, flow directly our risk into our investment decisions. Our Sustainability Risk Framework intelligence In a market environment, profitable business activities create economic value. Occasionally, however, they may also adversely affect the environment and certain vulnerable groups. If such impacts are ignored, they may pose a threat to societies’ long-term sustainable development. For companies this situation can create dilemmas. A specific business transaction may be economically We address Risk management is an integral part of beneficial and in compliance with all Swiss Re’s business model and key to sustainability, political, the controlled risk-taking that underpins legal and regulatory requirements, yet may have significant environmental or regulatory and emerging our financial strength. It is embedded social downsides. Swiss Re recognises throughout our business and ensures risks in our core business that the Group and the three Business that such dilemmas exist and develops effective responses through a welltransactions. For this, we Units have the necessary expertise, defined approach and by taking frameworks and infrastructure to have developed specific support good risk-taking (see 2016 decisions based on ethical principles. tools and know-how. Financial Report, pages 54–55 and Our Sustainability Risk Framework is an 63–79). advanced risk management instrument, specifically designed to identify and Sound risk management is essential address the potentially negative effects for a re/insurer. Tight control of our of our transactions on local communities, exposures guarantees that we can fulfil workforces and the environment. This our role in society as ultimate risk-taker framework applies to all of our business and be a reliable partner to our clients transactions in re/insurance as well as when they need us. The core categories investments, to the extent that we can of our risk landscape comprise insurance influence their various aspects. risk (property and casualty, life and health) as well as financial market and The Sustainability Risk Framework credit risk. In addition, we consider consists of: it essential for a responsible company ̤̤ Two umbrella policies on human to pay attention to further significant rights and environmental protection risks we may be exposed to, especially plus seven specific guidelines on in the longer term. sensitive sectors or issues; ̤̤ The Sensitive Business Risk (SBR) Sustainability, political, regulatory and process comprising an online Sustainability risks emerging risks are particularly relevant assessment tool and a referral tool – We define sustainability risks in this respect. We have developed due diligence mechanisms to assess as ethical concerns related instruments and know-how that help us our business transactions; to potential environmental to identify and assess all of them. This ̤̤ Company exclusions; and and socio-economic impacts allows us to determine the specific risks ̤̤ Country exclusions beyond mere of our business transactions, we think we should avoid – because compliance with international and the reputational risks of their loss potential, for ethical reasons, trade controls. they may entail. or both. This extended risk awareness is also key to managing our assets 28 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Illegal, uncertified or insensitive logging can have serious consequences on local environments and on the climate. A dedicated policy of our Sustainability Risk Framework clearly states when our underwriters need to carry out due diligence checks. Policies and guidelines We regularly review all the policies mechanisms – the SBR online Our Sustainability Risk Framework is and guidelines of our Sustainability assessment tool and the SBR based on the overarching principles of Risk Framework to ensure they reflect referral tool. respecting human rights and protecting important new developments. the environment, encapsulated in two The online tool, which we first umbrella policies that are valid for all You can read a summary of the main introduced in mid-2015, enables our our transactions. In addition, specific concerns they currently address on underwriters to screen all transactions guidelines apply these overarching page 30. for their possible impacts on the local principles to seven sectors or issues in environment and on the human rights of which we perceive major sustainability The Sensitive Business Risk process the people and workforces affected. It risks: the defence industry; oil and gas Each of the two umbrella policies and is easy to access, provides clear guidance (including oil sands and hydraulic seven sector guidelines of our on what to assess in further detail and fracturing); mining; dams; animal testing; Sustainability Risk Framework contains ensures consistent documentation in our forestry, pulp & paper and oil palm; criteria and qualitative standards which standard underwriting tools. At the same and nuclear weapons proliferation. define precisely when a transaction may time, it enables our central sustainability present a “sustainability risk”. We assess management unit to incorporate relevant such transactions through our Sensitive new information by adjusting key policy Business Risk (SBR) process, which parameters and making these effective consists of two due diligence “at the push of a button”. For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ managing_env_risks.html Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 EXTENDING OUR RISK INTELLIGENCE If the initial screening reveals any potential issues, our underwriters carry Main concerns in key sectors out further due diligence measures. Finally, they transfer the most critical Respecting human rights and protecting the environment transactions through the SBR referral ̤̤ Human rights violations and abuses such as murder, torture, deprivation tool to our team of sustainability experts, of liberty, forced labour or harmful child labour; who conduct targeted research to ̤̤ Countries that lack an operational, effective and internationally decide whether the transaction at hand recognised government; is acceptable on ethical grounds. ̤̤ Companies that are causing ongoing, severe and unmitigated damage to the environment, flora and fauna of a particular place and biodiversity This decision takes the form of a binding in general, especially in industries and activities that have had a recommendation either to go ahead problematic track record in this area in the past. with the transaction, to go ahead with certain conditions attached, or to Defence industry abstain. If there is disagreement about ̤̤ Particularly cruel weapons that inflict indiscriminate harm to humans the recommendation, the case can be and the environment, often after a conflict has ended; escalated to the next management level ̤̤ The provision of certain services by private security companies. and, ultimately, to the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group Executive Oil and gas Committee. ̤̤ Human rights abuses; ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly The online SBR assessment tool is where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural now fully implemented. In 2016, heritages are impacted. our underwriters used it to carry out sustainability checks on 7 137 Mining transactions. As the tool precisely ̤̤ Human rights abuses; identifies those transactions that ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly require further assessment from our where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural sustainability experts, the number heritages are impacted; of referrals has fallen since its ̤̤ Poor occupational health & safety record and risk of increasing HIV introduction in mid-2015. Of the penetration. 219 transactions referred in 2016, we issued negative recommendations in Dams 21 cases and positive recommendations ̤̤ Human rights abuses; with conditions attached in 20 cases. ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural When making these decisions, we heritages (in particular, indigenous people) are impacted; refer to internationally recognised ethical ̤̤ Non-involvement of relevant stakeholders; principles. Swiss Re complies with the ̤̤ Non-involvement of affected neighbouring states. UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (the Ruggie Framework) Animal testing and is a signatory to the UN Global ̤̤ Unethical and inhumane treatment of animals. Compact, which derives its human rights principles from the Universal Declaration Forestry, pulp & paper and oil palm of Human Rights, its labour principles ̤̤ Illegal logging; from the ILO Declaration on Fundamental ̤̤ Uncertified logging and timber/oil palm processing in sensitive regulatory Principles and Rights at Work, its environments; environment principles from the Rio ̤̤ Greenhouse gas emissions from peatland conversion, timber processing Declaration on Environment and activities and/or forest clearance using bushfires; Development and its anti-corruption ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly principles from the United Nations where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural Convention against Corruption. heritages are impacted. This web of ethical principles helps us Nuclear weapons proliferation to make decisions that are aligned with ̤̤ Activities associated with nuclear energy or similar in countries that universal fundamental rights. However, are outside the established framework and international regime of global this is not sufficient for decisions in non-proliferation efforts. a business context. We also need to consider the social and economic 30 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Sensitive Business Risks referred Number of Sensitive Business Sensitive to ourBusiness expertRisk teamreferrals in 2016 2013 Risk Numberreferrals Number ofofSensitive BusinessRisk SensitiveBusiness Riskreferrals referrals 500 500 28% Oil and gas 27% Mining 400 400 25% Dams 9% Excluded/critical country 300 300 4% Human rights 200 200 4% Defence 1% Animal testing 100 100 1% Environmental issues 1% Forestry, pulp & paper and oil palm 00 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015* 2015* 2016* 2016* Proceed Proceed Proceed Proceed Proceed Proceedwithwith with conditions conditions conditions Abstain Abstain Abstain NotNot materialised Notmaterialised materialised * Starting in mid-2015, we have refined our SBR process, which has led to a decrease in the number of referrals implications of our decisions in their Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption 219 respective cultural contexts and, last (ABC) Policy and detailed Group ABC but not least, the implications for Guidelines (see page 76). In 2016, our business. Balancing these different we took further steps to mitigate our aspects requires us to carefully and potential exposure to bribery and Sensitive business consistently assess transactions and corruption risks by integrating their local effects, often in collaboration corresponding guidance in our SBR transactions referred and dialogue with external experts assessment tool, thus ensuring to our team of and local stakeholders. appropriate due diligence on our counterparties. sustainability experts Thus, our decisions are neither subjective nor entirely objective. In This guidance specifies both the (309 in 2015) essence, they reflect our recognition countries and industries with a of global fundamental rights, of human heightened risk of bribery and corruption, suffering and our commitment to and instructs our underwriters how to limiting unwanted negative impacts carry out additional due diligence in 7 137 of our business transactions, either order to assess the risk. In grave cases, by withdrawing or by influencing our our due diligence procedure leads to an clients’ behaviour. automatic requirement to abstain from the transaction. If there is disagreement Integrating anti-bribery & corruption about this, the transaction needs to Due diligence checks guidance be discussed with our internal legal and carried out by our Swiss Re prohibits all forms of bribery compliance team who can provide and corruption, as expressed by our additional advice. underwriters to detect Code of Conduct. We clearly state this potential sustainability position and explain what it means Company exclusions for daily business conduct through our Our Sustainability Risk Framework risks policies specify certain criteria that may lead us to exclude a company from both (3 550 in second half of 2015, after introduction) Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 EXTENDING OUR RISK INTELLIGENCE our re/insurance transactions and our independent body whose responsibility investments, to the extent that such an is to ensure that internal control exclusion is permissible (eg by virtue of processes and risk management are mandatory law or internal policies) and operating effectively. possible (eg if existing documentation relating to such re/insurance Training transactions and investments provide Since we first introduced our for it). These criteria include: involvement Sustainability Risk Framework in 2009, in prohibited war material; verifiable we have made considerable efforts to complicity in systemic, repeated and raise awareness of sustainability issues severe human rights violations; causing among our underwriters and client repeated, severe and unmitigated managers. Through training, we ensure damage to the environment; unregulated that they know how to properly apply proliferation of nuclear weapons; and the framework with its underlying unethical/cruel animal testing practices. principles of respecting human rights and protecting the environment. In Country exclusions recent years, we have focused on high Swiss Re also excludes certain countries growth markets where we want to from its business that have particularly expand our business. poor human rights records. This step goes further than compliance In 2016, we developed a new eLearning with international trade controls (ITCs). course for our in-house training. Our goal is to refrain from directly While this continues to be compulsory underwriting risks or making investments for all our employees who work in in entities that are based in these underwriting and with our clients, it countries. At the end of 2016, the list is now mandatory for all our new of excluded countries comprised the entrants, as well. In total, 2 712 Central African Republic, Chad, DR employees completed the mandatory Congo, North Korea, Somalia, Sudan training course in 2016. (both North and South) and Syria. We review this list annually based on Complementing this eLearning course, independent human rights assessments we provided instructor-led training and update it if warranted. The review personally or via web-based conference carried out in 2016 did not produce to 205 experienced underwriters and any changes. graduates. As the Sustainability Risk Framework Client and industry interaction is based on the principles of respecting Efforts to address environmental and human rights and protecting the social risks are obviously more effective environment, the SBR process with when many companies join forces. This its two due diligence tools, the company is why we are keen to further promote exclusions and the country exclusions sustainability risk management within are our principal means to ensure the re/insurance industry. compliance with the UN Global Compact in our core business. In 2016, our sustainability risk management unit decided in 20 SBR Independent internal assurance assessments to proceed with conditions. In 2016, we further strengthened our In most cases, these conditions required internal procedures to monitor the particular underwriter to engage compliance with the Sustainability Risk with the client on specific questions about Framework. This is now part of the human rights issues or environmental remit of Group Internal Audit (GIA), an protection, in line with the requirements 32 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report of the Ruggie Framework. In addition, We also participated in the UN Forum on Sustainability Risk we engaged with strategic clients Business and Human Rights in Geneva Framework that have a comparatively low where we presented our Sustainability The revised version of our sustainability performance. This open Risk Framework and explained the publication on the dialogue allowed us to explain our fundamental role that the principle of Sustainability Risk Framework own positions on human rights and respecting human rights plays in the explains how we define environmental protection, and draw way Swiss Re does business. The event such risks, provides a attention to specific practices we provided a valuable opportunity to bring detailed description of the consider problematic. various stakeholders together and gain framework’s policies and further insights on our own approach. guidelines, and illustrates On an industry-wide basis, we have how we apply these in played a major role in establishing and Supporting our efforts to promote best practice. advancing the Principles for Sustainable practices in sustainable risk management, swissre.com/library/archive/ Insurance (PSI) introduced in 2012 we updated and expanded our sustainability_risk_ by the UN Environment Programme publication on the Sustainability Risk framework_sustainable_ Finance Initiative, UN EPFI Framework in 2016. business_is_good_business. (www.unepfi. org/psi). We were one html of the initiative’s original signatories and currently act as one of its board members. The PSI address environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues in the re/insurance industry, spanning risk management, underwriting, product and service Sustainability development, claims management, Risk Framework sales and marketing, and investment management. Our Public Disclosure of Progress for 2016 is included in this report on page 86. Two years ago, we partnered with the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) to co-host a roundtable on “Insurance 2030: Policies and partnerships for sustainable development” at our Centre for Global Dialogue near Zurich. Around 60 leaders and executives from re/insurance companies and regulatory bodies, the UN, governments, think tanks and civil society reflected on the policies and partnerships needed to realise the full potential of re/insurance in promoting sustainable development. In 2016, we participated in a practical follow-up event held in Munich, entitled “Insuring for sustainable development: Making it happen”. Its key objective was to assess and discuss progress on the initiatives launched after the 2015 roundtable to further mainstream sustainability across the insurance value chain. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 EXTENDING OUR RISK INTELLIGENCE Political risks Regulatory risks In today’s increasingly integrated world Regulatory risk represents the potential we need to be aware of any political impact of changes in the regulatory and developments, actions and decisions supervisory regimes of the jurisdictions that may affect our business. Within our in which Swiss Re operates. In 2016, risk management organisation, we have Swiss Re remained strongly engaged a team of specialists who look at a wide in the regulatory debate, striving to range of political risks at global, country mitigate potentially negative impacts and business transaction levels. while supporting reforms that could enhance the overall health of the sector, These specialists identify, assess and facilitate convergence of regulatory monitor political risks on an ongoing standards or generate business basis, so the Group understands their opportunities. implications and can initiate appropriate mitigation measures if required. They While Solvency II took effect in 2016 pay particular attention to developments and applies across the European in high growth markets and to crossEconomic Area, national discretions border issues such as terrorism, and different supervisory interpretations energy, multi-national institutions or (eg the recognition of reinsurance) international trade. distort a level playing field. The European Commission will review Our understanding of political risks is Solvency II in 2018, in part to address also highly relevant to ensuring such inconsistencies. Additionally, the sustainable business operations in line European Insurance and Occupational with ESG principles. Several of the Pensions Authority intends to add a sectors and issues covered by the macro-prudential framework for umbrella guidelines and policies of our insurance to Solvency II, to regulate Sustainability Risk Framework (see systemic risks across the insurance pages 29–31) have a significant political industry. dimension. Implementing these policies, both through SBR assessments and Prudential regulation is developing exclusion policies, thus requires a solid towards more risk-sensitive and grasp of political risks. This is particularly economic-based capital regimes, true with regard to human rights yet regulatory fragmentation remains violations, the proliferation of armaments high. Local capitalisation rules often in conflict areas and the identification fail to fully recognise the benefits of of areas prone to civil unrest. risk mitigation and diversification. In addition, there are moves to limit the Furthermore, we seek to raise use of internal models influenced by awareness of political risk within the post-crisis banking regulation. Swiss Re re/insurance industry and among the strongly supports the use of internal broader public, and engage in dialogue models, full recognition of risk mitigation with our clients and other stakeholders. and diversification, appropriate We also distil our ongoing consideration of counterparty default assessments of political risks into and concentration risk, and efficient country ratings which support our application of eligible capital risk control frameworks. instruments. National protectionism restricts the free flow of risk and capital. The outcome of the Brexit negotiations between the UK and the EU could potentially limit the ability to benefit from the free movement of services, including reinsurance. Swiss Re is advocating for removal or reduction of market access barriers, so that policyholders, governments, taxpayers, and national economies can fully benefit from international diversification and therefore reliable, quality, and affordable risk cover. 34 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Climate change Starting from the premise that climate In view of the strategic importance change creates physical, liability and climate change has for our core transition risks, the TCFD aims to develop business, we closely monitor related consistent and effective financial regulatory developments. Governments’ disclosures that will allow stakeholders and regulators’ interest in climate to properly assess the climate risks faced change and natural catastrophes has by companies and to take appropriate continued to build, leading to an action. In 2016, the task force published increase in climate-related reporting its Phase 1 report for public consultation. requirements. After processing the inputs received from key stakeholders, it launched its In the US, for example, several state “Recommended disclosures” in insurance regulators are evaluating December 2016. Swiss Re supports the impacts of climate change on the work of the task force and has been re/insurers, including through insurer providing one of its members since surveys. The State of California even its launch. We have started to integrate requires insurers to disclose investments the recommended disclosures in our in fossil fuels and is asking them to 2016 Financial Report, pages 123–130. divest voluntarily from thermal coal concerns. In Europe, certain EU We were also present at the launch insurance supervisors, including the event of the Sustainable Insurance UK’s Prudential Regulation Authority Forum for Supervisors, held by the (www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra), California Department for Insurance and are examining the impact of climate the UN Environment Programme. The change on insurer underwriting and Forum’s goal is to promote cooperation investment risks. on critical sustainable insurance challenges, such as climate change. Such initiatives form part of a wider Increasingly, insurance regulators and effort by public-sector bodies to supervisors are exploring how these integrate sustainable development factors impact upon their goals of criteria into the financial system. Recent ensuring the safety, soundness and examples include the G20’s proposal to accountability of the sector. For the establish a Green Finance Study Group first time, the Forum provides them and the EU’s announcement to develop with an international platform to share a strategy on sustainable finance. experience and explore common approaches. Reflecting governments’ growing concern over the implications of climate change, the Financial Stability Board Emerging risks Emerging risks (FSB) has recently established a Task Re/insurers operate in an ever more We define emerging risks as Force on Climate-related Financial complex and rapidly changing risk newly developing or changing Disclosures, TCFD (www.fsb-tcfd.org). landscape. New demographic, risks that are difficult to The FSB is an international body that economic, technological, socio-political, quantify and whose potential monitors and makes recommendations regulatory and environmental impact on our business is about the global financial system, developments are all capable of changing not yet sufficiently taken into coordinating national financial risks or creating new ones. In addition, account. authorities and international standardgrowing interdependencies between setting bodies. these developments can lead to accumulations of risk and create significant knock-on effects. The general business environment is undergoing significant changes, as well. People’s risk perceptions are shifting, liability and regulatory regimes continue to evolve and stakeholder expectations are growing. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 EXTENDING OUR RISK INTELLIGENCE This complex landscape gives rise to The SONAR process involves several Swiss Re SONAR: New “emerging risks” – newly developing steps. An interactive intranet platform emerging risk insights or changing risks that are difficult to serves as a first level, enabling our The Swiss Re SONAR quantify and whose potential impact employees to share and discuss report features emerging on our business is not yet sufficiently so-called risk notions on all main areas risk themes that have the taken into account. of the emerging risk landscape quickly potential to impact the and easily and to stay up-to-date on new insurance industry in the Detecting and investigating such risks developments. While many of the early future. These topics were early on forms an important part of signals flagged through the SONAR mainly derived from our our comprehensive approach to risk platform will never actually turn into SONAR process and were management. Our aim is to reduce emerging risks, others may well do so. assessed by our emerging uncertainty and prevent unforeseen As it is impossible to anticipate which risk management experts. losses, while raising awareness within signals will fall into which category, media.swissre.com/ the Group and across the industry. all of them warrant equal attention. documents/SwissRe_ Therefore, we try to understand how The SONAR platform allows for peer SONAR_2016.pdf risks are changing, assess their impact reviews and bottom-up discussions and seek to recognise potential links of early signals. between them. Our emerging risk specialists Our SONAR framework periodically cluster and further assess SONAR (“systematic observation of these risk notions for their potential notions associated with risk”) is our impact on our business. Based on this, Group-wide framework specifically they subsequently carry out more indesigned to manage and communicate depth investigations of selected topics. SwissReSONAR New emerging risk insights May 2016 emerging risks. Firmly embedded in the In 2016, one of the focus topics was Group’s risk management organisation, human-induced earthquakes (see case SONAR allows us to identify, assess study on page 37). To share some of our and report these risks in a timely manner key insights on this and other emerging and to factor them into our decisions. risks with external audiences, we published the fourth edition of our comprehensive Swiss Re SONAR report. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/managing_risks/ emerging_risks.html 36 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report There is growing evidence that drilling activities associated with hydrofracking or geothermal exploration may contribute to earthquakes. As most established risk models do not account for this effect, we treat “human-induced earthquakes” as an emerging risk. Human-induced earthquakes: a new protection gap? Earthquakes are the most natural the rock. This adds to the likelihood In the US, in particular, there is an of natural disasters, one would think, of higher-magnitude earthquakes. increasing likelihood of litigation/class as they seem to occur entirely actions against hydrofracking detached from human involvement The increase in earthquake activity operators, with a significant or interference. While this may have associated with human actions is an accumulation risk for re/insurers when held true in the past, recently a strong emerging risk, as most risk models events trigger claims on the property increase in drilling activity to extract used by the re/insurance industry do and casualty side. natural gas (“hydrofracking”) or to not incorporate the associated carry out large-scale geothermal increase in seismic hazard. Losses We have looked at hydrofracking in exploration has changed the picture. arising from the rapidly rising number several of our recent publications. Our of human-induced seismic events are 2015 SONAR report highlighted the There is evidence that hydrofracking largely uninsured or fall into the risks around fracking fluids with regard itself creates earthquakes of very small deductible of traditional earthquake to chemical composition and magnitude. These are generally not insurance products, which are groundwater contamination, whereas felt at the surface, but they have been designed to protect against single big in the 2016 edition we address the linked to the stimulation of larger loss events rather than damage arising increased earthquake risk associated earthquakes. Moreover, the common from frequent small earthquakes. with hydrofracking. In addition, we practice of disposing of hazardous published a comprehensive report on wastewater by injecting it at high “The link between hydrofracking, pressure into deep ground changes wastewater injection and earthquakes: the tectonic stress conditions within key issues for re/insurers”. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 EXTENDING OUR RISK INTELLIGENCE Further activities on emerging risks Strategic risk initiatives Responsible investment identified in the past Identifying and addressing emerging The emerging risks we previously risks can be challenging. Their novelty Asset-liability management (ALM) is examined in more detail and featured in and interconnectedness makes it the cornerstone of our investment our Corporate Responsibility Reports difficult for anyone to determine when philosophy. To meet future claims and since 2007 were: a particular risk notion must be benefits, we invest the premiums considered an emerging risk. Timing is generated by our underwriting activities 2007: Electromagnetic fields thus of crucial importance: If measures in assets whose cash flows match to exclude a particular risk are taken the durations and currencies of our 2008: Critical infrastructure too early, we can offer our clients less re/insurance liabilities. Generally, we 2009: Carbon nanotubes insurance protection; if measures are invest more in higher-quality fixed taken too late, we may end up with income securities with stable long-term 2010: Smart grids increased loss potential. returns. At the end of 2016, such 2011: Cyber attacks investments accounted for 75% of our Given these challenges, we believe it is total assets under management1. 2012: 3D printing essential to foster risk dialogue with 2013: New forms of mobility various partners. By sharing perceptions We are committed to investing our and assessments, all parties can gain assets responsibly via a controlled and 2014: Electronic cigarettes a better understanding of potential structured investment process, 2015: The Internet of Things emerging risks. In 2016, we contributed integrating environmental, social and to the following strategic initiatives: governance (ESG) criteria. Such criteria Since we first identified these emerging can have a positive impact on the risks, we have followed up on several CRO Forum Emerging Risk Initiative long-term financial performance of our of them together with our stakeholders. (CRO ERI) investment portfolio. Thus, we apply In 2016, we focused on the three risks The CRO ERI was launched in 2005 to sustainability-related risk information below: raise awareness of major emerging risks consistently across our entire investment relevant to society and the re/insurance portfolio. industry. References to further activities www.thecroforum.org/emerging-riskResponsible investment framework initiative-2/ Our asset management runs under Critical infrastructure a well-defined framework, which Infrastructure private debt mandates, In 2016, we contributed to the CRO considers ESG criteria consistent with page 40 Forum’s Emerging Risk Initiative position the Group’s Code of Conduct and Supporting financial resilience, paper “Water Risks”. Swiss Re’s commitment to sustainability. page 47 This pledge is further outlined in the International Risk Governance Group Asset Management Responsible Cyber attacks Council (IRGC) Investment Policy, which describes our Partner reports on “Financing resilient The IRGC is an independent organisation approach and principles with regard energy infrastructure”, page 44 whose purpose is to help understand to sustainable investing. This is Expert Forum on Cyber Risk, and manage global risks that impact complemented by the Swiss Re Asset page 49 human health and safety, the Management Voting Framework, environment, the economy and society which provides guiding principles that The Internet of Things at large. Since its foundation in 2003, apply to all our voting activities. Risk Talk on Smart Homes, page 49 Swiss Re has been a partner of the IRGC, and has participated in its initiatives and publications. www.irgc.org 1 A sset classes considered are government bonds (incl. agency), corporate bonds, securitised products, and mortgages and other loans. 38 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report The Responsible Investment Policy also As a long-term investor, we consider Overall investment portfolio describes the roles and accountabilities factors that may have an adverse impact USD 130.5 bn, as of to ensure the integration of ESG on the sustainable value of our portfolio, 31 December 2016 considerations: The overall responsibility such as climate risk. As a result, we for sustainable investing lies with the measure our exposure to carbon Group Chief Investment Officer, who is emissions in listed equities and corporate advised by the Asset Management bonds in a systematic manner. In order Executive Team and the Asset to mitigate the risk of stranded assets, Management Investment Committee. we have also adopted a policy to avoid Furthermore, an ESG Advisory Group, investments in companies where formed by representatives of all a substantial part of their revenues is investment units, legal, compliance and stemming from thermal coal. risk management and steered by the Head Responsible Investing, conducts Overarching approach 6 % Cash and cash equivalents our responsible investment activities The Sustainability Risk Framework 8 % Short-term investments and monitors their progress. Through (see pages 28–33) enables us to this governance structure, we ensure identify and analyse potential ESG risks 37% Government bonds a comprehensive commitment to within an investment, and is aligned 31% Corporate bonds responsible investment in our day-to-day with our overall governance structure. 4% Securitised products asset management activities. The framework consists of two umbrella 5% Equities* In 2007, we signed the UN Principles policies on human rights and 3% Mortgages and other loans for Responsible Investment (PRI) and in environmental protection, and seven 6% Other investments 2012, the Principles for Sustainable guidelines on sensitive sectors or incl. policy loans Insurance (PSI), thereby formally issues: the defence industry; oil and endorsing our commitment to corporate gas (including oil sands); mining; dams; * Includes equity securities, private responsibility. The PRI and PSI are animal testing; forestry, pulp & paper equity and Principal Investments considered in Swiss Re’s comprehensive and oil palm; and nuclear weapons responsible investment framework. proliferation. Each of these policies and guidelines contain a number of All PRI signatories are required to predefined criteria and qualitative provide in-depth reporting on their standards that may lead to the exclusion responsible investment activities. The of a company or a country from our reports are available on the PRI website investment scope. Following our recent at www.unpri.org/signatory-directory/ review, we extended our exclusion list to include companies potentially posing 2016 – ESG: An integral part of a significant reputational risk to investors the investment process due to controversial business activities We look at ESG integration primarily from an ESG perspective. from the viewpoint of generating sustainable long-term returns, which Our Asset Management unit applies aligns well with our focus on a highthese criteria to our investment assets, quality investment portfolio. ESG and excludes companies and countries integration makes economic sense if they do not meet the pre-defined because it improves risk/return profiles. criteria and qualitative standards. As part of our active risk management, we are therefore adopting ESG-based benchmarks in our credit and equity portfolios. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 EXTENDING OUR RISK INTELLIGENCE Specific approaches per asset class We work closely with the external We have identified some key investment managers to ensure they consider ESG areas in which we apply further specific aspects in their investment processes. ESG criteria to cater for the different risk Before external managers are appointed, characteristics of responsible investing. we perform thorough due diligence Asset class specific approaches towards to confirm their compliance with our sustainability are outlined in the responsible investment principles. This following sections. includes ESG considerations in investment decisions and monitoring, Rates products as well as a review of the managers’ Rates products2 constitute the largest commitment to responsible investing. asset class in our investment portfolio, After being mandated, the managers’ with a share of 51% at the end of 2016. individual performances are monitored At 37% of total assets under in line with our Responsible Investment management, government bonds (incl. Policy and measured against ESGagency) are the largest holding within related benchmarks. The managers are rates products. required to report regularly on their responsible investment activities. In 2016, we revised our ESG screening approach at country level. We now For more systematic and regular include detailed information from a monitoring of the actual integration of specialised research company on ESG factors into our externally managed primary political risks, human rights, portfolio, we have engaged the services economic and environmental issues of a leading ESG research company. affecting the resilience of countries. Every year, we conduct an in-depth Based on such factors, we assess our assessment based on ratings provided government bond assets to guide our by them to analyse the quality of the responsible investment decisions and to portfolio and to gain further insight into guarantee the quality of our government ESG risk exposures. bond portfolio. We screen our portfolio against ESG considerations twice As part of our commitment to a year. Furthermore, we use the rating sustainability, we also invest in related measures to define investment assets like renewables and social mandates for our portfolio managers. infrastructure in our infrastructure private debt mandates, and green bonds Credit products, equities and hedge in our credit and rates products funds mandates. For the latter, we rely At the end of 2016, approximately primarily on the “Green Bond Principles”. 44% of our investment portfolio was For further information, please refer to managed externally. This portfolio www.swissre.com/about_us/about_ comprises mainly credit products, our_business/asset_management/ equities and hedge funds. PRI responsible_investing_in_practice.html signatories manage more than 97% of these assets. Furthermore, all of Real estate our external asset managers have Our investment portfolio consists of contractual provisions with Swiss Re direct investments in property in that specifically relate to responsible Switzerland, Germany and the US. investing. It comprises buildings for residential, industrial and commercial use. The market value of the portfolio was USD 3.4 billion at the end of 2016. 2 R  ates products consist of cash, short-term investments and government bonds (incl. agency). 40 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report We apply ambitious sustainability In the case of internally managed standards for these real estate equities, we use our influence as a investments. For projects in Switzerland, responsible shareholder by directly the applicable criteria are defined in the exercising our voting rights and, with Energy Mission Statement of Swiss Re. externally managed portfolios, by This stipulates that all new buildings facilitating the relevant portfolio need to conform to the MINERGIE® managers to execute our proxy votes standard (www.minergie.ch), a Swiss and related engagement activities. quality label specifying high levels of energy efficiency and superior user In line with our voting framework, we comfort. When an existing building review the voting policies of external in the portfolio is due for renovation, managers during due diligence this standard is applied whenever it processes to confirm compliance with is feasible from an architectural, our own policy. In addition, external technical and financial point of view. managers are required to report on voting activities conducted on By the end of 2016, the combined value Swiss Re’s behalf. of our MINERGIE®-certified buildings reached USD 0.4 billion, or 22% of In 2016, we exercised 99% of our voting our Swiss portfolio of direct real estate rights of our listed equity portfolio3. investments. The total energy We voted on 7 103 voting items through Our voting activities in 2016 consumption surface in accordance our external managers. We voted in with the MINERGIE® standard was favour of the respective management 82 497 m2 at the end of 2016. In resolution in 6 305 cases (89%) and addition, more than 59 000 m2 had against it in 585 cases (8%). In 213 been sold on to third parties. cases (3%), we abstained or withheld from voting. Since 2015, Swiss Re has also invested in the US real estate market, having now In addition to shares in listed companies, acquired a portfolio of 14 properties. investments in our equity portfolio The investment manager’s approach include equity exchange-traded-funds to sustainability includes “GreenGuide: (ETFs). The fund managers cast votes  99% Votes cast Sustainable Property Operations”, on these ETFs for all investors in  1% No votes cast a best practice guideline for sustainable accordance with the fund managers’ and efficient real estate operations; own voting policies and processes. “ULI GreenPrint Foundation”, a global environmental management platform; Our voting behaviour in 2016 and “LEED Certification” from the USGBC. Voting We recognise our rights and responsibilities as an asset owner, and in particular as a shareholder, as an integral part of our commitment to responsible investment. We believe that ESG considerations,  89% Voted with management especially good corporate governance  8% Voted against management and transparency towards shareholders,  3% Abstained are key drivers for sustainable value creation. Therefore, we review our voting principles periodically to keep them aligned with best practice. 3 W  e vote in all countries, with the exception of a few where voting process and regulatory obligations require a high level of administrative coordination. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Exploring and Our Top Topics Via Group Issue Management, Swiss Re shaping the identifies topics that are strategically important to us, our clients and society at large. These Top Topics denote the global challenges we want to help address and set an important focus for risk landscape our global stakeholder dialogue. In 2015, we formed a new Reputation Management Committee, which comprises representatives from across the Group, ie our three Business Units, Investor Relations, Group Risk Management, Group Communications and – as from 1 March 2017 – the Swiss Re Institute. The Committee coordinates the content of our stakeholder dialogue across all our Business Units, functions and regions We engage in regular With our re/insurance solutions we help in order to optimise its effectiveness. our clients and partners to cope with dialogue with our the risks they face. This helps to create In 2016, we continued to focus on our stakeholders. By sharing stability and enables economic growth. Top Topics in our stakeholder dialogue: But many of today’s risks are complex expertise and knowand may threaten sustainable progress. ̤̤ Advancing sustainable energy solutions how, we help society To find effective, long-term responses to ̤̤ Funding longer lives such risks, partners from the public and to develop effective the private sector need to work together. ̤̤ Managing climate and natural disaster risk responses to key risks. ̤̤ Partnering for food security This is why we attach great importance ̤̤ Supporting financial resilience to ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. Drawing on the expertise We worked on these Top Topics with from our core business, we identify key many partners from the public and risk topics and take an active role in private sectors. In the following sections discussions about them. We share and we introduce each topic, explain why exchange knowledge through many we consider it to be important and give channels, eg our renowned publications examples of our communications including the sigma series, international activities. dialogue platforms, events hosted by the Centre for Global Dialogue (part Advancing sustainable energy of the Swiss Re Institute as from solutions 1 March 2017), and cooperation with The agreement reached in 2015 at the governments and academic institutions. COP21 UN Climate Change Conference Through this ongoing dialogue, our in Paris underscored that sustainable stakeholders give us valuable feedback energy sources are essential to combat and new insights for risk management global warming. Reducing greenhouse and product development. gas emissions while, at the same time, satisfying the energy needs of a growing population will be one of the great challenges we face in the coming decades. Sustainable energy projects continue to increase in scale and complexity, as do the risks associated with them. 42 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Staying fit and enjoying it ... By devoting one of our Top Topics to “Funding longer lives”, we want to help ensure that people can continue to reap the benefits of living longer. Innovative risk transfer solutions help Our notable achievements in 2016: renewable sources. By increasing to drive investment in the sector ̤̤ Together with the World Energy demand for clean power in a joint by reducing risk for investors. Building Council (www.worldenergy.org) and effort with our partners, we expect on our long-standing commitment Marsh & McLennan Companies RE100 to make it more viable for to sustainability, we have recently (www.mmc.com), we published two energy companies in challenging intensified our renewable energy new reports on financing resilient markets to build renewable energy research to help our clients and the energy infrastructure. Following up plants (see page 54); global community to develop and on the report published in 2015 on ̤̤ Through Swiss Re Corporate establish secure energy supplies for extreme weather, they focus on Solutions’ partnership with Solar the future. the energy-water-food nexus and Impulse (www.solarimpulse.com), we cyber threats (see special section on supported the first round-the-world page 44); flight powered by solar energy only. ̤̤ As a founding member of the RE100 The mission was successfully initiative (www.theRE100.org), we completed in July 2016, underscoring continued to work towards our goal our commitment to cutting-edge of obtaining 100% of our energy from innovations in clean energy. For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_ energy/ Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 EXPLORING AND SHAPING THE RISK LANDSCAPE Modern energy infrastructures are highly vulnerable to cyber attacks. Three recent reports we produced together with partners look at the key risks that need to be addressed to make energy infrastructure more resilient. Partner reports on Financing resilient energy infrastructure In 2016, the World Energy Council such magnitude. In general, insured the finance sector to improve the (WEC, www.worldenergy.org), losses from severe convective storms financing of resilient energy Swiss Re Corporate Solutions and have increased by more than 40% infrastructure. Marsh & McLennan Companies over the last 20 years. (www.mmc.com) presented the The role of insurance findings of their report “The road to Food-water-energy nexus Throughout the report, the authors resilience: financing resilient energy 98% of the world’s power supply emphasise the role of insurance in infrastructure”, ahead of the World depends on water. Food production, achieving resilience. The insurance Energy Congress. The publication in turn, requires both water and industry is already helping energy summarises three comprehensive energy. In other words, the foodcompanies cope with the risks studies focusing on key risks the global water-energy nexus can significantly identified in the studies. Pioneering energy sector needs to manage: impact energy supplies. insurance transactions illustrate that extreme weather, energy-water-food protection against unfavourable dependencies and cyber crime. Cyber attacks weather is available for wind, solar Finally, the energy sector is highly and hydroelectric facilities. Advanced These risks impact both the physical vulnerable to cyber attacks. As cyber solutions combine structures and the capital returns Ukraine experienced recently, an comprehensive insurance protection needed to reach a more sustainable attack on a power grid can cut off with risk mitigation and remediation energy future. a whole country’s power. services. Extreme weather Modern energy infrastructures are On our website you can learn more Events such as hurricanes, storm evolving into complex systems with about the reports and their surges, heat waves and ice storms are many interdependent parts, and recommendations: growing in frequency and severity. disruptions to any of these can have swissre.com/rethinking/sustainable_ Hurricane Sandy or Typhoon Haiyan truly dramatic consequences. energy/financing_resilient_energy_ for example illustrated that energy The summary report offers seven infrastructure_recommendations.html infrastructure is often entirely recommended action items for inadequate to handle disruptions of governments, business leaders and 44 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Funding longer lives ̤̤ We hired a dedicated Head of Ageing People are living longer today than ever to prioritise Swiss Re’s efforts in this before, but the share of the working area and lead a global team of experts population is shrinking. At the same from various functions. Our immediate time, more of the financial responsibility priority is to better understand the is shifting from public to private balance needs of elderly consumers across sheets. This could have significant different markets and share lessons financial consequences for individuals, learned in an increasingly complex insurers, employer pension funds and social, economic and regulatory society in general. Public-private environment. partnerships are needed to overcome this challenge. Managing climate and natural disaster risk Life and health reinsurance is part of our Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes core business, and we are the world’s and other natural catastrophes can largest reinsurer of mortality risk. have a dramatic impact on the citizens Consequently, we are a natural home for and economies of entire countries. the longevity and health risks associated Insurance helps people, businesses and with ageing societies, and have the societies to get back on their feet after financial strength to take on risks across disaster strikes. a person’s whole lifespan. Swiss Re has a broad base of expertise to help Hurricane Matthew and the Louisiana insurers understand the medical floods are just two examples of events and social factors that affect longevity, that killed many and destroyed the mortality and morbidity, and we can livelihoods of even more. Total economic bring new insights from our experience losses from disaster events in 2016 in markets around the world. We want almost doubled to USD 175 billion, to help clients create solutions that primarily due to natural catastrophes. better support people across the This shows that our world is still not different phases of ageing and retirement. resilient enough to avoid the negative effects of natural disasters – let alone Our notable achievements in 2016: to assure the funds needed to rebuild ̤̤ We contributed an insurance affected communities after a disaster. perspective to the World Economic Forum (www.weforum.org) briefing In the future, these negative effects on “Global Population Ageing: will become even more severe. The Technological Innovations for Health expectation is that, as a result of climate and Wealth”. This report explores change, extreme weather events like how the interplay between wearables, hurricanes and floods will increase. connected devices, robotics and Moreover, rising losses will also come artificial intelligence can advance the from higher concentrations of assets social connections, emotional health, in exposed areas, in particular in the cognitive ability and physical fitness world's rapidly growing cities. If no of older adults; action is taken, climate change could ̤̤ The 2016 Entrepreneurs for cost the world economy an estimated Resilience Award of the Swiss Re 20% of global GDP by the end of Foundation focused on innovative this century. solutions that enable the elderly to live independently at home. The four By financing measures to mitigate entrepreneurs in the final selection disaster risks and adapt to climate share CHF 800 000 in prize money, change, we can strengthen the which will allow them to further their resilience of citizens, businesses, local inventions ranging from robotic and national economies and societies. helpers and video therapy to online As insurance puts a price tag on risk, care coaches and health monitoring. it helps to create an incentive to invest For more information see in prevention measures. swissre.com/rethinking/climate_and_ natural_disaster_risk/ For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/longer_lives/ Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 EXPLORING AND SHAPING THE RISK LANDSCAPE Italy has experienced an increase in serious flooding over the last decade. One of the expertise publications we published in 2016 describes a new approach to improve insurance protection in the country against this risk. Understanding natural catastrophe risks ̤̤ We released a totally new version Partnering for food security and the impact of climate change is of our CatNet® services tool which 805 million people – one in 11 – are critical to cost our business accurately brings the benefits of our big data & chronically hungry and malnourished on and to structure sound risk transfer smart analytics skills in natural the planet today. By 2050, the world’s solutions. By sharing this knowledge, catastrophes to our stakeholders population is expected to grow to an we help our partners to identify cost(see page 20); estimated 9 billion people, which will effective protection measures. In ̤̤ Through conferences, publications further aggravate the situation. Meeting addition, we provide solutions to cover and social media channels, we this demand for food will be particularly the residual risk that cannot be avoided. communicated how we used a brand challenging, as supply is constrained by new concept to insure Guangdong factors such as climate change, depleted Our notable achievements in 2016: Province against losses of up agricultural soils and the distribution of ̤̤ We published new expertise to USD 350 million from tropical land, water and energy. publications on floods and cyclones and excessive rainfall earthquakes for Switzerland, (see page 22). Small-scale subsistence farmers who Argentina, Italy, Canada and feed their families and sell a small California, which provided the basis surplus on local markets provide food for discussions with stakeholders to the majority of people on the globe. in these countries, ranging from This needs to change as more and more insurers to government officials; people are living in cities. Recently, the urban population exceeded the rural one for the first time ever, which means that cities are becoming increasingly dependent on the remaining farmers for their food. 46 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report The surplus subsistence farmers However, unconventional monetary currently produce will not be enough policies implemented by central banks to feed the growing urban population. following the financial crisis of 2008 – Smallholder farmers must make the 2009 present a challenge for our transition to commercial agriculture industry and have contributed to an to feed the world. For this, they need environment that is not conducive to access to credit so they can buy tools, sustainable economic growth. seeds and fertilizer. But lending will remain restricted if banks fear that As long-term investors, re/insurers farmers will be unable to pay back their could play a pivotal role in bridging the loans in the event of a lost harvest due emerging infrastructure financing gap, to drought, flood or other disasters. Here, which, in turn, would contribute to a insurance can play the same role in the healthier economic environment. But for developing world as it already does in that to happen, the right framework developed countries: protecting farmers needs to be put in place. Standardisation against the perils of nature to keep them of infrastructure investments would be in business, even if disaster strikes. an important step forward, while infrastructure debt as a tradable asset Our notable achievements in 2016: class would certainly make infrastructure ̤̤ We discussed with a range of more attractive for long-term investors. stakeholders how we insured farmers in 28 counties in Helongjiang At Swiss Re, we are striving to influence Province in China against risks of these developments by actively flood, excessive rain, drought and low participating in and contributing to the temperatures (see page 21); global and local financial reform ̤̤ We continued to provide data and dialogue. Ultimately, we want to ensure information on agricultural insurance long-term investors can act – not only through our fact sheet series for think – on a long-term horizon to achieve African countries. In addition, we greater financial resilience. published the first such publication on an Asian country (Sri Lanka), Our notable achievements in 2016: looked at protecting cotton farmers ̤̤ We continued to take an active role in China and how big data can help in the debate on the consequences crop insurance in the US; of financial repression for savers and ̤̤ We hosted the conference “Insuring long-term investors as well as the food safety: What’s on the menu?” broader implications for financial at our Centre for Global Dialogue, resilience, eg through a fact sheet, a inviting industry experts to discuss by-liner in the IMCA quarterly report operational risk management and no. 41 (www.imcagroup.org) and insurance solutions to the challenges by sharing our views with key public previously raised in our publication and private sector stakeholders; “Food safety in a globalised world” ̤̤ We remained at the forefront of the (see page 48). policy call to make infrastructure debt a tradable asset class as we believe Supporting financial resilience that bridging the large infrastructure Re/insurance supports financial financing gap is key to sustainable resilience by acting as a shock absorber economic growth; and promoting growth through its ̤̤ We launched a joint research project core businesses. This is particularly with the London School of Economics important in a challenging and volatile and Political Science (www.lse.ac.uk) macroeconomic environment. on long-term investing and monetary policy. Its key objectives are to analyse the effect of low interest rates on structural reforms, investigate the effect of monetary policy on capital markets and consider alternative monetary policy tools. For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/food_security/ For more information see swissre.com/rethinking/financial_stability/ Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 EXPLORING AND SHAPING THE RISK LANDSCAPE Our Centre for Global Dialogue supported by modern technology, In 2016, the Centre for Global Dialogue eg DNA tests at various stages, efficient organised the “Agricultural and Natural The Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue drying procedures, the introduction of Catastrophe Insurance Forum” to discuss (the “Centre”) is an important platform optical sorting machines (including near the underlying challenges, assess for interaction with our external infrared technology), combined with the possible solutions and share experiences. stakeholders. Located at Rüschlikon near use of big data and the Cloud. Attention Nearly 40 Chinese government officials Zurich, this state-of-the-art conference was also drawn to the industry’s Global and insurance professionals met with centre hosts industry-leading events on Food Safety Initiative (www.mygfsi.com) international experts to explore the risk and insurance. which, amongst other things, works with feasibility of introducing parametric certification bodies to ensure maximum solutions across China, drawing on the The Centre reflects our commitment audit reliability and seeks to address learnings offered by the two pilot to being a knowledge company. As of differences in national food regulations. projects in Heilongjiang and Guangdong. 1 March 2017, it forms part of the newly The re/insurance industry, in turn, can In addition, experts from Swiss Re established Swiss Re Institute. support efforts to enhance food safety and other organisations elaborated on by providing risk assessment, ie by the latest developments in flood risk Below you can read summaries of three identifying potential risks and preparing management, catastrophe bonds, events the Centre organised in 2016: suitable countermeasures, along with agricultural and aquaculture insurance, modelling potential loss scenarios. and public-private partnerships. Insuring food safety: What’s on the menu? Agricultural and Natural Catastrophe 4th Swiss Re Symposium on “Partnering for food security” is one of Insurance Forum Data Protection: Ethics and e-health Swiss Re’s Top Topics. Demand for food Natural disasters occur frequently in in insurance is growing, not just driven by worldwide China and are widely scattered. They The digital transformation of the insurance population growth, but also by affect individuals, businesses and industry is one of the key challenges globalisation which has led to shifts in governments alike. Up until recently, facing all its players. Digital technology eating habits. One prominent trend is however, those at risk have largely is being implemented across the whole the rising popularity of convenience ignored the potential financial impact value chain, from distribution through foods and ready-to-eat meals, which of natural disasters when accounting underwriting to claims. This raises effectively means that many households for their financial and fiscal liabilities. crucial questions concerning market increasingly delegate food safety to Moreover, they have not set aside any dynamics and competitors, customer producers and processing companies. contingent capital to prepare for such behaviour, data use, artificial intelligence These, in turn, operate in highly complex liabilities. For government bodies, in and more. supply chains, or “supply webs”, particular, this protection gap is highly seriously complicating the task of significant as it could grow exponentially Our 4th Symposium on Data Protection ensuring food safety. in coverage and scale in the future. looked at one particular aspect of the digital transformation: “Ethics and In response, food producers have When the Chinese State Council carried e-health in insurance”. Capturing new already sought to raise their safety out a review of the insurance industry a and personalised health data sets, such standards, but incidents of food few years ago, it identified this challenge as real-time monitoring of fitness and contamination and costly product and issued a mandate to formulate and exercise data through wearable devices recalls have still increased in number. promote natural catastrophe schemes. and mobile apps, has clear benefits for Bringing together participants from In response, Swiss Re worked together individuals as it helps them to maintain food producers, food safety with the Development Research Center a healthy lifestyle. Likewise, it would organisations, academic institutions of the State Council (www.en.drc.gov.cn/) also have advantages for life and health and the re/insurance industry, this to report on “Parametric Insurance and insurers, enabling them to spot upcoming event at the Centre discussed what the Reform of Natural Disaster Relief Systems problems their clients may be facing food industry can do to further improve in China”. This was subsequently and to give them corresponding advice. food safety and how re/insurers can discussed with high-level officials and It might even make it possible to provide help to mitigate risks. led to the development of two pilot cover to people so far considered programmes in the provinces of “uninsurable”. A key theme was the need to improve Heilongjiang and Guangdong, which transparency and traceability along were successfully launched in 2016 the entire supply chain. This can be (see pages 21–22). For more information see institute.swissre.com/about/the_centre/ 48 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Some impressions from “Insuring food safety: What’s on the menu?”, one of the stakeholder conferences we held at the Centre for Global Dialogue in 2016. However, the use of such data also transparency from data users. As it Both these events focused on topics raises serious ethical questions that was argued at the conference, a sound we had previously identified as go beyond data and privacy protection. ethical base will be indispensable to emerging risks and presented as case Making sure that no individuals or create the necessary trust in new ways studies in past editions of our Corporate groups are disadvantaged by the of managing and analysing health data. Responsibility Report: “Cyber attacks” information derived from big data (2011) and “Challenges of the Internet algorithms will be essential. Furthermore, Further events we held at the Centre of Things” (2015). there are concerns about the potential for Global Dialogue in 2016 include: misuse of health and health-related data, inaccurate algorithms, false outcomes Expert Forum on Cyber Risk and over-diagnosis. These concerns institute.swissre.com/events/Expert_ have prompted the EU General Data Forum_Cyber_Risk_2016.html Protection Regulation (GDPR), for example, to focus on the governance Risk Talk on Smart Homes of health and health-related data, institute.swissre.com/events/Risk_Talk_ substantially strengthening the rights on_smart_homes.html of data providers and requiring more Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 EXPLORING AND SHAPING THE RISK LANDSCAPE Collaboration with (inter-) Our work with (inter-)governmental Working with academic institutions governmental and academic agencies to share risk management ̤̤ We support the Integrative Risk expertise Management and Economics project institutions ̤̤ With Global Partnerships, we have at the Swiss Federal Institute of In recent years, we have collaborated a team that works strategically with Technology (ETH) Zurich, which aims with various (inter-)governmental and public-sector bodies to improve risk to advance a holistic approach to academic institutions both to promote resilience: managing risks and educate a new effective approaches to sustainability – d irectly with sovereigns or subgeneration of researchers; challenges and to share our expertise sovereigns and their agencies, ̤̤ We have supported the integrated on managing specific risks. recently with the government and research activities conducted by prefectures of two Chinese Swiss-based ProClim – the Forum for Our work with (inter-)governmental provinces to establish major natural Climate and Global Change – and agencies to promote effective catastrophe insurance schemes, received access to the latest scientific sustainability responses with the UK government as part of findings; ̤̤ In Europe, we have continued to raise a programme set up to make flood ̤̤ We support the “20th Century awareness of the important role insurance more afordable for Reanalysis” project of the NOAA Earth insurers play in mitigating climate risk homeowners, with the Florida System Research Laboratory and the through different interactions with Hurricane Catastrophe Fund to University of Colorado, Boulder. It policy makers. This includes speaking strengthen risk resilience or the contains objectively-analysed fourat industry conferences (Insurance Turkish Catastrophe insurance dimensional weather maps and their Europe and the ABI), presenting at the Pool to improve re/insurance uncertainty from the late 19th to the European Commission’s DG Climate protection against earthquakes; 21st century. Action’s working group on Climate – w ith the United Nation’s ̤̤ In 2016, we announced a formal Adaptation and bilateral engagement International Strategy for partnership with the London School with the European Commission and Disaster Reduction (UNISDR) in of Economics and Political Science national governments. We also a consulting role; (LSE) to support an 18-month remain engaged in the debate via our – w ith development agencies such research programme on monetary trade association memberships (eg as the United States Agency for policy and long-term investment (see the Reinsurance Advisory Board); International Development page 47). ̤̤ In the US, we have maintained regular (USAID), the UK’s Department for dialogue with the National International Development (DFID), Association of Insurance the Swiss Agency for Development Commissioners (NAIC), principally and Cooperation (SDC), the World on climate change and natural Bank, the Asian Development Bank catastrophes; (ADB), the Inter-American ̤̤ For our participation in the Financial Development Bank (IADB) or the Stability Board's Task Force on German Development Bank (KfW). Climate-related Financial Disclosures, see page 31. ̤̤ We have regularly contributed to platforms such as the World Economic Forum, B20, G20 and G8 to share our insights on key risks, and support the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) process. 50 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Selected publications of 2016 The publications and other media we produce in-house or in cooperation with our partners play an important role in our efforts to help clients and society form effective responses to key risks. Listed below are publications mentioned in this chapter. Further Swiss Re publications are displayed on pages 80–81. Swiss Re publications Closing the gap Protecting China’s cotton crop against low temperatures Big data approaches to crop Agro insurance hotspot: insurance in Asia Swiss Re China delivers first low temperature weather index insurance (WII) programme for cotton. The scheme solves the problem of reduced crop Sri Lanka yields from cold weather not addressed by traditional multi-peril agriculture insurance (MPAI) products. Earthquake California Agriculture employs one in three persons in Sri Lanka and contributes over ten percent to export income. This important sector of the economy relies on rain a resource that will become increasingly unpredictable Covering earthquakes Insurance today relies on models to predict earthquaketriggered losses on the US west coast. But there is for Switzerland’s Case study Micro China with global warming. Protecting farmers against future floods and a lurking danger. Many do not consider the variability droughts is paramount to keep employment and income from this Low temperature weather index of model outcomes. As research by Swiss Re reveals, mortgage lenders insurance (WII) economic pillar growing. this can lead to an underestimation of ensuing losses. Established: 2015 Insured peril: Low temperature Insurance instrument: Index-based coverage Policy coverage: Pilot programme will provide RMB 7.6 million (USD 1.2 million) coverage for about 8.4 square kilometres of cotton. Insured party: Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, a major farming group reporting directly to the Chinese Central Government. Risk takers: China United Property Insurance Company Ltd. is the programme initiation partner and insurer. Swiss Re is the solution designer and reinsurer. Swiss Re Closing the protection gap 1 Agro insurance hotspot: Big data approaches to Closing the gap: Covering earthquakes Earthquake California Sri Lanka crop insurance in Asia Protecting China’s for Switzerland’s cotton crop against mortgage lenders low temperatures Publication with partner organisation Promoting resilience and growth in Africa World Energy Flood resilience in Italy Staying afloat The road to flood resilience Perspectives Acting together Sub-Saharan Africa and its insurance Flood Risk in Argentina in Canada The road to resilience 2016 markets are growing. Our projections foresee strong and continued market growth in both life and non-life business. The spread of innovative solutions, for example in micro-insurance, increases the insurance uptake and fuels growth for the future. Swiss Re The insurance sector plays a key role in supporting Africa’s policymakers and is proud to be part governments with long-term solutions to the challenges ahead and safeguarding of this process. growth across Sub-Saharan Africa as a whole. ̤̤ Through the pooling of risk, insurers and reinsurers enable African citizens and businesses to be confident they are protected against adverse risk events that could destroy their business or livelihood. ̤̤ Through the investment of premium and capital, insurers and reinsurers provide capital to the real economy to support the production and provision of goods and services. ̤̤ As holders of risk, insurers and reinsurers offer solutions and perspectives to strengthen resilience to natural catastrophes and climate change, understand new technologies and support the development of sustainable energy. For more than 150 years globally and over 60 years in Africa, we have worked with clients and partners to turn pioneering ideas into reality. We have an extensive knowledge base which we share with our clients. This includes our sigma and SONAR publications as well as training programmes tailored to the needs of the African markets. We believe that public-private partnerships and constructive collaboration can result in successful solutions for a stronger, more resilient and prosperous Africa. FINANCING RESILIENT ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE In Partnership with Marsh & McLennan Companies and Swiss Re Corporate Solutions Flood resilience Promoting resilience Staying afloat: The road to flood With the World in Italy: Acting together and growth in Africa Flood Risk in Argentina resilience in Canada Energy Council: World Energy Perspective: The road to resilience – Financing resilient energy infrastructure Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Reducing our Management system and certification environmental We operate an integrated global management system (GMS) at our Corporate Real Estate & Services (CRES) division, which interlinks quality and footprint environmental management and ensures that similar processes are seamlessly managed. Through a systematic, Groupwide reporting process, we monitor our environmental performance and implement appropriate improvement measures. Environmental objectives and targets are defined centrally at our headquarters, but responsibility for implementing improvement measures also lies with the CRES departments in our regions and We want to lead by As a knowledge company in the individual locations. Some of them financial services sector, we do not example and work to cause large environmental impacts define additional environmental targets that reflect specific local conditions minimise the through our own operations. and challenges. Nonetheless, we firmly believe it is environmental impact important for a responsible company In 2015, we had our entire CRES division of our operations. to minimise its environmental footprint, certified according to the ISO 14001 thus leading by example. Tackling our CO2 environmental management standard (www.iso.org), replacing the locationemissions and reducing For our core re/insurance business, based approach we had used before. climate change represents a key topic. energy consumption Reflecting this, we have been focusing As a result, all our operations and employees are now covered by an are key targets across on our own CO2 emissions and ISO 14001-certified environmental energy consumption for many years. the Group. Our pioneering initiatives include the management system. Greenhouse Neutral Programme and the COyou2 Programme. Both are now Our Greenhouse Neutral into their second cycles, running from Programme 2013 to 2020. Climate change has been a strategic Furthermore, we apply sustainability priority for Swiss Re for almost 30 years. 3.9% guidelines to our sourcing and It is a key topic for a re/insurer, because construction activities. Extending our it is likely to cause more extreme and efforts beyond our company, we more frequent weather events, resulting continue to take a leading role in the in rising damages and insurance losses. Total increase in Swiss Climate Foundation. Our strategy to tackle climate change rests on four pillars, one of which is our CO2 emissions per pledge to reduce our own CO2 emissions employee since 2013 (see page 12). For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ greenhouse_neutral.html For more information see swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ reducing_footprint.html 52 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Greenhouse Neutral Programme CO2 emissions per employee (full-time equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re Group has been the principal initiative to 20131 20151 2016 Change in % Change in % achieve this goal. Originally launched in kg/FTE kg/FTE kg/FTE since 2015 since 2013 2003 for a ten-year period, it combined Scope 1 Heating 378 303 305 0.7 –19.3 two commitments: firstly, to reduce Scope 2 Power 2 824 858 877 2.2 6.4 our CO2 emissions per employee (fullScope 3 Business travel 3 713 3 736 4 109 10.0 10.7 time equivalent or FTE) by a specified Copy paper 40 28 24 –14.3 –40.0 amount; secondly, to fully offset all the Waste 50 44 41 –6.8 –18.0 remaining emissions by purchasing Water 12 13 12 –7.7 0 high-quality emission reduction credits, Technical gases 27 24 21 –12.5 –22.2 thus making the company greenhouse Commuting3 1 250 1 150 1 150 0 –8.0 neutral for the whole period between 2003 and 2013. Total 6 294 6 156 6 539 6.2 3.9 1 The figures for 2013 and 2015 have been restated to account for company acquisitions and changes Over the course of the ten years, we in emission factors. 2 C alculation based on a market-based approach taking into account the purchase of renewable energy gradually raised our reduction target instruments, with the exception of the UK where the government requires companies to report an from 15% to 45% per employee. By the average grid factor (see table at the bottom for our reporting of emissions from electricity). end of the programme’s first cycle in 3 Commuting data are gathered bi-annually by means of a survey. The figures are rounded and fraught with considerable uncertainty. 2013, we had achieved a total reduction in CO₂ emissions per employee of 49.3% Underlying environmental data, Swiss Re Group compared to the base year 2003. Change in % Change in % 20131 20151 2016 since 2015 since 2013 Goals and scope of the programme’s Heating kWh/FTE 1 931 1 478 1 478 0 –23.5 second phase Power kWh/FTE 4 533 3 998 3 790 –5.2 –16.4 Seamlessly continuing from the Energy intensity kWh/FTE 6 464 5 476 5 268 –3.8 –18.5 Greenhouse Neutral Programme’s first ten years, we launched a second Business travel km/FTE 13 492 13 876 15 065 8.6 11.7 commitment phase in 2013, which runs until 2020. However, after almost Copy paper kg/FTE 34 23 20 –13.0 –41.2 halving our CO2 emissions per employee Recycling paper % 71 70 72 2.9 1.4 in the previous ten years, the potential FSC label % 96 97 96 –1.0 0 for further reductions is now much smaller. Our new target is to keep our Waste kg/FTE 181 159 144 –9.4 –20.4 CO2 emissions per employee stable at Water m3/FTE 16 17 17 0 6.3 the level of 2013. In view of our expansive 1 The figures for 2013 and 2015 have been restated to account for company acquisitions. business strategy, especially in high growth markets, we consider this to be an ambitious goal. Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, Swiss Re Group In line with the new Scope 2 Guidance of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, we report the emissions associated with our electricity consumption according to both a locationbased approach representing the CO2 intensity of the grids where we operate and a market-based method taking into account emission reductions from instruments such Goals of Phase 2 of our as Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) and Guarantees of Origin (GOs). Greenhouse Neutral Programme: ̤̤ Maintain the emissions reductions Location-based Market-based Instrument Percentage we achieved between 2003 total total types kWh and 2013 regarding power t CO2e t CO2e consumption, heating and Switzerland1 982 359 GOs 33.3% business travel; US2 8 827 255 RECs 23.6% ̤̤ Fully offset the remaining GOs, residual emissions; UK3 7 101 7 101 mix 21.2% ̤̤ Continuously reduce energy RECs, GOs, residual intensity (power consumption Rest of the world4 8 091 5 410 mix 21.9% and heating) by 2% per year Total 25 001 13 125 100.0% (kWh/FTE); 1 A ll Swiss electricity producers are required by law to declare the quality and quantity of the electricity ̤̤ Obtain 100% of power from produced. Swiss Re buys 100% green labelled electricity (naturemade star). renewable sources by 2020. 2 In the US, we purchase green-e labelled Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) for our total power consumption. 3 The UK government claims all green credentials of renewable electricity produced in the country. Even though over 80% of the electricity we consume in the UK comes with Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs), we report the same emission figures for location-and market-based approaches. 4 Our next biggest power consumption is in Slovakia with 2.8% and in India with 2.4% of the Group’s total. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT For the programme’s second cycle, example, we only buy “naturemade star” RE100 and EP100 we also extended the scope of our electricity (www.naturemade.ch), which In a number of countries where we emissions reporting and of our offsetting meets high ecological quality standards want to grow our business, there is commitment. In addition to our Scope 1 in its production, beyond those required a lack of renewable energy supplies and Scope 2 emissions (heating and by environmental legislation. In Munich, in reliable quality. At the end of 2016, power consumption) and a major source we purchase our electricity from approximately 84% of the power of Scope 3 emissions (business travel), NaturEnergie (www.naturenergie.de), we purchased across the Group came our reporting now covers further one of German’s premier suppliers of from renewable energy sources. activities along our supply chain renewable energy. We are committed to raising this (Scope 3): copy paper use, waste figure to 100%, which is why generation, water use, technical gases Reducing energy consumption we helped to establish the Climate and employee commuting. In parallel with our switch to using Group’s RE100 initiative in 2014 renewable power, we have made as a founding member. Based on this, we extended our continuous efforts to lower the actual commitment to offset the CO2 emissions amount of energy consumed per The goal of this initiative is to unite we cannot avoid to paper, waste, water employee, ie to reduce our energy 100 of the world’s largest companies and technical gases. intensity. In the first phase of our in a shared commitment to use 100% Greenhouse Neutral Programme, we renewable power by 2020. To achieve In 2016, total CO2 emissions per set ourselves a 20% reduction target this, the RE100 group approaches employee (FTE) increased by 6.2% and compared with 2003 levels, measured policymakers and regulators at were thus 3.9% higher than in 2013. in kWh per employee. Through many national and sub-national level to The main reason was a significant rise small measures to improve energy make renewable energy more in business travel, which outweighed efficiency and by concentrating available. RE100 grew substantially further gains in our energy intensity (see back-office tasks in fewer and more again in 2016 and now includes on the right). A second factor was that energy-efficient buildings, we actually more than 80 of the world’s largest we created jobs in countries where achieved a reduction of 46.5% companies. power consumption is relatively carbon by 2013. intensive, eg in India. This situation is theRE100.org one of the reasons why we helped to For the second phase of our Greenhouse establish the Climate Group’s RE100 Neutral Programme (base year 2013), In 2016, we also signed up to initiative (see box on the left). our commitment is to continuously the EP100 initiative, launched by reduce energy intensity by 2% per year. the Climate Group Using renewable power As a matter of fact, our energy intensity (www.theclimategroup.org) and Purchasing power from renewable was 18.5% lower at the end of 2016 the Global Alliance for Energy rather than conventional sources has than in 2013. Partly, we achieved this Productivity been a key measure of our Greenhouse by decommissioning existing office (www.globalproductivity.org). This Neutral Programme. After starting to buildings and moving into more energyis a shared commitment by leading use renewable power at four European efficient ones. global companies to double their locations in 2005, we set ourselves the energy productivity or, in other words, goal of using 100% renewable power We have also continued our efforts to to get more economic output from at all locations where it is available in create more flexible and modern office each unit of energy. reliable and trustworthy quality by environments that offer our employees www.theclimategroup.org/project/ the end of 2013. Based on our quality optimal working conditions while, ep100/ assessments of available energy at the same time, using space and sources, we believe we reached this resources more effectively. The spread goal and used only renewable power of digital communication and devices at 25 locations in Asia, Europe, North makes it possible to work seamlessly America and Oceania at that time. across different locations and devices, 18.5% creating the foundation for a more In making these quality assessments flexible and informal workplace set-up and selecting suitable sources, we have that encourages team work. At Swiss Re relied on a “minimum standard” that Next, for example, this open workplace Total reduction clearly states how we define renewable concept is a key feature (for details, see power and what requirements it needs page 59). Although further reducing our of energy intensity to meet. At our Zurich headquarters, for environmental footprint is not the primary per employee driver of these efforts, their potential to lower the energy intensity of our since 2013 locations is nevertheless substantial. 54 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report A rendering of the solar power plant we are constructing at our US headquarters in Armonk, New York State. The installation will supply more than 60% Solar power plant of the site’s power requirements. at our US headquarters Our large office at Armonk in New York UK, our new venture in Armonk is State is our US headquarters, with the largest launched yet. Comprising more than 700 employees. At Climate ten acres of ground-mounted panels, Week NYC 2016, we announced our the facility will have a capacity of decision to build a solar power plant two megawatts, sufficient to supply directly on our own premises to supply more than 60% of the site’s power our office with renewable power. requirements. 84% As a founding partner of the Climate Group’s RE100 initiative, we are committed to covering 100% of our power consumption from renewable Photovoltaic installations not only have substantial environmental benefits, they are also becoming economically viable. With a capital investment of Share of total power sources by 2020. At the end of 2016, USD 7 million, we expect our solar the share of our power generated power facility at Armonk to have a consumption from by renewables was 84%, mostly payback time of less than seven years. renewable sources purchased from reliable producers. On top of that, it will also enable us to add battery storage in the future and in 2016 Going one step further, we have make our operations more resilient in recently started to build our own solar the event of a power outage. power facilities. Following earlier projects in Italy, Switzerland and the Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Minimising business travel Despite these measures, the amount Offsetting our remaining CO2 As a result of the substantial cuts we of kilometres travelled per employee and emissions have achieved in CO2 emissions from the associated emissions have been The second commitment of our power consumption and heating since rising in recent years. A key driver is our Greenhouse Neutral Programme is to 2003, business travel easily constitutes continued expansion in high growth compensate all CO2 emissions we Swiss Re’s largest emissions source markets, which has brought an increase cannot avoid. For the seven emissions today. Since the business trips our in teams distributed across different sources covered in the second phase employees take are ultimately driven locations. In 2016, the total distance of our Greenhouse Neutral Programme, by client needs, they are difficult to each of our employees travelled on we bought and retired VERs for a total influence. However, we have taken average increased by 8.6%. of 80 700 tonnes of CO2e in 2016. several measures to reduce the need for business travel and to curb Paper, water and waste We are keen to ensure that the VERs unnecessary business trips. In the second phase of our Greenhouse we buy are of a high environmental Neutral Programme, we have expanded standard. Therefore, we have developed For a start, we have built up a dense the scope of our emissions accounting a set of criteria to select the projects network of video conferencing to include copy paper use, water generating certificates. In particular, equipment across the Group. Recently, consumption and waste disposal, and we give priority to those which create we partly replaced these facilities with are committed to offsetting these strong social side effects and benefit state-of-the-art telepresence technology, emissions. the poorest regions. You can read more which creates a real-time, life-size about the compensation project we virtual meeting experience in specially The overview of all our emissions selected in 2016 on page 57. designed rooms. By the end of 2016, we sources (see table on page 53) shows had a total of 148 video conferencing that paper, water and waste are of External verification of our CO₂ and telepresence facilities worldwide. much less significance in our business reporting than other environmental impacts. Right from the start of our Greenhouse We continuously monitor all travel Furthermore, it is difficult for us to Neutral Programme in 2003, we budgets and collect travel data centrally. influence water use and waste have disclosed our CO2 emissions, Furthermore, we introduced an internal generation at locations where we rent their principal sources and relative carbon levy on air travel in 2014, which office space. However, in the office performance over time. The method uses the “polluter pays” principle. It buildings we own we ensure appliances we use to calculate our emissions is allocates the costs of the Voluntary meet high standards of water efficiency. based on the guidelines of the Emissions Reductions (VERs) we need Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the most to buy to offset our CO2 emissions to the Paper use, on the other hand, is much widely-used emissions accounting Group’s Global Functions in proportion more responsive to managerial standard (www.ghgprotocol.org/). to their respective share of air travel; action. Although we have not set any Before our emission figures are previously they had been borne centrally quantitative targets, we have taken published, PricewaterhouseCoopers by Group Finance. This internal price a number of measures to reduce the checks them to verify our calculations. on carbon heightens awareness of average amount of paper used by our Their complete assurance report for travel costs among our managers and employees in recent years. New IT the whole Corporate Responsibility employees and creates a further solutions such as “pull printing” (which Report is included on pages 82–83. incentive to reduce air travel, in addition eliminates uncollected printouts), webto flight costs. based collaboration and document management platforms have led to a decrease of paper use in all our locations. Thus, average paper use per employee fell by 13% across the whole Group and was 41.2% lower than in 2013. 56 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Village dwellers in India using an efficient cooking stove that reduces smoke and toxic emissions, cuts firewood consumption and saves time. Purchase of the stoves was subsidised through a carbon offsetting scheme from which we bought our Voluntary Emissions Reductions for 2016. Efficient cooking stoves for India When selecting compensation deaths per year. Moreover, the reliance Nadhu and Karnataka spend about projects for our CO2 emissions, we on firewood has led to widespread three hours per day collecting require them to have tangible social and accelerating deforestation. firewood. benefits. In 2016, we chose a “Gold Standard” (www.goldstandard.org) The project, which is managed by An added feature of the project is that project that provides clean cooking our partners South Pole Group it trains local women as entrepreneurs stoves for poor communities in the (www.thesouthpolegroup.com), and actively involves them in the southern Indian states of Tamil Nadhu comprises the design, manufacture marketing and sales of the stoves. and Karnataka. and distribution of efficient household This enables them to earn their own cooking stoves for 200 000 rural income and to improve their social In India as a whole, over 60% of the households. These stoves reduce position in their rural communities. population uses firewood for cooking, smoke and toxic emissions by 80%, and for approximately 170 million significantly improving the health and In total, the project prevents the families it is the main source of fuel. wellbeing of the families that use emission of around 27 500 tonnes The traditional way of cooking over an them. Besides requiring less fuel, the of greenhouse gases. The money open flame with wood exposes family stoves also cook much faster. This generated through the associated members inside the home to a high means the families can save time and certificates is used to subsidise concentration of toxic fumes, which money and turn to more productive the cost of the cooking stoves, making causes a range of respiratory problems activities, especially children’s them more affordable to the local and is estimated to contribute to education. Normally, people in Tamil families. approximately 500 000 premature Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Sustainability in our supply We consider environmental criteria Recently, we signed up for EcoVadis, chain relating to materials and ingredients, a collaborative platform for sustainable production methods, recycling and supply chain management, which As a re/insurance company, Swiss Re waste. For some sourcing categories, we covers a wide range of screening criteria does not have an extensive supply chain. have developed “minimum standards” across the topics of environmental Our core business does not require us that further specify our requirements. impacts, human rights, labour practices to buy intermediate inputs like a Besides power (see page 54) and paper and impacts on society. This will allow manufacturing company. However, to (see page 56), these cover cleaning us to assess the sustainability run our operations, we need a range services and agents, refrigerant agents performance of our suppliers more of goods and services. and building materials. Each standard systematically with the help of key lists objectives, ecological aspects, performance indicators and to engage When we make these purchases, we ecological minimum standards, them in improvements, thus also apply general and individual criteria. In exceptions, controlling and labels. reducing potential sustainability risks line with our overarching Group in our supply chain. Sourcing Policy, we select suppliers that When selecting new products and offer the best value for money, meet suppliers, we examine whether they In 2016, we started to implement the high quality standards and adhere to comply with these requirements as part platform in our Corporate Real Estate the UN Global Compact. As a signatory of the overall evaluation process. We Sourcing category, covering more to the Compact, we are committed to take a fresh look at existing strategic than 50% of our expenditure in this honouring all its ten principles. Amongst suppliers in our periodic contract area. Going forward, we plan to fully other things, these prohibit any sort reviews, and we visit individual suppliers incorporate the platform into our of discrimination or the use of child or to inspect them onsite. Internally, we sourcing processes across all sourcing forced labour, and require that the hold regular awareness trainings with categories. We have set ourselves freedom of association and the right all our sourcing staff. the goal of including our tier 1 and tier to collective bargaining be upheld. 2 vendors in the EcoVadis platform by 2020. A model showing the open, flexible workspaces we are creating at Swiss Re Next, our new headquarter building in Zurich. Along with facilitating collaboration and supporting different work situations, this concept will also reduce the building’s environmental footprint. You can watch a video about the new working environment at next.swissre.com/en/#workspaces 58 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Sustainable construction and We have received the preliminary Swiss Re Next MINERGIE-P-ECO® certificate and successfully passed the LEED Swiss Re has over 80 office locations design review. in more than 30 countries. For new building or renovation work, we apply Open workspace concept a number of principles. One of them is As Swiss Re Next is nearing completion, sustainability, which translates into one important feature is becoming more criteria such as stringent construction and more visible: its open, transparent standards, high-quality fittings and workspace concept. This has been a key finishes, a comfortable ambient climate, element of the planning process since environmentally sound, durable its beginning, reflecting two important materials, low energy consumption and goals we pursue with Swiss Re Next: low maintenance and running costs. to support and further strengthen our Constructing or renovating an office communicative work culture based on building in line with such sustainability team work and knowledge exchange; criteria is the most effective way to and to provide the flexibility to cater for minimise its environmental footprint. the varying work situations typically encountered today. For construction projects in Switzerland, the applicable criteria are defined in At present, our individual workplaces are detail in the Energy Mission Statement already occupied less than 50% of the of Swiss Re, Zurich. They stipulate that time on average, while meeting rooms new buildings need to conform to the are generally used to the full. Ongoing MINERGIE® standard (www.minergie.ch), digitalisation will further increase the a Swiss quality label specifying high need as well as the possibilities for levels of energy efficiency and superior communication and networking. Thus, user comfort. When we renovate old there will no longer be any assigned buildings, this standard is to be applied workplaces or single offices at Swiss Re if feasible from an architectural, Next. Instead, our employees will find technical and financial perspective. a varied design with think tanks, meeting Our pension fund in Switzerland applies rooms, lounges, temporary workplaces, the same criteria for all its direct informal meeting areas, service zones investments into real estate projects. and cafeterias. At the same time, the teams will retain dedicated areas of their In practice, we usually go beyond these own, called “home bases”, equipped requirements and use further standards with adaptable workbenches for four to such as MINERGIE-ECO® – which also six people. Importantly, access to these includes health criteria and demands on home bases will be through communal building materials – and MINERGIE-Pzones with generous coffee bars, ECO®, which specifies the characteristics encouraging spontaneous encounters. of a nearly zero-energy building. Such an open, flexible workspace Swiss Re Next concept has a further advantage. Swiss Re Next online Under the title of Swiss Re Next, we Because it allows us to use available Extensive background are currently constructing a replacement space more effectively (with 1 100 information on the Swiss Re building for the former Neubau (“new employees sharing 800 workplaces), Next project and its progress building”) at the Group’s Zurich it comes with a substantially smaller is available on a special headquarters. From the start, environmental footprint. And this is website at next.swissre.com. sustainability was defined as one of the fully in line with the ambitious key features of the project. Our goal is sustainability goals we have set to be awarded the MINERGIE-P-ECO® ourselves with Swiss Re Next. certificate as well as the highest certification level of the US LEED system (usgbc.org/leed) – LEED Platinum. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT The COyou2 Programme In 2016, we granted a total of 2 449 subsidies spread across three product Tackling our carbon footprint is one of categories: home appliances, home four pillars of our climate change infrastructure and mobility. Over the past strategy (see page 12). In 2007, we three years, electric-powered mobility launched the CO you2 Programme has become more prominent, with because we wanted to make our 362 subsidies for e-bikes, e-motorbikes, commitment more tangible for our e-cars and plug-in hybrid electric cars. employees and help them to become Responding to this trend, we have more aware of climate change. introduced e-car charging stations at The programme offers subsidies for a several locations. range of investments through which our employees can reduce their private 2 449 Amongst the large Swiss Re locations, carbon footprints. To our knowledge, uptakes per employee were highest it was the first global corporate initiative in Slovakia, China, Germany, Switzerland of its kind at the time. and India. Our office in Slovakia has witnessed particularly strong growth in COyou2 subsidies The investment options we offer for recent years and many new employees subsidies are clearly specified in granted to our the programme. Some of them are made use of the opportunity to claim subsidies, eg for highly energy-efficient employees in 2016 supported at all our locations, while fridges and washing machines as well others vary to account for regional (2 361 in 2015) as bicycles for their daily commute differences in climate, living conditions to work. In Europe, in general, mobility etc. Our subsidies cover 50% of the remains a popular category, with investment amount up to a locally bicycles the most common type determined maximum allowance. of subsidy. All regular employees are entitled to apply and new employees can submit Some of our Asian locations have also subsidy requests after three months seen strong growth and, consequently, following their hire start date. high subsidy rates. Energy-efficient For more information see home appliances were particularly swissre.com/corporate_responsibility/ sought after. In the Americas, coyou2_programme.html meanwhile, home appliances as well as home infrastructure were popular categories. COyou2 payouts in 2016, by category Number of COyou2 payouts in 2016, per 1000 employees 700 600 500 400 300 46% Home appliances 15% Home infrastructure 200 39% Mobility 100 0 Slovakia China Germany Switzerland India US UK 60 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Cups and lunch containers for reuse, not for the waste bin: reCIRCLE is supported by the Swiss Climate Foundation and provides more sustainable containers for convenience food bought on the go. reCIRCLE’s reusable cups and lunch containers are tough enough to last for at least 100 wash-and-reuse cycles, and the company’s goal is to market them through as many takeaway outlets as possible. Partner initiative: The purpose of the Swiss Climate Since becoming operational in 2009, The Swiss Climate Foundation Foundation is to collect these funds and the Swiss Climate Foundation has to use them to support various climatesupported more than 1 300 SMEs in In 2008, we set up the Swiss Climate friendly projects undertaken by small Switzerland and Liechtenstein with Foundation with a number of partner and medium-sized companies (SMEs) in CHF 15 million in total. In 2016, 219 companies. It was a response to the Switzerland. In 2012, the Swiss Climate SMEs were supported with a total introduction of the Swiss CO2 law, which Foundation broadened its scope and of CHF 1.55 million. These projects are provides the basis for the CO₂ levy on started to collaborate with the LIFE expected to help avoid more than heating fuels in Switzerland. This levy Climate Foundation Liechtenstein, 50 000 tonnes of CO₂ emissions over is not a proper tax but an environmental generating more partner companies and the next ten years. market mechanism: It imposes a charge enabling SMEs in Liechtenstein to on the use of heating fuels and then benefit from the funds, too. By the end In addition to paying our net levy reimburses the money thus raised – of 2016, 28 renowned financial service reimbursement, Swiss Re has been to private companies proportionate to providers from Switzerland and sponsoring the Foundation’s managing their total salary expenses. For financial Liechtenstein were partner companies director position since it was established service providers, who use relatively of the Swiss Climate Foundation. in 2008. small amounts of heating fuel but employ large workforces, this means they receive a total “net reimbursement”. For more information see swiss-climate-foundation.ch Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Engaging To meet these goals, we developed and embedded a new People Strategy. Looking back on 2016, we can see that our people this strategy has borne fruit – the engagement level of our employees has increased significantly (+9 percentage points vs 2015) and we achieved the Aon Hewitt Best Employer status in nine out of 17 eligible countries. Swiss Re is a global company with a presence in all major markets. As of 31 December 2016, we employed 14 053 people (regular staff) from 109 nationalities: 60.7% work in Europe, incl. the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), 25.6% in the Americas and 13.7% in the Asia-Pacific region. Our vision is to be an To fulfil this ambition, we are committed Our People Strategy to building a diverse organisation in attractive, inclusive which our leaders inspire and engage We regard our new People Strategy as our “North Star”: It provides us with organisation with a clear their teams to unleash their full potential. clarity and direction, is embedded purpose, staffed by a At Swiss Re we aim to collaborate in in everything we do and defines our ambition for the future of Swiss Re. flexible, global workforce the spirit of “Let’s be smarter together”, because together we can achieve much of diverse talents. We more than we ever could alone. Our In 2016, we brought our People Strategy to life through a number of changes want to attract and organisation constantly looks for new that were positively recognised by our ways to improve the wellbeing of society retain the best people and prepares for the changing needs internal and external stakeholders: ̤̤ New employer brand to attract the and to develop the of the future, drawing on the know-how best talent: Our brand promise “Let’s and experience of a diverse, multibest leaders who are generational group of employees. We be smarter together” reflects the renewed energy and aspirations that passionate about aspire to be a place where a flexible Swiss Re has. It signals our ambition, and inclusive culture is the norm and “making the world where everyone can contribute. as a best-in-class employer, to create an even better workplace by building more resilient”. We are passionate about building an on our strengths, while seeking environment of trust, respect, opportunities to evolve and cooperation and responsibility. Where differentiate ourselves from our how we achieve results is every bit competitors. as important as what we achieve. Employee data, Swiss Re Group 2014 2015 2016 Total headcount regular employees 12 224 12 767 14 053 Full-time 11 159 11 652 12 960 Part-time 947 973 1 093 Temporary employees 271 376 330 Turnover rate (incl. company sales) 9.8% 10.6% 9.7% Voluntary 6.6% 6.8% 6.7% Involuntary 3.2% 3.8% 3.1% Average tenure regular staff (in years) 9.3 9.0 8.8 For more information see swissre.com/careers/ 62 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report ̤̤ New recruiting experience: Attracting Employee Engagement the right talent and delivering a Surveys positive recruiting experience for our candidates and line managers is key In 2015, we introduced a newly for our success and our employer designed Employee Engagement Survey brand. Our new recruiting experience to find out what we can collectively leverages digital technologies such improve to live the spirit of our People as video recruiting in Bangalore, and Strategy. We ran the survey for the will be further embedded in 2017, second time in May 2016, with a enabling candidates and hiring response rate of 86% (1% up from last managers to interact seamlessly and year) with close to 20 000 written effectively. comments. Our overall engagement ̤̤ Develop our leaders: We expect our score increased 9 points from 58% leaders to have the skills to inspire to 67%, putting us well above the and engage our people. Therefore, Global Financial/Insurance Average we have spent considerable time benchmark of 61% and close to the embedding our Leadership Global High Performance benchmark Imperatives (Swiss Re’s behavioural of 71%. principles) and developed critical leadership skills through excellence We progressed significantly in the programmes and master classes. improvement areas we identified in the 2015 survey: Improve job rotation In the following sections, we provide opportunities and opportunities across more insights on how our new People geographies, increase transparency Strategy is embedded in everything we around rewards and focus on retaining do, from our culture of diversity and key talent – all went up 10–14%. Now inclusion, to the way we develop and our aim is to meet or exceed the high mentor our people. performance norm by retaining the gains we have achieved and continuing our progress in priority areas. In terms of our key strengths, 82% of surveyed employees feel that Swiss Re values diversity and has an open, inclusive culture. All questions about manager effectiveness are above or close to the high performance In 2016, we were recognised by our engagement survey providers Aon Hewitt as a Best Employer in several countries and the whole Europe region. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE benchmark and 80% of participants Living up to this promise, our global agree that they are given the flexibility D&I community, a committed group to balance work and personal life. Finally, of business D&I Champions, local D&I 76% agree that their job is a good Councils and employee networks, fit, and 71% feel a strong sense of continued their strong efforts to ensure accomplishment in their work. our diversity and inclusion framework is firmly embedded in our corporate Our engagement survey provider culture. These efforts are reflected in our Aon Hewitt (www.aon.com) has a 2016 employee engagement results, well-established and globally which tell us that our employees are recognised Best Employer programme. positive about Swiss Re’s open and This measures employer excellence inclusive culture, and that they see the worldwide by analysing survey results value we place on diversity. and benchmarking them against their other client companies. In 2016, Advancement of women Swiss Re was recognised as Aon Best Almost half of Swiss Re’s global Employer in nine out of 17 eligible workforce are women and we are countries: Australia, France, Germany, steadily improving gender balance at Italy, Japan, Mexico, Slovakia, South management levels. To underline our Africa and Switzerland. In addition, commitment to reducing bias in talent the overall region Europe has qualified decision-making, this year we integrated for the Aon Best Employer regional line manager training and tools into the recognition. recruiting process and across the talent life cycle. As part of our new employer brand positioning, we systematically Diversity and inclusion apply D&I best practices, such as One of the key aspirations of our People forming diverse hiring panels and using Strategy is to attract and engage gender-sensitive language and visuals talented employees from different in all job advertisements. backgrounds by living a flexible, inclusive and open culture where Externally, Swiss Re continues to dialogue and different perspectives are contribute to the advancement of female valued. This aspiration is reflected in talent in the communities in which we our diversity and inclusion (D&I) vision: operate. One such partnership is with “See, feel and live diversity – diversity the association Advance – Empowering of gender, race, ethnicity, generation, Women in Swiss Business, of which sexual orientation (LGBT), physical Swiss Re is a founding member. We abilities, personalities and experiences – hosted their 2016 Annual Conference at all levels, functions and regions of at our Centre for Global Dialogue. It was Swiss Re”. devoted to “The Future of Work” and the role women play, making clear that We are committed to this vision because companies must create progressive it supports an environment in which working conditions and cannot afford our employees value each other’s to ignore the expectations of women differences and where they can all bring in the workplace. their authentic selves to the workplace – an environment in which our inclusive culture enables us to truly live our “smarter together” brand promise. Women in management positions, Swiss Re Group (in %) 2014 2015 2016 Executive/senior management positions* 21.4 22.1 22.9 All management positions* 31.5 32.2 32.9 Total workforce 46.3 46.4 46.9 * “ Executive/senior management positions” comprises the management levels of Director/Senior Vice For more information see President upwards. swissre.com/about_us/diversity/ “All management positions” refers to Vice President and above. 64 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Centre for Global Dialogue near Zurich provided the stage for the 2016 Annual Conference of “Advance Empowering Women in Swiss Business”. Under the heading of “The Future of Work”, the event focused on how to create attractive working conditions meeting women's expectations. Bridging generations Agile working To ensure Swiss Re attracts and retains Our future success depends on our the talent needed for the future and ability to create a flexible, global remains an employer of choice, it is workforce that is responsive and highly important we understand the diverse resilient in responding to the needs needs of the multiple generations of our business. Swiss Re follows an making up our workforce. Swiss Re’s integrated, future-focused strategy that generational diversity is expected to brings together our physical workplace, increase across all our locations, technology and people management and our new employer brand reflects practices. our aspirations to embrace a balanced workforce. We have made considerable efforts to ensure our employees own the way In particular, we are focusing on building they work and can effectively collaborate dialogue across different age groups to in an agile and flexible working break the stereotypes attached to environment. This is reflected in a variety generational preferences and workstyles. of formal and informal flexible working In 2016, we held workshops across arrangements that focus on performance the Asia-Pacific, Americas and EMEA outcomes versus face time. Our regions. Combining internal dialogue trademarked programme, Own the Way with external trends, we are working on You WorkTM, is a cultural change creating workplace solutions that take initiative which gives managers and into account employee life cycles employees autonomy to decide how, (eg parents, retirement, career starters) when and where work is carried out, in and the increasing demand for flexible compliance with the applicable laws, work solutions. rules and regulations of their particular Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE Swiss Re employees attending the Workplace Pride 2016 International Conference in Amsterdam. We have recently launched several initiatives focusing on LGBT inclusion 2016 launch “Together with Pride”: at Swiss Re. LGBT at Swiss Re In 2016, Swiss Re increased its focus After the very successful launch of the on sexual orientation inclusion by UK LGBT ally and network programme, forming a worldwide LGBT (Lesbian, Together with Pride, and building on Gay, Bi-sexual, Transgender) the long-standing Swiss LGBT chapter steering group. For the first time, we Woolf n’Wilde, LGBT initiatives were participated in the Workplace Pride launched in the Asia-Pacific and 2016 Global Benchmarking Americas region. Swiss Re is proud to (www.workplacepride.org) that scores have celebrated this year the 15-year international companies on their anniversary of our Swiss Woolf n’Wilde LGBT inclusion policies and practices LGBT club with members, allies and across the globe. These insights and several members of our global senior our close collaboration with best leadership. As part of Together with practice companies and LGBT Pride, Woolf n’Wilde is one of the first associations, such as Stonewall LGBT networks established in a Swiss (www.stonewall.org.uk) and company and acts as a local employee OUTstanding (www.out-standing.org), resource group open to everyone at are shaping our future strategy. Swiss Re. 66 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report region. This has become a differentiating circumstances. We encourage our part of Swiss Re’s employee value employees to report violations of the proposition. Code of Conduct, laws, rules or regulations, and make it clear to them Inclusive culture that reporting in good faith is treated Given the important role each of our with discretion and that retaliation managers plays in fostering an inclusive will not be tolerated. culture and benefiting from its strengths, inclusive leadership behaviours are essential at Swiss Re. Development and training The effective development of our We have developed clear expectations people and leaders is key for our of how managers can foster an inclusive enduring success. For this reason we work environment for all employees. To have continued to significantly invest make these principles tangible for all our in this area during 2016 by reinforcing employees, we embedded them in our our 70/20/10 approach to development Leadership and Personal Imperatives. and upgrading our leadership development architecture. The 70/20/10 A key aspect of our People Strategy is approach advocates a shift from formal to prevent stereotyping of individuals training (10% of activity) to actions based on any dimensions of diversity. that reflect “on-the-job experiences” It centres on raising awareness of the (70%) and “learning from others” (20%). “unconscious biases” that every one of us have, which can unintentionally Leadership and management influence our decision-making and our development behaviour towards others. Our ambition is to accelerate the development of leadership and We design and organise events as well managerial skills in order to inspire a as face-to-face and web-based training multi-generational workforce. Our so that employees can participate in leadership development architecture dialogues to increase their self-awareness supports the execution of our ambition of unconscious biases, such as those through focused development of related to generations, sexual orientation critical leadership and management and gender. Our leadership development skills. We have significantly increased and management training also highlights our investment in developing managerial the importance of overcoming and leadership skills (+27% compared unconscious bias in all kinds of decisionto 2014) and spent considerable time making situations in people processes, embedding our Leadership and Personal such as recruiting, talent nomination Imperatives to drive a high performance and performance evaluation. and feedback culture. Given our focus on this area, we are pleased to see evidence Code of Conduct of an improved feedback culture and In line with Swiss Re’s policy of fostering quality of development conversations, diversity, we have strong provisions as supported by a +20% increase in our in place to penalise any infringing 2016 Employee Engagement Survey behaviour. Our Code of Conduct, of results. Thus, our employees feel which we published an updated version significantly more positive about their in 2016 (see pages 76–77), clearly career opportunities. states that discrimination in the workplace against any employee or job To support our growth ambitions in high applicant based on the person’s age, growth markets, we have introduced (dis)ability, origin, gender, religion or targeted training to equip leaders sexual orientation, or any other with the necessary skills to create characteristic protected by local law, an impactful recruitment experience. is not tolerated under any Furthermore, we developed our For more information see swissre.com/careers/professionals/ development_opportunities/ Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE leadership capabilities in high growth through the use of technology at our regions through targeted development Bratislava and Bangalore offices, where programmes. the average employee age is lower than in the Group as a whole. Going forward, we will further strengthen the capabilities of our line We also offered new skill development managers and prepare them to meet solutions for leaders, including the challenges of a rapidly changing revamping our Talent Broker platform, environment. We will integrate our to provide more visibility and simpler existing programme offerings into a new access to job rotations. In 2016, around leadership development architecture 800 employees per month used the with a manager curriculum at every platform and around 100 rotation management level, complemented opportunities were advertised. We by our specific programmes suited to also piloted reverse mentoring with develop our talent pipeline. 13 members of the Reinsurance Management Team, which will be Employee development and growth expanded across other business areas Implementing effective programmes to in 2017 (see www.youtube.com/ further develop and train our employees watch?v=Bs-e1Q9pC38). In addition, we and leaders lies at the heart of our continued our “speed mentoring” offers. People Strategy. This is also something that employees clearly want, as reflected Formal training in the Employee Engagement Survey Formal training at Swiss Re combines results. While 70% of surveyed technical, professional and leadership employees said we strongly support skills training. We design our training their learning and development internally or in collaboration with leading (above the Global High Performance external partners and deliver it through benchmark), respondents still asked our long-established Swiss Re Academy. for more development opportunities In late 2016, we introduced some new at Swiss Re. “blended learning” professional skills training which embraces the 70/20/10 Therefore, we made a number of principle. changes to more effectively embed our 70/20/10 approach to development Swiss Re Academy provides a portfolio and growth. of blended learning, combining face-toface learning, eLearning, peer-to-peer We introduced a new initiative, coaching and virtual classrooms. PersonalGrowth@SwissRe, highlighting Together, they offer a flexible approach the role line managers and employees to learning. Our courses are well play in supporting personal growth and received by our employees; for instance, career development. In support of this in leadership skills training we scored new development, we launched an 4.39 out of 5 in 2016 (highest score online support tool called e-Zine for the ever recorded). Swiss Re Academy has EMEA region to spur more direct developed extensive professional and ownership of individual development. personal development curricula to We also introduced social learning respond to changing business needs. Learning data, Swiss Re Group 2014 2015 2016 Total learning hours recorded 159 551 204 225 231 826 Learning hours per employee 13.1 15.5 15.3 Learning costs per employee (in USD) 1 500 1 024 919 68 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report ACCA approved employer status The Association of Chartered Academy’s development options Certified Accountants, the global body are now credited with Continuous for professional accountants, awarded Professional Development points, Swiss Re approved employer status. enabling our people to retain their Therefore, participation in the Swiss Re professional qualifications. Currently, we offer more than In line with our flexible development It offers an excellent opportunity for 1 000 different training courses. Our and training philosophy, the Swiss Re young talents to discover the exciting employees attend training in areas as Academy intranet site gives our world of a leading global re/insurer. diverse as underwriting, finance, sales employees easy access to our global and negotiation, leadership, diversity learning catalogue, links to regional Over a period of 18 months, the and inclusion, interpersonal skills, learning offerings and a multimedia graduates receive on-the-job training project management, office tools and library. Close to 78% of our training is in their respective functions. They also language skills. Certain courses, such delivered through eLearning formats. attend a number of classroom-based as compliance training, are mandatory. This reduces the need for our employees training sessions which are specifically to travel and spend time away from the designed for the programme and focus In 2016, all our employees took office, while supporting our commitment on Swiss Re’s core business areas. By part in our development and training to reducing our carbon footprint. the end of 2016, around 379 graduates programmes. They completed had either completed the programme 231 826 hours of training overall, Embedding the behaviours we since its launch in 2007 or were still averaging 15.3 hours and USD 919 need for the future participating in it. They are employed per employee. This drop in per-capita Our Leadership Imperatives and Personal across many different functions and training expenses is directly related Imperatives set out the behaviours we regions. to the increase in online learning and need and expect from our leaders and the decrease in classroom trainings. employees. Embedding them into our In 2016, we employed 61 interns through In addition, each of our Business Units culture and processes is key. However, the interns@swissre programme. This organises a considerable amount of we are aware that this cannot be includes seven internship positions for specialist training. achieved by simply communicating students from the African Leadership them to employees. For this reason, Academy (ALA) in support of our high A total of 836 employees participated we continue to embed them and growth market talent strategy. The in sales training during 2016, with systemically integrate them into other interns programme is mainly aimed at the average feedback score of 4.45 human capital processes. university students who are pursuing (out of 5). This standard exceeds a Bachelor’s or Master’s degree, and industry benchmarks. We recommend We have also integrated the Leadership at graduates with less than one year of that employees who work directly Imperatives and Personal Imperatives full-time work experience. Interns join with our clients invest at least two days into both our performance management teams in core business areas, where per year in formal sales training. Also process and leadership development they take on specific tasks and various in 2016, we launched a tailored threeprogrammes. projects. In India, South Africa, the US year development plan “Reinsurance and the UK we offer traditional summer Finance: Own your development” for Our Early Joiners programmes internships that typically last between our finance employees. These courses Each year, the graduates@swissre eight and 12 weeks, while in Germany were attended by more than 1 500 programme provides entry positions and Switzerland the internships usually employees in 2016. for around 50 university graduates span three to six months. who have little or no work experience. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE Three of our former graduates attended the awards ceremony at the Intercontinental Hotel in London to collect a 2016/2017 Top Company award from TheJobCrowd. Award from TheJobCrowd In 2016, Swiss Re won the award Our graduates were asked to complete for “Top Company for Graduates a survey on their work experience at to Work for in the Accountancy & Swiss Re. The survey covered questions Insurance Sector” for the second such as: what are the best things time in a row. We received this about your company, what attracted award from TheJobCrowd you to the company, how do you (www.thejobcrowd.com), a popular rate the work-life balance, training graduate job review website in the UK. and ethical/environmental balance. The results from our graduates were overwhelmingly positive. For more information see swissre.com/careers/apprenticeships/ For more information see swissre.com/careers/graduates/ For more information see swissre.com/careers/interns/ 70 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Actuarial Development Programme Participants of our Early Joiner in Australia we organised various (ADP) is designed to provide students programmes have said that they activities that focused on physical and with work assignments and projects particularly appreciate the multicultural mental health such as a stress & that are challenging, educational and and open environment we offer, as resilience workshop, a “Happy Body at promote personal and professional well as the daily exchange with Work” seminar and we invited guest development. We view superior specialists from various disciplines. speakers from new medical facilities and actuarial expertise as a vital factor for the local gym. In Bangalore we offered our success. That’s why we place great a health & nutrition session and a bone emphasis on recruiting top talents for Our employees’ wellbeing density check to help detect possible our programme. We help develop We set high standards in terms of caring mineral deficiencies and take corrective actuaries in many ways – from study for the physical and mental wellbeing action. In Hong Kong a special week allowances to mentoring and career of our employees and offer a broad was dedicated to increasing awareness development. In 2016, we hired 15 ADP range of solutions on topics like crisis of worklife balance. We also offer interns to join the programme running intervention, counselling, health care free flu jabs in various countries, from April/May to August. Those and diverse engagement activities. such as Switzerland, the UK and students worked in Fort Wayne (9), the United States. Armonk (5) or Dallas (1). We know that the nature of these activities is sensitive to local specifics – To help our people stay fit, we provide In three locations we offer a Junior such as culture or local regulations. onsite fitness centres or classes and Power programme. Originally launched Therefore, we have decided to encourage employees to join the local in Zurich in 1981, the programme was implement a consistent model across gym. For instance, in Switzerland we extended to Munich in 2008 and to all regions where these services will provide fitness rooms where employees London in 2014. In total, we have trained be provided out of the local Human can work out or join lessons such as over 650 apprentices and trainees Resources units, supported by external yoga or spinning. We also have a sport through the programme. Currently, partners when required. complex with a swimming pool, tennis 100 apprentices and trainees, aged courts and soccer court where our between 15 and 25, are being trained Health and wellbeing employees, their partners and children in a broad range of occupations. We aim to provide a healthy workplace have unrestricted, free access. Our We provide them with an innovative that helps our employees take a employees regularly enjoy spending and high-quality learning environment constructive approach to their own quality time there, especially over that enables them to build up the wellbeing, while improving and retaining the summer period when a number competencies and skills they need their ability to perform. of social events take place. for the labour market. In this way, we also make a positive contribution A healthy mind is as important as Parents@Swiss Re to youth employment. a healthy body. We offer free, locally It is important to us that our employees available Employee Assistance can always put their families first. In turn, our apprentices and trainees Programmes, through which our Therefore, we offer a range of contribute to the success of their employees can get confidential, programmes, services and support respective teams, add new perspectives impartial and professional assistance in a number of locations. to Swiss Re and challenge established on issues of a personal or work-related practices. We offer training for business nature. In this way, our employees The Parents@Swiss Re brochure provides roles, computer specialists, chefs, hotel can benefit from personalised support parents with important information housekeepers, waiters and media on emotional, family, financial and on pregnancy and parenthood. From specialists. About 20–25% of all our legal issues. how to inform their line manager to former apprentices and trainees are balancing family and work, the brochure still working at Swiss Re. We also hold various local events on contains helpful background information topics such as work stress, mental health on labour law and the solutions and awareness trainings. For example, Swiss Re offers. Employee health data: Sick leave days, Switzerland regular staff 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees 3 321 3 326 3 267 Number of employees who have recorded absence due to illness 1 900 1 979 1 809 Average number of sick days 7.4 7.2 7.9 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE In general, our employees can count on Employee relations purposes. When a Business Unit is likely diverse options such as additional family to be affected by proposed collective allowance, one-off childbirth allowance, We are a signatory to the UN Global redundancies, the respective employee additional paid maternity and paternity Compact and support its ten principles representatives are consulted. leave, or the option to take unpaid leave. in the areas of human rights, labour, the These benefits are tailored to the local environment and anti-corruption. Many At our Munich office we have a Works needs of our workforce and therefore of our locations have active employee Council, with clearly defined codiffer from region to region. In Bratislava groups. These employee representatives determination rights in several areas. – one of our high growth locations – play an important part in the company’s It has the legal obligation to support we introduced the concept of “maternity success by contributing valuable topics such as diversity, development buddies” in 2015: Every mother on perspectives and by helping to identify and training, career opportunities and maternity leave has a maternity buddy employment-related challenges. work-life balance. The eleven members who informs her about current activities of the Works Council are elected by in the team while she is on maternity These bodies are elected by local employees for a four-year term. leave. In 2016, we increased the employees and have clearly defined communication flow to maternity leavers information and consultation rights. Our smaller branches in Europe (eg in providing them with regular updates Although there are significant local France, Italy, Luxembourg and Denmark) about news concerning the organisation differences in the applicable legislation, also have Works Councils or Staff as well as open positions to encourage their rights typically concern: Delegates, depending on the size of their return. Furthermore, we are ̤̤ Working conditions the branch and local regulations. currently evaluating the feasibility of ̤̤ Benefits establishing a kindergarten in the new ̤̤ Reorganisation and restructuring Alumni networks Swiss Re premises. ̤̤ Redundancies Our former employees have helped ̤̤ Disciplinary actions and conflict cases to make Swiss Re what it is today and To accommodate the needs of working form an essential part of our extended parents, we have a number of initiatives At our Zurich headquarters, where employee community. They remain in place. Last year, approximately almost a third of our total workforce important stakeholders for Swiss Re. 165 children in Switzerland attended is employed, we work closely with the Furthermore, as many of our alumni our one-week vacation programmes Personnel Committee (PECO). work for our clients, they also help during the spring and summer school Representing the interests of all Zurich to deepen our client relationships. holidays, enabling their parents employees, PECO aims to create and to continue working. We also offer maintain a positive working environment. Through the Swiss Re Alumni Network, a number of reserved places at day It is involved in changes or adaptions we offer our former employees the care centres in and around Zurich. to the General Working Conditions or opportunity to continue sharing their Furthermore, our external childcare other important policies such as the knowledge and experience, and to keep provider helps parents find emergency Social Plan. The Committee also seeks in contact with colleagues. Currently, we nannies and gives guidance in all to ensure the de facto equality of men have more than 3 700 active members. questions related to childcare. and women, and places special emphasis on the challenges faced by The network also includes our retirees. In 2016, we organised two events employees with family obligations. This important group of stakeholders in Singapore that were dedicated continues to take great interest in the to families. We held a “Kids at Work” In the UK, Swiss Re has an Employee company. Through extended access workshop where children could Liaison Group (ELG), made up of rights, we enable them to utilise experience a day in the office with representatives from across all functions, resources that are normally available their parent and join in various fun who are elected by employees for a to employees only. activities with other children. two-year term. The ELG provides a forum Furthermore, employees and their for employee representatives and children could enjoy a range of managers to discuss company policy activities at the “Family Day” event, and practices which affect all employees. which our CEO Reinsurance Asia It is legally recognised as the collective also joined. consultation body for redundancy For more information see swissre.com/about_us/alumni/ 72 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Compensation and benefits The balanced compensation package is generally complemented by Swiss Re is committed to maintaining competitive pension plans and other a compensation framework that is employee benefits. Such benefits balanced and performance-oriented, include, for example, the Continuous and which aligns the interests of both Contribution Award, which recognises shareholders and employees. Our the loyalty, commitment and continuous compensation framework is designed contribution of our employees by to attract, motivate and retain the offering them opportunities at defined qualified talent that the Group needs to milestones to enjoy additional, paid time succeed, while creating a tangible link off. Health benefits and financial between performance and pay. The protection in case of ill-health are also aim is to provide compensation that is an important part of our overall competitive in local labour markets, packages. We provide medical, life and while ensuring that employees focus on disability insurance in excess of state delivering outstanding results in line provisions in many of our locations. with our business strategy, targets, risk Furthermore, we support employees awareness and corporate values. in accumulating retirement benefits to supplement any state provisions. For most employees, total compensation comprises the base salary and the In addition, the COyou2 Programme Annual Performance Incentive (API), continues to offer our employees the which is linked to both individual and opportunity to claim subsidies from the business/company performance. company for a range of emissions cutting investments they want to make Swiss Re uses additional incentive in their private lives (see page 60). programmes which reflect the longerterm nature of our business: Both the Further information on Swiss Re’s Value Alignment Incentive Plan (VAI), approach to compensation and benefits which is the deferred part of the API, and can be found in our 2016 Financial the Leadership Performance Plan (LPP) Report (pages 138–163). aim to reward sustained performance and long-term company success, rather Simplifying performance than short-term results. This helps to management align shareholder and employee We have undertaken significant work to interests more closely. The VAI applies improve our performance management to employees who have a total API in process over the last three years, with excess of a defined threshold, and the the aim of focusing on both what people LPP is awarded to our senior executives achieve and how they achieve their and select key employees. goals. We are leveraging our Leadership and Personal Imperatives to create We also encourage our employees to more focus on the outcome of own Swiss Re shares by providing the performance management through Global Share Participation Plan and improved employee discussions, better the Incentive Share Plan. Our employees performance differentiation and more can get a comprehensive overview of all transparent pay-for-performance. their incentive plans online whenever they wish. Our approach has allowed us to better clarify behavioural expectations, simplify processes and make the tools more flexible. 2016 was the second consecutive year we successfully applied the two-dimensional approach to all eligible employees and which significantly helped us to differentiate performance. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance Swiss Re’s corporate Corporate governance Our key focus areas in 2016 were the enhancement of Swiss Re Life governance forms the Swiss Re considers good corporate Capital Ltd’s and the Business Unit Life basis for sustainable governance as one of the preconditions Capital’s corporate governance to ensure sustainability throughout all framework and the comprehensive management of the Group’s activities and indispensable revision of the Bylaws. the Swiss Re Group. to maintaining long-lasting, valuable relationships with its stakeholders. In our Corporate Responsibility Report, We recognise that transparent we highlight key elements of Swiss Re’s disclosure of our governance structure corporate governance, in particular fosters assessment of the quality of with respect to its structure, the our organisation and business conduct. independence of the Board of Directors, conflicts of interest procedures and Swiss Re’s corporate governance shareholder rights. Comprehensive adheres to the SIX Swiss Exchange’s information on Swiss Re’s corporate Directive on Information Relating to governance is available in the 2016 Corporate Governance, including its Financial Report on pages 80–119. annex. It is also in line with the principles of the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Swiss Re’s corporate governance Corporate Governance (Swiss Code) structure of September 2014, issued by Swiss Re has a dual board structure economiesuisse, the Swiss business in place: the Board of Directors is federation. Swiss Re also conforms to responsible for the overall direction, the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory supervision and control of Swiss Re Ltd Authority (FINMA) provisions on and the Group. It has delegated the corporate governance, risk management management of Swiss Re Ltd and the and internal control systems. Swiss Re’s Swiss Re Group to the Group Executive corporate governance furthermore Committee (Group EC). This structure complies with applicable local rules and maintains effective mutual checks regulations in all jurisdictions where and balances between these top it conducts business. corporate bodies. For more information see swissre.com/about_us/corporate_ governance/ 74 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report The Swiss Re Ltd & Group Bylaws All the members of the Board of Statutory rules on participating in the (“SRL&Group Bylaws”) define the Directors meet our independence General Meeting of shareholders governance structure for Swiss Re Ltd criteria with the exception of our The share whose owner, usufructuary or and within the Swiss Re Group, including Chairman. In line with Swiss Re’s nominee is entered in the share register the responsibilities of the Board of independence criteria, he is not as having voting rights on a specific Directors, Chairman, Vice Chairman, considered independent being a fullqualifying day determined by the Board Lead Independent Director, Board time Chairman. In addition to the of Directors entitles its holder to one vote committees, Group EC, Group CEO independence criteria applicable to at the General Meeting of shareholders. and of the other individual Group EC Board members in general, additional members including the Regional independence criteria apply for Swiss Re Ltd’s Articles of Association Presidents, as well as the relevant members of the Audit Committee. allow any shareholder with voting rights reporting procedures. to have his or her shares represented The members of the Board of Directors at any General Meeting of shareholders As determined by applicable law and are also subject to procedures to avoid by another person authorised in writing the Articles of Association, the Board of any action, position or interest that or by the Independent Proxy. Such Directors has non-transferable conflicts with an interest of Swiss Re Ltd representatives need not be shareholders. responsibilities and authorities. The or the Swiss Re Group or gives the Board of Directors has established Board appearance of a conflict. Each member Business firms, partnerships and committees, which support the Board in must disclose any conflict of interest corporate bodies may be represented fulfilling its duties. The Board of Directors generally arising or relating to a matter by legal or authorised representatives has delegated certain responsibilities, to be discussed at a meeting, as soon or other proxies, married persons including the preparation and execution as the member becomes aware of the by their spouses, minors and wards by of its resolutions, to the following conflict, to the Chairman. The respective their guardians, even though such five committees: the Chairman’s and member must not participate in the representatives are not shareholders. Governance Committee, the Audit discussion and decision-making Committee, the Compensation involving the interest at stake. The Changes of control and defence Committee, the Finance and Risk Chairman informs the Board of Directors measures Committee and the Investment of the existence of the conflict and it is Swiss Re Ltd has not put in place any Committee. reflected in the meeting minutes. specific measures to defend against potential unfriendly takeover attempts. Independence of the Board Shareholders’ participation rights Swiss Re Ltd’s Articles of Association of Directors and conflicts of interest Shares neither contain an “opting up” nor an procedures All shares issued by Swiss Re Ltd are “opting out” provision. The Board of The SRL&Group Bylaws stipulate that fully paid-in registered shares, each with Directors believes that the company’s at least three-quarters of the members a par value of CHF 0.10. Each share best protection is a fair valuation of of the Board of Directors must be carries one vote. There are no categories its shares, and that the efficiency of a independent. Independence is defined of shares with a higher or limited voting free market is preferable to artificial in line with best practice corporate power, privileged dividend entitlement obstacles, which can have a negative governance standards. To be considered or any other preferential rights, nor are impact on the share price in the independent, a Group Board member there any other securities representing long term. may not be, and may not have been in a part of Swiss Re Ltd’s share capital. the past three years, employed as a Swiss Re Ltd cannot exercise the voting member of the Group EC, or by any rights of treasury shares. subsidiary of the Swiss Re Group or may not have a material relationship with Voting right restrictions, statutory any part of the Swiss Re Group (either group clauses and exception rules directly or as a partner, director or There are no voting right restrictions and shareholder of an organisation that has no statutory group clauses (other than a material relationship with the Swiss Re the limitations on nominee registrations). Group) other than serving as an Therefore, there are no procedures or independent board member in any conditions for cancelling restrictions and subsidiary. no rules on making exceptions to them. Accordingly, no such exceptions were made in 2016. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 75 ENSURING GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE By adhering to the Compliance: Code of Conduct Topics and policies Our new Code addresses the following highest compliance Our Code of Conduct (the “Code”) is key compliance topics under two standards, we ensure one in a series of documents governing headings, “Our responsibility towards the organisation and management of one another and Swiss Re” and “Our legal and ethical our company. It sets the framework responsibility towards our business behaviour across and defines the basic legal and ethical partners and society”: compliance principles we adhere the Group. to globally. The Code is built on the five Swiss Re values, which guide us in Our responsibility towards one making responsible decisions and another and Swiss Re achieving results using the highest ̤̤ Business information and ethical standards: integrity, team spirit, information technology passion to perform, agility and client ̤̤ Communication centricity. ̤̤ Conflicts of interest ̤̤ Diversity & inclusion and fair The Code also offers practical guidance and equal treatment and examples for deciding the ̤̤ Fraud appropriate course of action and solving ̤̤ Health, safety and security ethical dilemmas. It further sets out ̤̤ Intellectual property how all employees should react when they observe a possible breach of the Our responsibility towards our principles in the Code. All employees are business partners and society obligated to uphold both the letter and ̤̤ Bribery and corruption spirit of the Code and the Group’s ̤̤ Data protection corporate governance principles in their ̤̤ Inside information daily business activities, and to respect ̤̤ Fair competition and obey applicable laws and ̤̤ International trade controls and regulations in all jurisdictions where we economic sanctions do business. ̤̤ Licensing and permanent establishment We regularly review and update the ̤̤ Money laundering Code to reflect changes in regulations ̤̤ Sustainability and human rights and principles. A comprehensively overhauled version was published in the second half of 2016. While the Bribery and corruption requirements set out in the Code The Code addresses our position on generally remain the same, many bribery and corruption. It clearly states changes were made to make it a more that “we conduct business fairly without user-friendly document. The language accepting or offering benefits intended used in the new Code is easy to to improperly influence decision-making”. understand and concise. The new layout and real-life examples give us clearer In support, we implemented our Group guidance in our day-to-day business. Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy in 2012. This emphasises that bribery, The Code is supported by detailed facilitation payments and hospitality policies and standards that document where the giver is not present are Swiss Re’s requirements in line with always prohibited. For gifts, hospitality, applicable laws and regulations. sponsorships and charitable contributions, the policy and standards The new Code is available to our specify the correct procedures to be employees in eight languages: English, followed. French, German, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Slovak and Spanish. 76 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report In 2016, we integrated our ABC Policy in Money laundering All permanent and temporary employees our Sensitive Business Risks assessment The Code draws attention to the risk of need to complete a Code of Conduct tool, which our underwriters use to becoming unintentionally involved in Acknowledgement every two years. screen transactions for potential money laundering and emphasises the The latest acknowledgement round was negative impacts on the environment importance of due diligence. completed in 2015; it used a similar and human rights (see page 31). approach to the eLearning module, This helps us to mitigate our exposure Our Anti-money Laundering Standards putting the focus on ethical behaviour to bribery and corruption risks through set out in detail key principles and and requiring our employees to apply appropriate due diligence on our guidance in relation to our anti-money the Code to a specific scenario. counterparties. laundering and counter terrorism financing efforts, including obligations In addition, we conducted trainings Data protection concerning “know your counterparty” for all our employees on the following We could not work successfully with our and the reporting of any suspicious topics in the three years between 2014 business partners, clients and individual activities. and 2016: consumers around the world without ̤̤ Anti-bribery and corruption maintaining their trust for the data they Sustainability and human rights ̤̤ Anti-money laundering and terrorist provide to us. The Code highlights The Code includes our formal financing that we need to handle personal data commitment to sustainability and human ̤̤ Information security with greatest care and use it only for rights, providing a guiding principle ̤̤ Data protection legitimate business purposes. for our efforts to act as a responsible ̤̤ Inside information and insider training company. ̤̤ Fraud awareness Our Data Protection Compliance Framework, with global as well as local Whistleblowing Validity for third parties policies and standards, addresses our There are several ways in which alleged Third parties representing Swiss Re – commitment to protecting personal data violations of the Code can be reported, such as consultants, intermediaries, and respecting privacy rights across our both by internal and external sources. distributors and independent contractors operations. We use internationally For our employees, the options are – should be carefully selected and need recognised data protection and privacy described in the Code and include to comply with the Code and relevant principles that ensure compliance with a whistleblowing hotline, which they policies. When we work with such third a complex and constantly changing set can use anonymously or with parties we provide them with information of laws and regulations, and we provide identification. The hotline is operated about the relevant requirements and, in proper training and awareness sessions independently by an external vendor the event of any infringements, take to our employees. Procedures for and includes translation services into appropriate action, up to and including reporting security incidents and notifying numerous languages. The specific terminating a contract. on data breaches are established. policies regarding whistleblowing differ between our offices, based on We also contribute thought leadership the applicable national laws of the on data protection by conducting expert respective country. sessions during insurance industry events Our updated Code of and hosting symposium events at our Training Conduct Centre for Global Dialogue to look at the All new permanent and temporary files.swissre.com/ future of regulations, cross-border data employees joining Swiss Re must codeofconduct/index.html processing, big data, ethics and e-health undergo mandatory eLearning training in insurance (see pages 48–49). on the Code. Completion of the training is tracked and instances of Code of Conduct non-completion are escalated until Our Company. Our Code. resolution. The Code eLearning course was updated in 2015, putting the focus on ethical behaviour in accordance with the principles of the Code and its relationship to Swiss Re’s values. It has an interactive character and requires employees to assess behaviour and actions in various scenarios. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 77 The Swiss Re Foundation Empower Who we are communities – The Foundation reflects the social and Our initiatives address the causes humanitarian values of Swiss Re. and effects of risks in four areas – build resilience We partner with social entrepreneurs, climate, natural hazards, water and aid organisations, researchers and society – both in emerging and Swiss Re employees and clients to help developing countries and in regions communities increase their resilience. where Swiss Re has offices. Our core goals: Empower communities to become more resilient to risk and adapt to a changing natural and social environment Contribute to promoting social welfare, protecting the environment and enhancing quality of life near Swiss Re locations Engage Swiss Re employees as local volunteers and as expert consultants in our global programmes Boost impact by teaming up with private and public partners that share our goals and complement our expertise Earn the respect of our stakeholders, creating measurable value for society and for Swiss Re For more information see swissrefoundation.org/ 78 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report On a Community Day in Switzerland, Swiss Re volunteers and a refugee tune up a used bike for shipment to a needy community in Madagascar. The Swiss Re Foundation in 2016 – Shared skills, What we What our resilient futures This report presents respond to priorities are the Swiss Re Foundation’s Threats to: ̤̤ Climate approach, a focus section ̤̤ Health ̤̤ Natural hazards on employee engagement, ̤̤ Security ̤̤ Water its awards and an overview ̤̤ Prosperity ̤̤ Society of its programmes. ̤̤ Opportunity The Swiss Re Foundation in 2016 Shared skills, resilient futures Who we Where we support help ̤̤ Social entrepreneurs ̤̤ In emerging and ̤̤ NGOs developing countries ̤̤ Academic institutions ̤̤ In regions where that help communities Swiss Re has offices increase their resilience Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 79 Other Swiss Re publications Our publications provide the gateway to Swiss Re’s broad knowledge base and expertise. They cover a wide range of topics: from technical reinsurance issues and emerging risks to natural perils, economic trends and strategic issues in our industry. This is a selection of recent publications, in addition to those featured on page 51. Our publications can be downloaded or ordered at www.swissre.com/library/ Our experts Flood Focus: Vietnam Unconventional monetary policies help to finance the public sector’s debt burden. While a number of these policies were crucial and Vietnam is one of the important high growth economies in Asia. Because beneficial to managing the financial crisis, they also come with significant of its consistent GDP growth, it is regarded as one of the best performing costs. The unintended consequences include potential asset price economies in the world. Over the last decade, the country‘s real GDP growth bubbles, an impaired credit intermediation channel and increasing has exceeded 5%, reaching as high as 7.8% in 2004. Vietnam‘s business economic inequality. hubs are concentrated in and around Hanoi, Hai Phong and Ho Chi Minh City. In the event of flooding, the proximity of these cities to the coast or floodplains Financial repression: of major rivers means they could suffer major economic and insurance losses, Closing the protection gap Food safety in in addition to the consequent social impact. The unintended consequences Disaster risk financing: a globalised world Smart solutions for the Keeping our food safe in public sector the 21st century Closing the protection Food safety in a globalised Flood focus: Vietnam Financial repression: The gap – Disaster risk financing: world: Keeping our food Vietnam is one of the important unintended consequences smart solutions for the safe in the 21st century high growth economies in Asia, Unconventional monetary public sector Risk management tools that but the country’s major cities policies help to finance the Natural catastrophes are ensure our food is safe already are prone to flooding due to public sector’s debt burden. increasing in frequency and exist, but they must be applied being located on the coast or While a number of these severity. What is more, the gap and adapted to ever more on flood plains. This publication policies were crucial and between economic and insured complex global markets and examines these issues and beneficial to managing the losses has remained stubbornly supply chains. Adaptation offers solutions. financial crisis, they also come large. The consequences are also means spreading lessons with significant costs. The especially severe in emerging learned. This publication is unintended consequences markets, which are both the part of the process. include potential asset price worst hit and the least prepared. bubbles, an impaired credit Tools exist to narrow that gap intermediation channel and using innovative solutions that increasing economic inequality. can help countries, cities and individuals preserve hard-won development gains. 80 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Forestry insurance: A largely untapped potential China’s coastal cities have been escaping severe storms but how long will it last? Keeping tabs on the typhoon threat Severe weather events in the late 19th century and their potential impact on insurance today Over the last 30 years, only very few major tropical cyclones have caused severe insurance loss in the Pearl River Delta region and Shanghai, the two Winter storms in Europe: main exposure clusters along China’s southeast coast. Several storms have made landfall in China every year but most struck areas with relatively low insured values. That said, there is no guarantee that this pattern will remain messages from unchanged in the future. And given the exponential growth in population and physical assets the region has experienced during the same period, there is forgotten catastrophes certainly no room for complacency. Should a severe typhoon hit one of China’s big urban centres today, the economic and insured loss could be substantial. Small quakes, big impact: lessons learned from Christchurch Forestry insurance: Winter storms in Europe: Keeping tabs on Small quakes, big impact: A largely untapped potential messages from forgotten the typhoon threat lessons learned from Forests are a vital resource catastrophes Smart modelling can help Christchurch for life on our planet but remain This publication analyses China strengthen its resilience Discover how a small after­­shock largely uninsured today. Swiss Re severe weather events in to typhoon risk. In this in Christchurch, NZ – a city believes the re/insurance industry the late 19th century and publication, Swiss Re NatCat not considered an earthquake can make a big difference for their potential impact on experts describe a modelling hotspot – triggered one of the forestry stakeholders by helping insurance today. approach that could offer largest insurance losses ever. them close the protection gap Hong Kong and Shanghai a Our report points to soil with viable forest management way of preparing more liquefaction as a contributing solutions. systematically for natural factor and considers the disasters. potential for similar scenarios in Tianjin, Jakarta, Vancouver and Singapore. No 6 /2015 Ten years after the first tropical cyclone ever recorded in the South Atlantic, we investigate the possibility and The big one: The East Coast’s Sub-Saharan Africa – breadbasket potential impact of another event like it. USD 100 billion hurricane event for a growing population The risk of tropical cyclones in Brazil Life insurance in the 01 Executive summary 02 Introduction digital age: fundamental 04 Key technology transformation ahead developments impacting life insurers 13 Impacts on life insurance industry 26 Strategic implications 31 New challenges 39 Conclusion The big one: The East Sub-Saharan Africa – The risk of tropical cyclones sigma: the series Coast’s USD 100 billion breadbasket for a in Brazil For more than three decades, hurricane event growing population Ten years after the first tropical the sigma series has been With its exceptional size, Farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa cyclone ever recorded in the a trusted source of market perpendicular track to the are heavily exposed to South Atlantic, we investigate information for managers and coast and record-breaking low weather-related events like the possibility and potential specialists in direct insurance pressure, Sandy is generally flood or drought. If they are impact of another event like it. companies worldwide. To regarded as a 1-in-500-year hit by a natural catastrophe, The study by Swiss Re and ensure a truly global event. The storm offered they often abandon their land. the Swiss Federal Institute of readership, sigma appears many new insights to modellers, Insurance can help to keep Technology (ETH) explores in six languages: English, underwriters and coastal farmers in business and the main atmospheric German, French, Spanish, communities, but it should not contribute to a more resilient conditions that lead to the Japanese and Chinese. be the only catastrophe society. development of tropical benchmark in the quest for cyclones in the South Atlantic. improved resilience. This publication draws on hurricanes of greater magnitude to paint a scenario that will help plan for the future. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 81 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”) ­ We have been engaged to perform emissions from purchased electricity, assurance report should therefore assurance procedures to provide limited Swiss Re Group” on page 53 in be read in connection with Swiss Re’s assurance on the consolidated CO2 the CR Report 2016 covering the internal guidelines, definitions and emissions reporting and CR topics reporting period from 1 October procedures on the reporting of its CR and sections disclosed with the 2016 2015 to 30 September 2016; performance. Swiss Re Corporate Responsibility e) The retirement of 80 700 tonnes of Report (“CR Report 2016”). CO2e (CO2 equivalents) described on Swiss Re’s responsibility page 56 of the CR Report 2016. The Swiss Re management is Scope and subject matter responsible for both the preparation and Our limited assurance engagement Criteria the presentation of the selected subject focused on the following data and The management reporting processes matter in accordance with the reporting information disclosed in the CR Report with respect to the CR Report 2016 criteria. Our responsibility is to form 2016 of Swiss Re and its consolidated were assessed against the internal and an independent conclusion, based subsidiaries, for the financial year external policies and procedures as on our limited assurance procedures, ended 31 December 2016: set forth in the following: on whether anything has come ̤̤ Internal Environmental Performance to our attention to indicate that the a) The management and reporting Indicators for the Financial Industry subject matter is not stated, in all processes with respect to the published by the Verein für material respects, in accordance with consolidated CR reporting as well Umweltmanagement in Banken, the reporting criteria. as the control environment in Sparkassen und Versicherungen e.V. relation to the aggregation of data (VfU) published in 1997 and 2011; Our responsibility and information; ̤̤ The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Our responsibility is to form an b) The organisational measures Corporate Accounting and Reporting independent opinion, based on our and internal key controls in place Standard (Revised Edition) published limited assurance procedures, on at the corporate level regarding in 2001 by the World Resources whether anything has come to our aggregation of information obtained Institute and the World Business attention to indicate that the corporate from the subsidiaries and reporting Council for Sustainable Development; responsibility information reporting functions; ̤̤ The framework document is not stated, in all material respects, c) The consolidated data and Environmental Performance in accordance with the reporting information disclosed in the sections Indicators Reporting at Swiss Re, criteria. We planned and performed “Creating solutions for sustainability” version 1.1 from August 2014 our procedures in accordance with on pages 18–27, “Extending our risk including Annex; and International Standard on Assurance intelligence” on pages 28–41, ̤̤ The defined internal guidelines, Engagements 3000 (revised), “Exploring and shaping the risk by which CR data and information Assurance Engagements other than landscape” on pages 42–51, are internally gathered, collated Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial “Reducing our environmental and aggregated. Information, and, in respect of footprint” on pages 52–61 , greenhouse gas emissions, International “Engaging our people” on pages Inherent limitations Standard on Assurance Engagements 62–73 and “Compliance: Code The accuracy and completeness of 3410, Assurance Engagements on of Conduct” on pages 76–77; CR indicators are subject to inherent Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued d) The consolidated CO2 emissions limitations given their nature and by the International Auditing and 2016 (Scope 1, 2 and 3 in methods for determining, calculating Assurance Standards Board. These adherence with the Greenhouse and estimating such data. In addition, standards require that we plan and Gas Protocol) of the tables entitled the CO2 emissions quantification is perform this engagement to obtain “CO2 emissions per employee subject to inherent uncertainty because limited assurance about whether (full-time equivalent, FTE), Swiss Re of incomplete scientific knowledge the identified CR indicators are free Group” on page 53, “Underlying used to determine emissions factors from material misstatement. environmental data, Swiss Re and the values needed to combine Group” on page 53 and “Indirect emissions of different gases. Our 82 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ A limited assurance engagement under responsible for internal CR reporting We believe that the evidence we have ISAE 3000 (revised) is substantially less and data collection at the Swiss Re obtained is sufficient and appropriate in scope than a reasonable assurance corporate level to evaluate the to provide a basis for our assurance engagement in relation to both the risk reporting and aggregation process conclusions. assessment procedures, including an and to assess its appropriateness; understanding of internal control, and ̤̤ Reconciliation of CO2 emissions Conclusion the procedures performed in response data Based on our work performed and to the assessed risks. Consequently, the Reconciling the CO2 emissions data described in this report on the identified nature, timing and extent of procedures for energy consumption, business CR Reporting 2016 nothing has come for gathering sufficient appropriate travel, copy paper, waste, water, to our attention causing us to believe evidence are deliberately limited relative technical gases and commuting and that in all material respects: to a reasonable assurance engagement CR data and information to the data and therefore less assurance is obtained used for the internal CR emissions a) Nothing has come to our attention with a limited assurance engagement reporting of the selected locations; that causes us to believe that the than for a reasonable assurance ̤̤ Assessment of the key figures Swiss Re internal CR reporting engagement. Performing tests on a sample basis guidelines are not applied in all of evidence supporting selected CR material respects, in accordance Our independence and quality data and information (strengthening with the reporting criteria; control risk resilience: 2016 highlights, the b) Nothing has come to our attention We have complied with the commitments to the United Nations that causes us to believe that the independence and other ethical and to the Grow Africa Partnership, internal reporting processes to requirements of the Code of Ethics sustainable energy solutions, the collect and aggregate CR data and for Professional Accountants issued Sensitive Business Risk process, information is not functioning as by the International Ethics Standards responsible investments, HR data designed and does not provide an Board for Accountants, which is and information, diversity and appropriate basis for the founded on fundamental principles inclusion, development & training) presentation of CR data and of integrity, objectivity, professional to assess their completeness, information, in all material respects; competence and due care, accuracy, adequacy and consistency; c) Nothing has come to our attention confidentiality and professional ̤̤ Review of the documentation that causes us to believe that the behavior. Reviewing the relevant CR data and information disclosed documentation on a sample basis, in the 2016 CR Report is not stated, Our firm applies International Standard including Swiss Re’s CR-related in all material respects, in accordance on Quality Control 1 and accordingly policies, the management of reporting with the reporting criteria; maintains a comprehensive system of structures, the documentation and d) Nothing has come to our attention quality control including documented systems used to collect, analyse and that causes us to believe that the policies and procedures regarding aggregate reported CR data and CO2 emissions data and information compliance with ethical requirements, information; disclosed in the 2016 CR Report professional standards and applicable ̤̤ Assessment of the processes is not stated, in all material respects, legal and regulatory requirements. and data consolidation in accordance with the reporting Reviewing the appropriateness criteria; and Summary of work performed of the management and reporting e) Nothing has come to our attention Our assurance procedures included the processes for CR reporting; and that causes us to believe that the following work: assessing the processing and retirement of 80 700 tonnes of ̤̤ Evaluation of the application of consolidation of data at Swiss Re’s CO2e has not been conducted, in all Swiss Re CR reporting guidelines Group level; and material aspects, in accordance Assessing whether the methodology ̤̤ Review of verified emission with the internal requirements. applied by Swiss Re is in line with reductions the reporting criteria; Reviewing the retirement of ̤̤ Interviews and management 80 700 tonnes CO2e verified emission Zurich, 15 March 2017 inquiry reductions (VER) according to Evaluating the CR reporting and the Voluntary Carbon Standard or PricewaterhouseCoopers AG underlying performance indicators Gold Standard. by performing analytical procedures and interviewing selected key Marc Schmidli Konstantin Meier We have not carried out any work on contacts to assess whether the data reported for prior reporting internal Environmental Performance periods, nor have we performed work Indicators Reporting guidelines and in respect of projections and targets. CR guidance were consistently We have not conducted any work on applied by the selected locations; data other than outlined in the subject performing enquiries of personnel matter as defined above. Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 83 Memberships, commitments, awards and index listings Listed here is a selection of Swiss Re’s most important memberships, commitments, recent awards and index listings with regard to corporate responsibility. ­ Memberships and Clinton Global Initiative Klimastiftung Schweiz Established in 2005 by former (Swiss Climate Foundation) commitments US President Bill Clinton, the Clinton The Swiss Climate Foundation is a Global Initiative (CGI) convenes non-profit foundation that directly CDP global leaders to devise and implement champions the cause of climate CDP is an international, not-for-profit innovative solutions to some of the protection in Switzerland, helping to organisation providing the only global world’s most pressing challenges. fund small and medium enterprises system for companies and cities to www.clintonfoundation.org that are proactive in their approach to measure, disclose, manage and share reducing CO2 emissions. Swiss Re is vital environmental information. CDP FSB Task Force on Climate-related one of the foundation’s members and works with market forces to motivate Financial Disclosures is sponsoring its managing director. companies to disclose their impacts on The Financial Stability Board (FSB) is www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch the environment and natural resources an international body that monitors and take action to reduce them. and makes recommendations about Öbu (“Ecologically conscious www.cdp.net the global financial system. Its Task enterprises” network) Force on Climate-related Financial Öbu is a Swiss think tank for Chief Risk Officer Forum Disclosures (TCFD) is developing sustainability and management topics. The CRO Forum is a group of voluntary, consistent climate-related It carries out projects focusing on professional risk managers from the financial risk disclosures for use by corporate and economic policy, and insurance industry that focuses on companies in providing information promotes experience-sharing among developing and promoting industry to investors, lenders, insurers, and its members. best practices in risk management. other stakeholders. www.oebu.ch The Forum consists of Chief Risk www.fsb-tcfd.org Officers from large multinational Principles for Responsible insurance companies. Insurance Europe Investment (PRI) www.thecroforum.org Insurance Europe is the European (re) The PRI is the world’s leading insurance federation. Through its 34 proponent of responsible investment. ClimateWise member bodies, the national insurance It works to understand the investment ClimateWise is the global insurance associations, Insurance Europe implications of environmental, social industry’s leadership group driving represents all types of insurance and and governance (ESG) factors and action on climate change risk. reinsurance undertakings, eg panto support its international network The group leverages the insurance European companies, monoliners, of investor signatories in integrating industry’s expertise to better mutuals and SMEs. these factors into their investment understand, communicate and www.insuranceeurope.eu and ownership decisions. act on climate risks. www.unpri.org www.cisl.cam.ac.uk International Risk Governance Council Principles for Sustainable Insurance IRGC is an independent organisation Launched at the 2012 UN Conference whose purpose is to help the on Sustainable Development, the understanding and management UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable of global risks that impact on human Insurance (PSI) serve as a global health and safety, the environment, framework for the insurance industry the economy and society at large. to address environmental, social and www.irgc.org governance risks and opportunities. www.unepfi.org/psi/ 84 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ RE100 Recent awards Selected index The Climate Group is partnering with CDP to encourage the world’s most Evironmental Finance: Deal of the listings and ratings influential businesses to join RE100 Year for Weather Risk, 2016 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, and commit to going 100% renewable. Swiss Re Corporate Solutions again Industry Group Leader 2016/2017 The aim is for at least 100 companies won this award from Environmental to make a global 100% renewable Finance magazine, this time for a wind commitment with a clear timeframe hedge in Australia (see page 27). for reaching their goal. www.theRE100.org TheJobCrowd: Top Companies for Graduates to Work for, 2016/2017 ECPI Indices Swiss Sustainable Finance For the second time in a row, we were Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) ranked as the “Top Accountancy & strengthens the position of Switzerland Insurance Company for Graduates in the global marketplace for sustainable to Work for” (larger intake category). finance by informing, educating and catalysing growth. Currently SSF unites Aon Hewitt Best Employer, 2016 90 members and network partners We were recognised by our Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) from financial service providers, engagement survey providers Aon Excellence Global investors, universities and business Hewitt as a Best Employer in several schools, public sector entities and countries and the Europe region. other interested organisations. www.sustainablefinance.ch Environmental Finance: Deal of the Year for Weather Risk, 2015 The Geneva Association Swiss Re Corporate Solutions won The Geneva Association is a leading this award from Environmental Finance inter­national insurance think tank for magazine for a solar energy hedge Euronext Vigeo index: strategically important insurance and in China. World 120 risk management issues. It identifies fundamental trends and strategic TheJobCrowd: Top Companies for issues where insurance plays a Graduates to Work for, 2015/2016 substantial role or which influence We were recognised as the “Top the insurance sector. Accountancy & Insurance Company for www.genevaassociation.org Graduates to Work for” (larger intake category) and came third overall. FTSE4Good Index Series UNEP Finance Initiative UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP and the financial sector. Over 190 institutions, including banks, insurers and fund managers, work with UNEP to understand the impacts of environmental and oekom research, social considerations on financial Prime investment status performance. www.unepfi.org WE SUPPORT Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 85 The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI): Our Public Disclosure of Progress Developed by the UN Environment Swiss Re and the PSI We support the PSI’s call for Programme’s Finance Initiative We are keen to support the spread transparency and disclose our progress (UNEP FI) in collaboration with leading of sustainable business practices in on implementing its principles below. re/ insurance companies, the Principles the re/insurance industry. Not only are for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) provide we one of the original signatories to a framework for the global insurance the Principles of Sustainable Insurance, industry to address environmental, we have played an active role in their social and governance (ESG) risks and development and currently provide one opportunities. of its board members. Principle 1 Principle 2 Principle 3 We will embed in our decision-making We will work together with our clients We will work together with ESG issues relevant to our insurance and business partners to raise governments, regulators and other key business. awareness of ESG issues, manage risk stakeholders to promote widespread and develop solutions. action across society on ESG issues. As described in our “approach to As described in our “approach to As described in our “approach to corporate responsibility”, we seek corporate responsibility”, we corporate responsibility”, we to embed ESG issues in both engage in regular dialogue with engage in regular dialogue with our business solutions and risk our clients and other stakeholders, all our stakeholders (see page 14). management (see page 14). and apply ESG guidelines in our sourcing activities (see page 14). We plan to achieve this by: We plan to achieve this by: sharing and advancing our risk a) developing innovative risk We plan to achieve this by: expertise with a special focus on transfer solutions (eg index a) interacting with clients and five Top Topics, supported by insurance products and cat taking an active role in industry our own dialogue platform, the bonds) and by working closely initiatives to advance sustainable Centre for Global Dialogue. with partners both in the private business practices; and public sectors; b) sharing and advancing our risk Key actions taken in 2015: b) using tailor-made tools in our expertise with a special focus See stakeholder dialogue risk management to address on five Top Topics, supported by achievements on pages 42–51. sustainability risks; our own dialogue platform, the c) integrating ESG criteria in our Centre for Global Dialogue; Principle 4 asset management. c) applying overarching guidelines We will demonstrate accountability and specific “minimum standards” and transparency in regularly Key actions taken in 2015: in our sourcing activities. disclosing publicly our progress in a) for business solutions, implementing the Principles. see achievements described Key actions taken in 2015: on pages 18–27; a) for client and industry Starting in 2012, we have been b) for risk management, cooperation, see achievements disclosing our progress in see achievements described described on pages 32–33; implementing the Principles on an on pages 28–38; b) for general risk dialogue, see annual basis, as an integrated part c) for asset management, achievements described on of our Corporate Responsibility see achievements described pages 42–51; Report. on pages 38–41. c) for sourcing guidelines, see achievements described on page 58. For more information see www.unepfi.org/psi/ 86 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report GRI Content Index with UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) references This Corporate Responsbility Report References to the UN Global Compact contains Standard Disclosures from the principles addressed as part of our G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Communication on Progress (COP) are of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). incorporated into the GRI Content Index, The corresponding GRI Content Index in line with UN recommendations. (indicator G4-32) is provided below. UN Global Compact principle Page General standard disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 Chairman’s and CEO’s statement Statement of continuing support 2–3 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities  11–13, 18–27, 28–32, 42–47 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation  4 G4-4 Brands, products and services 4, 6 G4-5 Headquarter location 4 G4-6 Countries of operation 4, FR 192 G4-7 Nature of ownership 4, FR 86–91 G4-8 Markets served 4–7, FR 182–192 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 4–7, FR 164–170 G4-10 Employment data 6 62, 64 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 3 72–73 G4-12 Description of supply chain 58 G4-13 Organisational changes 6, 16 G4-14 Precautionary principle 8–13, 18–27, 28–41 G4-15 External charters and principles 8, 84–85 G4-16 Memberships 84–85 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Scope of financial report FR 172, 267–269 G4-18 Content definition 14–16 G4-19 List of material aspects 11–13 G4-20 Internal boundaries of material issues 17 G4-21 External boundaries of material issues 17 G4-22 Restatements 16 G4-23 Changes in scope 16 FR = 2016 Financial Report Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 87 GRI Content Index UN Global Compact principle Page Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholders 10 G4-25 Basis for stakeholder identification 10 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 10 G4-27 Key topics raised by stakeholders 10, 42–51, 63–64 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period 16–17 G4-29 Most recent previous report 17 G4-30 Reporting cycle 17 G4-31 Contact point 92 G4-32 GRI content index 87–91 G4-33 External assurance 82–83 Governance G4-34 Governance structure 16, 74–75, FR 83–84, 98–103 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values and Codes of Conduct 10 8–9, 76–77 Specific standard disclosures Material aspect Indicator UNGC principle Page Omissions Economic category Disclosure on management approach: Our management approach to the economic category is primarily disclosed in our 2016 Financial Report. Specific aspects (“implications of climate change” and “indirect economic impacts”) are disclosed in this report in the “Who we are and what we do”, “Creating solutions for sustainability” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape” chapters. Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value 7, FR 140, performance generated and distributed 164–170 G4-EC2 Implications of climate 7 12, 18–20 change G4-EC3 Benefit plan obligations FR 253–260 Indirect economic G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments 39–40, 47 impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect impacts 4–7, 18–25 Environmental category Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure on our management approach to all material aspects of the environmental category in the chapter “Reducing our environmental footprint”. Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight/ 8 53, 56 volume G4-EN2 Recycled materials used 8 53, 56 Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption 7, 8 53 G4-EN4 Indirect energy 8 53 consumption G4-EN5 Energy intensity 8 53–54 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy 8, 9 54–56 consumption FR = 2016 Financial Report 88 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Material aspect Indicator UNGC principle Page Omissions Water G4-EN8 Water use 7, 8 53, 56 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas 7, 8 53–54 emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas 7, 8 53–54 emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse 7, 8 53–54 gas emissions (Scope 3) G4-19 Reduction of greenhouse gas 8, 9 52–56 emissions Effluents and G4-EN23 Total weight of waste 8 53 waste Transport G4-EN30 Environmental impact of 8 53, 56 transport Supplier G4-EN33 Negative environmental 8 58 environmental impacts addressed in assessment supply chain Social category Sub-category: Labour practices and decent work Disclosure of management approach: Our management approach to all material aspects of the sub-category “labour practices and decent work” is disclosed in the chapter “Engaging our people”. Employment G4-LA1 New hires and turnover 6 62 Labour/ G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods 3 We always respect minimum management notice periods and in some relations cases exceed them. Occupational G4-LA6 Lost days due to illness 72 health and safety Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training 6 68 education G4-LA10 Skills management and 67–71 life-long learning G4-LA11 Regular performance 6 73 reviews Diversity and equal G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees 6 62, 64 opportunity Equal remuneration G4-LA13 Ratios of basic salaries 6 We adhere to the principle for women and of equal pay as part men of our commitment to diversity & inclusion but do not disclose such salary data. Supplier G4-LA15 58 assessment for Negative impacts on labor practices labour practices addressed in supply chain Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 89 GRI Content Index Material aspect Indicator UNGC principle Page Omissions Sub-category: Human rights Disclosure on management approach: We address human rights aspects relevant to our business through our Sustainability Risk Framework, our supply chain management and employee relations policies. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Extending our risk intelligence”, “Reducing our environmental footprint” and “Engaging our people”, respectively. Investment G4-HR1 Coverage of human rights 2 39 screening G4-HR2 Human rights training 1 32 Freedom of G4-HR4 Addressing risks to 3 28–33, 58, association freedom of association and 72–73 and collective collective bargaining bargaining Child labor G4-HR5 Addressing risk of child 5 28–33, 58 labor Forced or G4-HR6 Addressing risk of forced 4 28–33, 58 compulsory labor labour Assessment G4-HR9 Human rights screening 1 28–33 Supplier human G4-HR11 Negative human rights 2 58 rights assessment impacts addressed in supply chain Sub-category: Society Disclosure on management approach: We provide information on our management approach for the “local communities” aspect in the report of the Swiss Re Foundation and the “Creating solutions for sustainability” chapter; for “anti-corruption” in the “Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance” chapter; and for our supply chain in the “Reducing our environmental footprint” chapter. Local communities G4-SO1 Local community 1 78–79, engagement SRF 5, 28–29 FS14 Initiatives to give access to 20–25 disadvantaged people Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training 10 31, 76–77 Supplier G4-SO9 Negative society impacts 58 assessment for addressed in supply chain impacts on society SRF = “The Swiss Re Foundation in 2016” report 90 Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Material aspect Indicator UNGC principle Page Omissions Sub-category: Product responsibility Disclosure on management approach: We disclose our management approach to developing products with specific social or environmental benefits in the “Creating solutions for sustainability” chapter and on “active ownership” in the “Responsible investment” section of the “Extending our risk intelligence” chapter. Product portfolio FS7 Products with specific social 20–25, 27 benefit FS8 Products with specific 9 20–27 environmental benefit Active ownership FS11 Environmental and social 1–5, 7 40–41 screening Swiss Re 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report 91 Contact details Contact address Group Sustainability Risk Andreas Spiegel Telephone +41 43 285 7677 Andreas_Spiegel@swissre.com © 2017 Swiss Re. All rights reserved. Title: 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Production: Group Sustainability Risk Group Communications Printing: Multicolor Print AG, Baar Graphic design and production: Swiss Re Corporate Real Estate & Services/ Media Production, Zurich Photographs: Sino Images/Getty Images (Cover & back cover) Geri Krischker (page 3) Marc Wetli (page 3) Swiss Re (p. 6, p. 12, p. 19, p. 21, p. 26, p. 29, p. 37, p. 43, p. 44, p. 46, p. 58) Jorge Barrientos, MiCRO (page 23) This report is printed on sustainably produced David Ausserhofer/Swiss Re (page 49) paper. The wood used comes from forests Divney Tung Schwalbe (page 55) certified to 100% by the Forest Stewardship South Pole Group (page 57) Council (FSC). Nooch Asian Kitchen for reCIRCLE (page 61) Silvia Imre/Swiss Re (page 63) Visit www.swissre.com to Juergen Atzgerstorfer/Swiss Re (page 65) download or to order additional WORKPLACE PRIDE FOUNDATION – 2016 copies of Swiss Re publications. International Conference Amsterdam (page 66) Indigoplum (page 70) Order no: 1490937_17_EN Swiss Re Foundation (page 79) 03/16, 2000 en Swiss Re Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com
