Bilfinger SE · Carl-Reiß-Platz 1-5 · 68165 Mannheim United Nations Global Compact Two United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017 USA Ansprechpartner Abteilung Telefon Fax E-Mail Janina Max Mustermann Jakob C/CC Abt. -1234 -2065 -5678 -2500 max.mustermann@bilfinger.com janina.jakob@bilfinger.com 2. Zeile möglich 2. Zeile 2. Zeile möglich Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 15th May 2017 Bilfinger SE Zentrale Carl-Reiß-Platz 1-5 68165 Mannheim Postfach 10 05 62 68005 Mannheim Bilfinger Sustainability Report 2016 Deutschland Foreword Telefon +49 621 459-0 www.bilfinger.com Dear readers, Zentrale und Sitz der Gesellschaft Mannheim Amtsgericht Mannheim Sustainability is doubly important to Bilfinger SE. HRB 710296 On the one hand, we work to enhance the efficiency of plants, to reduce Vorsitzender des emissions, and to create sustainable value for our clients and for the Aufsichtsrats Dr. Eckhard Cordes environment. Our customers benefit from our range of services in the fields of energy efficiency and process efficiency, and also from our Vorstand Thomas Blades, Vorsitzender Bilfinger Maintenance Concept, in achieving their sustainability Michael Bernhardt objectives and reducing their ecological footprint. Environmental Dr. Klaus Patzak technologies and sustainable maintenance concepts form major parts of Bankverbindung our business, and are gaining in significance. Commerzbank AG Mannheim BLZ 670 800 50 On the other hand, our concept of sustainability means that we hold Konto 06 581 092 00 IBAN DE07 6708 0050 0658 1092 00 ourselves to high standards. As an engineering and services provider, SWIFT-Code DRESDEFF670 we want to ensure sustainability in everything we do. This means that USt-IdNr. DE 143 837 199 Steuer-Nr. 38182/01002 our sustainability strategy focuses not only on the business success of Finanzamt Mannheim-Stadt our company – it is also aimed at ensuring high customer satisfaction and exceptional quality. Our other priorities include the occupational safety of our employees and protecting their health, while fostering conduct that is in keeping with our strict Compliance rules. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we consistently implement the principles of ethical business conduct that the UN has established in this framework: We support and respect the protection of human rights, we work towards the abolition of discriminatory occupational norms and social standards, we promote the protection of the environment, and we combat corruption in all its forms. In the past fiscal year, we have once again launched numerous Seite 2 / 2 measures serving to assure respect for these principles, both within our corporation and in our supply chain. The present report will describe the activities we have pursued in this regard. In February of 2017, we realigned the strategy of our corporate group. Our “2-4-6” concept means that going forward, we will be focusing on two business segments, four regions, and six core industries. This very clear structure, flanked by a focus on attractive markets, will form the basis for our profitable growth in the years ahead. Since then, we have been bundling our services in the segments Engineering & Technologies and Maintenance, Modifications & Operations. In its Engineering & Technologies business segment, Bilfinger offers services for the development and expansion of industrial plants and the enhancement of their efficiency, along with a range of environmental technologies. In our Maintenance, Modifications & Operations business segment, we look after the upkeep, alteration work, and operational processes of our clients’ plants. The objective is to make the plants more efficient, to assure high levels of availability, and to reduce maintenance costs. Our new strategic orientation has called for adjustments to our sustainability strategy as well. Accordingly, we will be performing a survey of our stakeholders in the course of this fiscal year and reassessing the relevance of the various sustainability topics we have defined in order to subsequently realign our aims and the means we use to achieve them. So this is also a cordial invitation to join us as we pursue this path – we look forward to hearing your constructive feedback on our sustainability management! Yours truly, Tom Blades Chairman of the Executive Board of Bilfinger SE Our Sustainability Report 2016 with a description of practical actions the company has taken to implement the Global Compact principles can be found at: http://www.sustainability.bilfinger.com
