SUNMIiRK Arcon-Sunmark A/S Skørping Nord 3 DK-9520 Skørping CVR: 10778530 Tel. +45 9839 1477 mailarcon-sunmark.com UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FEBRUARY 2017 CONTENTS o Statement of Continued Support o Human Rights Principles o Labour Rights Principles o Environmental Protection Principles o Anti-Corruption Principles STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 16 February 2017 Arcon-Sunmark develops, manufactures, distributes and instails large scale solar heating solutions for district heating and industrial processes. Arcon-Sunmark has a proven track record in the solar heating industry with more than 40 years of experience. I am pleased to confirm that Arcon-Sunmark AIS and its subsidiaries support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our CSR-policy as described in the Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption policy and Employee Handbook, is based on the Ten Principles and has been approved by the Board of Directors. We have identified prioritized areas of improvement, and have initiated the process of optimizing these. We will follow up on progress on an annual basis. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Com m itm e nt Arcon-Sunmark respects cultural differences and does not do business with any supplier who practices discrimination based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or sexual orientation. No employee should ever be exposed to any physical punishment, threats or violence or physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the work place or in work related situations. Arcon-Sunmark supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. Arcon-Sunmark has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in place to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment. Arcon-Sunmark sees no significant risks that the Company or its suppliers violates the UN Global Principles i and 2. Implementation Arcon-Sunmark is on an on-going basis, and in connection with renewals of contracts, in dialogue with large volume suppliers in which our policy is communicated, in particular the Code of Conduct. We continuously coiiect information from our global divisions in order to ensure complete compliance to international and internal standards in regards to hours worked, wages and leave. Performance Evaluation Arcon-Sunmark’s Code of Conduct, which is in line with the VKR Holding Group’s Code of Conduct, has been iritroduced prior to or during 2016 and accepted by ali main suppliers of components for the production of solar paneis.. The Code of Conduct has during 2016 been presented to ali managers and employees with exterriai contact. Ali of these have confirmed to have read and understood the Gode of Conduct. In the past years, Arcon-Sunmark has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents invoiving Human Rights violations. No incidents or violations of the Human Rights principies have been reported to the Management Team. LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Commitment Arcon-Sunmark commits to provide a salary package in line with iocai standards, a safe and comfortabie working environmerit, openly communicated career paths and weli established performance and development evaluation tools. Arcon-Sunmark respects the right of workers and operates our business with safe and attractive working conditions. We respect the freedom of association and coliective Implementation Arcon-Sunmark is on an on-going basis, and in connection with renewals of contracts, in dialogue with large volume suppliers in which our policy is communicated, in particular the Code of Conduct. it is the policy that ali Arcon-Sunmark empioyees undergo annual performance reviews to set individual plans and targets. We have initiated defiried activities to reduce risks of injuries in the work place, and will define activities to maintain a low level of sick absence. Performance Evaluation Arcon-Sunmark’s Code of Conduct, which is in line with the VKR Hoiding Group’s Code of Conduct, has prior to or during 2016 been introduced and accepted by ali main suppliers of components for the production of solar paneis.. The Code of Conduct has during 2016 been presented to ali managers with staff responsibiiity. Ali of these have confirmed to have read and understood the Code of Conduct. ln the past years, Arcon-Surimark has flot been subject to any irivestigations, legal cases or incidents involving Labour Rights violations. No incidents or violations of the Human Rights principles have been reported to the Management Team. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PRINCIPLES Commitment Arcon-Sunmark supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Also, we encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We actively support a sustainable environmental progress through the development and distribution of solar heating solutions, which significantly reduces emissions of carbon dioxide. Overall, we consider our production process to have a relatively low impact on the environment. However, we do recognize that parts of our production and related transportation have a negative impact on the environ ment, and we constantly work to minimize these effects. Arcon-Sunmark sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact principles 7, 8 and 9. Implementation We are constantly working on product development to improve the relationship between consumption of resources and performance of our products. The different parts of the production process are evaluated to identify savings on use of energy, water and other resources. The geographical location of production is optimized in order to reduce transportation of finished goods. Performance Evaluation Product development and process optimization have continued in order to improve effectiveness of the end-product (solar energy collectors), and to reduce the relative consumption of resources (compared to units produced). ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Commitment Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to sustainable development and free trade. Arcon-Sunmark supports the work against corruption in ali its forms, inciuding extortion and bribery. Arcon-Sunmark acknowiedges that minor business gifts and moderate entertainment, inciuding meals, are accepted ways to build relationships and generate goodwill between business partners. This practice must however aiways be conducted in a transparent way, and only to an extent appropriate to our integrity guidelines and business ethics, inciuding the Anti-Corruption policy. Arcon-Sunmark sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact principie 10. Implementation Arcon-Sunmark is on an on-going basis, and in connection with renewals of contracts, in dialogue with large voiume suppliers in which our policy is communicated, in particular the Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption poiicy. Guidelines of handling issues of corruption, hospitality and donations (Anti-Corruption policy) are provided to ali empioyees with external contact. Performance Evaluation Arcon-Sunmark’s Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption policy, which is in line with the VKR Holding Group’s policies, has during 2016 been presented to ali employees with
