United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress March 2016 – March 2017 Statement of Continued Support of the United Nations Global Compact Principles PKF Eastern Africa has a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognize the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders our clients, our employees, and the communities in which we work. We endeavour to adhere to the United Nations Global Compact Principles through the services we offer to our clients, and in our operations and interactions with the community around us. Even though PKF Kenya is the signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, our offices in the region embrace and implement the ten principles. We are pleased to enclose our communication on progress reaffirming our continued support of the United Nations Global Compact principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By delivering this communication on progress, we are reaffirming our continued adherence to the Global Compact and our voluntary commitment to implementing the Global Compact principles and its ten principles within the firm and to addressing them as a key issue in our dealings with partners and commissioning parties. We hereby give a detailed account of actions taken between March 2016 and March 2017 with regard to implementation of the United Nations Global Compact principles. Atul Shah Chief Executive Officer PKF Eastern Africa PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 2 Contents STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 2 ABOUT US 4 INTRODUCTION 6 1. HUMAN RIGHTS 8 2. LABOUR 22 3. ENVIRONMENT 24 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION 26 PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 3 About us PKF Eastern Africa has offices in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and Zambia with over 800 staff and 40 partners. Since 1964, we have served a wide client profile across diverse industries and sectors in Africa. We are one of East Africa’s leading firms of accountants and business advisers, specialising in advising the management of developing private and public businesses. We offer Audit and Assurance, Tax and Advisory services to a wide variety of public and private sector organisations. The firm prides itself in being an equal opportunity, multicultural firm with the majority of its partners born and raised in East Africa. As a result, we have a unique understanding of the local markets that enables us to offer holistic, innovative and relevant business solutions, taking into account the distinct market forces and constraints that come into play within the region. We are a member firm of PKF International, a global network of legally independent firms bound together by a shared commitment to quality, integrity and the creation of clarity in a complex regulatory environment. With offices in 440 cities, PKF member firms operate in 150 countries across 5 continents and specialise in providing high quality audit, accounting, tax, and business advisory services to international and domestic organisations. The network is a member of the Forum of Firms an organisation dedicated to consistent and high quality standards of financial reporting and auditing practices worldwide. Our vision To be a leading regional accounting and business advisory firm with a recognised global presence, providing quality and personalised service through relationships and empowered professional manpower. Our mission • To support and guide clients to achieve success in their business by acting as their trusted business advisers. • To provide quality, cost effective, personalized and innovative business solutions to meet the changing needs of our clients. • To empower our manpower through continuous professional development to face the dynamic global challenges. Our services Today, we provide a wide range of services to clients ranging from large companies to SMEs in virtually all sectors of the economy. These include: PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 4  Audit, assurance and advisory  Tax consultancy  Corporate finance  Management consultancy  Human resource management  Business process outsourcing  Corporate recovery and restructuring  IT consultancy  Public sector consultancy  Company secretarial services  Forensic PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 5 Introduction As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we reaffirm our commitment to aligning our strategic plans and operations, internal and external to our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy. Our CSR Policy states “PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. We have a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognise the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders – employees, clients and the communities in which we work with.” Our CSR Policy revolves around four pillars: 1. The workplace This involves all activities which uphold the wellbeing of employees within the workplace by incorporating work practices such as workforce diversity, work-life balance, health and safety, training etc. 2. The marketplace We implement our policy by engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace. 3. The community We offer support for community initiatives and institutions involved in community work and communal concerns by providing either or both financial and non-financial assistance. 4. The environment We advocate for good environmental practices and engaging in environmentally friendly practices at the firm, with clients, corporate partners and the general public. The above pillars guide our approach to the Global Compact Principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti–Corruption. PKF Foundation We established the PKF Foundation to fund all CSR activities implemented by PKF in Eastern Africa and a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) committee having representatives from all offices that have: Established a collective CSR commitment  Identified areas of focus that will create sustainable development impacts, foster improved communication with stakeholders and ensure sustainability of the business as a whole. Furthermore as a member of the United Nations Global Compact, PKF is committed to aligning its strategic plans and daily operations, internally and externally, in line with the UN Global Compact’s principles. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 6 Our submission This communication of progress (COP) highlights practical actions the firm has taken to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption between March 2016 and March 2017. PKF here refers to PKF Eastern Africa. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 7 1. Human rights PKF Eastern Africa recognises that Human Rights are an integral part of corporate citizenship and we respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The first two principles of the UN Global Compact, which are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, are:  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation We have an established code of conduct and core values which is consequently rooted in our culture of experience, confidence and delivery. Our culture is about fostering the best values and attitudes for pursuing our business drivers. These have been defined as i) producing quality work, ii) meeting clients’ needs, iii) leading and enabling, iv) achieving financial results and v) growing the business 1. Our core values We expect our staff to project the following individual values of professionalism: Clients We are here to please our customers, without them nothing else matters. We only succeed when our customers improve their operations by using our services. We must understand their needs, how they use our services, and how they improve their business. Buying our services is just the first step. Successful implementation and value creation must follow. Teamwork – At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Are responsive  Share knowledge  Respect each other  Share information and work collaboratively  Offer help to others  Celebrate success & share experiences PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 8 Clarity At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Are clear and concise  Are open and transparent  Don’t use jargon  Are straight to the point  Communicate effectively  Ask questions to clarify understanding Integrity At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Take responsibility  Do what we say  Are honest  Keep all information confidential  Do not compromise our independence  Are ethical Quality At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Maintain the highest standards  Are consistent in service delivery  Consult when in doubt  Hold ourselves accountable  Understand and manage risk  Embrace technology  Are skeptical  Always strive for improvement  Keep abreast with change Passion At PKF Eastern Africa we:  Never say “No”  Are enthusiastic  Are engaged  Are proactive  Exceed expectations Our values guide our actions and beliefs. Our values are aligned to the human rights principles. It is the personal responsibility of everyone in the firm to ensure that we put these behaviours into practice. We also have a responsibility to intervene where we see others failing to uphold them. We provide several avenues to address any issue that contravenes the code of conduct as well as use of the confidential whistle-blowing procedure. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 9 2. Our ethical policy Our ethical policy is at the core of our approach to our business. At PKF Eastern Africa, we aim to ensure that we maintain the highest level of professional integrity with our clients, our staff, professional regulators and others with whom we interact. This means that in all our dealings we aim to exceed the regulatory standards by which we are required to operate. We take great care to ensure that client confidentiality, our objectivity and our independence are hallmarks of everything we do. PKF Eastern Africa also seeks to support the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) through its business practices. The core requirements of the UDHR include freedom from torture, unjustified imprisonment, unfair trial and other oppression, along with freedom of expression, religion and political or other representation. Therefore PKF Eastern Africa will not provide support or work with businesses or organisations which:  fail to uphold basic human rights within their sphere of influence  are involved in the manufacture or transfer of armaments to oppressive regimes  are involved in the manufacture of torture equipment or other equipment that is used in the violation of human rights PKF Eastern Africa also advocates and supports the Fundamental International Labour Organisation Conventions. These are the most widely-accepted standards for minimum labour rights and cover the use of under-age or forced labour. This policy is also published on our website and can be found at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-ethical-policy PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 10 3. Our CSR policy PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. We have a strong commitment to responsible business practices and recognize the importance of balancing the interests of all our key stakeholders our clients, our employees, and the communities in which we work. We:  Adopt business practices that are socially and environmentally responsible with the aim of making a positive difference to the individuals and communities around us.  Invest in the well-being of the community we live and work by initiating or supporting efforts in, environmental management and protection, upholding the standards and development of the profession, improving the lives of disadvantaged persons and community development.  Encourage our staff, clients and associates to individually and collectively adopt and implement an active and positive attitude towards Corporate Social Responsibility. Our CSR activities are primarily led by the staff through office CSR Committees with all planned activities review by the PKF partners. The PKF Foundation was set up to support the CSR activities of the firm. Our presence in the community around us At PKF Eastern Africa, we have long recognised that local businesses and local communities are inextricably linked. The firm plays an active role in contributing to society through both financial support and through enabling our people to take part in activities organised by the firm as well as supporting them in their own initiatives. We encourage all of our people to take part in charitable and voluntary activities as we recognise that this strengthens our bond with the communities in which we work. PKF Eastern Africa’s work in the community is supported by our CSR Policy. We strive to be a leader in corporate social accountability. Our CSR activities revolved around the four pillars of our CSR matrix: workplace, marketplace, environment and community. i. Workplace activities These focus on upholding the wellbeing of employees within the workplace. The activities in 2016 include: PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 11 NAIROBI Staff Christmas party Every end of year PKF holds a party in which all staff members, seniors, managers, partners and invited guests get to participate in well organised games, share meals, attend free medical checkups, win a variety of gifts, among other activities. Staff who have participated in different organised certiﬁed examinations also get to be recognised. Fun activities for staff Partners among other things communicate matters on commitment to quality and professionalism. 2016 end year party was not exceptional. We bid farewel to a director who has served the ﬁrm for 37 years, Mr. Atulesh Patel. The event was well organised and was characterised by cool music,variety of food and drinks, all which kept staff engaged and entertained. Atul’s farewell cake Shawarma delicacy on display PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 12 Aberdare ranges excursions The hike uphill took 6 to 7 hours from an altitude of 2500M. The first few kilometres were over a relatively flat forest covered terrain with accessional herd of grazing and signs of widespread destruction of the forest by human exploitation. On further ascend, the forest gave way to the bamboo zone. The trek through the Bamboo zone is Punctuated Elephant hill peak ever few steps by treacherous mud and is covered by a canopy of towering bamboo with only filtered light getting through as we continued up the steeper path. Occasional elephant footprint and droppings from various animal species was a constant reminder that it’s a game reserve full of wildlife Mt Kenya excursions Staff from Nairobi joined by Kampala office team on 1st to 6th of October set out to conquer Mount Kenya which is the highest mountain in Kenya and the second-highest in Africa, after Kilimanjaro PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 13 Faraja Cancer Support Trust PKF foundation has over the years partnered with Faraja cancer support centre through their contributions. This has seen PKF staff travel to participate in white water rafting challenge at Tana River in Sagana in a bid to raise funds to support the Trust in providing complementary support services to cancer patients and their families. Just 1 in 10 children survive cancer in Kenya compared to 7 in 10 in developed countries according to statistics. Faraja ensures that their services reach children and their families as they go through difﬁcult time by providing practical and emotional support. According to Faraja, Kids can get pretty miserable and bored having to stay for months on end at a hospital for cancer treatment. The Crafts for Cure program takes place every Friday afternoon at Kenyatta National Hospital run by Faraja and Nairobi University's AIESEC students. Crafts for cure enables these kids a welcome distraction from treatments, the chance to hang out with fun people and just get to be kids for an afternoon. Around 40 children attend the craft for cure workshops ii. Marketplace activities This involves engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace by observing laws and statutory requirements, encouraging sustainable business practices, refraining from corruption amongst other professional practices. Our main and core purpose is creating and sustaining supportive relationships where objective and timely advice enables our clients to thrive, develop and succeed by advising the management of developing private and public businesses. We have done this by: i. Providing information to our clients and the general public through seminars. National Budget Seminars We hosted our clients on the content and implications of the 2016/2017 budget that had been presented by the Ministry of Finance. In our mandate as key stakeholders in the economy, we also held a pre-budget briefing where as a firm we projected the firms’ expectations and suggestions to the Ministry of Finance for input into the national budget. ii. We contributed to the improved efficiency and competitiveness of other companies and sectors by supporting initiatives that reward excellence in various sectors. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 14 PKF Kenya was the Judging Process Partner at the 2016 Energy Management Awards. This is an annual event for all energy consumers arrived at encouraging a culture of energy efficiency and conservation. It recognizes enterprises that have made major and sustainable gains in energy efficiency through the application of modern energy management principles and practices and in the process made significant energy and cost reductions. PKF was also part of the judging panel at the Kenya and Uganda FiRe Awards. The FiRe Awards objective is to promote excellence in financial reporting, fostering sound corporate governance practices and enhancing corporate social investment and environmental reporting. PKF was also part of the judging panel in Insurance awards, Banking awards, Investment awards and Capital markets awards. iii. Partnerships and Mentoring Opportunities  Through PROPEL, a business initiative that has its foundation steeped in transforming and repositioning African businesses to navigate them to a fuller realization of these emerging economic opportunities, we provide mentorship opportunities to budding entrepreneurs in the Next Big Thing Competition. The Next Big Thing is an initiative aimed at mainstreaming the disadvantaged through innovative business strategies that promote entrepreneurship as well as economic empowerment of the communities around us.  Microsoft Biz4Africa, an online hub launched for Kenyan small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to access locally relevant information and resources to promote SMEs and improve trade. Biz4Afrika is an Africa-wide network of SMEs designed to enable a sustainable and connected community of entrepreneurs that will have a meaningful impact on job creation, global competitiveness and wealth creation in the long run. The online portal provides one-stop shop for information resources and business services for small and medium enterprises, with PKF as one of the solutions provider, via PROPEL. iii. Community and environment activities This is implemented through support of community initiatives and institutions involved in community and charity concerns. This support is both financial and non-financial. Some of the initiatives we engaged in include:  Community Day The firm has set aside a day off its calendar each year to give back to the community. In 2016, through the support of PKF foundation, various offices marked our CSR day in diverse ways as indicated below. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 15 KAMPALA 2016 was indeed a year of giving for PKF Uganda. In 2016, a few staff and management of PKF Uganda visited Naguru Reception Centre and donated various goodies to the Children. This centre (the only one in Uganda) is a childrens centre that temporarily keeps homeless children between the ages of 6 to 16. Currently the centre keeps over 90 Children as they search for their homes or relatives. Construction and commission of a classroom/administration block to Nkambo primary school Mr. Dalal handing over goodies to Naguru Children’s home As part of our CSR, staff and management of PKF Uganda inconjunction with The Indian Association Uganda donated blood to Nakasero Blood Bank. Other staff from different organisations and companies who occupy Kalamu House also joined the drive and donated blood.  Rotary Cancer Run The Rotary Country Ofﬁce Uganda organized a cancer run to raise funds for completion of Cancer Ward at Nsambya Hospital. A number of staff from PKF Uganda participated in this noble cause Uganda staff at the event PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 16 NAKURU CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) DAY AT NJORO SPECIAL SCHOOL IN NJORO The event was held on 14 January 2017 at Njoro Special School in Njoro-Nakuru County. Njoro Special School is located at a nearby town of Nakuru, some 25 kms away. The school is a centre where the mentally and physically challenged kids are trained on basic aids to life like writing their names, reading, dressing, bathing among other things and better ones are taught on self sustenance skills e.g. farming, knitting and bead work. The land was donated by the Salvation army and the government /local CDF helped in putting up a few classes and administration block. The centre has 50 pupils and 7 Teachers Service Commission teachers. Currently, there is very little help from the government and the school looks upon well wishers to help in the day to day running of the centre. Our team was warmly welcomed by the Headmistress, the teachers and the kids who were very excited. Headmistress gave an orientation of the centre starting from the administration block to the farm. This was a follow up visit by our Nakuru office The kids’ excitement was evident. They helped in offloading the donations and were all smiles during the event Our team visited the school greenhouse and help them harvest tomatoes and strawberries. The green house is served by a water tank that we donated in 2013. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 17 NAIROBI Your Support is well appreciated! David Mandela, his mother Barasa Shitukha, the Bohra Primary School Senior teachers, Mrs Elizabeth Muthoka, Ms Sagana and Ms Thaimuta joined in showing their appreciation to PKF Foundation for issuing a sponsorship cheque of Kshs 54,054 and Kshs 30,000 donations which was to help in sending 2015 top performer of the Bohra Primary School to join Shimo La Tewa High School on Monday, 8 February 2016. The former Borha Primary School pupil gave a speech on his future aspirations of becoming an engineer. In attendance were David Kabeberi (The managing director and partner for PKF) Patrick Kuria (Partner), Kunal Shikotra (Former PKF consulting corporate ﬁnance manager) among others.  Mater Heart Run PKF Foundation made a donation to the Mater Heart Run funds to raise funds to cover expenses for heart operations on deserving children and the unfortunate in society. Staff participated in the Nairobi and Mombasa runs. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 18  Left foot tournament Left Foot Sports is a young Private Kenyan enterprise with a goal to develop football in Kenya as a service to all who love the game. The teams are normally drawn from various corporate world.  Getrudes children’s hospital Getrude’s Hospital Foundation 26 Annual Charity Golf Tournament In a letter dated January 18, 2017 addressed to Atul Shah, The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of PKF Eastern Africa, Edwin Ochieng the Foundation Accountant of Getrude’s Children’s Hospital, expresses his gratitude on behalf of the Trustees, Management and Staff members of the Getrude’s Hospital Foundation. “It is most generous of you to come forward so spontaneously to help us, we wish you to know how very much we appreciate your thoughtfulness in so doing and appreciate your continued support.” says Edwin. He assures PKF that their contribution will be well spent and that it will undoubtedly go towards saving a young life. Gertrude’s Children’s Hospital is the largest hospital in East and Central Africa dedicated exclusively to the care of children. For over 60 years, the hospital has provided high standards of pediatric care for children from birth to 21 years of age. The hospital is a non-proﬁt organization, chartered with responsibilities beneﬁting humankind such as providing health services, fostering good health, carrying out research and teaching healthcare professionals. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 19 KISUMU Kibos school for visually impaired Kibos School for the Visually Impaired was established to provide an encouraged environment for the intellectual, spiritual and physical development of visually impaired children under the care of Kibos. Kibos School has a current population of 166 pupils from nursery to class eight. Most of these pupils are from poor families while others have been abandoned due to disability. The PKF CSR committee visited the school and identified the following needs  Tractor papers which are used to make text books that can be read in brail  Braile papers which the pupils use as exercise books  Renovation of the boys ablution block and putting a wall curtain  Gate repair and painting The school was initially fully sponsored by the Salvation Army Church. However, they pulled out and now they depend on well wishers donations. The government provides normal text books which need to be converted into their special text books. We renovated the boys ablution block and to bought 20 reams of braille paper and 5 reams of tractor papers. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 20 MOMBASA Corporate social responsibility day at malanga primary school in kiliﬁ county, held on 11 November 2016 by PKF mombasa. PKF Mombasa office was honoured to carry out its outreach CSR activity at Malanga Primary School located in Kilifi County, on 11 November, 2016. The school is in the same locality as of one of PKF’s Mombasa office former staff, Mzee Katana. The school also boasts of two old students namely, David Kahande and Masha Sirya, who currently work for PKF Malindi office. Malanga Primary School was established in 1978 and is a mixed-day school. It currently has 477 students and 12 teachers. Despite the numerous challenges the school faces, it has in the past three years recorded exemplary results in the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination, in Kilifi county. This is proof that they all work towards accomplishing their school motto “Tufanye Bidii Tufaulu” (translated as “Make Effort to Succeed”). To help them achieve this success, PKF Mombasa refurbished and stocked up of the school library PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 21 2. Labour The Global Compact's labour principles are derived from the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work:  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation PKF Eastern Africa applies the labour principles at the firm level through the code of conduct and our Human Resource Policies. These imply equal employment practices which promote a diverse workforce. 1. Our code of conduct Our code of conduct is rooted in our culture. It guides how we relate with our employees and our clients. For our employees, our code of conduct correlates with the labour principles in the following ways:  Providing interesting and challenging work and develop great experience  Investing in employees to add onto their skills, for their benefit, the firm’s and our clients  Being strong at quality relationships, building them and developing them  We get to know our people and our clients and understand their needs  We embrace diversity, maintaining a working environment which is free from prejudice and harassment we do not tolerate behaviour that contravenes these principles For our clients, other than providing excellent service, value for money and expert solutions, our people uphold ethical and professional standards and ensure confidential information is protected, our fees are appropriate and in line with our terms of engagement. Most importantly, we act with integrity, independence and objectivity, not allowing bias or undue influence to affect our professional judgement. Our code of conduct can be found at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/pkf-code-of-conduct. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 22 2. Our employment contract  Each employee of PKF Eastern Africa receives an employment contract, upon joining the firm, which meets all the requirements as set out by the Laws of Kenya. Additionally, all employees are provided with an enabling and conducive environment in which they can perform their duties as expected. The firm provides additional benefits to the employees such as medical cover, membership to a pension scheme, trainee contracts where PKF sponsors staff to attain one professional accounting qualification.  The employment contract between the firm and the employees ensures that there is no forced labour, with the employee provided with the opportunity to terminate the contract.  PKF Eastern Africa does not employ minors and proof of age is a requirement before employment.  Our code of conduct clearly sets out the firm’s intent to promote a diverse workforce. As part of these standards we work to value different views and opinions, to respect each employee’s personal needs, and promote a workplace free from harassment and discrimination by upholding the equal opportunity principle.  PKF Eastern Africa also advocates and supports the Fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions. These are the most widely-accepted standards for minimum labour rights and cover the use of under-age or forced labour. This is indicated in our Ethical Policy available at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-ethicalpolicy PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 23 3. Environment The UN Global Compact’s environment principles are derived from the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. The three principles are:  Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and;  Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Implementation 1. Our environmental policy We take seriously the impact of our business activities on the environment. We believe care for the environment is an important part of the way in which we do business. It is our policy to ensure that both our people and our suppliers operate in an environmentally conscious manner. To read more about our environmental policy, please visit our website at: http://www.pkfea.com/index.php/our-environmental-policy  Environmental awareness This involves display of our environmental policy on our website and all our electronic communication.  Compliance with the law All the building we have constructed to be our offices are in full compliance with the environmental regulations. 2. Environmental consultancy We assist other companies to meet the regulatory requirements by providing services that enable them to comply with the environmental law. 3. Sponsoring environment conservancy initiatives  Kenya Forest Services We have partnered with the Kenya Forest Services in a tree planting exercise and maintenance of the trees, now in the third year. Additionally, tree planting is one of the activities carried out during community day. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 24  Energy management awards The energy management award is an award for all energy consumers geared at encouraging a culture of energy efficiency and conservation. It seeks to recognise enterprises that have made major and sustainable gains in energy efficiency through the application of modern energy management principles and practices, and in the process made significant energy and cost reductions. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 25 4. Anti-Corruption The Global compact Anti-Corruption principle is derived from the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery PKF Eastern Africa prides itself in having a deep heritage of operating at the highest level of integrity. Our company’s longstanding commitment to doing business with integrity means avoiding corruption in any form. We engage in fair, ethical and responsible business practices in the marketplace. We do this by refraining from corruption, accuracy of client reporting, observing laws and statutory requirements and encouraging sustainable business practice. Implementation 1. Our ethical policy We are able to implement this principle by applying our Ethical Policy. Our ethical policy is at the core of our approach to our business. We aim to ensure that we maintain the highest level of professional integrity with our clients, our staff, professional regulators and others with whom we interact. This means that in all our dealings we aim to exceed the regulatory standards by which we are required to operate. We take great care to ensure that client confidentiality, our objectivity and our independence are hallmarks of everything we do. PKF Eastern Africa eliminates corruption by engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices which includes refraining from corruption, observing laws and statutory requirements and encouraging sustainable business practices. Our human resource policy describes corruption as a ‘breach of respectability’ which states: “corruption, that is to say, soliciting for or accepting payment or other valuable consideration of services rendered within the normal course or scope of official firm duties.” 2. Our core values We expect that all employees will execute our core values, particularly Integrity, “We execute with integrity, holding ourselves to the highest standards of performance, accountability and personal conduct. If something doesn't work, don't ship it. If a deal isn't right, don't take it. If the numbers don't add up, find out why.” 3. Our code of conduct (Described on page 20 of this document) PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 26 4. Our services As a leading professional services firm, we continue to proactively support the adoption of the International Public Accounting Standards (IPSASs), to enhance public accountability. In our daily operations especially as auditors, we are obligated to maintain the highest levels of integrity. All our relationships with our clients, suppliers and employees are hinged on our philosophy, commitment to promoting high standards of discipline, excellence and ethics through adherence to the firm’s quality standards and value charter, the laws of the country and the profession. 5. Membership to the local Global Compact Network We joined the Global Compact Network in Kenya in April 2012. We signed up to the Code of Ethics as we are keen to promote and enhance the ethics of business conduct in Kenya in line with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. PKF Eastern Africa communication on progress 27 KENYA Nairobi I Mombasa I Malindi I Kisumu I Nakuru UGANDA Kampala TANZANIA Dar es Salaam RWANDA Kigali www.pkfea.com
