TO GIVE JOY AND HEALTH Progress Report OJSC “Savushkin product” 2017 CONTENTS 01Appeal of the General Director 04 “Savushkin product” — responsible employer 02How does the flagman of dairy industry of Belarus work? 05 Environmental protection 03“Savushkin product” — for health of the nation 06 Anti-corruption management APPEAL OF THE GENERAL DIRECTOR Dear colleagues, partners! to the highest international standards Developing our business on the principles of doing business. of social responsibility, for many years our company has been a full member of the The most striking educational, social UN international initiative “Global Compact”. and charitable projects which have been And it follows the mission with dignity: to give implemented by «Savushkin product» joy and health to people by producing natural in 2017 are presented in this progress report. dairy products with care for our consumers. As well as all the things that we have managed to do so as the world, people and Notwithstanding that a customer is always the environment around us become better. a major guide for us, environmental protection We hope sincerely that you will enjoy reading and responsible attitude to the employees this document and will duly appreciate our of our company have been in the focus ofour achievements in the area of corporate social company’s attention for all these years. We put responsibility, and their compliance with 10 a lot of efforts to meet their expectations at all principles of the UN international initiative times, receiving high loyalty and trust in return! “Global Compact”. Being a flagman of the dairy industry of Belarus, Aleksandr Savchits, we strive to work so as every our step conforms Director General OJSC “Savushkin product” 3 2 HOW DOES THE FLAGMAN OF MILK INDUSTRY OF BELARUS WORK?  INDUSTRY LEADER OJSC “Savushkin product” is one of the largest dairy companies in the Republic of Belarus, heading the rating of effective enterprises of the food industry in the country. 4 3 174 25 аbout manufacturing our manufacturing site is million dollars awards international and sites divided into 3 zones (green, invested within republican professional yellow, red) — according to 9 months of 2017 awards for 2017 the degree of risk of product possible contamination 5 PRODUCTION CAPACITY 3750 production capacity Data are presented in tons per day. average daily volume 2000 of processed milk 1100 25 NDP butter 80 80 cheese dried 60 juices dairy natural products dairy mainly, products dried whey 6 The last decade was the most indicative Nowadays “Savushkin product” carries Pinsk manufacturing site is engaged in the company’s development. During out its production on 4 manufacturing into production of cheese (hard and this relatively short period of time, sites, two of which are located in Brest processed), butter and SMP (dry whey the milk company of the regional scale, and the other two are located in Pinsk and buttermilk), slicing (into a bar and processing 719 tons of milk per day, and Stolin with its own specialization. slicer) and packaging of all cheese made a rapid leap forward, turning The whole range of whole milk produced by the company is carried into the leader of dairy industry in the products (over 200 items) and juices out there. Manufacturing branch country, which is able to process up (23 items) and dry whey in assortment in Stolin specializes in cheese production. to 3,750 tons of milk and 2,150 tons are manufactured in Brest. Average daily aggregate volume of milk of whey per day. processing is about 2,000 tons. 7 COMPANY’S BRANDS The company has five dairy brands (“Savushkin”, “Brest-Litovsk”, “Optimal”, “SuperKid”, “Laskovoye Leto”) and one juice brand (“Na100yashchyi”). According to annual sociological studies, the company’s products have become the leader in consumer preferences in Belarusian market for 16 years running. 8 THE KEY FACTORS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Availability of a long-term development Provision of the company Output of competitive Care for people strategy which is with high-quality milk natural products and environment. based on a smart investment policy for raw materials. without preservatives. introduction of the state-of-the-art production technologies aimed at advanced processing of raw materials. Availability of balanced assortment portfolio and strong brands, Diversification Logistics its own distribution network. of sales markets. optimization. 9 THE BEST TECHNOLOGIES — We are constantly working towards increase BASIS OF THE QUALITY in production capacities, purchasing the latest high-tech equipment, which allows to exclude manual labor AND SECURITY and facilitate the staff’s work in all stages of manufacturing process. Investment policy of the company is directed at the constant technical The company constantly works towards environmental protection and re-equipment of the production facilities and introduction of the statenowadays it is non-waste production, completely reprocesses so-called of-the-art technological processes. This ensures consistently high quality by-products (cheese and cottage cheese whey and buttermilk), turning them andafety of food produced by the company and output of natural dairy into a competitive and commercially successful, high value-added product. products and cheeses with long shelf-life periods without the use of preservatives and storage temperature modes from +2 to +6° C. Control over technological processes at the enterprise is fully computerized. No-contact of milk with the external environment and people within the The bottling and desserts workshops were modernized in 2016-2017. manufacturing process makes for maximum food safety and has a positive effect on the quality of finished products. All products are manufactured on modern production equipment from the leading global manufacturers, including Tetra Pak, Westfalia, Alfa Laval, Obram, Bosch, General Electrics (GE), GEA, etc. 10 COMPANY’S MISSION All dairy products in the company are produced from fresh cow milk without use of artificial fillers and preservatives. We are engaged in a noble business: provide people with natural dairy products. The products, regular use of which helps people to improve their health. THE COMPANY’S MISSION IS TO GIVE JOY AND HEALTH TO PEOPLE! 11 CORPORATE VALUES In its activities the company is guided by the universal human values. Leadership Fair and open Careful attitude Striving to be the best in its business policy to people business. Consume-oriented, first-class People are the company’s service, naturality and high main value. quality products. Quality Partnership Independence Each employee influences the Unindifference and Each employee is free quality and safety of products by involvement: we work to make decisions within means of the results of his labour. as one team. his competence. Responsibility Professionalism Close attention to the safety We appreciate professional skills of products manufactured. of our team and contribution of each employee to the company’s development. 12 WORK WITH THE SUPPLIERS OF FRESH COW’S MILK Today, the company processes more than 40% of all milk raw materials of Brest region. About 90% of the total volume of incoming raw materials corresponds to “extra” and Whatever your favourite product from “Savushkin product” gets milk raw highest grades. The company does not accept the company “Savushkin product” is, materials from 92 farms of Brest region. raw materials of the you can be sure that it is manufactured Many of them are located near the second grade and from high quality fresh cow’s milk, National Park “Belovezhskaya Pushcha” without grade. which is supplied every day from the that gives evidence of environmentallyBaranovichi farms of our raw materials area. friendly raw materials. Over the last 40 years our company has not worked a single day on Our company strictly monitors reconstituted milk powder. and ensures comfortable conditions of stockkeeping, its balanced ration We are absolutely confident that the and provide proper treatment of cows Pruzhany quality and taste of manufactured as well. Thanks to the special European products depends largely on the quality technologies of loose housing, of input raw materials (incoming milk). we have managed to avoid a strongly “Savushkin product” purchases raw pronounced seasonal variation Kobryn DROGICHIN PINSK milk only from reliable and conscientious in volumes of milk entering for processing. suppliers. Department of agriculture This allows the company working Ivanovo STOLIN development is daily engaged into on whole cow’s milk all year round. BREST improvement of milk quality and productivity of the milking herd. Malorita 92 farms 13 ONLY 100% QUALITATIVE We process milk with successful results, MILK IS ADMITTED TO we turn into hundreds of tasty natural dairy products that will help you enjoy healthy THE MANUFACTURING FACILITIES. nutrition. ?! DO YOU KNOW? In “Savushkin product” milk-raw material is checked on 30 parameters. At the enterprise samples of raw material are sent to the input control laboratory. This is a strict checking for compliance with 30 necessary quality and safety parameters. Important: we control the quality of milk within the It takes max. 20 minutes to check one tank. whole way of its movement from a cow to the shelves, Modern laboratory equipment used in all so that our consumers can be sure that they choose manufacturing sites allows to analyze milk “Savushkin product” excludes the penetration the best for themselves and their nearest. within the minimum period of time: to determine of antibiotics into dairy products! fat, protein, lactose mass content, its acidity, Prior to milk processing, a thorough laboratory analysis plate count, somatic cells number. All raw The only source of possible penetration of every batch of milk is carried out. The first test for materials are necessarily checked for the of antibiotics in dairy products is raw milk. milk quality is done directly on the farms. Qualitative residues of antibiotics pesticides, mycotoxins, If antibiotics are present in raw milk, they raw materials are pumped into sterile tanks of the etc. Even in the event of minimal deviation, will be contained in a finished product. company’s milk tankers which then are immediately milk is returned to the supplier together And they can get there only if a sick animal was sealed and sent to “Savushkin product”. with a covering letter. milked together with a healthy herd. 14 “Savushkin product” values quality of its products and carries out serious work with the farms supplying milk to the company, in order to prevent potential for penetration of antibiotics in raw milk. To do this, all the cows, milk from which comes to us for processing, are chipped (have individual electronic chips with complete information about health of each animal). On the way to milking, all cows go through special gates equipped with sensors, which read out from the chips all information about health of each animal and open or not open the gates to the milking parlour for each separate cow. Thus, cows that are sick and undergo medical treatment, are sent to a special milking parlour, and it means that their milk will not get to the manufacturing facilities. Because milk of these animals can do a lot of harm to people. 15 QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS TO ENSURE HIGH QUALITY AND SAFETY OF PRODUCED FOOD THE FOLLOWING MANAGEMENTS SYSTEMS ARE INTRODUCED AND IMPLEMENTED IN “SAVUSHKIN Our company as a self-respecting PRODUCT” COMPANY: 01 manufacturer that cares about the health of its consumers, knows and adheres to the rules manufacturing quality management system of safe manufacturing processes is certified in compliance with the requirements management. As a matter of fact, of STB ISO 9001-2009; 02 years of hard work, naturality of a final product, production capacities, work places and food safety management system is certified company reputation are put according to international certification system on the line, you know. FSSC 22000; 03 To exclude completely the risks associated with the possibility of radiation contamination, milk raw environmental management system (EMS), materials are regularly checked which includes the national conformity certificate for caesium and strontium. STB ISO 14001 and the international conformity certificate ISO 14001. 16 EXPORT Another guarantee of food high quality and safety is availability By the way, our company is the only one dairy enterprise of the Republic of Belarus which from July 2013 regularly SUPPLIES of perpetual export license supplies traditional dairy products and its dessert group at “Savushkin product” company to the EU countries. And this is not only a guarantee for the right to supply the whole of quality, but also a good reputation of the manufacturer range of products to the EU who can maintain the level of naturalness, safety countries. and ecological properties of the finished product. Export ratio in total sales amount, 9 months of 2017. THE COMPANY EFFECTS EXPORT SUPPLIES EXPORTS SHARE IN TOTAL OF ITS PRODUCTS TO 28 COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD 59 3 % SALES VOLUME Azerbaijan Georgia PRC Russia Armenia Egypt Lithuania Singapore Bulgaria Israel Malaysia Turkmenistan United Kingdom India Moldova the Ukraine Vietnam Jordan the Netherlands the Philippines Germany Kazakhstan UAE Estonia January September Hong Kong Qatar Poland Japan 17 3 “SAVUSHKIN PRODUCT” ― FOR HEALTH OF THE NATION FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 19 TO GIVE JOY AND HEALTH TO PEOPLE! Choosing care for consumers’ health • “School milk”; as the basic strategy of its development, • “School of healthy nutrition”; yet in 2005 the company developed a long• “Healthy nutrition means healthy nation”; term program “Savushkin product” — • “Intelligent consumer”; OJSC “Savushkin product” follows the main idea of the Global • “Milk literacy campaign”; Compact: achievement of commercial success with essential for health of the nation”. • “Club of milk fanciers”, etc. condition to respect and preservation of the universal human values. Within this period of time, in the Statistics shows insufficient drinking of milk framework of the programme many by most people. (On the average Belarusians Nowadays OJSC “Savushkin product” is not only the manufacturer information and educational projects consume at least 90 kg of dairy products less of natural high-quality dairy products. Its main social objective and events were held: than recommended by the WHO rates.) Hence, is to inform the consumers and society of our company and its the growth of diseases appears. products. “Savushkin product” implements its mission “To give pleasure and health to people” in practice. MILK CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA, 2016 Taking into account undisputable fact that healthy food forms the basis of health preservation of every human being, the company’s specialists conduct enormous work on the fullest and reliable M ILK consumption World PRC Russia Belarus Finland informing the consumers of useful properties and irreplaceability rate per year 110 31,4 239 254 391 of dairy products in a balanced ration. As well as about the norms of their daily consumption with due regard to the age and other 330–340 constitutional peculiarities. kg per person (according to WHO) see diagram 20 “MILK ACADEMY” PROJECT 21 «Milk Academy» is a socially important project of the company “Savushkin product”, which has been implemented in secondary schools of Brest in 2017. And it has already covered 20 schools of the city! About 6,500 schoolchildren learnt about healthy eating and importance of dairy foods in daily ration, learnt how to choose them correctly in shops, compose daily healthy menu and cook simple dishes on the basis of fresh dairy products. It is not a secret that schoolchildren very often take meals incorrectly, miss the most important meal of the day-breakfast, not thinking about usefulness of their snacks (you must admit that chips and soda are not the best option). And sometimes they do not know how to cook healthy food by themselves, without waiting when their parents come home from work... By personal example we decided to show that healthy is not always boring and tasteless. And in the entertaining (playing) form to explain and show to the children that a healthy lifestyle and eating healthy food is easy, but very important in order to be healthy, happy and successful people. In this way the project “Milk Academy or Healthy Eating Lessons” came appeared. Looking ahead, let us say that it worked out. The idea of the project was taken with enthusiasm both by the educational institutions and the administration of Brest city. 22 THE WAY WE SHARED OUR KNOWLEDGE ABOUT HEALTHY NUTRITION The classes have been planned in accordance with the age and interests of children. Pupils of the 5-7th forms have participated in amusing “milk quizzes”: they have obtained and reinforced the information learnt about healthy nutrition and the benefits of dairy products, and checked their knowledge interactively, doing the crossword puzzles and answering many related questions. It turned out to be funny, lively, interesting, and very tasty then — in the final it has been found out that a young chipmunk SuperKid travelled together with the quiz organizers, which entertained all participants with dairy delicacies “SuperKid”. 23 Pupils were delighted. Of course, they felt themselves like real cooks: they put on true Chef’s hats and aprons (a special thanks to our talented seamstresses from manufacturing branch in Stolin). And how, being such elegant, not to give rein to their culinary fantasies?! And there are fans here, in the auditory, who managed to support their favourites masterfully and to discuss the topic of healthy nutrition with the hostess. And in reward they deserved tasting the dishes prepared by their classmates... Quite different communication format is intended for senior pupils — a real culinary quest. Finding themselves in an improvised milk kitchen and divided into teams, they create their own little culinary masterpieces from the proposed list of products, based on natural dairy products. One of the objectives was quite difficult: to guess what healthy dish“is encrypted” in the proposed set of products, and then to cook it (answers were hidden in the previously prepared video recipes) or to invent their own perfect milky breakfast. The task was simplified that it did not require heat treatment. Here is cottage cheese, sour cream, cheese, salt, sugar ... Fruit and vegetables, greens and lavash help the others. 24 WHAT CAME OUT OF IT? Teachers and pupils were pleased with the project. Healthy eating lessons diversified the educational process in comparison with usual Math, Geography, Literature... But most importantly, the guys have learned the main lesson that to be healthy is simple and cheerfully! Ludmila Gorbatsevich, Deputy Headmaster PRINCIPLE of Secondary School No. 24 of Brest: “Today, in the age of fast food the theme of healthy OF HEALTHY RATION: eating is very hot. We are pleased to support the company “Savushkin product” in this excellent • it is necessary to eat frequently (5-6 times initiative. Because all talks about a healthy ration per day), but in small servings; should be started from the school age when children express an interest in this topic”. • during the break it is useful to have a bite of a handful of nuts, fruit or a yogurt; Nika Kuleshova, 6th form, one of the participants of “Milk Academy”: • eat 3 dairy products a day, because this will “I really enjoyed the quiz. For example, do you know, allow to get 80% of the daily rate of invaluable what are the trucks that carry dairy products called mineral-calcium which is necessary for strong and what are they needed for? I have not. I have bones, teeth and nails, as well as for healthy heard earlier that milk is very useful. But I haven’t skin and beautiful thick hair. known what nutrients it contains before that”. 25 “MILK ACADEMY” IN FIGURES 20 Brest schools for 20 60 healthy eating lessons the period April — for the 5-7th forms with May/ September — milk quizzes and literacy December, 2017 campaigns publications about the project in mass media: “Zarya”, “Bug-TV”, portal “Binokl”, “Virtual Brest”, “My Brest”, 60 “Vecherny Brest” and etc. and warm meetings, on schools websites thousands of embraces and selfies with naughty young chipmunk Superkid over 100 +++ 6500 personally invented and cooked healthy milk-based dishes during culinary battles for Great number of mentions in social networks under hashtags #milkacademy about 6,500 and #savushkinproduct the 8 and 9th forms participant 26 schoolchildren MILK FESTIVAL 27 Once again milk festival “Clouds of Fresh Milk” hospitably flung its doors wide open to bring a unique summer atmosphere of holiday and fun to the citizen of Brest city and its guests. On July 28 (from 12 noon till 11 p.m.) the Peace Park in Brest turned into a spectacular holiday 40 thousand people attended 4 thematic Milk Festival grounds 2 thousand people became 350 seats in the viewers of gala food-court concert of milk: the territory of health consisted of various thematic grounds and activities. Traditionally, the organizer of the Festival was “Savushkin product”. The event was held with the support of Brest City Executive Committee. 28 MILK = HEALTH The company once again reminded of the value and importance of milk in a balanced nutrition, exploded the most popular “milk” myths, told and showed how its dairy products are manufactured, and positively energized everyone so as good memories of this summer day survive for a long time. 29 Aleksandr Savchits Director General of OJSC “Savushkin product” “Festival “Clouds of Fresh Milk” is growing and developing: last year it gathered 12,000 people, and this year we welcomed about 40,000! This means that our Milk Festival has a great future. It is a pleasure that the second consecutive year the Day of our favourite Brest city is started with such a wonderful holiday of milk and health. I am sure that it has inspired our guests to care about their health and maintain an active lifestyle. Because “Clouds of Fresh Milk” is a holiday for families, young people, friends. And what is more, it is important for our company to communicate with the consumers. Because everything we do, we do for people!” Aleksandr Stepanovich Rogachuk, the Chairman of Brest City Executive Committee “We talk a lot about public and private partnership. And Milk Festival “Clouds of Fresh Milk” is a real bright example of such cooperation. At the expense of the company “Savushkin product” and city funds, the Peace Park is gradually turning into a unique children’s territory. Aleksandr Vasilyevich Savchits, of course, has not announced it, but we are planning to make a children’s railway here. That’s will be great!” 30 HOW IT WAS The central area of “Savushkin” ground became a Small stage on which the Festival was opened with a huge number of balls launched (at 4 p.m.). Musician’s performances and children’s mini-discos were held there throughout the whole holiday. A market with branded souvenirs of Milk THE PEACE PARK WAS DIVIDED INTO FOUR THEMATIC Festival was located close to the small stage, all proceeds of which went to charity. The main art object of “Savushkin” territory became the “Dress GROUNDS, WHICH WERE CALLED AFTER THE COMPANY’S of flowers”, for creation of which 3,595 flowers were used. (Each guest could BRANDS: “SAVUSHKIN”, “BREST-LITOVSK”, “OPTIMAL” «try it on», capturing it all in the photo!) AND “SUPERKID”. Milk University was located in the territory of “Savushkin” ground where the Festival guests were told, showed and answered the questions how delicious and natural company’s products are manufactured. Here, everyone could become a first-class milkman taking part in the speed milking of competition (on 3D model). And after a dynamic day, a chill-out zone waited the guests for a moment of relaxation and quiet. 31 And amateurs of a healthy lifestyle and sports have found activities to their liking in “Optimal” zone, where the master-classes in pilates and nutritiologist’s workshop on healthy eating were held. “YuKKI gives joy!” ground was located right there with the most delicious ice cream of fresh cream, where dainty surprises, contests, games and own photo zone were prepared for the guests. “SuperKid” territory met little milk lovers with trampolines, improvised car-racing track and outdoor games. Guys could build the castle there! A true friend in fun was a cheerful young chipmunk “Brest-Litovsk” ground carried the visitors in the SuperKid. By the way, “Savushkin product” has past centuries. Master classes in the 19th century prepared a separate gift for young residents dancing, straw platting and a real tavern with of Brest city – a playground which was opened Belarusian cuisine were available for the during the Milk Festival. guests of this ground. 32 The food-court for 350 seats was located opposite the Peace Park in Leningradskaya street, where two milk cafés and a lot of cafés offering a wide variety of summer menu accepted the guests. During the Festival the guests were able A fiery gala concert in the stadium to visit the manufacturing site of “Savushkin “Yunost” (next to the Peace Park) with product” to see with their own eyes how the best musicians and performers natural dairy products are manufactured participated was prepared for all Festival from fresh milk. Pre-registration for participants at 8 p.m. A special guest was visiting the enterprise was conducted a popular group “Bez Bileta” (“Without through corporate pages in social networks ticket”) — (free entrance). (Vkontakte, Odnoklassniki, Facebook and Instagram). 33 MASS MEDIA RELATIONS These are a weekly column “About Nutrition” in “KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA IN BELARUS” For wide informing the consumers about (newspaper with the greatest the importance of healthy eating and the number of editions), news and role of dairy products in it, answering native materials on such web topical questions and increasing the sites as TUT.BY, CITYDOG.BY, consumers’ loyalty OJSC “Savushkin КАКТУТЖИТЬ.BY, KYKY.ORG, product” actively cooperates with the most VILLAGE.ME, КАКТУТЕСТЬ.BY, popular and top-rated MASS MEDIA. БИНОКЛЬ.BY, REBENOK.BY, ETC. 394 Also a regular education work was carried out in regional publications mass media of Brest and in mass region (ZARYA, VECHERNIY media BREST, BRESTSKI KURIER, 1655 NARODNAYA TRIBUNA, VIRTUALNY BREST, ETC.). posts in social networks 34 THE PROJECT “NEVESOMOST-6” 35 The project “Nevesomost-6” is an interactive project of Rebenok.BY with the assistance of “Savushkin product” company, during which 10 women caring for their own health and health of their family with the help of professional advisers and their friends’ support, will do everything possible to get into previous shape and learn to live under the canons of beauty and health. Those who have not became a member of the face-to-face group of participants, could take part in the distance group. 36 WHAT AWAITED THE PATICPANTS OF THE 6 SEASON TOOK PLACE: As usually the project was bright, saturated and effective! The following was held: effective hearty meetings informative fashion tips healthy master unique stylish trainings with with a personal master classes from the classes with lessons photo shoot a nutritionist; growth trainer, on strengthening stylist; a cook; of femal sessions; lively activities sexual health; in the fitness relationship; centre; and most importantly is tasks from the project consultants after which it becomes almost impossible to return to their former way of life with the cult of eating. 37 PROJECT RESULTS 85 WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE 9 number of publications PROJECT, THE FOLLOWING EVENTS within the project WERE HELD: Casting, the project opening, weekly meetings with the project nutritionist and with the stylist, number of native psychologist and sexologist, culinary contest “Milk materials on benefit Rivers”, short story contest “Happy am I”, culinary of dairy products 57 battle, the project closing, photo shoot session and milk questions “Before” and “After”, makeover of the weightless and makeover of the project consultants. offline meetings and master classes 17.02. PROJECT DURATION: 2017. 17.05. 38 THE PROJECT “NEW SIZE” 39 TV channel “Belarus 4. Brest” together with OJSC “Savushkin product” started implementation of a new project “New Size by the New Year”— a reality show about loss of weight. Within three months under the supervision of dieticians, doctors, sports psychologists, coaches, 10 people will try to lose their weight. The project implementation is accompanied by releases of television spots (the project diaries) on Belarus-4 channel and extensive advertising on the Internet. The project raises the issue of the excess weight because of unbalanced nutrition and lack of physical activity. Rigid diets tend to be short-termed and after them extra kilograms return taking a couple of new ones. The task of the project “New Size” is to find an adequate balance between nutrition and workouts so as to reach a desired size. The Project completion is planned for the late December 2017. 40 CONSUMERS Also the company accepts electronic 233 appeals of the customers which are sent FEEDBACK via the web-site form and through corporate social networks (Vkontakte, Facebook, Odnoklassniki). “Savushkin product” is open letters and messages to dialogue with its customers. to the official mail and From January 2009 onwards social networks of the the company has a hotline, company which is indicated on each product package (free call on 8-801-201-7777 within the Republic of Belarus). Calling the hotline any consumer will 150 be able to make comments and suggestions about the company’s activity and its products, as well as to get any information of interest. “Hot line” service is set in the intra-corporate standard “Feedback”. of which were hotline calls within 9 months of 2017 41 A swift forward movement is the main and compulsory condition of our company’s life. The year has AWARDS just begun, but our achievements have already been replenished with important events and glorious victories. Throughout the year “Savushkin product” has got on the pedestal of the consumer and expert recognition more than once: For the 16th year in a row, it deservedly At the beginning received the status of the best and most of the year the Expert beloved manufacturer of dairy products Commission of the in Belarus in the judgement of the country State Committee for inhabitants and the international jury of the Standardization of the contest “Brand of the year 2016”. According Republic of Belarus to which, the main brand of the company determined the best “Savushkin” is once again recognized dairy products in the as a “BRAND LEADER” in the categories: country, summing “Dairy products” and “Yogurts”. For the best taste and quality, cheese up a large-scale contest “Best Products of the Republic “Brest-Litovsk”, Greek yogurt crumbly of Belarus 2016”. In addition to a firework of high titles and cottage cheese “Savushkin Khutorok” assigned: “Best in the Region”, “Best in Industry” and were awarded at the international contests “Stable Quality”, products of OJSC “Savushkin product” “Best product-2017” and Independent are recognized as the best on the Belarusian market! Inspection Service “Soyuzexpertiza” in the Our company received as many as 5 awards from the real nomination “For High Consumer Properties professionals in the field of quality! The experts highlighted of Goods” within the framework of the main cheese “Brest-Litovsk” classic, crumbly cottage cheese food industry forum in the Russian market“Savushkin Khutorok” and yogurt “Greek”, while the latter international exhibition “Prodexpo-2017”. additionally received the honorary title of “Novelty of the Year”. 42 In September 2017, All-Russian Professional Tasting Competition Also in September 2017, the line of Greek yogurts “TEOS” and cream “Milk Success-2017”, held within the framework of the International cheese “Brest-Litovsk” became unconditional winners of the international Conference of the EEU for production and processing of milk tasting contest “Product of the Year”, held under the patronage (September 12-14, Sochi, Russia) was completed. The company of Rosselkhoznadzor within the framework of one of the largest “Savushkin product” has become the only one Belarusian dairy international exhibitions of food industry WorldFood Moscow-2017. company, which by the results of the competition won 5 top awards The exhibition was held in Moscow in “Expocentre” Central Exhibition from the expert-tasting commission for high quality and excellent Complex from September 11 to 14. By the way, this year about 2,000 taste of the manufactured products! companies from 60 countries of the world presented their products here. “Milk Success” is an authoritative in the dairy High quality, naturalness and delicate creamy taste of natural dairy industry contest held on the principle of blind products manufactured by “Savushkin product”, gaining hearts of the tasting. This year 124 samples of dairy buyers, did not allow the professional jury headed by Rosselkhoznadzor products in 15 nominations were claimed to stay indifferent. Three gold medals were added to the piggy box to the competition expert jury, consisting of numerous awards of the leader of dairy industry in Belarus. A new of the representatives of the leading dairy product of the company — Greek yogurt “TEOS” was specially evaluated. enterprises of Russia. Grand Prix was awarded to melted smoked cheese “Laskovoye Leto»; gold medal was presented to a new and unique in Belarusian dairy market product – a drinking Greek yogurt “TEOS”. Thick Greek yogurt TEOS had another “gold”. Also awards were given to: cottage cheese product «”Tvorozhny Lomtik” creamy and cheese “Brest-Litovsk” produced from selected milk following special old recipes. 43 SUPERIOR TASTE AWARD — 2017 44 Once again it became the winner of the world toprated tasting contest “Superior Taste Award-2017”. In the food industry, victory in this prestigious competition is comparable to winning the Olympic gold. This year 1,989 participants from 83 countries and 5 continents took part in it. The jury consisted of 120 chefs from 14 most prestigious international associations and restaurant guides, Michelin and Gault Milau. In this competition, along with the major multinational corporations, our company for the fourth consecutive year has proven that our products are out of the competition. By the way, during “Superior Taste Award” products are assessed blindly. Tasters have information neither about brands nor about manufacturing countries. That’s what makes the contest as objective as possible. Awards go to not many. This year, more than 30% of the participants left with nothing. And only 21% of the total number of competitors received “three gold stars”. 45 Greek yogurt “Savushkin” (unconditional favourite of “Superior Taste Award-2016”) has again received the upper estimate — “Three gold stars” (of the three possible). Chef from Spain, one of the taste panel members Sergio Garrido summarizes: “A genuine and authentic taste of Greek yogurt is really impressive. Its amazing colour and creamy texture is especially worth to be mentioned!”. Belgian chef Jean Castadot: “An amazing combination of milk, cream and fruit-and-berry jam is a real success. Well done!”. “Perfectly manufactured dairy product, with great recipe, where berry jam is in balance with a basic creamy taste”. Alan Coxon, BBC Chef (United Kingdom) 46 Cheese, one of the most competitive categories in the European market with the century-old production traditions also surrendered to a gold cheese brand “Brest-Litovsk”. The jury estimated it as “Two gold stars” for superior taste! By the way, the gold cheese brand of the company is granted this award for four years in a row. It should not be left unnoticed that even unusual for Europe product category, classic cottage cheese, also remained unobserved. For a good taste of crumbly cottage cheese “Savushkin Khutorok” is awarded with the “Gold Star” of the main tasting competition. And the fact that we won in the intensive struggle with the best representatives of the food industry from five continents, proves that our dairy products fully correspond to the taste and quality of the leading world brands and even surpass them in many ways! 47 MONDE SELECTION In late May our company’s box of awards was enlarged with one more victory in European competition for compliance with the world quality on 20 parameters ― “Monde Selection” (Brussels, Belgium). Natural products from “Savushkin product” brilliantly passed all tests! Crumbly cottage cheese “Savushkin Khutorok” was awarded the silver medal, and yogurt “Savushkin” with forest berries taste was given a bronze medal. Monde Selection medals are widely recognized quality certificate for consumers and the competition itself is guide for manufacturers, but we have something to work at and what strive for. 48 COUNTRY APPRAISAL AND THE HIGHEST STATE AWARD On August 11 Aleksandr Lukashenko during his It has no negative values ― this is one of the visit to Brest visited “Savushkin product” largest dairy companies in Belarus. Production to familiarize himself with the course of sociocapacities allow the company to process economical development of the enterprise. up to 3,750 tons of milk per day. After all, this is the best example of how funds During the tour, prospects of the plant and invested in upgrading are returned to the country problems in the industry have been discussed. with considerable yield. Nowadays, the company And of course tasting! The President tasted is a driving force of the dairy industry of the cheese “Brest-Litovsk”, particularly marked country and a visiting card of Belarus. out Greek yogurt “TEOS”, complimented the marketing specialists for the original names and According to the Head of the State, the enterprises bright packaging. Also, he highly estimated the which have required the state assistance before, taste of whey drink “Svezhest” (“Freshness”) nowadays become the driving forces of the (apple-pomegranate-lime). processing industry and the visiting card of Belarus. “This feature greatly fits to joint stock company Then the President met with those who “Savushkin product” ― a flagship of the dairy manufacture products, known far outside the industry of the country”, emphasized the President country and presented the highest award to the Aleksandr Lukashenko and stated that success company’s team -the Honourable State Banner of the enterprise is not accidental, it is a clear of the Republic of Belarus for outstanding reflection of a purposeful policy pursued by the State achievements in the economic development. in the agro-industrial sector”. 49 PRESENTATION OF HONORARY FLAG OF THE REPUBLIC OF BELARUS FOR OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 50 “It is not only a sign of high recognition of the services of your entire team, but also an indicator of people’s love, which “Savushkin The Head of the product” managed to get. Company’s products are on the table of almost every family today. State called Thanks to a wide assortment, excellent quality, products under this brand gained popularity it one of the not only at home but also abroad. They are willingly bought in Russia, the Ukraine, the EU brightest events countries, China, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates, South Korea, Israel and many other in the history countries. Only last year, the export volume amounted to more than 210 million. of “Savushkin Success of the enterprise is not accidental; it is a clear reflection of a purposeful policy product”. pursued by the State in the agro-industrial sector. Transition from agricultural development concept to the concept of rural development in general is effected in the country. This made it possible to revive a Belarusian village with its economic potential. And you feel it and And it excels in milk production such developed know it yourself perfectly well. countries as the Netherlands, Germany, France. Today by output of the absolute majority In food relation Belarus became not only selfof agricultural products per capita Belarus sufficient but also export-oriented”, delivered Aleksandr Lukashenko, is vastly superior to other countries of the a speech the President of the Republic of Belarus the President of the Republic of Belarus Commonwealth of Independent States. during his meeting with the labour collective. 51 Olga Kovalchuk, Aleksandr Zykov, the Leading Legal Adviser the Deputy Head of Sales Management of OJSC “Savushkin product”: of OJSC “Savushkin product”: “Our employees are young people. People who seek “Meeting with the President is of course exciting and, to grow in their work, to reach certain heights. above all, honourable. It is nice to work in the team, And, of course, all necessary, decent and qualitative where the Head of the State arrives to in order conditions are created for this. In addition to work to present such a high award”. we still have the opportunity for rest, special events are held and conditions are created. And they all exist. And, of course, we can talk about a decent level, comfort and proper quality of labour organization”. Sergey Kostyuchik, the Programmer engineer of OJSC “Savushkin product”: Natalia Derunets, the Leading Quality Engineer of OJSC “Savushkin product”: “The award received by the enterprise from the hands of the State Head is a real affirmation of our economic development and development of the whole economy “This is a solemn moment for me and for the company of Belarus”. on the whole. In 2007, the President visited our company, and I think he has a lot to compare. Our company executives have done everything to take our enterprise to the world level”. 52 4 ”SAVUSHKIN PRODUCT” IS A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER SOCIAL POLICY OF THE COMPANY Businesses should stand for effective abolition 5 of child labour. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 6 bargaining. Businesses should stand for 3 elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 4 and occupation. Businesses should stand for the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 54 COMPANY IN FIGURES 3202 3199 36 average age number number of trade of employees of the company’s union members employees 497benefits *thousands dollars 177 *thousands dollars investments in training 35 *thousands dollars sent for medical service package and raising of qualification of the company’s employees of the employees *for 9 months of 2017 55 SOCIAL POLICY The company takes into account OF THE COMPANY interests and activities of each member of the team. If the employee actively goes in for sports ― he has the opportunity to go to the gym and swimming pool free of charge. “Savushkin product” appreciates “Savushkin product” has If he prefers cultural relaxation welcome to the its employees and surrounds a collective agreement, plays and concerts! Trade union organization them with care every day. one of the best in Belarus. of the company “Savushkin product” gives you the Every employee in the company has A collective agreement opportunity to develop physically and spiritually, the opportunity to get hot meals is a document that establishes that’s why it rents the gyms and tracks in the and medical care, attend a massage room and additional social guarantees, compensations swimming pools and arranges many cultural solarium. Functioning in the company healthunit and benefits for the company’s employees. events, including collective visits to the theatres, is open every day. And medical services in the Thanks to it, everyone in the company, being excursions and tourist weekend trips, corporate health unit are provided to the staff free of charge. a member of the trade union, can expect holidays, Health Days, tourist gatherings, team eceive material assistance and place in the buildings. The company gives the opportunity hostel, reimbursement for medical services, for everyone to acquire new a place to the children’s health improvement The company provides the prospect knowledge and develop camp or sanatorium for adults, etc. Collective of career growth to everyone professionally. agreement also covers the crucial issues and tends to encourage the best Thanks to the current programme in remuneration of labour, employment, employees within the framework of continuing professional training, labour protection, occupational and of professional competitions. corporate trainings, international professional environmental safety, medical care, Professional skill competition for the title of “Best conferences and seminars are organized regularly health resort treatment and provision by Profession” is held annually and has already for the staff. of housing. become a good corporate tradition. 56 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY “Savushkin product” is among the first in the country certified according to OHSAS 18001-occupational health and safety assessment at every workplace, which is aimed to create necessary conditions to ensure occupational safety in general, to maintain occupational safety at workplaces, to prevent injuries and accidents. Possible dangers and risks are assessed in each division. Each of the identified probable risks is controlled by means of preventive actions that help to prevent the possibility of injuries. 57 IN 2017 THE FOLLOWING OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY EVENTS WERE HELD: 01 Acquired mobile elevating platform for maintenance of the drying unit in the powdered milk products shop. 05 Acquired mobile elevating platforms to carry out works at height for washing the equipment, walls, cleaning the lamps in the main production units in branches 02 of OJSC “Savushkin product” in Stolin and Pinsk. 06 Prepared sites for maintenance of technological tanks, tanks of the washing department of the milk receiving and processing room. Acquired small emergency compressor for ammonia pumping from the damaged 03 equipment in case of emergency. 07 Prepared sites for maintenance of technological equipment in the desserts shop, in the soft Acquired gas analyzer to determine cheese and cottage cheese shop. atmospheric gas pollution when 04 conducting works in sewage wells in the manufacturing branch of OJSC Reconstruction of inflow exhaust ventilation “Savushkin product” in Pinsk. in the washing department of the desserts shop. 58 PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO THE EMPLOYEES Intra-corporate life of the company is public and open to all employees and stakeholders. OJSC “Savushkin product” is constantly developing its pages in social networks: Vkontakte, Instagram, Facebook, Odnoklassniki, YouTube. Information posted in these social networks is available both for the employees and for outside visitors. In October 2017 year anupdated company’s website in a new design and with additional functionality has been activated that allows to simplify and facilitate navigation to all visitors. Corporate site of OJSC “Savushkin product” contains full information about the company, its products, topical events in the company’s life, history, and many other. The company also issues a corporate newspaper “Savushkin info”. Main development milestones, events, outstanding people, holidays and weekdays of OJSC “Savushkin product” are depicted in the pages of the corporate edition, which has been published since 2008 and summarizes each expired quarter. 59 CORPORATE Corporate sport is a new way of self-expression of the successful team, its movement to new SPARTAKIAD victories, completely fair fight with colleagues. As practice shows, healthy lifestyle today is more (SPORTS MEETING) than actual: doing sports is the key to a good health and mood of the employees, and hence, their high performance and efficiency. Taking into account the great importance of work on formation of a healthy lifestyle in the company, a year-round sports contest among the teams of all structural subdivisions of OJSC “Savushkin product” started in March this year. It includes competitions in various kinds of sport subject to wide interests of the employees: from athletics, volleyball and mini-football up to competitions in shooting and darts. Such competitions reveal true traits of character of the participants: determination and inflexibility in implementing the tasks set before them. Even rare failures and light injuries had not become an excuse to surrender, because individual scores of each participant composed the result of the whole team. And it proves once again that the employees of the company “Savushkin product” are exceptionally gifted people with diverse talents and incredible willpower. 60 CORPORATE SPARTAKIAD 14 about (SPORTS MEETING) 750 9 teams participants of the Spartakiad Main participants of the Spartakiad are the active members of our company. The company creates all conditions for the sports employees to be involved to a healthy lifestyle: it rents gyms and tracks in the pool where everyone can train in his spare time. Anatoli Mikhailovich Lishuga, Sports Instructor: “Based on the results of the last year’s Spartakiad, we thoroughly analyzed and by the current season tried to exclude the errors, shortcomings and gaps and to implement the planned ideas to the fullest extent: involve trading and manufacturing branches of “Savushkin product” to a continuous holiday of sports passion and to include new sport disciplines. Everything came out! The idea of joining was eagerly accepted. And at the preset time, on a par with Brest trade branches from Gomel, Minsk, Vitebsk, Mogilev, and “manufacturers” from Kamenets, Stolin and Pinsk compete successfully with each other. All without exception do their utmost so there is pronounced competition among the teams. It is noticeable that they are training hard and bet on victory!” 61 GOLD FUND OF “SAVUSHKIN PRODUCT” The doors of the company “Savushkin product” of the mother company with their own eyes and with festive meetings were organized for the retired are always opened for those who have devoted many pleasure immerse themselves into the nostalgic staff of “Savushkin product” in Pinsk, Stolin, years of their life to working here and have done memories of the past everyday working lives. Malorita and Kamenets. Such events a lot so that today we deservedly could be called the The presentation of today’s company, its achievements are very important for our company, because leading company of the dairy industry of Belarus. and aspirations were of great interest to the others. the succession of generations is in them, Therefore, on September 29, 2017 on the eve of the And someone just talked about the most memorable with and for older people who have dedicated International Day of Older Persons, the company the former colleagues. Unfortunately, not all of our veterans themselves for the good of the company, to make arranged a traditional holiday-meeting for nonwere able to attend the holiday, because some of them sure once again that old age can be joy, and there working pensioners and production veterans. have passed 90 years old. But those who were looking is a place where you are welcomed ― a native, forward to this meeting, gathered around a holiday table always friendly and caring company “Savushkin Such honoured guests in OJSC “Savushkin product” in the heart-warming atmosphere. At the same time product”. were more than 500 people. These are the people with more than a dozen years of intense, constructive work for the company’s benefit, a large baggage of wisdom and experience behind them. Therefore, with the utmost warmth we greeted those who raised us, taught, helped to survive in difficult situations within the period when “Savushkin product” only started its development, and we have prepared a rich holiday program for them. Some of them went on a tour to see the continuous development 62 FORMATION OF THE TEAM SPIRIT Teambuilding is a modern way of forming a cohesive team in which each member finds its place and is able to reveal his talents to the best. From June to September 2017 year around a thousand of employees of OJSC “Savushkin product” and JV “Santa Bremor” Ltd. strengthened corporate ties and learnt to work in a team. Orienteering, football and basketball competitions, intellectual competitions, quests ― all of this was included in the corporate team-building program. These events were arranged by the Department of Internal Communications in order to: • reveal personal qualities and talents of each member, and even his leadership abilities; • relax effectively and reset the accumulated negative; • fill each employee with vital force. Victory in game situations through joint efforts gives faith in success and 100% confidence in own abilities. 63 5 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SOCIAL POLICY OF THE COMPANY 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 7 Businesses should support technologies. a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 65 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION OJSC “Savushkin product” takes good care not only of processing of incoming milk, but also of environmental conservation. The company has non-waste production. Nowadays, company “Savushkin product” completely processes “by-products” (cheese and cottage cheese whey and buttermilk), turning them into competitive goods demanded by the market. For 9 months of 2017 the company processed more than 445 thousand tons of whey. The company also closely monitors the ecology of its production, minimizing harmful emissions into the atmosphere. OJSC “Savushkin product” has introduced, uses and annually confirms the compliance of the environmental management system (EMS), according to the results of the certification audit held in 2005 by the national certification body RUE “Ekologiyainvest” the national environmental compliance certificate STB ISO 14001 was issued, on the results of the certification audit carried out in 2006 by the international certification body FLLC “Bureau Veritas Bel Ltd.” environmental international certificate of conformity to ISO 14001 was issued. 66 THE COMPANY IMPLEMENTS THE POLICY IN THE FIELD OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY, THE COMPANY’S ACTIVITY IS BASED ON OBSERVANCE OF THE FOLLOWING OBLIGATIONS: 02 implement activities aimed at improving working conditions and increase of the level of safety, reduction of the risk 04 work on identification, assessment, management and reduction of risks in the sphere of occupational injuries and professional of health and occupational diseases, prevention and reduction safety, environmental aspects; of the negative impact of productive activities of the company on the environment; 01 comply with legislative and other requirements in the field 03 continuously analyze, improve the effectiveness of the environmental management system, occupational of environmental protection, health and safety management, health and occupational safety to provide necessary means and applicable to the activities resources to ensure functioning of the company; of the systems; 67 07 constantly raise qualification of the staff by means of a continuous learning process in the field of environmental protection, health and occupational safety; 05 involve the staff to active participation in achievement of the objectives of environmental protection, health and occupational safety; 08 bring the requirements of environmental protection policy, health and occupational safety issues to the attention of the staff of the company, contractors, all stakeholders; 06 improve technological processes and introduce resource-saving and energy-saving technologies, seek for rational use of material and energy 09 maintain an open dialogue with the staff and the general public about its activities in the field of environmental protection, health and occupational resources; safety. 68 ANNUAL PLAN OF ACTIVITIES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (2017) Reconstruction of the manufacturing site and equipping with technological units (drying facilities) of the SMP shop with the filters to prevent emissions into the atmosphere. On the basis of the contract with a licensed Waste equipment containing polychlorinated enterprise, ozone-depleting substances biphenyls was transferred to TREDI S.A. Pl (freon R22) were withdrawn from the equipment de la Plaine de l`Ain, France, pursuant to the pursuant to the Vienna Convention for protection Stockholm Convention on persistent organic of the ozone layer, the Montreal Protocol pollutants. on substances that Deplete the ozone layer. 69 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT SOCIAL POLICY OF THE COMPANY Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 10 extortion and bribery. 71 ANTI-CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT “Savushkin product” maintains the highest Salary is transferred through “Belagroprombank”, Suppliers of packaging, fillers, equipment and other standards of doing business, values its “Belarusbank”, “BelVEB” and “Alfa-Bank” partners are chosen by means of tender and must reputation and uses only those methods to electronic cards. comply with, first of all, the requirements of safety that are based on the principles of openness and quality of their work, products and services and humanity and are recognized by the “Savushkin product” stands for transparent provided. The company carries out all settlements international community. business practices and strict observance of the with its partners by wire transfer. requirements of the national legislation and the “Savushkin product” practices fair and legislation of all partner countries in the field A transparent system of “Savushkin product” transparent business relations, adheres of anti-corruption. Not only internal relations activities does not admit the possibility of fraudulent to the moral standards of doing business, within the company are based on the principles acts on the part of the employees and third parties. building long-term and stable relations with all of honesty, fairness and integrity, but also its The property and assets of the company are used interested parties, which are based on mutual external communications. Currently the company only to achieve the company’s goals. trust, complete fulfillment of obligations and “Savushkin product” maintains business relations openness. with a great number of organizations in Belarus The company strives for creating and and abroad. And these relations are built solely maintaining a corporate culture on the basis on trust and mutual respect, and also in terms of trust and involving intolerance to corruption, of accurate fulfillment of contractual obligations. including extortion, bribery, as well The company practices tender procurements and as preventing illegal payments to the staff. conclusion of service contracts. 72 Progress Report OJSC “Savushkin product” 2017 Elena Babkina, deputy general director phone: +375 17 394-92-97; for public relations +375 29 161-63-65. OJSC “Savushkin product” e-mail: elena@savushkin.by
