RESPONSIBLE United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2016 2 Corporate Responsibility About Knorr-Bremse Knorr-Bremse is the leading manufacturer of braking systems and supplier of additional sub-systems for rail and commercial vehicles, with sales totaling approxi­ mately EUR 5.5 billion in 2016. Some 25,000 employees develop, manufacture, and service braking, entrance, control, and energy supply systems, HVAC and driver assistance systems, as well as powertrain-related ­solutions. Ever since 1905 the company has been pioneering new technologies that make a crucial contribution to improving road and rail safety. Every day, more than one billion people around the world put their trust in systems made by Knorr-Bremse. 3 Content 03 Foreword 23 Sustainable protection 23 Environmental management 23 Climate protection targets 2020 05 Sustainable business 25 Energy efficiency 06 CR strategy and areas for action 26 Resource efficiency 06 CR organization 07 Materiality analysis 08 CR stakeholders 29 Working together for sustainability 08 Compliance management and integrity 29 Purchasing management 09 Corporate security 29 Integrating sustainability 30 Efficient logistics 11 Sustainable safety 11 Focus on innovation 33 Supporting communities – 12 Transport safety globally and locally 12 Emissions 34 Local Care: Site involvement 12 Energy efficiency 34 Global Care: Supporting people worldwide 13 Sustainability in the product life cycle 14 Industrial remanufacturing 36 Implementation of the ten UN Global Compact principles 17 Sustainable prospects 17 Leadership and personnel development 39 Imprint 18 International exchanges 18 Diversity and equality of opportunity 20 Health and safety at work 4 With the new Development Center at its Munich site, Knorr-Bremse has further strengthened its technological lead. 5 Ladies and gentlemen, As the leading global manufacturer of braking systems and supplier of additional sub-systems for rail and commercial vehicles with a tradition going back 112 years, we take our responsibility towards customers, employees, suppliers, the environment and society ­extremely seriously. Our workforce develops products and solutions designed to offer customers improved safety, quality, reliability and efficiency. As a technological pioneer we make a significant contribution towards enhancing road and rail safety. At the same time, our innovations help protect the climate and save natural resources. In 2016 we succeeded in making further progress in the field of sustainability. Our smart, networked rail vehicle sub-systems, such as the modular iCOM, for example, offer manufacturers and fleet ­owners new scope for making their operations safer, low-maintenance – and above all more energy efficient, thereby helping to protect the climate. We have also developed and marketed new technologies for commercial vehicles that make road freight transportation even safer, more economical and cleaner. With our acquisition of exhaust gas recirculation valve and exhaust brake specialists GT Group, for example, we have further expanded our portfolio of ­sustainable products. The industrially remanufactured products that we have bundled under the new EconX brand offer significantly improved sustainability in the commercial vehicle aftermarket: Life cycle analyses of a compressor, for example, have shown that compared with the manufacture of a new unit, remanufacturing requires 75% less material, emits 79% less CO2 and consumes 72% less energy. We are making progress in conjunction with others as well: We have been raising awareness amongst our partners and suppliers for the need for more efficient and environmentally-friendly processes. For us, such constructive dialogue is an important element in developing cooperation based on mutual trust. On Knorr-Bremse Day 2016 we were able to make our corporate value of ‘Responsibility’ tangible for all 25,000 employees around the world who breathe life into the company’s CR strategy on a daily basis. With such an enthusiastic workforce we find it important that we should be seen as a fair and attractive employer. That is why we are particularly pleased that in 2016 we were voted top employer for engineers for the 3rd year in succession. Our corporate responsibility complies with the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we first signed up to in 2010. This report provides some recent examples of this commitment. Klaus Deller Chairman of the Executive Board of Knorr-Bremse AG 6 7 Sustainable business. The Knorr-Bremse Group is committed to sustainable corporate governance. Knorr-Bremse’s approach to corporate responsibility (CR) Corporate values is based on the concept of sustainable development and Entrepreneurship, Technological Excellence, Reliability, covers not only products and production processes but Passion and Responsibility are the company’s five basic also employees, environmental and climate protection, values that provide a foundation for responsible behavior and social commitment. Knorr-Bremse has integrated by all our employees. the principle of corporate responsibility into its Group ­strategy and developed an appropriate structure for its Code of Conduct implementation. Our Code of Conduct formulates the basic principles for approaching our day-to-day activities – on the basis of For Knorr-Bremse, sustainability is a strategic issue that our corporate values and the principles of the UN Global has to be established in all operational processes. That is Compact. why the Group CR Guidelines state that environmental and social aspects are integrated into our strategic planCorporate Responsibility Guidelines ning, management and day-to-day business activities. By Our CR Guidelines sum up the overarching goals doing so we are strengthening the company’s future viaof ­corporate responsibility and provide a basis for CR bility, and making an important contribution towards demanagement within the Group. veloping an economy and society based on the principle of sustainability. We also have separate sustainability standards for individual areas within the Group. One example is purchasFour important elements define how Knorr-Bremse views ing, for which the existing quality guidelines are being its responsibilities: expanded to include a Supplier Code of Conduct. The same applies to Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) Vision policy, HR management (leadership principles) and We are the world’s driving force for innovative and sussocial commitment. The current Donation Guideline for tainable system solutions that make rail and commercial this last area is now supplemented by new ‘Principles transport safer, more reliable and more efficient. We are for the Social Commitment of Knorr-Bremse’ that were driven by our ambition to create value for our customers introduced in 2016. and to have a positive impact on society. 8 Our sustainable corporate governance is based on international guidelines and conventions. External documents Knorr-Bremse Day 'Responsibility' of importance for Knorr-Bremse include the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights of the UN ­ Human Rights Council, the Charter on Sustainable ­ Every year, Knorr-Bremse Day focuses on one of ­Development of the International Association of Public our corporate values. In June 2016, employees at Transport (UITP), and the UN Global Compact, which we sites around the world looked at ‘Responsibility’, signed up to in 2010. with some working with seriously ill children (Florence, Italy), others cleaning up garbage (Vancouver, Canada and Sakado, Japan), planting trees CR strategy and areas for action (Pune, India), thinking up ideas for reducing waste, In 2014, the Group Executive Board, in consultation with car sharing, vegetarian food and energy savings selected top managers, revised Knorr-Bremse’s CR strate(Lisieux, France) or collecting donations for charigy on the basis of the results of a materiality analysis. It table purposes (Wuxi, China). was decided that by the year 2020 we would establish a reputation as a company with an outstanding track record of sustainability – both internally and externally. To achieve this we aim to ensure that our economic growth CR organization takes into account environmental resources and our soAt Knorr-Bremse the Corporate Responsibility departcial responsibilities towards current and future generament is responsible for the topic of sustainability and retions. The most important CR topics are summarized in ports directly to the Executive Board. Goals and measures our annually updated CR roadmap. are discussed and decided by the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Council (CR Council), which encompasses a Operational implementation of our CR strategy takes member of the Executive Board, two representatives of place in six central action areas: Strategy and Managetop management in the two corporate divisions, the chair ment, Products and Partners, Employees and Leadership, of the charitable association Knorr-Bremse Global Care, Environment and Climate, Commitment and Society, the Head of Corporate Responsibility and regional CR Communication and Cooperation. contacts. CR projects from the various specialist departments are reported directly to the CR Council. This organizational structure ensures that the issue of ­sustainability is firmly established in all the top decision-­ making bodies within the Group and relevant issues ­related to day-to-day operations are incorporated into decision-making processes. Strategy and management 6 We are committed to a sustainable approach to corporate ­governance that incorporates environmental and social aspects into strategic planning, management and corporate processes. In areas we define the main focus of our corporate responsibility. 9 Materiality analysis Value Award 'Responsibility' Knorr-Bremse uses a materiality analysis to help decide on the areas in which the company can meet its responThe Knorr-Bremse Value Awards recognize sibilities. In 2016, the results of the materiality analysis ­ employees’ contributions towards furthering from 2014 were reviewed and it was confirmed that Knorr-Bremse’s corporate values. In 2016, Truckthe correct thematic focus had been taken. This means Services and Internal Audit received the award for that the areas of product-related environmental pro­ ‘Responsibility’. Together they had rapidly resolved tection, legal conformity, product safety on rail and road a complex compliance issue and had developed and i­nvolvement of the supply chain are of particular and introduced preventive measures to make it importance. easier to avoid similar cases in future. Materiality analysis Product-related environmental protection and sustainable innovations very high Product and system safety Health and safety at work Diversity and equality of opportunity Initial and in-house Sustainability training standards in Sustainable corporate supply chain Raw materials governance and value creation Compliance and fair competition STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS Energy and emissions Waste water and Transparency solid waste and credibility Social commitment Biodiversity Logistics Water Employment conditions low low IMPORTANCE FOR THE COMPANY very high Strategy and Management Environment and Climate Products and Partners Commitment and Society Employees and Leadership Communication and Cooperation 10 The weightings given to individual areas are regularly reCompliance management and integrity viewed and compared with the main current trends and challenges arising for the market environment and the We put great emphasis on integrity and responsible sectors relating to the two corporate divisions. Knorr­conduct in our dealings with business partners and emBremse maintains an active exchange of information and ployees. We comply with laws and internal regulations, opinions with its stakeholders on social, environmental and our actions adhere to our corporate values as a ­matter and societal issues with a view to achieving new insights of course. into these areas. The Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct defines the basic CR stakeholders principles for the appropriate approach to our day-to-day activities – on the basis of our corporate values and the Knorr-Bremse conducts an ongoing dialogue with its inprinciples of the UN Global Compact. This enables us to ternal and external stakeholders. Groups of particular imensure a consistent understanding of responsible entreportance to the company are employees, new recruits, preneurial conduct that transcends national borders. customers and suppliers, the company owners, business Amongst other things, the Code of Conduct includes a partners, public authorities, trade unions, industry associban on corruption, including bribery and blackmail, and ations, the media, policymakers, NGOs, and residents and also covers aspects of human rights such as freedom of local action groups in the neighborhood of our sites. expression, freedom from discrimination and a ban on child labor and forced labor. These principles and rules are Knorr-Bremse also maintains a regular, structured diabinding for all Group employees. logue through its membership of many regional, national and international associations. Two key requirements for preventing corruption from the outset are transparent communications and staff training. Each employee needs to be clear about what we mean by responsible conduct and internal company rules. To A selection of Knorr-Bremse’s memberachieve this, we provide staff training on the Code of Conship of o ­ rganizations and associations duct – at regional company events, training sessions and information events. The internal Group Audit Department • American Public Transportation Association supports the Executive Board in its monitoring function (APTA), USA by carrying out independent and objective testing aimed • Association of American Railroads (AAR), USA at improving business processes and identifying possible • Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), USA cases of non-compliance. Managers’ knowledge and • Energieeffizienznetzwerk Oberbayern, D ­active communication of the Code of Conduct are also • Fachgruppe Umwelt im Verband der Bahnindustested during the course of regular audits trie in Deutschland e. V. (VDB), D • Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association With effect from January 1, 2016 a new post of Chief Com(MEMA), USA pliance Officer (CCO) has been created with responsibility • New York and New Jersey Minority Supplier for compliance management. He reports to the head of Development Council, USA the Group legal department and a newly-founded Com• Münchner Corporate Volunteering Roundtable, D pliance Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer. • Stifterverband der Deutschen Wissenschaft e. V., D The Compliance Committee regularly meets to discuss • Stiftung Bildungspakt Bayern des Bayerischenimportant compliance issues and sets the priorities for Staatsministeriums für Bildung und Kultus, compliance management. As a further organizational Wissenschaft und Kunst, D measure, Knorr-Bremse has also created Compliance Offi• Sustainable Transport Committee of the cers to serve as regional contacts for local workforces. Union des Industries Ferroviaires Eropéennes These report regularly to the CCO. (UNIFE), BEL • Environment Committee of Munich Chamber The first step towards setting up a system of compliance of Industry and Commerce, D management involved the carrying out of a compliance • Umweltpakt Bayern risk assessment throughout the entire Group. The results • Sub-committee for Supply Chain Sustainability, of this analysis were used to identify the core compliance Verband der Automobilindustrie e. V. (VDA), D issues for Knorr-Bremse – preventing corruption, ensuring fair competition and avoiding conflicts of interest. 11 The company has already started to develop a Groupwide whistle-blower system for possible compliance infringements and this will be introduced in 2017. In addition to the Group Code of Conduct, a Supplier Code of Conduct has also been developed and will be rolled out in 2017, with the aim of ensuring compliance with regulations in the supply chain as well. By the year 2020 Corporate security In mid-2016 a new Corporate Security Department headed up by a Chief Security Officer (CSO) was created. The CSO is tasked with developing Group-wide safety strategies to reduce risks and minimize the impact of safety-­ we aim to be perceived critical interruptions to operations. On the basis of a as an especially sustainable ­system of forward-looking risk management, standards, processes and measures are derived to ensure an ecocompany both internally nomically appropriate level of protection for staff, materiand externally al and immaterial goods and sensitive business processes. Specifically this involves, amongst other things, an effective system for raising the alarm in the case of external threats such as terrorist attacks in the vicinity of sites, the company‘s duty of care and the safety of personnel on business trips, and insurance issues. The Corporate Security Department reports directly to the CFO. Communication and cooperation We seek constructive dialogue with our stakeholders and provide them with regular and transparent information about the progress being made with our sustainability performance. 12 13 Sustainable safety. Knorr-Bremse products are safe and environmentally friendly. As the world’s leading producer of technologies for rail Ideas for new products are assessed using a scorecard and commercial vehicle braking systems and sub-systems, based on sustainability criteria such as energy efficiency, Knorr-Bremse has a reputation for manufacturing prodemissions reduction, safety, materials, life cycle costs and ucts that offer outstanding safety, quality, reliability, ease of maintenance. This is followed by an approval ­customer benefits and resource-efficiency. Our product ­process for research and development funding in which portfolio ranges from entrance systems, HVAC systems, the management of the Corporate Responsibility departpower supply systems, control components, control techment is involved. The outcome of this process is a product nology and platform screen doors for rail vehicles, or service innovation that serves the requirements of via braking and driver assistance systems, to steering and customers and markets and at the same time offers ­ powertrain-related solutions for commercial vehicles. ­substantial advantages in terms of sustainability. Our divisions regularly launch new, pioneering products and solutions for further enhancing safety and efficiency The following examples from both divisions illustrate how on road and rail. our systems contribute towards making mobility future-­ proof, safer and more environmentally friendly. Focus on innovation With research and development investment amounting to EUR 328 million in 2016, Knorr-Bremse ensured the long-term future of its innovative capabilities. This is reflected in the company’s extensive portfolio of patents, with a current total of some 8,400 registered designs worldwide. As of 31.12.2016 the company employed more than 3,200 people in the field of R&D. Knorr-Bremse Products and partners We work consistently on developing innovative does not leave the sustainability of its innovations up to products and solutions that combine maximum chance – it syste­matically integrates sustainability into the customer benefits with a contribution towards process of creat­ing a new product, from the initial vision sustainable development. Top levels of safety are right through to product development, manufacture and our priority. marketing. 2014 296 2015 347 2016 328 R&D expenditure in millions of euros. 14 Transport safety Examples of innovations from Knorr-Bremse Rail As manufacturers of rail and commercial vehicle brakes Vehicle Systems: and sub-systems, we supply mechatronic systems for air • K-pads: In addition to retrofittable organic LL-pads, treatment, brake control, vehicle stabilization, collision Knorr-Bremse also offers organic brake pads for OEMs. mitigation and assistance functions. By networking the These reduce the noise emissions from wheel-rail conmechatronic systems, we also develop solutions for contact by some 10 dB(A). dition-based component maintenance. • Intelligent Air Control: This system controls the compressors according to the operating situation, switching Examples of innovations from Knorr-Bremse Rail them off when appropriate. The overall weight is reduced Vehicle Systems: by 30%, and noise emissions by more than 6 dB(A). • EP-60: This electro-pneumatic braking system for freight • VV 180-T: This oil-free compressor is particularly light trains reduces braking distance and minimizes critical and quiet-running thanks to its low-friction design. It in-train forces. also uses up to 20% less energy than its predecessors. • MGS3 slide protection: This system regulates braking better, ensuring shorter braking distances in conditions Examples of innovations from Knorr-Bremse with very poor rail/wheel adhesion. Commercial Vehicle Systems • Safe Sand: This smart sanding system improves braking • Prototype platooning: This promises to reduce CO2 performance on extremely slippery rails. emissions by up to 10%, provided the vehicles involved can safely maintain a distance of 10 to 15 meters beExamples of innovations from Knorr-Bremse tween each other at a speed of 80 km/h. This calls for Commercial Vehicle Systems: reliable communication among the vehicles to ensure • Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS): A camera that – taking into account the maximum braking capamonitors the road in front of the truck and warns the bility of the individual vehicles – the shortest possible driver if the vehicle begins to drift out of lane. distance can be calculated. The vehicles in the platoon • Advanced Emergency Braking System (AEBS): This must also be able to synchronize their braking without emergency braking assistant progressively applies the any time delay. Platooning represents a further develbrakes if a truck comes closer than a pre-defined disopmental stage of the ‘Highway-Pilot’. tance to the vehicle in front. A combination of radar and •  AGR valves: These offer operating-point dependent camera data ensures a high level of reliability. regu­lation of the quantity of exhaust gas recirculation in • Yard Maneuvering: A networked system of sensors a diesel engine. Precise settings, rapid response and excombined with brake, transmission and steering contreme durability mean that NOX emissions can be sigtrol enables a truck to maneuver independently and nificantly reduced. safely in the depot. • iTAP Fleet Remote: An integrated system for monitoring tire temperature, tire pressure, distance travelled, brakEnergy efficiency ing patterns and error messages. The data is sent via Energy efficiency is already a crucial factor for competian integrated WLAN transmitter directly to the Fleet tiveness, and we are convinced that its importance is set ­Remote Server, where it is analyzed for critical mainteto increase over the coming years. As a result we are nance requirements and made available to the operator working to ensure that – as far as possible – every inno­ online. vation from Knorr-Bremse offers further potential for ­optimizing energy efficiency. Emissions Examples of innovations from Knorr-Bremse Rail We are convinced that in the coming years the environVehicle Systems: mental compatibility of products will continue to gain • iCOM: This increases the availability of the vehicle fleet importance when investment decisions are being made. by offering networked diagnostics for all the main sysThat is why reducing noise and pollutants plays a central tems in a train. Preventive or condition-based mainterole for Knorr-Bremse in the development of innovative nance then becomes possible. technologies. • CFCB Light: This new, compact freight car brake weighing in at a mere 180 kg offers maximum weight savings and thereby helps reduce CO2 emissions. 15 • LEADER (Locomotive Engineer Assist Display and Event • Control module for automatic gearshifts: This enables Recorder): This driver assistance system helps the locothe driver to anticipate gearshifts and also speeds up motive engineer to drive the train as energy-efficiently the shifting operation itself. Ideally combined with a as possible and with a minimum of wear and tear. Enerfast-operating clutch, this can reduce fuel consumption gy consumption can be reduced by an average of 10%. and shorten interruptions to traction. • KB HVAC: An innovative and extremely quiet-running air conditioning and ventilation system with new components and intelligent design that make it up to 400 kg Sustainability in the product life cycle lighter than its predecessor. The result is energy savings Our aim is to minimize the environmental impact of our of up to 32 MWh per year per railcar. products. To do this, we carry out life cycle assessments (LCAs) to examine the environmental footprint of selectExamples of innovations from Knorr-Bremse ed products during their whole life – from initial producCommercial Vehicle Systems tion to final disposal. Analysis of the entire value chain • Synact: The improved design and new combination of generates valuable data on the use of materials and materials in this latest generation of disc brakes offer resources during production and also environmental ­ weight savings of 10% compared with the current SN7 compatibility during the product’s service life. This enables series. Using Synact in a 4x2-semitrailer reduces the us to assess which improvements are likely to result in overall weight by 16 kg with braking torque of 30 kNm. the greatest effect. Such LCA analyses have already been • Synact slack adjuster: This ensures maintenance of a successfully carried out for various product components pre-set low-tolerance running clearance during the enand systems. They have included ‘Product Carbon Foottire lifetime of the brake. Active retraction of the brake prints’ (PCFs), which examine CO2 emissions across a shoe and pad reduces residual friction to a minimum. product’s entire life cycle. This easily installed innovation can save up to 1% fuel consumption and also reduces pad wear. Sustainability in the product life cycle Use of Use and ­materials Main levers for reducing maintenance CO2 emissions Materials and Primary Site Product Use and Residual End-of-life primary product manufacture p ­ roduct ­maintenance materials Production steps throughout the value chain – from material procurement to final disposal 16 As a result we have been able to identify the use of mateKnorr-Bremse’s products, systems and services support rials and deployment of products as important levers for this trend. In addition to increasing operational reliability, reducing CO2 emissions. Some of Knorr-Bremse’s life cycle they offer customers an opportunity to improve their analyses are certified by independent experts from own competitiveness and at the same time reduce DEKRA according to ISO 14040/14044, which covers the ­negative environmental impacts. Less environmentally results of the analysis, together with the system limitadamaging materials in our systems and products genertions and approaches. ate cost advantages when it comes to homologation and operation; higher recyclable content also saves disposal Industry is increasingly realizing that a product’s economcosts; reductions in noise and CO2 emissions make our ic viability cannot just be evaluated on the basis of the customers’ products more marketable; and lifetime concurrent purchase price, but rather that the Total Cost of tracts mean more efficient maintenance services and imOwnership (TCO) needs to be taken into account. This inproved vehicle availability. Industrial remanufacturing is volves examining the impact that the decision to puralso a central element when it comes to total cost of chase a product has, for example, on a truck or a train ownership and therefore an important way of increasing across its entire life cycle – not just at the time of pursustainability. chase. TCO analysis is an important element in any sustainable purchasing policy and an effective way of boosting competitiveness. Industrial remanufacturing Extending the life of a product can make an important contribution towards greater sustainability. That is why genuine remanufacturing of products is becoming ­increasingly important: Used products are refurbished by the manufacturer in such a way that they can be redeployed in identical functions and with identical levels of safety. Compared with a newly-created product, remanuTCO example: IFE E4 door drive unit facturing can save up to 98% of the materials required. The process also uses less energy. Aluminum components are a case in point: Remanufacturing avoids An example of the advantages of TCO-based prodthe energy-intensive process of melting down and uct design is the new IFE E4 drive unit for entrance pressure-molding a new aluminum casing. The result is systems, which weighs 20% less than the previous that the overall life cycle assessment is considerably more series and therefore reduces energy consumption. positive than for production of a new component. Its compact design also cuts installation times and Knorr-Bremse has demonstrated this, for example, in the simplifies maintenance. The bottom line is significase of remanufacturing of a truck compressor, which cantly reduced life cycle costs. This, and other adproduces 79% fewer CO2 emissions than a new product. vantages of the system led to it being nominated Production-related energy consumption is also cut by by Deutsche Bahn AG for the 2016 Supplier Inno72%, and 75% less new material is required. In addition to vation Award. this, logistic costs can be reduced by 80% as less transportation is required. 7.5% of total turnover comes from sales of remanufactured products Knorr-Bremse intends to continue its investment in industrial remanufacturing over the coming years. 17 2014 6.6 2015 7.0 2016 7.5 Percentage of total revenues accounted for by remanufactured products Remanufacturing for trucks Remanufacturing for rail vehicles In the commercial vehicle sector our portfolio of remanuRemanufacturing has always played a prominent role in factured products has grown by 15% and now encompassthe Rail Vehicle Systems division. For example, when es 400 different article numbers. By 2018, the majo­rity of Knorr-Bremse overhauls control, load-proportional and our entire product range for trucks will be available in reweighing valves for freight car brakes, only those parts manufactured form. At the Liberec site the environmental that are subject to actual wear are replaced, and more effect of remanufacturing is continuously monitored, evalthan 90% of the material is reused. During the year under uated and communicated to members of the workforce review, the Service Center in Berlin alone overhauled a using a digital app. In 2016 some 878 tons of CO2, 232 tons total of 45,000 products of various kinds. of materials and 3,214 MWh of energy were saved. In China, Knorr-Bremse has remanufactured braking and In 2016, Knorr-Bremse Commercial Vehicle Systems entrance system components for more than 750 highlaunched EconX as a new brand for industrially remanuspeed trains, 4,000 locomotives and 600 metro trains factured products. These represent a cost-effective and since 2011. The company is expecting demand for reenvironmentally friendly alternative, especially for the remanufactured components to increase in the near future. pair of older trucks, and as such are an important element In the next few months many Chinese high-speed trains in the TruckServices portfolio. At its launch at the Automwill be due for regular servicing as they will have travelled echanika trade fair in Frankfurt, the company showcased a total of more than 5 million kilometers, so increased the EconX versions of the SN7 disc brake and the elecspending on maintenance and replacement of braking tronic clutch actuator, which are covered by the standard equipment can be expected. 12 month warranty and are tested to the same quality parameters and standards as new OE products. Since ­October, the Type SN6 and SN7 axle-mounted brakes for trucks, buses and trailers and the SK7 for trailers have also 878 been available in EconX versions. The remanufactured ­actuators are assembled on the production lines for new parts before being subjected to the same end-of-line testing for more than 130 core parameters before the components are released for sale. tons of CO2 were saved at the Liberec site in 2016 through industrial remanufacturing of products Environmental savings at the site in Liberec, Czech Republic 18 19 Sustainable prospects. Knorr-Bremse creates an attractive working environment in which trust, teamwork, diversity, equality of opportunity and mutual respect are valued and practiced. Knorr-Bremse is an attractive employer. At the end of in the country concerned. Members of employee organi2016, precisely 24,565 people were employed by the zations or trade unions are neither disadvantaged nor givGroup – an increase of 1% compared with the previous en preferential treatment. year (24,275). 80% of the workforce works at sites outside Germany – a strong indication of the Group’s interna­ tional focus. At our sites around the world we offer young Leadership and personnel development people opportunities to undergo training in a variety Personnel development is an important task for leaderof technical and commercial occupations. Amongst ship, and Knorr-Bremse has formulated guidelines to the most popular of these are industrial technology, ­ensure that day-to-day leadership is aligned with our ­machining technology, electronics, mechatronics and IT. ­corporate values. ­Independently of the sites where they are employed, staff are also offered a range of voluntary extra benefits such as meal allowances, subsidized travel and sport and health provisions. Within the framework of what is locally Recognition as top employer feasible, Knorr-Bremse also offers voluntary contributions to a company pension in line with statutory requirements Our HR policy puts great and tax and social security legislation. emphasis on the Group's attractiveness as an emKnorr-Bremse regards it as important to establish an atployer in the eyes of the mosphere of trust and co-operation across all levels of the public at large and in particular in the perception hierarchy. This includes a constructive exchange with esof highly-qualified potential recruits, who are crutablished employee representation bodies such as the cial for our future. Several awards have confirmed Group Works Council. We respect employees’ freedom of the success of this approach: Since 2014 we have association and assembly and their right to collective barbeen named ‘Top Employer for Engineers in Gergaining, inasmuch as this is possible and legally permissible many’ by the International Top Employers Institute (Amsterdam) three times running, with KnorrBremse receiving praise for providing “an outstanding employment environment and a wide 2014 23,916 range of creative initiatives, from secondary bene2015 24,275 fits and flexible working conditions to well2016 24,565 designed performance-management programs tailored to the corporate culture.” Number of employees in the Group as of 31.12.2016 20 One expression of our culture of open dialogue is the supported centrally by a team of specialists in the InternaLeadership Feedback instrument, which enables managtional Transfers department – from the initial preparations ers to receive feedback from their staff regarding their to their return and reintegration into their former workstyle of leadership. The results are used as a basis for jointplace. In addition to long-term international assignments, ly drawing up measures to optimize their teamwork. short-term exchanges related to specific topics are anoth­Under the title of ‘Staff Dialogue’ we have standardized er main focus at Knorr-Bremse. By frequently giving emour annual manager-employee meetings throughout ployees project-specific assignments around the world, the Group. This includes formulating individual target we help ensure skills acquisition, sharing of specialist agreements and assessing performance and potential. knowledge and transfer of expertise. Our targeted search for the managers of the future is conducted on the basis of common standards within the Group. Following completion of the staff dialogues, Diversity and equality of opportunity ­employees with high potential are invited to attend inWe consider the cultural diversity of our workforce to be ternal assessment centers at which they are scrutinized one of our key economic success factors. As a Group that by experienced managers and outside experts. These operates around the world, we promote understanding measures enable Knorr-Bremse to prepare junior emand appreciation of different cultures and lifestyles and ployees for future responsibilities and thus ensure staff actively promote the integration of employees from other continuity. countries. We support this with intercultural training, language courses and periods spent working abroad. In orOther important personnel development programs der to ensure the necessary proximity to our markets and and measures are as follows: customers and make use of country-specific language skills and cultural competence, we attach particular • The Management Evolution Program (MEP) enables ­importance to employing local executives at our inter­ trainees to familiarize themselves with three different national sites. departments over a period of 18 months, during which they gather experience in international projects and No differentiation is made between men and women work at a foreign location for six months. The trainees with regard to wages and salaries. In Germany, Knorrreceive support from mentors selected from the ranks Bremse’s equal pay policy has been acknowledged with of management. the award of a Logib-D certificate by the Federal Ministry • The International Management Potential Group (IMPG) for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth. Vais a special development program for young executives cant posts and management positions are filled irrespecthat offers participants from our sites around the world tive of gender – all that counts is qualifications, perforan opportunity to develop their talents further in trainmance and the candidate’s personality. In 2016 the ing courses and projects, to strengthen their leadership proportion of female employees in the workforce was skills and to expand their personal networks interna19.7% (2015: 18.9%). tionally. • The Engineering Development Program (EDP) enables The world-wide proportion of women in top manageAmerican college graduates with degrees in technical ment in 2016 was 11.6% (2015: 11.0%). In our own Mansubjects to receive two years of further training in agement Evolution Program, 42.0% of participants are mechatronics – for example, through cross-divisional women (2015: 42.0%). Knorr-Bremse supports the govtransfers to other departments or through work experiernment’s aim of increasing the proportion of women in ence in Mexico. top management positions. In view of current ­demographic developments and a predicted shortage of skilled workers, particularly in technical occupations, it is also important for Knorr-Bremse to recruit more International exchanges well-trained and highly-qualified women. Appropriate For many years now, Knorr-Bremse’s commitment to ininitiatives and programs already exist – one example ternational exchange has resulted in improved intercul­being a trainee program specifically designed for young tural skills, particularly among its management. The comfemale recruits. At Knorr-Bremse the scope for balancing pany‘s international locations provide ideal conditions for family and professional life has also been increased by such exchanges to take place. Expatriates posted abroad the introduction of flexible working time models and for periods of between six months and five years are all teleworking. 21 Employees and leadership We create an attractive working environment in which trust, teamwork, diversity, equality of opportunity and mutual respect are valued and practiced. However, increasing the proportion of women in manfamily – from highly qualified women wishing to stay at agement positions takes time. As Knorr-Bremse is a techwork despite having children, or fathers wanting to play a nological company operating in the B2B sector, it is tradibigger part in bringing up their offspring, to those with tionally perceived to be an attractive employer above all dependents requiring care – Knorr-Bremse offers the by male applicants. Many management positions at ­following assistance, as required: Knorr-Bremse call for technical training in which women are still under-represented. You can find further informa• Flexible working hours and working time accounts tion on the topic of women in management positions at • Part-time employment Knorr-Bremse, together with details of the targets we • Leave lasting several months (sabbaticals) have set, in the Knorr-Bremse AG 2016 Annual Report. • Teleworking • Support for the family (e.g. assistance in finding childAs part of a joint initiative with the Technical University of care and nursing care for dependents) Munich, we provide support for female students of scientific and technical subjects. In a program entitled mentorIn 2016 Knorr-Bremse underwent a re-audit under the ING, the female students are provided with mentors who ‘Beruf und Familie’ program. Receipt of the prestigious help them to build up their first networks relevant to their ‘Audit Beruf und Familie’ certificate in 2013 had been a constudies and future professions. The program also includes firmation of the company’s family-friendly personnel policy. seminars and training courses tailored to specific target The award was made on the basis of detailed assessments groups. Knorr-Bremse has extended this joint program for by the auditing company berufundfamilie gGmbH. a further year to September 2017. In North America, our Bendix subsidiary offers female managers the opportunity to attend a special training program focusing on women in management positions. Over a period of six months there are regular workshops, Encouraging girls to explore technology an important aspect of which are opportunities to exchange ideas with women in management positions in other companies in the sector. The MINT4Girls team at Munich University of ­Technology consists of students and professors Severely disabled employees and those with serious who want to encourage more girls to consider health conditions receive special protection and assistraining in a technological profession. As a parttance at Knorr-Bremse. The disabled employees’ represenner, Knorr-Bremse supports the project and introtative helps to find the right workplace for them within duces participants to the life of female engineers the company. The proportion of severely disabled emin the company. Knorr-Bremse is also involved in ployees at our German locations in 2016 was 5.1% (2015: the ‘Girls for Technology’ camp organized by the 5.0%). Bavarian Industrial Training Institute (bbw) and the nation-wide ‘Girls’ Day’, which aims to introOne of the aims of our HR policy is to promote work-life duce young women to occupations such as inbalance – especially in countries which, like Germany, dustrial technology and mechatronics that are face major challenges as a result of demographic change. usually dominated by men. To help employees reconcile the demands of work and 22 Health and safety at work We ensure a safe and healthy working environment by An extensive range of measures aimed at maintaining promoting the prevention of injuries and impairment to and promoting our employees’ long-term health and tailhealth. This principle is laid down in our Group-wide ored to the local needs of individual sites is available Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) policy. Key asthroughout the Group. Workplace design is a particular pects are risk assessments of machinery, workplaces and focus, and in 2016 low-vibration electric machines for aswork processes, the promotion of safety awareness in the sembly work were introduced in Wolverton, UK, and there workforce through training courses and information was advance planning of assembly processes to take ecocampaigns, the analysis of accidents and subsequent nomic aspects into account in Nankou, China. Further ­introduction of accident-prevention measures. measures include health advice, stress management seminars, fitness programs and medical examinations. Our occupational health and safety management system ­In-house medical care is available to our employees at all meets the requirements of the international standard our sites, in addition to important preventive check-ups, OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessvaccinations and pre-travel consultations. In the USA, our ment Series) and we conduct internal audits at regular Bendix subsidiary offers its employees an extensive range intervals. 37 global production and service sites in our Rail of activities and information on subjects such as breast Vehicle Systems division are already certified according to cancer prevention, healthy nutrition and physical fitness OHSAS 18001. as part of its ‘Bendix Be Healthy’ program. Using standardized processes, we record and analyze the key indicators for occupational safety, and derive appropriate measures from these. In order to maintain and ­further improve our high standards of health and safety at work, we provide internal training at regular intervals and In 2016 the number offer those responsible for HSE the opportunity to take part in international congresses, conferences and projof workplace accidents resulting in absence was 0.8 ects. Awareness is also increased by internal work safety campaigns such as ‘Bendix Stars’ in the USA. All work teams are called on to undertake training in awareness of workplace safety issues, and the best teams are rewarded on a monthly basis. Accident rate per 200,000 hours worked 2014 1.0 2015 0.7 2016 0.8 Number of accidents resulting in absence from work per 200,000 hours worked 23 In 2016 we were voted top employer for engineers for the 3rd time in succession Creating a safe, healthy working environment is important to Knorr-Bremse. 24 25 Sustainable protection. Knorr-Bremse makes responsible use of resources, constantly endeavors to reduce CO2 emissions, and minimizes – and where possible c­ ompletely avoids – undesirable impacts on nature. Knorr-Bremse is committed to integrated, preventive enstandardization of HSE work in both divisions and encourvironmental protection in its production processes and age the use of synergies. through the development of resource-saving products and services. We are continually improving our environSince 2015, a Group-wide HSE reporting system has promental protection measures, collecting and analyzing key vided regular information from production sites worldenvironmental performance data and setting environwide on the most important health and safety and envimental targets at Group and site level. By regularly inronmental protection data and events. Since 2001 we specting and servicing our plant and machinery and carhave also been driving a step-by-step process of Grouprying out preventive maintenance and repairs on the wide certification of all sites under the international envientire infrastructure, we minimize the negative environronmental management standard ISO 14001. By the end mental impact of our operations. At the same time, we of 2016, 50 production sites had achieved certification. promote environmental awareness and appropriate conduct amongst our employees through a range of communication measures and training courses, annually assessing the need for these on a site-by-site basis. Climate protection targets 2020 Our measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) are grouped together under the Efficient Cut of CO2 Environmental management (ECCO2) initiative, which was launched in 2009. Our origiKnorr-Bremse’s environmental principles are set out in our nal aim was to achieve a 20% reduction in our specific Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) policy, which was CO2 emissions by 2020 and to increase our specific energy revised in 2015, and now includes regulations on the use efficiency by the same amount. However we had already of energy. In our HSE policy we commit ourselves to preachieved this by the end of 2014, so we now have a new venting or minimizing the impact of our processes, sertarget: climate-neutral organic growth up to the year vices and products on the environment and our fellow 2020. In specific terms this means that in 2020 – despite a human beings. In order to achieve this aim, the Group has sharp increase in production capacity – CO2 emissions introduced an environmental management system at all from operations at our current sites will not exceed the its production sites. This is coordinated by central HSE defigure for 2015. In a Group-wide analysis, Knorr-Bremse partments for the Rail Vehicle Systems and Commercial identified the biggest generators of CO2 emissions within Vehicle Systems divisions. In 2016 Knorr-Bremse also set the company in 2016. A list of short, medium and longup an HSE Board to ensure maximum coordination and term measures aimed at reducing CO2 emissions was 26 drawn up, and implementation started. Another target – which includes new sites added to the Group as a result Munich Climate Pact of acquisitions – involves energy efficiency being improved by a further 10% by 2020 compared with 2015. Knorr-Bremse also aims to implement an energy management system according to the international ISO 50001 standard at its most energy-intensive production faciliTogether with 14 other major companies, ties. By the end of 2016, 30 European legal entities within Knorr-Bremse has signed up to the ‘Klimapakt the Group had a certified ISO 50001 energy management Münchner Wirtschaft’ (‘Munich Business Climate system. Pact’) under the patronage of the City of Munich. The signatories have undertaken to reduce greenIn 2015 we also introduced a global guideline for the house gas emissions in the city by 40,000 tons of ­purchasing of electricity, with the aim of increasing the CO2 by the end of 2018. Knorr-Bremse is contributproportion derived from renewable sources provided by ing, for example, by using waste heat from the test external companies. rigs in its newly-built Development Center. By participating in this energy efficiency network, the company is also contributing to achieving the climate and energy policy aims of the Federal ­ ­Republic of Germany. Climate protection at Knorr-Bremse ECCO2 PHASE II (2015 – 2020) Focus on 3 areas E missions reduction target: -10 % of relative CO2 emissions (CO2 emissions/thousands of euros) Aim: Climate-neutral organic growth E nergy efficiency target: FOCUS ON Improving energy efficiency ­PRODUCTS S ustainable energy management target: (SCOPE 3**) Introduction of an internal energy management A  ssessment of environmentally system according to ISO 50001 friendly product portfolio Implementation of life cycle FOCUS ON assessments LOGISTICS Analysis of environmental (SCOPE 3**) impact of substitute materials Optimization of the transport network, warehousing structures and route planning  se of fuel-efficient vehicles by U logistics service providers  eduction of transport-related R CO2 emissions *D  irect and indirect emissions from the use of natural gas, heating oil (Scope 1) and electricity, district heating (Scope 2) ** Indirect emissions from use of fuel and from product manufacturing and use (Scope 3) 27 Energy efficiency Knorr-Bremse identifies potential for energy savings 0 increase in CO2 emissions at all current sites throughout the company, with a main focus on buildings, by 2020 compared plants and production processes. At some of our sites we have installed sub-meters to provide a detailed breakwith 2015 levels down of energy consumption that helps us to identify areas where savings can be made and to develop measures to reduce energy consumption. Examples of local Energy consumption best practice are publicized via internal media throughout the Group. Some examples follow: 2014 305,000 2015 311,000 Suzhou, China 2016 306,000 Following a 2014 energy audit that identified potential for improving energy efficiency, a number of measures were taken that resulted in a reduction in energy consumption Absolute energy consumption in MWh of 743,000 kWh per year. These included the installation of new compressed air equipment, solar panels on the roof of the production hall and the use of energy-efficient 2014 58.6 lighting. New daylight reflectors mean that in many areas 2015 53.3 there is no need for any artificial lighting at all. 2016 55.6 Tinqueux, France Specific energy consumption in kWh per thousand euros turnover During the modernization of an existing building for the new site, Knorr-Bremse was able to introduce a number of energy efficiency measures ranging from the selection of regional suppliers in order to reduce transport-related emissions to on-demand LED lighting, improved heating control and charging stations for electric vehicles. Emissions  123,000 Palwal, India 2014 108,000 A large-scale photovoltaic array at this Knorr-Bremse site  14,000 generates some 105,000 kWh of electricity per year, and 131,000 the existing lighting has been replaced with modern, en2015 117,000 ergy-efficient LED lights. Altogether the site is set to save some 100 tons of CO2 emissions per year. 13,000 134,000 2016 119,000 15,000 Total CO2 emissions Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) Direct and indirect CO2 emissions in tons 2014 23.6 2015 22.4 2016 24.5 Specific CO2 emissions in kg per thousand euros turnover 28 Resource efficiency Ecological building design world-wide Knorr-Bremse endeavors to make sparing and efficient use of materials in its production processes. In particular this applies to steel and iron materials, light metals, polyAs part of our determination to design all new sites mers, fuels and lubricants and packaging materials. In the and buildings to be as environmentally-friendly as product development process there is therefore a growpossible, Knorr-Bremse has formulated building ing focus on the scope for using environmentally-friendly, guidelines containing extensive ecological criteria resource-saving materials. The aim is to continuously infor the planning of facilities and buildings. These crease the proportion of such safe, environmentally cover requirements related to the energy concept, friendly materials used. CO2 -neutral energy generation and calculation of life cycle costs, as well as the systematic collection of data on energy use. We also take into account local conditions, for example by selecting suitable 50 building materials for particular climate zones. The water we consume is used primarily for surface treatment and cleaning of our products, for test applications production sites have and for drinking water and sanitary purposes. We obtain been certified according our water from local authority suppliers and dispose of our waste water via public sewage systems. It is our aim to ISO 14001 to use water as efficiently as possible and to recycle it as often as possible. In 2016 we reduced our specific fresh water consumption (in relation to turnover) by 6.1% compared with 2015. In order to save drinking water, some of our sites use rainwater for cleaning, in their sanitary faciliWaste generated at Knorr-Bremse consists primarily of ties and for watering green spaces. scrap metal, paper, and packaging as well as residual waste. In addition, surface treatment of our products results in electro-plating sludge. Measures are being taken to steadily reduce waste and improve material cycles. Smart utilization of waste offers considerable potential for reducing the use of resources. In 2016, for example, various projects for composting production waste – for example filter residues from waste water purification – were launched at the Huntington site in the USA. A total of 200 Environment and climate tons of landfill waste were saved as a result. Our aim is to use resources responsibly, consistently reduce CO2 emissions, minimize – and where possible avoid – undesirable impacts on nature and environWater consumption ment, and actively use opportuni2014 ties to protect the environment. 88.5 2015 80.0 2016 75.1 Specific use of freshwater in liters per thousand euros turnover 29 The new Rail facility in Suzhou generates much of its own electricity. 30 31 Working together for sustainability. Knorr-Bremse actively involved it suppliers in shaping sustainable growth. In its choice of suppliers Knorr-Bremse not only takes into work. In 2016, both divisions increased their flexibility and account commercial criteria such as quality, price and availfurther optimized processes across the entire supply chain. ability but also aspects such as trust, cooperation, safety and environmental protection. In addition, our Group Code of Conduct includes a stipulation that suppliers should Integrating sustainability Sustainability criteria are an integral part of Knorr-Bremse‘s take a responsible approach towards their employees, the purchasing policy. The cross-divisional purchasing guideenvironment, and society at large. With its supplier manlines for indirect materials require sustainability criteria to agement system, Knorr-Bremse is constantly working on be taken into account when selecting suppliers. In addition optimizing the sustainability of its supply chain. there are precise guidelines on the purchasing of renewable energy and of energy-efficient products, equipment Purchasing management and services. In the field of purchasing Knorr-Bremse distinguishes between two types of materials: Suppliers of direct material must comply with the relevant quality management guidelines for the business unit con• Direct materials cerned. Both divisions expect the ten principles of the UN Materials, articles and components that are sold to Global Compact to be adhered to, and ISO 14001-complicustomers as part of our systems, either directly or ant environmental management systems to be in place following further in-house processing. Examples (and if possible, certified). If suppliers do not meet these include castings and forgings, electronic and electrorequirements, we reserve the right to terminate the busimechanical components, and machined parts ness relationship with them. More than 75% of our pur(e.g. crankshafts and gearwheels). chases come from suppliers that have subscribed to the principles of the UN Global Compact – a year-on-year in• Indirect materials crease of 10%. The goods and services required to operate a site; these include construction services, vehicles, hardware and To this will be added a Supplier Code of Conduct due to be software, process materials, and machine tools. rolled out in 2017, which will further define the Knorr-Bremse Group’s requirements of its suppliers with regard to sustainFor these areas, Central Purchasing at Knorr-Bremse purability. An internal guideline for colleagues involved in the sues a product group strategy for all sites, develops a suppurchasing process is also being developed. This will contain plier base and uses the synergies within our global netclear information on the correct handling of suppliers and raise awareness of the need for compliance in purchasing. 32 Knorr-Bremse honors sustainable Railsponsible suppliers At the start of 2015, the Rail Vehicle Systems diviIn December 2016, Harting AG & Co. KG was sion launched the ‘Railsponsible’ initiative together named ‘Supplier of the Year 2016’ in the ‘Sustainwith Alstom Transport, Bombardier Transportation, ability’ category by the Rail Vehicle Systems diviDeutsche Bahn, Nederlandse Spoorwegen, and sion. During the course of Knorr-Bremse’s supplier SNCF, with a view to achieving sustainable purevaluation the company demonstrated that it had chasing within the rail industry. The initiative also improved considerably and made significant proaims to encourage railway industry customers and gress compared with the previous year, demonsuppliers around the world to subscribe to ethicalstrating genuine commitment to sustainability ly and socially responsible environmental and and corporate responsibility. business practices. In 2016 the company SKF (Svenska Kugellagerfabriken AB) joined the initiative, and talks are currently underway with two further potential new members. Both divisions have launched campaigns aimed at increasing sustainability in the supply chain. They include a sustainability assessment of the company’s strategic and preferred suppliers, which is being phased in with the help of external service providers. By the end of 2016, 37% of strategic suppliers in the Rail Vehicle Systems division had been evaluated and their sustainability performance assessed. In the Commercial Vehicle Systems division, a similar analysis will be launched in 2017. We make full use of the scope offered by rail, road and water transport to minimize the environmental impact of CR audits of risk suppliers are also being planned. Audits moving our products. For intercontinental transportation of two selected suppliers will be piloted in 2017 in order we try as far as possible to make use of rail or sea freight to test their effectiveness and feasibility. Assessments and and avoid airfreight. Consolidation of deliveries also reaudit results will in future be incorporated into supplier duces the number of freight movements and cuts CO2 assessments carried out by both divisions. The newlyemissions. created position of Sustainable Purchasing Specialist ensures that sustainability in the field of purchasing is also strengthened in organizational terms. Efficient logistics 37% In both divisions, Knorr-Bremse is working on improving logistics along the entire supply chain – from suppliers via the production processes at all our sites to delivery of the finished product to customers .The aim is to standardize and optimize processes and methods at our sites, and improve inter-site co-operation. The result will be better serof strategic suppliers vice quality in all distribution channels – particularly in of rail vehicle systems relation to delivery reliability, quality, and lead times. have been assessed for their sustainability 33 Knorr-Bremse is working on optimizing operational transWarehouses merged for port management with the support of external service greater efficiency providers who look after planning, consolidation and implementation of deliveries to Knorr-Bremse as well as At our Suzhou site in China, the merging of three shipping of products to our customers. Optimum coordiseparate storage facilities into a single warehouse nation of the various transport modes has enabled within easy walking distance of the factory has enKnorr-Bremse to further improve the sustainability of its abled us to avoid some 1,000 internal shipments logistics operations. Logistics service providers also bunper year. Processing costs have also been reduced, dle incoming material flows at strategically-positioned as goods from different facilities no longer have to consolidation hubs within Europe. be consolidated into a single delivery. This not only results in cost savings and reduced throughAnother important part of our global transport strategy put times but also cuts CO2 emissions by some involves making optimum use of existing container ca7.4 tons per year. pacity. To improve the environmental impact of logistics we largely avoid break bulk transportation. In 2016 we achieved 70% utilization of our own containers on main routes, and we are continuing to adjust quantities and packaging concepts to make even better utilization of ECO Performance Award the weight and volume limits of shipping containers. In order to improve the efficiency of our transport netThe ECO Performance Award – the leading Eurowork and reduce transport-related CO2 emissions, we repean sustainability award in the transport and loquire our logistics partners to use modern vehicles with gistics sector – is made to companies that have as low fuel consumption as possible. The current Euroachieved a balance between economic, environpean emissions standards for trucks are compulsory. In mental and social aspects. Knorr-Bremse serves 2014, Knorr-Bremse introduced a contractually agreed on the jury for this award. reporting system according to DIN ISO 16258 in order to monitor transport-related pollutants. This obliges transport service providers not only to adhere to the statutory emissions standards but also to take the most direct route for their deliveries. Knorr-Bremse is also continuously improving its internal logistics. Products and partners We consistently work on developing innovative products and solutions that combine maximum customer benefits with a contribution towards sustainable development. Top levels of safety are our priority. 34 35 Supporting communities – globally and locally. Knorr-Bremse supports social projects and plays an active role worldwide as a good corporate citizen. ‘Responsibility’ is a Knorr-Bremse corporate value and one Our social commitment covers both local and global that the Group lives by, day after day – not only through issues. In 2016, Knorr-Bremse invested a total of around its products, which make global mobility safer, and EUR 2.9 million for these purposes (some 11% less than the through its climate-friendly, resource-efficient producprevious year). In 2015, to mark the tenth anniversary of tion methods, but also through its active involvement in Knorr-Bremse Global Care, Knorr-Bremse created a special community projects. Taking part in the life of the commubudget to support the 'Get involved' initiative that pronity, having a positive impact in the areas around our motes personal volunteering by its employees. sites, and playing a constructive role in shaping them are a key part of our company’s identity. Knorr-Bremse’s social commitment is based on two pillars: Local Care and Global Care. Local Care covers all the local community activities at Knorr-Bremse sites. KnorrBremse Global Care is a charitable organization that promotes longer-term projects with bigger financial implications all over the world – both in countries with Knorr-Bremse sites and in developing countries. Both pillars offer our employees a wide range of opportunities to Donations become involved in community projects in the area  around their workplace. 2,596 2014 1,084 A recent example of effective networking between Local  1,512 Care and Knorr-Bremse Global Care was an aid project 3,245 carried out by employees at Bendix Commercial Vehicle 2015 1,745 Systems in Acuña in Mexico. 80 employees from the site, 1,500 which has been working in the local community for years 2,902 through the Local Care program, played an active role in 2016 1,357 implementing a project financed by Knorr-Bremse Global 1,545 Care. As part of global Knorr-Bremse Day, they spent four days building a house for a family that had been made Knorr-Bremse Group homeless by a tornado in 2015. In addition to the work of which to Local Care carried out by employees, Knorr-Bremse Global Care doof which to Global Care nated EUR 150,000 to finance the construction of another 20 houses. Three of them will also be built by Bendix staff Donations made by the Knorr-Bremse Group in EUR thousands during corporate volunteering days. 36 In 2016, Knorr-Bremse refined its social commitment Global Care: strategy. Working together, Local Care teams and KnorrBremse Global Care used best-practice checks, questionSupporting people worldwide naires and a workshop to fine tune the Local Care strateGlobal Care refers to the work of Knorr-Bremse Global Care gy in particular. Knorr-Bremse’s Social Commitment e.V., an autonomous charitable organization set up by emprinciples create a clearer organizational separation beployees of the Knorr-Bremse Group at the beginning of tween the two pillars and a clear focus on the individual 2005 in the aftermath of the tsunami that had hit South-East support categories. The Local Care Donation Guidelines Asia a few months previously. The headquarters of the orgadefine the standard principles governing site donations. nization are in Munich. Knorr-Bremse Global Care is financed Together, the two documents form the foundation for by an annual donation from the Knorr-Bremse Group. social commitment in the vicinity of our sites, and for cooperation with local external partners. The two pillars One of Global Care’s main support areas is water, sanitation continue to complement one another in terms of their and hygiene (WASH). Through its work, the organization content and exploit synergies for the benefit of society. aims to bring about long-term improvements to clean water supplies and hygiene conditions, especially in developing countries and emerging economies. Another focus area is education. Through vocational training in particular, Local Care: Knorr-Bremse Global Care aims to give young people prosSite involvement pects and a chance to support themselves and play an active part in society. Independently of these two areas, Local Care is the name given to the community activities Knorr-Bremse Global Care also supports aid organizations carried out by our sites and their employees all over the that provide emergency relief, for instance in the wake of world. Local Care covers donations, projects and activities natural disasters. that are selected, financed and supervised autonomously by the sites in question. Since January 2016, Knorr-Bremse Global Care has been concentrating its work on a select group of countries. This Local Care instruments include includes all 30 countries with Knorr-Bremse sites and an• Voluntary donations of time and money in aid of charitaother ten focus countries where Global Care has been ble causes and for projects in our main funding categoheavily involved since it was first set up in 2005: Ethiopia, ries: education, health, environment and social cohesion; Ghana, Cambodia, Kenya, Colombia, Myanmar, Peru, •  Corporate volunteering, in which employees are Sri Lanka, Tanzania and Ukraine. The decision to concenallowed time off work to support charitable organizatrate on these countries was based on the recognition that tions; where Knorr-Bremse is represented, projects can make use • The ‘Get involved’ initiative, which provides donations of the Group structure, communicate in the local language to support the personal voluntary work carried out by and, use dedicated helpers on site, enabling staff to beemployees in their free time for charitable organizations come involved in projects. Many of these projects start life and projects in the support categories mentioned as Local Care projects – Knorr-Bremse employees who are above; familiar with the circumstances recognize a need, and ask • ‘Matched giving’ programs, in which donations from the Global Care to provide further assistance and resources. In workforce are topped up by the company, which matchfuture, the majority of available funds will be invested in es or multiplies every donation made by employees. projects in countries with Knorr-Bremse sites. As part of a Local Care project in Asia, for instance, 20 emSince it was set up in 2005, Knorr-Bremse Global Care has ployees from Knorr-Bremse Asia Pacific are supporting a worked with partner organizations to improve the living social integration project in Hong Kong. The project, conditions of more than 633,000 people in 56 countries organized by TREATS, an initiative established in 1979, through around 218 projects. Funds totaling around EUR is aimed at children with physical, mental or social chal16 million have been made available. In 2016, Global Care lenges. Through a range of joint activities with Knorrsupported 63 projects in 28 countries with expenditure of Bremse Asia Pacific staff, including cooking, crafts and around EUR 1.9 million, reaching more than 52,000 people. outdoor events, the children and young people and their families gain experience of a respectful community free Further information on the activities of Knorr-Bremse Globfrom prejudice. This helps them to develop trust and to al Care can be found on www.global-care.eu and in the continue through life with new self-esteem. Knorr-Bremse Global Care 2016 Annual Report. 37 633,000 people have been supported directly by Knorr-Bremse Global Care since 2005, at a total cost of EUR 16 million. Commitment and Society As a member of society, we support social projects and play an active role worldwide as a good corporate citizen. Knorr-Bremse employees built the first of 20 houses for tornado victims in Acuña, Mexico. 38 Implementation of the ten UN Global Compact principles Knorr-Bremse has been a signatory to the UN Global ment systems that help us integrate the principles of the Compact since 2010, and we report annually on how we UN Global Compact into our business processes. The inimplement the Global Compact’s ten principles in our dex also provides references to the relevant content recompany. The following table provides an overview of garding the Global Compact and its implementation in the voluntary commitments, guidelines and manage2016. PRINCIPLE KNORR-BREMSE GUIDELINES, PAGES / SECTIONS REGULATIONS AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct 5 Sustainable business PRINCIPLE 1 respect the protection of interna(p. 5, 8) 8 Compliance management tionally proclaimed human rights Corporate Responsibility and integrity Guidelines (p. 5) Health, Safety and Environmental 17 Sustainable prospects Businesses should make sure PRINCIPLE 2 Policy (p. 5, 20, 23) they are not complicit in human UITP Charter for Sustainable 20 Health and safety at work rights abuses Development (p. 6) 29 Working together for Compliance Management System sustainability and Organization (p. 8) Integrating sustainability Knorr-Bremse Supplier Code of Conduct (p. 9) WORK STANDARDS Knorr-Bremse Code PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the 5 Sustainable business of Conduct (p. 5, 8) freedom of association and the 8 Compliance management effective recognition of the right and integrity Corporate Responsibility to collective bargaining Guidelines (p. 5) 17 Sustainable prospects and furthermore uphold the PRINCIPLE 4 17 Leadership and personell elimination of all forms of forced Compliance Management development and compulsory labor, System and Organization (p. 8) 18 Diversity and equality Leadership principles PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labor of opportunity (p. 5, 17) and the elimination of PRINCIPLE 6 29 Working together discrimination in respect of for sustainability employment and occupation. Integrating sustainability 39 PROTECTION PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct 5 Sustainable business a precautionary approach to (p. 5, 8) 11 Sustainable safety environmental challenges, Knorr-Bremse Supplier Code of Focus on innovation Conduct (p. 9) 12 Emissions, energy efficiency PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote Climate protection strategy with 13 Sustainability in the product greater environmental responsiGroup-wide targets (p. 23) lifecycle bility and Health, Safety and Environmental 14 Industrial remanufacturing policy (p. 5, 20, 23) 20 Sustainable prospects PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development Group-wide Environmental Health and safety at work and diffusion of environmentally Management System (p. 23) 23 Sustainable protection friendly technologies. Energy Management System (p. 24) 23 Environmental management Guideline for planning of facilities 23 Climate protection targets 2020 and buildings with extensive 25 Energy efficiency environmental criteria (p. 26) 26 Resource efficiency 29 Working together for sustainability Integrating sustainability 30 Efficient logistics 33 Supporting communities – globally and locally 34 Global Care CORRUPTION PREVENTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work Knorr-Bremse Code of Conduct 5 Sustainable business against corruption in all its forms, (p. 5, 9) 8 Compliance management including extortion and bribery. Compliance Management and integrity System and Organization (p. 8) 29 Working together for Knorr-Bremse Supplier Code sustainability of Conduct (p. 8) Integrating sustainability 40 Since 1905, Knorr-Bremse has been driving the development, production, marketing and servicing of state-of-the-art braking systems. 41 Imprint Publisher Knorr-Bremse AG Moosacher Straße 80 80809 Munich Germany cr@knorr-bremse.com knorr-bremse.com Responsible for the content Stefan Bräuherr, Knorr-Bremse AG Layout, design and production KB Media GmbH Photo credits Jann Averwerser, Munich Robert Banczik, Munich Caroline Gräther, Munich GrenzKultur gGmbH, Berlin Oli Keinath, Berlin Loredana La Rocca, Munich Daniel Schäfer, Munich Suzhou broadcast station Additional image rights P. 22 Oleh_Slobodeniuk /istockphoto.com English translation Hugh Keith Printing Weber Offset, Munich Paper: Lessebo smooth white 42
