S O C I A L RESPONSIBILITY 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS E NT UM D OC N CE RE FE RE 16 20 OM FR A CT TR EX HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Organic growth APRIL SEPTEMBER Bostik: increase in cementTechnical Polymers: based mortars and adhesives production capacities in the announcement of specialty polyamide production Innovation Philippines capacity increases in the United States and China for p Pierre Potier prize for a new Kynar® fluorinated MAY 2017 polymer for water ultrafiltration Bostik: increase in cementbased mortars and adhesives OCTOBER p Opening of an innovation center in South Korea production capacities in Coating resins: based within the HanYang University in Seoul Malaysia announcement of the p Ranked among the 100 most innovative construction of a polyester companies in the world by JULY powder resin facility in India Clarivate Analytics for Bostik: increase in in 2018 the 6th time in a row production capacities of Technical Polymers: cement-based construction announcement of a 25% products in Sweden PVDF Kynar ® production capacity increase in China Portfolio in 2017 management MAY (€93 m sales and €145 m Acrylics: agreement for a enterprise value) 50/50 split in capacity rights in the Taixing Sunke Chemical DECEMBER joint venture in China Bostik: acquisition of Den Braven, a European leader NOVEMBER in high performance sealants Performance Additives: (€345 m sales and €485 m divestment of the activated enterprise value) carbon and filter aids business Corporate Social Responsibility Arkema strengthens its long-term Corporate Social Responsibility targets, setting itself ambitious new objectives for 2025 in the areas of safety and the environment, with a particular focus on greenhouse gas, volatile organic compound and chemical oxygen demand emission reduction as well as on the reduction of its energy purchases Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 MESSAGE corporate social responsibility policy creates value for both stakeholders and the Company itself. In ten years, we have become a key player in the sustainability world by bringing sustainable development solutions as a centerpiece of our innovation policy and our product lines. Our innovation platforms include lightweight materials and design, electronics solutions, new energies, Bio-based products, water management and home efficiency, and are fully in line with six of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). In 2016, we launched a materiality assessment. This broader dialogue with our stakeholders has confirmed that their expectations are aligned with our priorities and has allowed us to reinforce our CSR roadmap. from Thierry Le Hénaff As an expansion of its CSR effort, Arkema has strengthened its environmental policy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer by introducing an internal CO2 pricing for its investment decisions and a new program towards excellence in water management. Furthermore, the Group has complemented its 2025 Dear Stakeholders, targets with two new objectives regarding diversity I am pleased to renew Arkema’s support for the in the organization. Global Compact and our ongoing commitment The Group’s continuous improvement in extra-financial to the initiative and its principles, on which rating and its decision to adopt the DJSI index as a Arkema builds its sustainability approach, with key indicator for CSR progress is a clear indication of the Responsible Care® initiative. its ambition to join progressively the best performers of the industry. Our strategic position as a central player in the industry, dedicated to serving our customers, This report details our ambitions and commitments in creates a responsibility for us to set an example the field of Corporate Social Responsibility as well as of excellence in environmental awareness, our achievements there. safety and sustainability in chemical production. I sincerely thank you for your continued support and I firmly believe that implementing an ambitious interest in our sustainable performance. 3 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA KEY FIGURES 2016 €7,535 M €1,189 M 15.8% Sales EBITDA EBITDA margin Adjusted net income Free Dividend per share cash flow (1) per share (2) €5.56 €426 M €2.05 Net debt Capital expenditure (3) Number of Number of €1,482 M €423 M employees industrial sites 19,637 133 Share price in 2016 (in euros) 100 10-year performance 95 +44% Arkema +250% 90 85 80 75 +13% Peer * average +68% 70 +4% CAC 40 -1% 65 60 55 * AkzoNobel, BASF, Clariant, DSM, Evonik, Lanxess, Solvay 50 45 01/01/16 01/02/16 01/03/16 01/04/16 01/05/16 01/06/16 01/07/16 01/08/16 01/09/16 01/10/16 01/11/16 01/12/16 (1) Free cash flow excluding M&A, exceptional capex, dividend and cost of hybrid. (2) Dividend proposed to the shareholders’ annual general meeting of 23 May 2017. (3) Excluding reallocation of assets without any impact on net debt. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2016 KEY FIGURES Safety Environment Innovation Stakeholders Human 0 accidents 230 GWh 116 patents 25 material topics resources 81% of Group Total energy savings achieved Number of patent Stakeholders confirmed the 2 new sites reported by the Group in 2016, applications filed by importance of the 25 CSR targets zero accidents representing the equivalent of the Group in 2016 in topics during the first materiality Increase the number of in 2016 the annual energy consumption sustainable development assessment carried out in 2016. women and non-French of 50,000 French households Focused initiatives will be put in nationals in place in these areas executive positions INNOVATION More than 1,500 F CUS 3D PRINTING researchers PEKK: an innovation 2.9% for the future of Group The Poly-Ether-Ketone-Ketone (PEKK) marketed under the brand name Kepstan® is a polymer sales dedicated offering very high resistance to temperature and pressure. Much lighter than metal, it is to R&D the material of choice for the most demanding AEROSPACE applications. 196 In early 2017, Arkema announced a two-fold increase of its PEKK production capacities in priority patent France and confirmed the construction of a applications world-scale unit at its Mobile site (Alabama) in the United States, which is due to come on stream in the second half of 2018. OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS 5 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 6 2.1 2.1.1 2.1.2 2.1.3 2.1.4 2.2 2.2.1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ARKEMA’S SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH AFR 8 Introduction8 Stakeholders and materiality assessment CSR strategy and commitments CSR key performance indicators CSR GOVERNANCE CSR actors 11 12 13 13 9 2.6 2.6.1 2.6.2 2.6.3 2.6.4 2.6.5 2.7 2.7.1 2 SOCIAL INFORMATION Social management Employment43 Training and personal development Social dialogue AFR 42 Diversity, equal opportunity and equal treatment SOCIETAL INFORMATION Societal management AFR 62 42 55 58 60 62 2.2.2 CSR reporting organization 13 2.7.2 Institutional initiatives 62 2.7.3 Compliance and ethics 63 2.7.4 Procurement, suppliers and subcontracting 64 2.3 HEALTH AND SAFETY INFORMATION AFR 14 2.7.5 Direct and indirect socio-economic impact 66 2.3.1 Safety management 14 2.7.6 Corporate citizenship and philanthropy 67 2.3.2 Employee safety and health 14 2.3.3 Process safety 18 2.8 REPORTING METHODOLOGY 70 2.3.4 Audits20 2.3.5 Responsible product stewardship 22 2.8.1 Methodological note on environmental and safety indicators70 2.8.2 Note on methodology used for employment, social 2.4 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION AFR 25 and R&D information/indicators 73 2.4.1 Environmental management 25 2.8.3 Indicators75 2.4.2 Resources28 2.8.4 Grenelle II, GRI-G4 and SDG concordance table 79 2.4.3 Land and biodiversity 30 2.8.5 Independent third-party opinion pursuant to 2.4.4 Emissions31 Article L. 225‑102‑1 of the French Commercial Code 83 2.4.5 Products and services 37 2.8.6 Contacts86 2.5 INNOVATION INFORMATION AFR 39 2.5.1 Managing innovation to support sustainable development 39 APPENDIX 1 1.4 R&D strategy and innovation AFR 87 2.5.2 Innovations to address sustainable development challenges40 APPENDIX 2 1.7 Risk factors AFR 94 2.5.3 R&D organization and outcomes 41 APPENDIX 3 3.3.2 Duties and operating procedures of the Board of Directors AFR 115 The different parts constituting the annual financial report are identified in the table of contents by the pictogram AFR 7 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Arkema’s social responsibility approach 2.1 ARKEMA’S SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 2.1.1 Introduction In a world facing numerous economic, environmental and social VALUE CHAIN challenges, the Group’s ambition, as a global leader in specialty chemicals and advanced materials, is to act as a responsible As described in detail in paragraph 1.1.1.1 of this document, chemicals producer by reducing its environmental footprint and the Group’s value chain, as a global chemicals manufacturer, offering its customers innovative, sustainable solutions. In this comprises a very diverse array of suppliers and customers way, the Group aims to drive sustainable, responsible growth applying widely varying CSR processes. The Group has in its business, while effectively responding to the planet’s social consequently designed a robust CSR strategy to create value and environmental challenges. This corporate social responsibility both for itself and across its entire value chain. (CSR) approach engages all of its stakeholders, particularly The Group supports its customers in developing their potential, customers, employees and suppliers. improving their performance and becoming more competitive In line with this approach and its endorsement of the ten principles with innovative new solutions derived from its applications-driven of the Global Compact and the Responsible Care® program, research and development. the Group’s CSR policy has been structured around five core The Group is striving to build lasting relationships with its suppliers commitments: and has issued a Supplier Code of Conduct for this purpose. By 1. Being a top quartile performer in safety in the chemical becoming a member of the Together for Sustainability program, industry; the Group has demonstrated its commitment to a responsible supply chain, as explained in paragraph 2.7.4 of this chapter. 2. Reducing the environmental footprint of its operations; 3. Placing solutions for sustainable development at the heart of its approach to innovation and product range; KEY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 4. Promoting the individual and collective development of all its employees; and Aware of its impact on society and the environment, the Group 5. Encouraging open dialogue with all its stakeholders. is undertaking a continuous improvement process by attenuating the risks incurred in its chemicals business, as described in In addition to regular dialogue with its stakeholders, the Group section 1.7.2 of this document. conducted in 2016 an initial materiality assessment in order to improve its CSR approach in partnership with its stakeholders. The At the same time, the Group is leveraging its innovation results of this structured stakeholder engagement and consultation capabilities and expertise to develop new products and unique process are presented in paragraph 2.1.2 of this chapter. solutions to address society’s growing expectations concerning sustainable development challenges. This innovation strategy, The Group’s CSR approach is regularly assessed by external which is designed to respond to societal challenges and is based stakeholders, particularly customers or SRI rating agencies such as on six innovation platforms, is presented in detail in section 2.5 CDP, Ecovadis, Vigeo, Oekom, Sustainalytics and RobecoSAM. of this chapter. In addition, Arkema’s inclusion in the FTSE4Good index attests to its solid performance in this field. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Arkema’s social responsibility approach 2 2.1.2 Stakeholders and materiality assessment In 2016, the Group conducted a formal process of exchange with Identified material CSR topics stakeholders on CSR topics in the form of a materiality assessment. The preliminary list of the 25 most material CSR topics was The resulting materiality map was used to determine how well the prepared based on the knowledge of the Group’s CSR experts, Group’s CSR approach is meeting stakeholder expectations and recognized international standards, a detailed literature review to suggest pathways for improvement. and benchmarking against industry peers. The topics were The assessment was conducted in two phases, as follows: consolidated into the following categories: safety, environment, innovation, human capital and society. 1. A preparatory phase, during which key stakeholders were mapped and the 25 most material CSR topics were identified. 2. A survey phase, in which each participating stakeholder validated and prioritized the identified CSR topics and also, Map of the key stakeholders in a few cases, suggested other topics to be addressed. The map covers internal stakeholders within the main corporate The survey findings were analyzed in order to rank each topic functions and representatives of the key regions in which the according to two criteria, as shown in the matrix below: Group operates. In this way, the process involved representatives of the regional businesses, the Business Lines, the production • its importance to the Group, as seen by internal stakeholders, division and the Health, Safety and Environment department, and as well as plant managers, purchasing managers, R&D • its importance to external stakeholders, as measured by their representatives, corporate services representatives (finance, expectations. ethics and compliance, human resources, communication and institutional relations) and employee representatives. External stakeholders include customers, suppliers, investors, public authorities, NGOs, academics, rating agencies and the media. 9 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Arkema’s social responsibility approach Very strong Safety performance Process safety Environmental footprint Sustainable innovation Human capital Stakeholders dialogue GHG emissions Sustainable and innovative solution for our customers Product Stewardship / Responsibility Water management Expectations from stakeholders Emissions to air Occupational Renewable/responsible raw materials Energy management health & safety Local dialogue Working conditions Local social and economic impact Compliance Governance Relationship with business partners Waste Training and development / management Career management Transport Social safety dialogue Fair compensation External partnership for innovation Human rights Risks related Diversity, to climate change equal opportunities Biodiversity protection Strong High Importance to business Very high The materiality map was analyzed by the CSR Steering that was implemented in 2012, based on the Group’s five Committee, whose composition is described in paragraph 2.2.1 commitments, and the importance of the 25 selected topics were of this chapter. The position of the CSR topics in the matrix reveals largely validated by stakeholders. The CSR Steering Committee a strong correlation between the materiality assessments of both consolidated the topics into the Group’s five commitments and internal and external stakeholders. Therefore, the CSR strategy ranked them into three categories, by order of priority, as follows: Safety Environment Innovation Social Societal Priority • Safety of people • Resources • Sustainable and • Diversity and equal topics and process management innovative solutions opportunities • Product stewardship • Training and individual and responsibility development Important • Transport safety • Climate change • Renewable / • Working conditions • Compliance topics • Direct responsible raw • Local dialogue environmental materials • Relationships with impact of operations business partners • Governance Permanent • Biodiversity • Open innovation • Social dialogue • Local, social and topics protection • Fair compensation economic impact • Human rights Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Arkema’s social responsibility approach 2 Priority topics were chosen from the 25 material topics based on concerning diversity were defined in 2016 for 2025, as described their importance to the Group and to stakeholders. in section 2.6 of this chapter. In conclusion, based on the findings of this materiality assessment, the Group is continuing to deploy its CSR strategy, as will be presented in the following sections, encouraged by 2025 SOCIAL TARGETS the confirmation that its five commitments are both material • 23% to 25% of senior management and executive and aligned with stakeholder expectations. The findings also positions to be held by women; and confirmed that safety and the environment are priority topics and that more specific expectations are emerging in the areas • 42% to 45% of senior management and executive of innovation and human capital. positions to be held by non-French nationals. Given that safety and the environment are already covered by ambitious objectives, the Group has decided to strengthen its other CSR commitments. On social development, two objectives This process has been validated by the Executive Committee. 2.1.3 CSR strategy and commitments As confirmed by the 2016 materiality assessment, the Group’s five 3. Innovation: placing sustainable development solutions at the commitments are the foundation for its sustainable, responsible heart of its approach to innovation and product range growth while addressing the expectations of its stakeholders. The Group uses its product R&D and marketing teams to support sustainable development and address the challenges facing the THE GROUP’S FIVE CSR COMMITMENTS planet. To this end, it creates innovative solutions in support of new energies, lightweight materials, the fight against climate 1. Safety: being a top quartile performer in safety in the chemical change, access to water, and the use of bio-based raw materials. industry R&D policies are described in section 1.4 of this document. The Group’s industrial safety initiative has been rolled out around 4. Social: promoting the individual and collective development of the world and comprises complementary technical, organizational all its employees and human aspects. By introducing a Group-wide safety culture While unique in their know-how, capabilities, nationality, role and making safety a priority, the Group has continuously and personality, together, the Group’s employees make up a improved its safety performance since its stock market listing. community. Employment policies around the world focus on two The Group also takes care that neither people’s health or safety, aspects: the individual development of employees and social nor the environment, are impacted by its products. development through actions that aim to improve working 2. Environment: reducing the environmental footprint of its conditions for all. operations 5. Societal: encouraging open dialogue with all its stakeholders All employees share the objective of reducing the Group’s The Group invites dialogue on its activities and products with all environmental footprint, by pursuing three types of actions: stakeholders, through programs such as the Common Ground® limiting emissions from operating activities, reducing the use of (Terrains d’Entente ®) initiative, developed to build mutual natural resources and developing the use of renewable resources. understanding and trust-based relationships with local residents, associations and schools. With its suppliers, the Group also adopts responsible behavior based on the desire to develop balanced, long-term, trust-based relationships. 11 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Arkema’s social responsibility approach 2.1.4 CSR key performance indicators The following table summarizes the Group’s key CSR performance The Group’s 2025 targets attest to the strength of its commitment indicators. Tracking and analyzing these KPIs enables the Group to sustainability and social responsibility. Based on the materiality to validate, year after year, the performance of its CSR process, assessment carried out in 2016, additional targets have been as detailed in the following sections. set for social development. Objectives related to innovation and societal issues are currently under study. 2025 Targets 2016 2015 2014* Safety Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) <1,2 1.5 1.5 1.9 Percentage of sites having implemented peer observation in the last three years 100% 56% 57% 77% Percentage of AIMS audited sites 100% 63% 61% 78% Environment (EFPI compared with 2012) Greenhouse gas emissions 0.50 0.60 0.62 0.70 Volatile organic compound emissions 0.67 0.80 0.83 0.79 Chemical oxygen demand 0.80 0.78 0.93 1.03 Net energy purchases 0.85 0.92 0.98 0.99 Innovation Number of patent applications filed during the year relating to sustainable development 116 121 128 Percentage of sales from products made from renewable raw materials 10% N/A 13% Social Percentage of women in senior management and executive positions 23 to 25% 18% 17% 17% Percentage of non-French nationals in senior management and executive positions 42 to 45% 39% N/A N/A Average number of training hours per employee 27 27 26 Societal Percentage of plants taking part in the Common Ground® program 86% 82% 90% * Excluding Bostik. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 12 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR governance 2 2.2 CSR GOVERNANCE 2.2.1 CSR actors To fulfill its ambitious CSR approach, the Group created in The Group’s governance of the CSR process is integrated into 2012 a Sustainable Development department, comprising the the Group’s corporate governance. In particular, every year the Product Safety and Environment department and the Sustainable Sustainable Development Vice-President reports to the Audit and Development department. It reports directly to the Industry Accounts Committee, presenting the scope of the CSR data audit Executive Vice-President, who is a member of the Executive and the findings of the independent third-party auditor. These Committee. findings appear in the auditor’s opinion issued to the annual In addition, a CSR Steering Committee was formed in late 2012 general meeting along with the Board of Director’s report, which under the leadership of the Industry Executive Vice-President. also includes a variety of social and environmental information. In Its members include the Human Resources and Communication addition, the Group’s environmental, safety and human resources Executive Vice-President and a number of corporate Vicesituation is reviewed by the Board of Directors as part of its Presidents, all of whom are actively involved in the CSR process. activities (see paragraph 3.3.2.3 of this document). Each year, Meeting twice a year, the Committee oversees CSR initiatives and the Industry Executive Vice-President presents to the Board the defines proposed CSR projects before they are submitted to the progress made on CSR topics. Executive Committee. All of the 2016 CSR indicators were reviewed by the independent The Group’s CSR ambition, the related initiatives (both proposed third-party auditor, as indicated in its limited assurance statement and in progress), the main KPIs and the safety and environmental in section 2.8 of this chapter. targets are defined and validated by the Executive Committee and presented once a year to the Board of Directors. 2.2.2 CSR reporting organization The CSR reporting organization is designed to enable the of this chapter. To optimize the organization, coordination and Group to manage and measure the effectiveness of its social integration of the financial and CSR reports, these data are responsibility process. reported on a calendar year basis. REPORTING ORGANIZATION AND PROTOCOL COMPLIANCE AND STANDARDS The Group has defined directives governing the reporting of Social, environmental and societal information has been released safety, environmental, employee and social data for every facility. since 2012 in compliance with Articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225‑105 Data are generally reported once a year, but for certain specific and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code du issues, interim data are reported quarterly so as to identify trends commerce) and in accordance with the recommendations and implement required corrective measures on a timely basis. of ISO 26000. In compliance with the above articles, this These interim data are not published. information is reviewed by an independent third-party auditor, with reports issued since 2012, attesting to the completeness and fairness of CSR information. REPORTING SCOPE AND PERIOD In 2016, the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines (GRI G4) were The scope of reporting for social, environmental and societal data applied for the first time. The concordance table can be found in is described in detail in the methodological note in section 2.8 paragraph 2.8.4 of this chapter. 13 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information 2.3 HEALTH AND SAFETY INFORMATION BEING A TOP QUARTILE PERFORMER IN SAFETY IN THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY 2.3.1 Safety management Safety and protecting health and the environment are core The Group’s commitment to safety has been materialized in priorities in the management of the Group’s business and three targets for 2025, which reflect the Group’s willingness to manufacturing operations, and a major focus of its CSR policies. continuously improve its performance in this area. This focus is shown by the Group involvment in the Responsible Care® program, a voluntary initiative undertaken by the chemical industry to responsibly manage its operations and products, 2025 TARGETS based on a continuous improvement process. • Reduce the total recordable injury rate (TRIR) to less The Group’s safety policy is structured around three areas: than 1.2; prevention of risks (related to safety, the environment and • Extend the peer observation program to every Group pollution), management guidelines, and a culture of safety and sustainability. It reflects prevailing legislation and the Group’s site; and own requirements, which have been formally defined in a • Audit every Group site in accordance with the Arkema Safety, Health, Environment and Quality Charter and in a global Integrated Management System (AIMS). standard, the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) manual. The Charter and manual form the basis of HSE management systems in all Group entities. These policies are being implemented worldwide by the Group Safety and Environment department, with the support of safety The materiality assessment performed in 2016 and presented in and environmental experts in each region. section 2.1 of this chapter confirmed that employee and process safety was one of the major aspects of the Group’s CSR approach. 2.3.2 Employee safety and health The Group considers the health and safety of its own employees In particular, all of them systematically take part in awareness as well as of its sub-contractors to be a priority and believes that initiatives designed to develop a safety culture and in the Group’s every occupational accident is preventable. safety processes and programs. In addition, the injury rates for As part of a prevention and continuous improvement process, both employees and sub-contractors are tracked as part of the the Group is committed to ensuring a good working environment safety performance management system. for everyone, in particular by analyzing workstation health and Another priority concerns the attenuation of arduous working safety risks and studying accident typologies. conditions, with the deployment of a dedicated program Regarding safety, the Group has the same level of expectation for comprising, since many years, workstation ergonomics and other sub-contractors working on its industrial sites as for its employees. remedial actions. Workplace well-being and the quality of work life are also important factors in protecting employee health. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information 2 2.3.2.1 EMPLOYEE SAFETY The “Safety in Action” and “Essentials” programs The “Safety in Action” and “Essentials” programs which concern Instilling a culture of safety through employee training, both employees and outside contractors working on Group awareness-building, and industrial safety and environment sites are deployed worldwide. “Safety in Action” is designed systems to promote and deepen everyone’s safety culture, while the “Essentials” define a set of rules that must be applied without Behavior plays a critical role in managing and preventing risks. compromise in every situation. That is why a core aspect of the Group’s safety process is the development of a common safety culture that raises everyone’s Peer observation awareness of his or her responsibility and the importance of his Peer observation aims at raising risk awareness in ways that help or her personal behavior. To develop a shared safety culture to reduce the number of occupational accidents. It capitalizes across the organization, the Group uses a variety of programs on positive experiences and a joint search for solutions to and initiatives, including: improve practices. Using a structured observation process, each • general training in health, safety and the environment for new site implements the method taking into account its own specific hires; features (risks, operations). Employees with similar qualifications • the “Safety in Action” and “Essentials” programs; are then encouraged to observe each other while carrying out their duties. • field initiatives, such as peer observations, flash audits, scheduled general inspections, safety tours and field safety As of today, peer observation programs have already been audits; successfully deployed in the United States and are now being rolled out in Asia and main European countries. The target is to • dedicated training courses, such as “SafeStart®”, “Human and extend them to every Group site by 2025. organizational Safety Factors”, “Safety Culture and Leadership” and “Crisis Management”; and In 2016, 56% of the sites had put in place peer observation practices to improve safety, compared with 57% in 2015. The • the Arkema Safety Academy, whose courses are enabling every slight decrease reflected the disposal, in November 2016, of the employee to share the Group’s safety challenges, policies and activated carbon and filter aids business, whose plants had all tools. implemented the peer observation program. Some of these tools are covered in more detail below. As part of this same process, the Group has put in place a number of specific programs, such as Smart Zone and SafeStart®: Safety training effort • Smart Zone: identifying and rectifying shortfalls In 2016, safety training (1) totalled 180,790 hours (i.e. 14 hours Bostik has developed a monitoring system to identify in-field nonper year per employee trained), and the number of employees compliance or shortfalls against best safety practices. Employees who attended at least one safety training session totalled 12,862 detecting such an incident can record it in a “Smart Zone” table. (71% of the Group headcount) (1). After immediate corrective action is taken, further measures can In addition, 4,479 people (25% of the Group headcount) took be discussed between the employee and the Smart Zone table e-learning courses on safety in 2016 (1). manager. Implementation of the corrective solution is tracked in the Smart Zone through to completion, for fast, effective incident follow-up. F CUS: DEFENSIVE DRIVING • SafeStart® to make safety everyone’s business To expand the Group’s safety process beyond just the To encourage the shift from a compliance to a commitment‑based in-plant initiatives, an e-learning-based defensive driving safety culture, the Group has rolled out the SafeStart® initiative, course was introduced in 2016. More than 350 employees which is based on observing oneself and other people to worldwide took part in the course. identify critical states, such as rushing, frustration, fatigue and overconfidence, that can lead to critical errors (eyes not on task, line of fire, mind not on task, loss of balance, traction or grip) which in turn transform minor risks into major ones. Techniques to reduce the incidence of critical errors in turn help to drive a continuous improvement in the prevention of accidents. (1) In entities at least 50%-owned and employing more than 30 people. 15 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information Getting stakeholders involved in safety LOST-TIME INJURY RATE (LTIR) (1) In France, many entities organize Safety Days once or twice 2.7 a year with their sub-contractors, which are attended by local HSE employees, the Group contract manager and the contractor’s sales manager. During these days, the Group is represented by 1.9 local executives, business executives and representatives from the Group Procurement and Safety and Environment departments. 1.6 1.1 1.2 These events provide an opportunity to share best workplace 1.1 1.0 health and safety practices. 1.0 0.9 Now that these programs are implemented, the Group is preparing 0.9 for the deployment of a system to assess the engagement and safety culture of employees. In 2016, the coating resins business gauged the effectiveness of these programs by conducting a 2012 2014 2015 2016 worldwide employee satisfaction survey, with a particular focus on safety information, safety culture and employee participation in Total Arkema safety programs and initiatives. The platform in Changshu, China Sub-contractor employees also measured the safety culture awareness of its employees. Arkema employees Injury rates The Group’s safety performance ranks among the best in the global chemical industry, confirming the clear improvement dynamic underway for several years, driven largely by the deep TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE (TRIR) implication of every employee. 4.8 2025 TARGET 3.4 To further improve, the Group has set a target to achieve a total recordable injury rate (TRIR) of less than 1.2 in 2025. 2.9 1.9 1.9 1.6 1.7 After several years of sharp improvement, the Group consolidated 1.5 <1.2 its safety performance in 2016 with a very good TRIR of 1.5, 1.7 1.5 1.5 1.4 unchanged from an excellent 2015. The following charts show consolidated injury rates for the 2014 2012 2014 2015 2016 2025 to 2016 period, in number of incidents per million hours worked, target calculated according to the method described in section 2.8 of this chapter. It also shows data for 2012, the baseline year used Total Arkema to set the Group’s long-term CSR objectives. Sub-contractor employees Arkema employees Incident severity is expressed by the number of days lost per incident. An average 24 days were lost per incident in 2016 across all Group and sub-contractor employees working onsite. This was down significantly from 48 days in 2015, primarily as a result of the prevention initiatives being led on every site. No fatal accident has been recorded since 2013. (1) A lost-time incident refers to any incident causing bodily harm or psychological trauma to an employee in the course of his or her duties and resulting in time off work. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information 2 In 2016, a total of 49 Group employees were victims of reported 2.3.2.3 MEDICAL CARE incidents recorded in the TRIR for the year, of which 32 resulted in lost time, out of a total worldwide workforce of 19,637 people. Regular medical check-ups were available in 95.1% of Group The rate also reflected the 15 incidents involving contractor companies in 2016, covering 92% of employees. employees reported during the year. Analysis of prior-year data shows a decrease in the number of serious and very serious 2.3.2.4 HEALTH AT WORK incidents, which account for a very small proportion of the total. In the years ahead, the Group’s ambition remains to further reduce To maintain health at work, the Group has undertaken continuous this number. improvement initiatives to prevent arduous working conditions, stress and workstation risk and generally to improve employee well-being. 2.3.2.2 OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESSES Toxic or hazardous substances have been and continue to be used Preventing arduous working conditions in the manufacture of the Group’s products. Despite the safety Since 2012, the Group has undertaken a process to prevent and monitoring procedures in place Group-wide and in each arduous working conditions. In this context, numerous initiatives production facility, employees may have been exposed to such have contributed to improve working conditions, such as: substances and may develop illnesses arising from such exposure. • workstation ergonomics studies; In this respect, like most manufacturers, the Group has used a variety of asbestos-based insulating or heat-proofing materials • workstation accommodations; and at its production facilities in the past. Consequently, certain • the development of handling support systems. employees may have been exposed to such materials before In 2016, for example, as part of the expansion of the molecular these were gradually removed and replaced. sieve production capacity at the Honfleur, France, plant, Claims for occupational illnesses related to past asbestos ergonomic and working condition issues were taken into account exposure have been filed against the Group, mostly for periods in the design of the new unit, with the active participation of unit before 1980. Risks related to occupational illness are described operators. in paragraph 1.7.2 of this document. In France, a new agreement to prevent arduous working With respect to industrial hygiene, beyond the use of enclosed conditions and integrate ergonomics was signed in 2016 by all industrial processes limiting emissions as much as possible, of the unions. Designed to consolidate the process implemented protective systems such as source capture of residual emissions, since 2012, the new agreement covers the following main points: general improvement works designed to minimize exposure, and • in every facility, appoint ergonomics correspondents and set up the use of appropriate personal protective equipment at each working groups to support the program’s in-plant deployment; workstation. The Group requires risk exposure to be assessed at each workstation and that residual employee exposure to • continue to integrate ergonomics into the process engineering hazardous chemicals is regularly measured in order to attenuate phase of every project; the risk of occupational illness in the future. Measurement data • integrate ergonomics into the procurement process; and are stored in conditions that guarantee their long-term integrity. • pursue initiatives to improve working conditions. In 2016, 55 occupational illnesses were reported Group-wide, of which 14 were related to exposure to asbestos and 10 to In 2016, correspondents attended an initial training program exposure to chemicals. that was completed in early 2017. It will be offered to other correspondents and will constitute an on-going training. In France, the Group also deploys traceability programs to track potential exposure to arduous working conditions, including Preventing stress and improving quality of work life chemicals, in the production facilities, as part of the risk assessment report prepared in compliance with local legislation. In 2008, Arkema France initiated a physician-supported stress Since 2012, the Group has been working on data digitalization, management program for individual employees, whose stress while integrating the requirements of the French legislation levels are determined by taking a standardized test during their concerning arduous working conditions. The dedicated STARMAP annual check-up with the occupational physician. The Group program (described in paragraph 2.3.2.4 of this chapter) will has also undertaken a company‑wide voluntary workplace thus ensure internal traceability and monitoring of arduous stress prevention initiative to improve any working environment working conditions, in line with the Group’s international scope. identified as being “at risk”, based on such proven indicators as an abnormally high percentage of employees diagnosed as being “over‑stressed”. 17 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information The primary stress management initiatives undertaken in 2016 Protecting health at the workstation included: To consolidate all of the workstation health and safety initiatives, • conferences, workshops, quality of work days and other local the Group is developing a workstation risk assessment application, initiatives concerning quality of work life; known as STARMAP, to prevent health and safety risks more • further deployment of training and awareness-building effectively around the world, by capitalizing on centrally programs to help managers deal effectively with workplace managed data libraries and best practices. stress and psychosocial risks, while enhancing quality of work life; and Agreements on early retirement for employees in asbestoscontaminated facilities • changes in the way psychosocial risks are taken into account in the annual occupational risk assessment report (document In France, five Group operating plants have been included by unique) describing workstation risk factors. ministerial decree on a list of sites whose current employees would be entitled to the early retirement provisions for asbestos workers. In addition, a teleworking system is being gradually introduced The Group cannot exclude that other Group sites may be added in agreement with the employees concerned and their managers. to the list in the future. An agreement was signed by four of Arkema France’s five In addition, on 30 June 2003, Arkema France signed an unions on this company-wide workplace stress management agreement with all of the representative unions that improved the initiative. With this agreement, the Group affirms its ambition terms of retirement for employees qualifying for this provision, and to offer employees a working environment favorable to their adjusted their retirement dates to facilitate the transfer of their skills well-being. This agreement calls for a variety of training and and knowledge within the organization. These measures were information initiatives, as well as the introduction of a procedure extended to all Group companies in France by an agreement for identifying working environments at risk together with an signed on 1 September 2007 with all of the unions. For more analysis to determine stress factors and take corrective action. information, please refer to note 20 to the 2016 consolidated financial statements in paragraph 4.3.3 of this document. F CUS: QUALITY OF WORK LIFE Arkema’s corporate headquarters received the 2016 Mieux Vivre en Entreprise Award, created by France’s Rh&M group, for its innovative quality of work life program. The award honored the Group’s workplace stress management process and all the initiatives being led in this area. 2.3.3 Process safety The Group carefully analyzes the risks associated with its also responsible for preparing the directives, procedures and production and storage activities and pays particular attention guidelines required for effective risk management. to both internal and external feedback concerning incidents, At the same time, the Group is investing heavily to reinforce a accidents and best industrial risk management practices. culture of process safety of its employees. This involves not only In compliance with applicable legislation, production plant risks technical training in process safety systems and methods, but are assessed based on systematic studies of (i) manufacturing also seminars conducted in the United States, Europe and Asia processes, (ii) operating conditions in existing units, (iii) the for plant employees and managers by experts from the Center transportation of hazardous and other products, (iv) the design for Chemical Process Safety of the American Institute of Chemical and construction of new facilities, (v) upgrades to existing facilities Engineers. (vi) health and safety at workstations, and (vii) environmental When a new production unit is designed or a significant extension impacts. is made to an existing facility, the best options are explored to Identified risks are prioritized using a qualitative and quantitative improve process safety. In addition, existing plants are regularly process developed and led by a network of experts in Europe, the upgraded and improved. The Group capital expenditure allocated United States and Asia. To reduce the impact and probability of to safety, the environment and maintaining the production occurrence of these risks, appropriate technical and organizational facilities to standard amounted to €240 million in 2016 versus resources have been deployed in the production units and for €203 million in 2015. the transportation of hazardous substances. The experts are Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information 2 In France, Technological Risk Prevention Plans (PPRTs) put in emergency plans and procedures in place. Other regulations at place in accordance with local legislation help manage urban the federal, state or local levels govern certain specific aspects development around the Group’s Seveso facilities. As of yearof the storage of chemicals, the safety of workers when handling end 2016, 16 facilities operated by the Group in France are stored products and the storage of highly hazardous substances. subject to a PPRT and the Group will support any of the related measures through 2018. Furthermore, the ministerial decree of Crisis management 29 September 2005, requiring that the probability of occurrence, The in-plant crisis management procedures are broadly based kinetics, impact intensity and severity of potential accidents on the Group Crisis Management directive, which covers be assessed and addressed in the hazardous impact studies the management of potentially critical situations in the areas performed for classified installations subject to authorization, is of health, safety and the environment. In particular, a yearalso entailing the introduction of risk management measures at round on-call system ensures rapid and effective response to all of the sites classified as such. potential incidents, by assessing their context and fielding a In Europe, at the date of this document, 34 of the Group’s dedicated crisis management team as needed. The Group also production facilities are subject to reinforced monitoring in regularly offers training courses in “Crisis management and accordance with the provisions of the Seveso 3 directive communication” and conducts simulations of crises and set-up 2012/18/EU of 4 July 2012 concerning major accidents of crisis management teams. involving hazardous substances. This directive requires, in particular, the deployment of safety management systems and Process Safety Incidents (PSI) the regular updating of hazard studies, whose findings may entail additional risk prevention obligations for companies operating Regarding process safety, the Group’s objective is to minimize the sites. the number of serious process safety incidents, as defined by the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC). PSIs are reported In the United States, industrial accident risk management is as soon as possible to Executive Committee members and to the primarily regulated by the Superfund Reauthorization Act, the surrounding community in the event of nuisances. Risk Management Process and the Emergency Planning and Community-Right-to-Know Act. In particular, the latter requires Since 2013, the total number of PSIs, major or minor, has companies to inform government authorities when more than been systematically reviewed at every meeting of the Executive the minimum authorized quantity of a hazardous substance is Committee. being used or stored, and if such substances are stored, to have 2016 2015 2014* Serious PSIs (type A or C1 according to the CEFIC method) (1) 12 27 33 (1) See the note on methodology in section 2.8 of this chapter. * Excluding Bostik. The decrease in the number of PSIs attests to the success of the action plans and industrial investments made in particular as part of the operational excellence program. 19 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information 2.3.4 Audits The effective implementation of safety policies is regularly audited, with a focus on measuring progress and harmonizing practices. These audits are also an important management practice. To ensure a highly efficient inspection and control process, all of the dual benefit of being aligned with the Group’s corporate the Group-led safety, environment and quality audits have been culture and ensuring consistency across all its safety, environment consolidated into a single audit, known as the Arkema Integrated and quality management initiatives. AIMS audits are conducted Management System (AIMS). It is based on all of the Group’s every three years, with follow-up audits every year. standards, both proprietary and endorsed, such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. This “all-in-one” approach has The 2025 target is for every facility to have been AIMS-audited within the past three years. 2016 2015 2014* % of facilities AIMS-audited over the past three years 63 61 78 * Excluding Bostik. The increase in the percentage of AIMS-audited facilities over the Many facilities are audited simultaneously according to the last three years and reported in 2016 illustrates the continued AIMS standard and a variety of international standards, to earn deployment of this program, in particular at the Bostik plants or renew external certification, depending on their particular included in early 2015. situation. The number of sites audited in this way over the last The year-on-year decrease in the percentage in 2015 reflected three years is presented in the following table and attests in the inclusion of the Bostik plants, where the AIMS method began 2016, as for previous years, to the Group’s ongoing efforts in to be rolled out during the year. Excluding the Bostik facilities, these areas: the percentage would therefore have been 91% in 2015, an increase on the 2014 figure. Number of units audited according to each standard 2016 2015 2014* ISO 9001 130 135 90 ISO 14001 72 74 71 OHSAS 18001 66 71 67 * Excluding Bostik. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information 2 54% of Group facilities have been certified to OHSAS 18001 In addition to audits, DSEG teams lead safety support initiatives at standard in Europe, 45% in North America and 34% in Asia. facilities whose performance has fallen short of Group standards In addition, the Group performs a large number of non-AIMS or which have reported a specific issue. DSEG experts share their audits every year, including: findings of the facility’s accident record and HSE activities with plant management, then discuss how to prepare, implement and • operational safety audits: construction site inspections, follow up on the remedial action plans. In 2016, a dedicated pre‑start‑up reviews, and operational safety audits in areas support program led by onsite DSEG representatives was offered such as mechanical integrity and explosive atmospheres; to plants during their turnarounds, which require the involvement • process safety audits, including fire safety audits, post-incident of a large number of employees and outside contractors. The audits and risk analysis reviews; program also enables the plants to share good practices. • supplier and supply chain audits: transportation companies Another important tool in managing the deployment of the and warehouses are inspected and assessed. These audits are Group’s safety process is feedback on material incidents. It performed in addition to third-party audits, such as the Safety & consists in sharing experiences on relevant incidents so that ways Quality Assessment System for overland transportation, the can be found to avoid recurrence. Feedback takes place across Chemical Distribution Institute for maritime shipping, and the the global organization through various geographic, professional European Barge Inspection Scheme for river shipping. A certain and technological networks. In the event of a material incident, amount of packaging is also inspected; and the network issues a safety alert that enables other Group facilities that may encounter a similar incident to take corrective measures. • field safety audits led by plant employees to assess the safety The feedback process is helping to improve the Group’s safety culture and installation compliance on a continuous, sustainable expertise and ensure the effectiveness of the deployed measures. basis. These assessments include short flash audits, scheduled general inspections and safety tours by management. They concern everyone working on the site, including contractor employees, and are performed in every aspect of the site’s operations, including production units, offices, capital works and turnarounds. 21 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information 2.3.5 Responsible product stewardship The Group integrates health, safety and environmental protection criteria. The Group has deployed it in every participating country, into every product’s design and throughout its life-cycle. in line with its implementation in local legislation. This product stewardship process, which in certain aspects In Europe, the GHS has been transposed into the Classification, exceeds regulatory requirements, engages stakeholders across Labeling and Packaging (CLP) regulation governing chemical the product chain, from raw material suppliers to end-customers. products and mixtures. The Group reassessed and classified The Group expresses its commitment to product stewardship in its all the substances contained in its product portfolio within the Safety, Health, Environment and Quality Charter and by endorsing regulation’s deadline and updated the related safety data sheets the International Council of Chemical Associations’(ICCA) and labels. Responsible Care® initiative. In particular, the Group participates In addition, the Group has deployed the system in other countries, in a variety of international ICCA programs, such as the High in particular in the United States, South Korea, China, Malaysia Production Volume (HPV) initiative, which aims to supply and Turkey, again within the regulatory timeframe. Roll-out is globally‑harmonized data sets and initial hazard assessments proceeding apace in the countries that are currently phasing in for around 1,000 chemical substances. the GHS, such as Australia and Canada. Leveraging its organization and the scientific and regulatory expertise acquired over many years, the Group ensures to define 2. Implementation of the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization product-specific HSE roadmaps by country that are well adapted and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) legislation in Europe to local conditions, thus helping to drive continuous improvement REACH is a European regulation that aims to make in-depth and deepen its knowledge of each product’s features and changes in the way chemical substances are managed by conditions of use. improving their level of knowledge, analyzing their environmental and health risks and defining measures to manage the risks arising from their use or manufacture. The Group endorses the 2.3.5.1 REGULATORY COMPLIANCE objectives of REACH, which represents an additional pathway Regulatory compliance plays a key role in ensuring product safety to continuously improving knowledge of its substances and for customers, the value chain and stakeholders. their safe use, in line with the legitimate expectations of civil society. The Group therefore complies with all of the REACH In recent years, the Group has deployed the Globally Harmonized standards governing the registration, evaluation, authorization System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) and and restriction of chemicals. implemented the REACH regulations in Europe. REACH compliance is managed at Group level by the 1. Deployment of GHS Product Safety and Environment department, whose team of experts in toxicology, ecotoxicology and compliance oversee GHS is a major United Nations initiative designed to replace implementation of the regulation. More particularly, the Group the various chemical classification and labeling standards used has filed the following registrations with the European Chemicals in different countries with a global system based on consistent Agency (ECHA): Substances for which the Number of Group is Lead or Sole Number of dossiers Dossiers accepted substances Registrant submitted to the ECHA by the ECHA 2010 and 2013 deadlines 277 122 311 100% 2018 deadline 153 52 40 26% Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information 2 In all, the Group plans to register 430 substances. This number used in its productions or placed on the market. It was designed has been adjusted after the first two registration deadlines in response to the REACH substance authorization process, which were met and after surveying forthcoming developments in the has two phases: businesses’ portfolios. REACH compliance is expected to cost • the first consists in identifying substances that could have around €25 million over the 2016-2020 period, and to represent potential negative impacts on human health or the environment. a total cost to the Group of an estimated €65 million between Once so designated, these substances of very high concern 2008 and 2020. are added to a list of substances that may be subject to prior In addition to submitting new registration dossiers, the Group authorization for their specific use (Annex XIV); regularly revises its existing dossiers following the acquisition of • the second phase aims to ensure that the risks from the use of new data or at the request of the ECHA. In 2016, around 40% of these SVHCs are adequately managed and that the substances the revisions were filed preventively to improve the registrations. themselves are being gradually replaced by appropriate The Group is also participating in the Community Rolling alternatives. These substances may not be placed on the market Action Plan (CoRAP) launched by the authorities after the first or used after a designated date unless an authorization is registration phase. Once a substance has been evaluated, granted (or waived) for their specific use. additional information may be requested to determine if the risks As soon as the authorities propose that a substance be listed as are effectively managed. This could eventually lead to proposed an SVHC, the Group responds to the public call for comments pan-European risk management measures, such as restrictions, by the ECHA for substances whose use(s) may be subject to the identification of substances of very high concern or other authorization. initiatives outside the REACH remit. Since 2012, 28 Group substances have been listed in CoRAP. Of these, the data sets for In cases where these substances are finally identified as SVHCs five were deemed adequate, whereas for 14 others, additional and included in the candidate list, a review is conducted to hazard information and/or risk assessments were requested. The determine the most appropriate response, such as assessing last nine substances are still being evaluated. alternative substances for the intended uses, applying for authorization when the substance is listed in Annex XIV, or Management of REACH-defined substances of very high converting the production unit and phasing out production. concern (SVHC) The Group has put in place a dedicated process to track the REACH-defined substances of very high concern (SVHCs) that are ANALYSIS OF THE GROUP’S SVHCS SVHCs contained in products Of which SVHCs contained in Substances of Very High Concern placed on the market raw materials SVHCs subject to REACH authorization 1 1 SVHCs on the REACH candidate list 7 4 In November 2015, the Group filed an application with the REACH’s third component is the restriction procedure, which is ECHA to authorize the sodium dichromate used as a processing intended to restrict or prohibit a substance’s production, marketing aid at the Jarrie plant in France, while waiting for an alternative or use. solution to be found. Cobalt chloride, which was previously recommended for As of 1 June 2016, the industry candidate list contained authorization, is now expected to be recommended for restriction, 169 substances, including (i) the hydrazine produced at the although in theory this would only apply to metal coatings. This plant in Lannemezan, France, (ii) the 2-imidazolidinethione would not affect the Group, which uses the substance as a (ETU) produced by MLPC, and (iii) the nonylphenol ethoxylates processing aid at the Jarrie site in France. Nevertheless, pending produced by CECA. a formal proposal for restriction and as a precautionary measure, an alternative solution is being explored. 23 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and safety information Compliance with other legislation In Europe, the Group’s organization and IT infrastructure have made it possible to issue extended SDSs the latest Outside Europe, the Group markets its chemicals in accordance REACH‑compliant format, which improve risk management by with national and regional mandatory inventories, as applicable. including exposure scenarios for each identified use. Due to its history and global presence, some of these products are already notified in many inventories. Should a need arise for a new product notification, dossiers can be filed in a timely Labeling manner thanks to the extensive database the Group maintains The Group has also developed systems to print labels with a on the characteristics of its products. consistent classification, regardless of the country in which the In particular, since 2015, this process has made it possible product is manufactured or marketed. to respond to the three new REACH-like regulations that have In addition, efficient IT systems enable the Group to prepare been introduced in Asia (South Korea, Taiwan and Turkey). For compliance documents and align them as needed with the example, the Group completed Phase I registration of substances latest formats and data, notably when the GHS standardized in Taiwan and submitted its first annual report to the Korean classification and labeling system is introduced in a new country. authorities during the year. The Group also joined consortia formed to jointly register Global Product Strategy (GPS) substances brought to market in South Korea, in accordance The Group remains actively engaged in the Global Product with article 15 of the Act on the Registration and Evaluation of Strategy (GPS) program, which is designed to support the Chemical Substances (ARECS). deployment of safer, more efficient chemicals management More specifically, the Group does not manufacture any persistent practices. As part of this process, a dedicated web page has organic pollutants (POPs). It also has low exposure to bisphenol A, been created and Safety Summaries are regularly posted on the particularly in the food container market, where it is working ICCA and corporate websites, as and when REACH registration closely with customers to substitute BPA-derivatives. dossiers are filed. To date, the Group has already published 145 GPS Safety Summaries, describing the intrinsic properties of the substances marketed by the Group, their potential risks for 2.3.5.2 PRODUCT INFORMATION human health and the environment and the recommended ways of The Group relies on an in-house team of expert toxicologists managing these risks effectively. The Group will continue to publish and ecotoxicologists who conducts product hazard studies and these summaries as part of the next REACH deadline in 2018. works closely with regulatory experts to assess risks in normal conditions of use. The findings are shared across the Group and 2.3.5.3 ANIMAL TESTING externally in various forms, including Safety Data Sheets, labeling and GPS Safety Summaries. Given its business portfolio, the Group neither conducts triage trials on substances derived from its research nor participates Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) in toxicology research projects that could involve the use of laboratory animals. Toxicology studies conducted on vertebrate In many countries, the Group describes its product characteristics animals are strictly limited to those required for regulatory and conditions of use in Safety Data Sheets (SDSs), which compliance. They are contracted to outside laboratories subject are required to market chemicals classified as hazardous to to oversight by the relevant ethics committees. human health or the environment. They are prepared in some forty languages based on a global database comprising The Group always conducts in-depth analyses of existing literature the composition of every product and its toxicological, data, thanks to constant tracking of information on Group ecotoxicological and physical‑chemical data, thereby ensuring substances, in order to use all of the available public information. consistent information in every market. The Group issues SDSs As required by REACH, the Group applies, whenever possible, in accordance with regulatory requirements and posts them on the rules for waiving standard testing when such tests are not the Group website or the online QuickFDS platform. As part of justified (due to the absence of exposure) or when alternative the product stewardship process, the Group exceeds regulatory methods can be used. obligations by issuing SDSs even for products that are not In addition, the Group participates in the work of FRANCOPA, classified as hazardous. a French platform dedicated to the development, validation and dissemination of alternative animal testing methods, using the 3Rs (reduction, refinement, replacement). Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2 2.4 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF THE GROUP’S OPERATIONS 2.4.1 Environmental management Reducing the environmental footprint of its operations is one of The findings of the 2016 materiality assessment confirmed the the Group’s five CSR commitments. To achieve it, the Group is importance of environmental topics for stakeholders, for which upgrading its manufacturing practices to minimize emissions the Group has already defined four objectives. These objectives and to optimize and reduce the use of energy, water and apply to intensive indicators, known as Environmental Footprint non‑renewable raw materials. By stringently tracking their effluent Performance Indicators (EFPI), which are not impacted by changes releases, air emissions and waste production, the plants are in the scope of reporting, making them more effective in tracking implementing effective initiatives. the Group’s industrial performance. The following charts illustrate the objectives and the progress made since the 2012 baseline. WATER Reduction by 20% CLIMATE of chemical oxygen CHANGE demand emissions (COD) Reduction by 50% of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Environmental OBJECTIVES 2012 2025 ENERGY Reduction by 15% of net energy purchases AIR Reduction by 33% of volatile organic compound emissions (VOC) 25 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information AIR CLIMATE (VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS EFPI) (DIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS EFPI) 1.0 1.0 0.79 0.83 0.80 0.67 0.7 0.62 0.60 0.50 2012* 2014* 2015 2016 2025 2012* 2014* 2015 2016 2025 target target WATER ENERGY (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND EFPI) (NET ENERGY PURCHASES EFPI) 1.0 1.03 0.93 1.0 0.99 0.98 0.78 0.80 0.92 0.85 2012* 2014* 2015 2016 2025 target 2012* 2014* 2015 2016 2025 target * Data prior to 2015 exclude Bostik. NB: change in the EFPI indicators is expressed in relation to an index base 1 in 2012. In addition to the progress made in these four intensive indicators, Regulatory and compliance monitoring the Group reports absolute figures for every parameter used to The Group ensures that its HSE network properly understands track the Group’s environmental footprint. EU regulations, such as Phase III of the European Union Emissions To meet these targets, the Group has undertaken initiatives at Trading Scheme (EU ETS) or the Industrial Emissions directive two levels: (IED), as well as the latest environmental data reporting rules • continuous improvement programs, based on regulatory which concern it, thanks to the organization of awareness-building monitoring, employee training and an action plan deployed sessions. The Group also performs regulatory compliance audits in every unit; and every three years at the US facilities. A similar process is being rolled out in Asia and especially in China. European facilities • a certification process, completed by internal audits, to assess can monitor their compliance with applicable regulations using the performance of each plant’s environmental management specific IT applications dedicated to each country legislation. system. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2 Instilling an environmental culture through employee training Sustainable Development Vice-Presidents. During this process, and information the managers concerned are assigned an environmental target As regard the environment, Group employees are trained and for the following year. This target is a criterion for their annual made aware of the main characteristics of their plant, the realperformance review and compensation; world consequences of their actions, the operational management • the Group’s annual environmental and energy reports of all types of releases and emissions, the environmental impact presenting results for the reporting and prior years, along with of turnaround or installation restart operations, and waste sorting. historical environmental footprint data (excluding energy) At the 52% of Group facilities that earned ISO 14001 or, in for the trailing six years, are issued to all the departments the United States, RCMS certification in 2016, a dedicated concerned. These reports track the initiatives that helped to environmental training program is offered after an environmental improve the Group’s environmental performance. In 2016, risk analysis has been performed in each workshop. At an for example, 126 initiatives were highlighted. They covered increasing number of facilities, feedback on environmental the full range of environmental-related topics, including water incidents is being tracked in a common system for reporting withdrawals, the reduction in water effluent releases, GHG and incidents and following up corrective actions. The training COV emissions, soil contamination and waste production; and program is regularly repeated to maintain employee awareness • each year, the Group Safety and Environment Vice-President of the importance of critical parameters. and the Sustainable Development Vice-President provide Details on employee training and the new-hire induction process the Executive Committee with overviews of, respectively, the may be found in the “General HSE training” paragraph in Group’s environmental performance and the progress made paragraph 2.6.3.2 of this chapter. Environmental training in the key indicators towards the 2025 targets. totalled 19,029 hours (1) in 2016, or an average of 6.3 hours In addition to internally tracking the improvement plans per employee per year. In all, 3,012 employees, or 18% of deployed in each entity, the Group ensures alignment among the Group headcount, attended at least one environment-related the environmental management systems through an outside course during the year (excluding e-learning) (1). certification process. Management engagement A certified environmental management system Initiatives underway to reduce the environmental footprint are The Group deploys environmental management systems in its extensively reviewed and discussed within the Group: production plants, most of which have also earned environmental • each business’s entire environmental footprint, including certification in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard. its energy footprint, is annually reviewed in individual Depending on local conditions, certain facilities have been meetings with the business’s managing director and industrial certified to other standards, such as the Responsible Care ® Vice‑President(s) and the Group Safety and Environment and Management System (RCMS) in the United States. 2016 2015 2014* % of facilities ISO 14001 or RCMS-certified 52 62 70 * Excluding Bostik. The decline since 2014 reflects both changes in the scope of IT system was deployed in Europe, the United States and Asia consolidation and readjustments to the plants’ certification needs. in 2016. The ISO 14001 or, in the United States, RCMS certification This process is being supported on every site by environmental systems, require each production facility to identify its audits performed by the Internal Audit department, AIMS audits environmental impact in terms of water, air (including greenhouse conducted by the Group Safety and Environment department and gas emissions), waste, noise, odors, soil, use of resources and certifications by third-party accreditation bodies, depending on logistics flows, and then to define an action plan with priority the country. areas for improvement. Periodic environmental assessments enable the facilities to measure progress and determine new Environmental declaration improvement targets. The Group’s statement concerning its environmental indicators To harmonize the identification, assessment and analysis of is based on the principles of relevance, representativeness and environmental risks, the Group rolled out in 2013 a new consistency. The methodology applied is described in section 2.8 methodology, with global application, while a dedicated of this chapter. (1) In entities at least 50%-owned and employing more than 30 people. 27 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2.4.2 Resources Reducing the environmental impact of the Group industrial sites consists of optimizing their use of raw materials, energy 2025 TARGET and natural resources like water. New manufacturing units are designed to incorporate environmental footprint considerations Reduce net energy purchases by 15% in EFPI terms into the choice of processes and equipment. Special attention by 2025, corresponding to an average reduction of 1.5% is also paid to operating conditions and maintenance and a year over the 2012-2020 period and of 1% a year development investments are regularly undertaken to reduce the through 2025. Group plant’s use of water, energy and raw materials. To this end, the Group is rolling out the Arkenergy program in every subsidiary through a global network of Energy Leaders 2.4.2.1 RAW MATERIAL CONSUMPTION in the Business Lines, facilities and relevant Procurement and The Group wants to contribute to optimizing the consumption of Technical departments. It focuses on optimizing the energies used non-renewable raw materials used in its manufacturing process in the production facilities and processes, which account for 98% with the primary goal of reducing their use by deploying process of consolidated energy consumption. Moreover, Arkenergy is control initiatives and developing best operating practices. These structured to meet the following priorities: initiatives are described in more detail in section 1.6 of this • continuously optimize energy use and cost, from equipment document. design and procurement to day-to-day on-site operations; In addition, to optimize its own and its customers’ raw materials • deploy an energy management system to systematically embed use, the Group undertakes, independently or in partnership best operational practices, define site-specific targets and with suppliers, such programs as recycling the reaction solvents periodically review them; and used in its production processes. It also offers customers other recycling solutions and deploys circular economy initiatives that • ensure compliance with energy efficiency legislation, are described in paragraph 2.4.5.2 of this chapter. regulations and other applicable standards. Lastly, the Group is expanding the use of renewable and As well as improving energy efficiency, the program is also especially bio-based raw materials in its products. The Group contributing to reinforce the production plants’ competitiveness. resulting products are presented in section 1.4.4.2 of this The Arkenergy process mainly consists in: document. This ongoing commitment was demonstrated in 2016 • rolling out energy efficiency audits worldwide, focusing on by the fact that products at least 20% made from renewable raw the facilities with the highest net energy purchases. To date, materials accounted for around 10% of Group sales. The decline a total of 75 energy efficiency audits (including 14 in 2016) compared to the 13% reported in 2014 was mainly due to the have been initiated or performed, of which 54 in Europe, 19 in consolidation of Bostik in 2015 and the disposal of the activated North America and two in China. The audited plants account carbon and filter aids business in 2016. for 82% of total consolidated energy consumption; • implementing the ISO 50001 energy management system in 2.4.2.2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Europe and Asia. By the end of 2016, 21 plants had been The Group uses a variety of energy sources, primarily in its ISO 50001-certified, of which one in the Americas; and industrial operations. To optimize energy consumption, the Group • allocating a dedicated capital expenditure budget specifically set the following target: for Arkenergy initiatives. In 2016, 51 investments were funded out of the budget, including 31 in Europe, nine in the Americas, 10 in Asia and one in Africa. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2 NET ENERGY PURCHASES F CUS: AN ARKENERGY (In TWh) SUCCESS 8.36 8.48 8.25 Thanks to an investment in process control, the distillation unit at the plant in La Chambre, France significantly reduced its annual steam consumption, by the equivalent in MWh of the electricity used every year by around 800 households. 0.25 0.25 Absolute indicator for energy purchases 2014* 2015 2016 The chart hereafter presents consolidated net energy purchases in 2016, 2015 and 2014, calculated in terawatt-hours according Group to the methodology described in section 2.8 of this document. Of which Bostik * Excluding Bostik. Net energy purchases by region and by type of energy break down as follows: 15% 32% Americas Electricity 33% Europe 53% Fuels 53% 15% 14% Rest of the world Steam 91% of the terawatt-hours generated by fuel were natural gas-fired. 17% of the net terawatt-hours purchased by the Group, regardless of source, were from low-carbon electricity. Intensive indicator for energy purchases NET ENERGY PURCHASES EFPI The chart below presents the net energy purchases EFPI for the Group’s operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, calculated 1.0 0.99 0.98 according to the methodology described in section 2.8 of this 0.92 0.85 document. Net energy purchases are calculated using the Group’s biggest net energy purchasing entities, which account for more than 80% of the consolidated total. The indicator showed significant improvement in 2016, demonstrating the effectiveness of the investments made as part of the Arkenergy project, which in some cases have only made a full‑year contribution since 2016. The energy performance of Group 2012* 2014* 2015 2016 2025 installations was also considerably improved by the high utilization target rates in the production units and a favorable product mix. * Data prior to 2015 exclude Bostik. 29 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2.4.2.3 WATER USE technologies, upgrading fire‑fighting systems, recovering rainwater and recycling water from scrubbing or boiler condensates. Water is used in the Group’s industrial operations to: In 2016, as part of the operational excellence program, the • provide a reaction medium for certain production processes, Group launched the “Optim’O” project to improve/optimize its cool production installations and clean products and equipment; production units’ water management. The analyses carried out • generate steam; and as part of this project found that: • operate hydraulic barriers to treat groundwater contaminated • 80% of water withdrawn from the natural environment is by legacy pollution on historical sites. returned as surface water; and To contribute to optimizing the use of fresh water, whether • 90% of consolidated water use is attributable to some 35 plants, withdrawn from the surface or the ground table, the Group is none of which are located in a water-stressed region. upgrading production practices by installing water-saving systems A water management program will be gradually rolled out at and closed loops. These initiatives can cover a wide range of the 19 facilities located in water-stressed areas, depending on solutions, such as tracking usage more effectively, installing their criticality. These facilities represent less than 2% of total flow meters, deploying leak detection programs, changing consolidated water use. The chart below presents consolidated water withdrawals in 2016, 2015 and 2014, calculated according to the methodology described in section 2.8 of this chapter. Water use 2016 2015 2014* Total water withdrawn (in millions of cu. m) 126 124 120 * Excluding Bostik. The slight increase in water withdrawals in 2016 was attributable to improvements in the reporting and mapping processes as part of the “Optim’O” water project. 2.4.3 Land and biodiversity The Group wants to limit its land footprint and use as well as its impact on biodiversity. 2.4.3.1 MANAGING LEGACY POLLUTION AND In addition, the Group implements prevention policies at all of the operating facilities, with mechanical integrity programs, PROTECTING THE SOIL dedicated incident reporting systems and experience sharing. The Group responsibly manages soil and groundwater When soil or groundwater contamination is suspected at a contamination caused by legacy pollution, including the storage facility, an inquiry is conducted to determine the extent of the of waste from operating facilities that have been operated, sold area concerned and ascertain the impact. The Group cooperates or acquired. The Group’s environmental responsibility is managed with authorities to define the appropriate management response, to ensure control of health risks and protection of the environment in line with applicable legislation. over the long term, with an appropriate allocation of funds. A wide range of remediation programs are also being led, using new techniques. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2 environmental assessments enable the facilities to identify their environmental impact and the species liable to be affected, define F CUS priority objectives for their environmental protection action plans, Success of the pilot in situ groundwater remediation facility and measure the improvements. Additionally, new manufacturing using permeable reactive barrier technology at the Mont units are designed to incorporate environmental footprint plant in France. considerations into the choice of processes and equipment. Four years after a pilot facility was built to develop a In this way, the compliance and other initiatives being led by the permeable reactive barrier to remediate groundwater Group have enabled: contaminated by chlorinated solvents, the technology has • a reduction in chemical oxygen demand (COD) in the effluent been recognized as reliable and effective. It has now been discharged into rivers, thereby preserving the dissolved oxygen deployed in all of the contaminated areas. that is essential to all aquatic life; • a reduction in the amount of volatile organic compounds (VOC) released into the air, thereby limiting the formation of Brownfield redevelopment ground‑level ozone, a super-oxidant harmful to flora and fauna; To redevelop certain brownfield sites, the Group is partnering • a reduction in SO2 and NOx emissions, thereby helping to with local officials, academics and specialized companies. They prevent the formation of acid rain which, in addition to its direct use these brownfield sites either for biomass production projects impact on plant life, can also alter soil characteristics; and or for the installation of photovoltaic panel projects. • the pursuit of soil remediation projects at sites with long‑standing industrial operations, as described in the preceding paragraph, Provisions for the management of legacy pollution so as to protect all of the species that depend on their land or The amount of provisions for environmental risk at groundwater. 31 December 2016 may be found in note 20.3 to the consolidated financial statements, in paragraph 4.3.3 of this document. Measures to develop biodiversity Despite occupying only a limited amount of land, the Group 2.4.3.2 BIODIVERSITY is leading a number of initiatives to help enhance biodiversity on sites where part of the land is not allocated to industrial operations. One of the purposes is to encourage revegetation Measures to protect flora, fauna and biodiversity in general and the development of local species on and around the sites. Preserving biodiversity primarily means protecting all of the flora The Group promotes certain initiatives to improve biodiversity and fauna species liable to be impacted by emissions from the around former production units. In Italy, for example, hundreds of Group’s operations. olive trees are being tended on the grounds of the Gissi facility, The initiatives underway are therefore designed to reduce each helping to safeguard the surrounding plant and animal ecosystem. plant’s releases into the surrounding water, soil and air. Periodic 2.4.4 Emissions The Group is leading an active policy of managing and reducing In this way, the manufacturing plants are cutting their releases by the impact of its operations on air emissions, effluent releases and optimizing their use of raw materials, energy or natural resources, waste production. so that they produce fewer emissions and less waste. Following the As part of this process, released substances are identified findings of the environmental assessments conducted according and their amounts calculated by category, so that appropriate to the Group methodology, production units are also being measures can be taken to manage each one, in compliance with constantly improved with process upgrades and the installation host country legislation. of effluent treatment facilities. 31 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2.4.4.1 AIR EMISSIONS GHG emissions rose by 3.6% in 2016, as more reliable reporting of emissions from the Taixing plant in Asia and technical difficulties The Group’s objective is to minimize its emissions of the most encountered at certain sites led to an increase in reported figures. harmful compounds, particularly greenhouse gases (GHG), This increase was partially offset by the continued improvements volatile organic compounds (VOCs), acidifying substances at the Calvert City plant in the United States and the exclusion of (nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide) and dust. data reported from the activated carbon and filter aids business sold in 2016. Climate change: direct greenhouse gas emissions The acquisition of Bostik in 2015 had only a slight impact on The Group’s direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 GHG) these data, because its operations release few greenhouse gases. arise from: Direct GHG emissions, expressed in kilotonnes of carbon dioxide • hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) emissions from its fluorogas equivalent (kt CO2 eq.), may be analyzed by region as follows: production units; • fugitive emissions from cooling circuits using GHGs; • the burning of fuel oil and gas in production operations; and • processes that generate carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide 32% Europe (N2O) or methane (CH4) as a product, by-product, co‑product or waste, and gas discharges from processes such as thermal oxidation, which converts VOCs into CO2. Americas 56% Absolute indicator for direct greenhouse gas emissions The chart below presents direct greenhouse emissions from the 12% Group’s operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, calculated in kilotonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (kt CO2 eq.) according Rest of the world to the methodology described in section 2.8 of this chapter. DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS To reduce its impact on global warming, the Group has undertaken a number of actions and deployed effective measures to minimize (in kt per year) direct GHG emissions, such as: • installing emissions scrubbers, notably at the plants in Calvert 5,120 City, United States, Pierre-Bénite, France, and Changshu, China; • introducing systematic leak detection programs at the fluorogas 3,430 production facilities, so as to minimize fugitive emissions; and 3,610 3,000 3,110 • replacing boilers with more efficient installations as part of the Arkenergy program (see paragraph 2.4.2.2 of this chapter). 2,010 1,530 1,510 1,380 1,540 1,460 1,440 50 40 50 40 2012* 2014* 2015 2016 of which HFC of which CO2 Others * Data prior to 2015 do not include Bostik. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2 Intensive indicator for direct greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 GHG emissions break down as follows: The chart below presents the direct greenhouse emissions EFPI from the Group’s operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, calculated INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS according to the methodology described in section 2.8 of this chapter. The index base is 1 for 2012. Emissions are calculated (Kt CO2 eq. ) using the Group’s biggest GHG emitters, which account for more than 80% of the consolidated total. 1,300 1,067 1,080 DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS EFPI 1.0 0.7 0.62 0.60 0.50 2012* 2014* 2015 2016 2025 target 2014* 2015 2016 *Data prior to 2015 do not include Bostik. * Excluding Bostik. The improvement in this indicator in 2016 was led by the INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS BY REGION improvements at the Calvert City plant in the United States and the generally good level of production during the year. Europe 24% 2025 TARGET Reduce GHG emissions, expressed in EFPI terms, by 50% compared with 2012. Americas 39% Internal carbon price In 2016, to strengthen its long-term approach, the Group set an internal price for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, 37% expressed in terms of CO2 equivalent, known as “internal carbon Rest of the world price”. It is used to analyze strategic industrial investments and to steer investment decisions under the operational excellence program towards the lowest carbon solutions. The year-on-year reduction in Scope 2 GHG emissions in 2016 was mainly due to the decrease in the Group’s net energy Indirect greenhouse gas emissions purchases and the increase in steam sales by certain plants. The Group analyzes the following indirect GHG emissions: The Group deploys a wide range of actions to reduce Scope • Scope 2 GHG emissions from the use of purchased electricity 2 emissions as part of both the Arkenergy program (see and steam; and paragraph 2.4.2.2 of this chapter) and its operational excellence • Scope 3 GHG emissions (Category 9) from transport-related strategy (see section 1.6 of this document). activities using chartered vehicles. INITIAL SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS INVENTORY The chart below presents the Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions from In 2016, the Group began to inventory its Scope 3 emissions the Group’s operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, as defined based on 2015 data, in accordance with the GHG Protocol above and calculated according to the methodology described calculation guidance issued by the World Business Council for in section 2.8 of this chapter. Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The guidance also supports compliance with French legislation and standards, including the provisions of Law no. 2015-992 of 17 August 2015 concerning the energy transition to drive green growth. 33 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information According to the WBCSD, Scope 3 emissions arise from Building on this initial analysis, the Group will improve the data 15 categories of activities across the corporate value chain. This collection process and continue, in 2017, to inventory its Scope first analysis enabled the Group to benchmark its findings against 3 emissions in the categories identified as material, with the goal analyses previously performed by peers. This benchmark shows of preparing effective action plans to reduce them. that the Group’s initial Scope 3 inventory is fairly similar to its In early 2017, Scope 3 emissions from Category 9 – “Downstream peers: transportation and distribution” activities were estimated on the • Category 9 – “Downstream transportation and distribution”, basis of the 2016 data at 260 kt of CO2, plus or minus 15%, concerning transport-related activities in chartered vehicles according to the methodology described in section 2.8 of this represents the equivalent of nearly 7% of the consolidated document. As the Group’s use of different means of transportation Scope 1 emissions. As a result, the Group will continue to remained relatively unchanged in 2016, the 50 kt or so increase report these emissions and to implement its action plans in compared with 2015 stemmed from the inclusion of Bostik over this area; the full year, the growth in output and the reporting of more • the initial estimates show that emissions in Category 1 – accurate data. “Purchased goods and services” and Category 12 – “EndVolatile organic compound (VOC) emissions of-life treatment of sold products” represent a major source of Group production facilities are reducing their VOC emissions in GHG emissions. They will continue to be inventoried in 2017; several ways, including: • given their complexity, additional initiatives will be required to • collecting and treating effluent containing VOCs, particularly inventory emissions in Category 2 – “Capital goods”, Category with thermal oxidizers or vent scrubbing; and 3 – “Fueland energy-related activities not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2”, Category 4 – “Upstream transportation and • conducting regular campaigns to detect and eliminate distribution”, Category 5 – “Waste generated in operations” VOC leaks. and Category 15 – “Investments”. Consequently, their data The Group is also reducing its emissions of acidifying substances were not reported in 2016; and by: • two other categories, Category 6 – “Business travel” and • firing boilers with low or ultra-low sulfur fuels, or replacing fuel Category 7 –”Employee commuting”, each represent less than oil with natural gas; and 2% of the direct Scope 1 emissions in 2015. As relatively minor GHS emission sources, they are therefore not considered as • installing new low-NOX burner technologies. priorities and have not been included in the reporting process. Nevertheless, targeted actions are underway, such as the implementation of business travel guidelines recommending trains rather than planes for short trips or the Company transportation organized by certain plants. Absolute indicators for air emissions The indicators in the table below present air emissions from the Group’s operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, calculated according to the methodology described in section 2.8 of this chapter. Air emissions 2016 2015 2014* Acidifying substances (t SO2 eq.) 3,570 4,430 4,750 Carbon monoxide (CO) (t) 690 1,900 3,030 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (t) 4,800 5,010 4,600 Dust (t) 300 520 430 * Excluding Bostik. The exclusion of the activated carbon and filter aids facilities were made to upgrade the boilers, either to run on natural gas sold in 2016 led to a reduction in air emissions over the year, in instead of fuel oil or to equip them with vented emission treatment particular in carbon monoxide. systems, so that these emissions were significantly reduced. In The steady decline in acidifying substances since 2014 attests addition, flare gas burn-off data from the Lacq, France site was to the success of the initiatives undertaken by several production reported for the first time in 2016 following the purchase of plants to significantly reduce their emissions. Several investments OP Systèmes, the company in charge of these operations. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2 The significant decline in volatile organic compounds (VOCs) resulted from improvements in operating efficiency at certain 2025 TARGET sites, which partially offset the impact of the more reliable (and therefore higher) data reported from certain Bostik plants. Reduce VOC emissions by 33% compared with 2012. In addition to the change in the scope of reporting, the temporary shutdown of a facility in China helped to reduce dust emissions. Intensive indicator for air emissions 2.4.4.2 EFFLUENT RELEASES The chart below presents the volatile organic compound emissions Reducing effluent and other water discharge is one of the Group’s EFPI from the Group’s operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, main environmental objectives, with particular attention paid to calculated according to the methodology described in section 2.8 effluents with high chemical oxygen demand (COD) and/or of this chapter. Emissions are calculated using the Group’s suspended solids. biggest VOC emitters, which account for more than 80% of the consolidated total. The Optim’O project, presented in paragraph 2.4.2.3 of this chapter under its water consumption aspects, is also aiming to reduce the amount of effluent discharged by the Group. It is VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUND EFPI contributing to: • continuously optimize water use and the efficiency of the water 1.0 treatment process, from the initial design of the installations to 0.79 0.83 0.80 their daily operation, through the use of advanced technologies 0.67 and the development of innovative solutions, thanks in particular to the “Water management” innovation platform; and • ensure compliance with applicable legislation or address forthcoming standards, such as the Best Available Techniques reference documents (BREFs) and the Common Waste Water (CWW) document issued by the European Union. 2012* 2014* 2015 2016 2025 target Absolute indicators for effluent releases The environmental indicators in the table below present effluent * Data prior to 2015 exclude Bostik. released from the Group’s operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, calculated according to the methodology described in section 2.8 The improvement in this indicator in 2016 was led by the progress of this chapter. made by several plants following the investments made in previous years and the temporary shutdown of a facility in China. Action plans are being deployed to sustain the improvement dynamic through to 2025. Effluent releases 2016 2015 2014* Chemical oxygen demand (COD) (t O2) 2,600 3,200 3,870 Suspended solids (t) 770 870 3,030 * Excluding Bostik. In recent years, several initiatives have helped to reduce mix and a decrease in output at certain sites also making a COD emissions from certain plants. In 2016, the Optim’O contribution. project helped to strengthen this process through better reporting, The significant reduction in the suspended solids indicator targeted investments and better facilities management. primarily reflected process improvements at the Jarrie plant in One third of the year-on-year decline in COD in 2016 was France. attributable to the improvement in reporting, with the product 35 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information Intensive indicator for effluent releases In recent years, the Group has in particular: The chart below presents the COD effluent EFPI from the Group’s • explored new ways to recover and reuse certain types of waste, operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, calculated according to the for example, to replace conventional fuels in boilers; methodology described in section 2.8 of this chapter. Emissions • recycled cleaning solvents and optimized cleaning cycles; and are calculated using the Group’s biggest COD effluent emitters, which account for more than 80% of the consolidated total. • installed filters to reduce sludge volumes. The following chart shows the amounts of hazardous and CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND EFPI non‑hazardous waste generated by the Group’s operations in 2016, 2015 and 2014, calculated according to the methodology 1.0 1.03 described in section 2.8 of this chapter. 0.93 0.78 0.80 NON-HAZARDOUS AND HAZARDOUS WASTE (in kt per year) 2012* 2014* 2015 2016 2025 target 256 * Data prior to 2015 exclude Bostik. 219 231 In 2016, the improved results illustrate the positive influence of the Optim’O project and the factors described in the previous paragraph. As announced in the 2015 reference document, the 149 157 151 further deployment of the project in 2017 could possibly lead to a revision of the 2025 target, which remained unchanged when (2.1) (2.5) (2.7) environmental objectives were updated in 2015. 2014* 2015 2016 2025 TARGET Hazardous waste excluding material recovery (of which landfilled) Reduce COD emissions, expressed in EFPI terms, by 20% Non-hazardous waste compared with 2012. * Excluding Bostik. 2.4.4.3 WASTE In 2016, the increase in hazardous and non-hazardous waste was driven by the growth in output at various Group plants around While inherent to its industrial operations, the Group ensures that the world. In the case of non-hazardous waste, the year‑on-year its waste production is managed at every stage of its business increase also stemmed from the purchase of a company that, activity and that resource recovery and/or recycling solutions are among other activities, treats effluent from the Lacq facility in found whenever possible. France. The increase in hazardous waste was partially offset This commitment is reflected in a number of areas: by the decline in output at other plants undergoing scheduled maintenance turnarounds and by more reliable reporting. • reducing waste at source, by designing products and processes that generate as little waste as possible; The Group’s objective is not only to reduce overall waste production, but also to recycle waste or recover its energy • recycling waste in the product value chain, in compliance with potential by burning it as fuel. the REACH regulation; and The following table shows the amounts of hazardous waste that • recovering the energy potential of waste by burning it as fuel, were either recycled or burned as fuel in 2016, 2015 and 2014, wherever possible. calculated according to the methodology described in section 2.8 of this chapter. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2 Hazardous waste (kt per year) 2016 2015 2014* Waste recycled into materials 28 26 29 Waste burned as fuel 92 84 79 Total waste (including recycled) 188 177 178 * Excluding Bostik. Recovering waste for reuse as fuel is continuing to gain ground • odors, by upgrading incinerators to cut SO2 emissions; across the Group. Accordingly, in 2016, 15% of hazardous • noise, by improving air compressor soundproofing; and waste produced by the Group worldwide was recycled onor off-site to recover useful materials, and 49% was burned as fuel. • visual pollution (smoke), by firing boilers with natural gas rather than fuel oil. The Group has put in place communication systems to alert 2.4.4.4 OTHER EMISSIONS stakeholders in real-time about any event likely to result in noise, Another major focus of the Group’s environmental policies is to odors, or visual pollution in and around a production site. In ease the impact of other pollutants from its operations on people addition, most facilities now have a system for receiving and living in nearby communities. Every year, projects are undertaken responding to complaints from local residents so that they can to attenuate such other pollutions as: address the issues and minimize the nuisances to the extent possible. Complaints are investigated and action plans defined accordingly in liaison with local authorities. 2.4.5 Products and services The Group strives to optimize its environmental footprint by The Group is supplying LCA data to certain customers to enable participating in recycling and circular economy initiatives and them to assess the environmental footprint of a given product assists customers in assessing the environmental performance of all along its value chain. This particularly concerns the Rilsan®, its products. Rilsamid®, Pebax®, Kynar® and Forane® ranges, as well as Bostik adhesives. Assessments are also performed for acrylic monomers and PMMA through trade associations. 2.4.5.1 LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENTS Depending on the type of product, internal experts assess the To assess the environmental performance of certain products and impacts in such areas as climate change (greenhouse gas in response to customer requests, life-cycle assessments (LCAs) emissions), ozone depletion potential, contribution to acidification, are used to convert the entire inventory of a product’s process and energy, water and land use. Their scope is generally limited material and energy inputs and environmental emissions into to a cradle-to-gate analysis, i.e. to production operations and environmental impacts. The Group has developed dedicated upstream factors. LCA expertise at its Rhône-Alpes research center in France. It has LCAs are performed in accordance with the recommendations also set up the global Arkema’s LCA Network, which is instilling of the International Reference Life Cycle Data System (ILCD) this LCA culture across the organization, in particular through Handbook and the international ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 periodic employee training courses, and endurably embedding standards describing the principles and framework for LCAs. it into the Group’s CSR process. 37 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental information 2.4.5.2 RECYCLING AND CIRCULAR ECONOMY For example, the Mont facility in France has long marketed PROJECTS the sodium-water produced as part of a monomer purification process to the paper industry for use in the Kraft paper and The Group is contributing to preserve non-renewable fossil-based cardboard production process. The basic, organic-rich water raw materials by reusing the by-products of its industrial processes, helps to minimize sulfur loss in the process regeneration loops. supporting the recyclability of its own and its customers’ products, At the Hebei Casda Biomaterials Co. Ltd plant in Hengshui, and extending the lifespan of customers’ products. China, the residual sulfuric acid generated by the sebacic acid manufacturing process is neutralized to obtain a sodium sulfate Recycling solution, which is then concentrated and crystallized. Instead of The Group is developing a number of solutions that are making discharging the residual acid as waste, the plant now uses the it easier for customers to recycle their products. new process to produce 50,000 tonnes a year of solid sodium sulfate for sale. For example, Elium® liquid thermoplastic resins are produced using the same equipment and processes as thermoset composites. In another long-standing example, by-products from the conversion Their properties make them easy to recycle, unlike parts made of castor oil into undecanoic acid 11 at the Marseille plant have from thermoset resins such as epoxy. been sold for many years through stable marketing channels. The Group has also developed technologies to protect glass bottles (Kercoat®) and hide scuffs (Opticoat®), which significantly improve the appearance and useful lives of bottles by tripling the F CUS: REVERPLAST number of times returnable beer and other bottles can be reused. A “Commitment to green growth” was signed in 2016 CECA has developed a solution that increases the recycling rate with the French government to promote a complete of roadwork scrap. Using Cecabase RT® additives in the asphalt recycling chain for PMMA as part of the Reverplast project mix increases the aggregate recycling rate by 10% to 15% in France. compared with conventional techniques. These additives also reduce the asphalt mix’s workable heating temperature. Extending the lifespan of customer products Circular economy The Group is constantly enhancing the performance over time of The Group markets numerous by-products from the production of both its own and its customers’ products. its leading products by finding suitable commercial applications linked to their inherent properties. The Group has developed a range of organic peroxides for crosslinking rubber, which is then used to manufacture In addition, the Group is seeking solutions to transform certain automotive and other parts that last longer than their conventional types of industrial waste, which otherwise would be discarded, counterparts. into products that can be used in other industries. In 2015, the Group formed an inter-business working group to step up these Kynar® coatings are particularly durable in general, and their efforts and tighten coordination with partners. Aquatec® version, used for reflective roofs (see paragraph 2.5.2 of this chapter), retains a virtually intact white finish maintenanceIn 2016, some 15% of hazardous waste produced worldwide free for an especially long time. was recycled onor off-site to recover useful materials. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Innovation information 2 2.5 INNOVATION INFORMATION PLACING SOLUTIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AT THE HEART OF THE GROUP’S APPROACH TO INNOVATION AND PRODUCT RANGE 2.5.1 Managing innovation to support sustainable development In a fast-changing world characterized by global warming, a The materiality assessment performed in 2016 and presented rising world population, the increasing difficulty in accessing in section 2.1 of this chapter confirmed that the development of energy and safe drinking water, and the growing scarcity of sustainable, innovative solutions was one of the important aspects certain resources, manufacturing companies like Arkema must of the Group’s CSR approach. constantly innovate and adapt their product range to offer solutions addressing these challenges. To address these major changes, the Group has structured its F CUS: 116 innovation strategy around six innovation platforms, described in Number of patent applications filed by the Group section 1.4 of this document that are developing and delivering worldwide in 2016, covering innovative solutions that for its customers usable, innovative and environmentally friendly address the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) solutions in such areas as bio‑based products, new energies, defined by the United Nations in its “2030 Agenda for water management, electronics solutions, lightweight materials Sustainable Development”. The Group filed 121 patents and design, and home efficiency and insulation. around the world in 2015 and 128 in 2014 (excluding These six platforms are addressing issues that are of rising interest, Bostik). These results confirm the efforts made by the as evidenced by the entry into force on 1 January 2016 of the Group in this area, in particular in the fields of bio-based 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) defined by the United polymers (SDG 12) and solutions for lightweight materials Nations in their “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”, and design (SDG 13). and to which governments, civil society and companies are being encouraged to contribute. The Group has identified six SDGs where its expertise and The Group’s ambitious partnership and open-innovation innovation efforts will enable it to offer new solutions and thus to policy is supporting internal R&D efforts, as described in contribute to their achievement. These SDGs are: paragraph 1.4.2.3 of this document. The 276 non-disclosure, cooperation and intellectual property agreements signed by • “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns” Arkema France in 2016 attest to the dynamic in place. (SDG 12); In addition, the Group is developing new processes and • “Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern upgrading the manufacturing technologies used on its production energy for all” (SDG 7); sites so as to attenuate the environmental risks relating to their • “Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and operations and reduce their emissions of potential pollutants as sanitation for all” (SDG 6); well as to optimize their use of energy and raw materials. These initiatives, described in section 1.6 and paragraphs 2.4.2 and • “Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 2.4.5 of this document, will also contribute to the achievement industrialization and foster innovation” (SDG 9); of certain of these SDGs. • “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts” Information on industrial safety, environmental and climate (SDG 13); and change risks for the Group may be found in paragraph 1.7.2.3 • “Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable” of this document. (SDG 11). 39 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Innovation information 2.5.2 Innovations to address sustainable development challenges The Group has developed a range of innovative solutions that The Group is very active in photovoltaic panels with its Kynar® respond perfectly to six of the UN’s sustainable development PVDF resins. In addition, its new Elium® recyclable thermoplastic goals, as shown in the examples described below. resin is being tested for the production of composites to make wind turbine rotor blades. Lastly, a laboratory operated jointly with Hydro Quebec is working to expand the range of solutions for the battery market “Ensure sustainable consumption and production beyond Kynar® resins. patterns” The growth in the world’s population, the improvement in living standards and the rapid pace of industrialization are all driving the increased use and therefore growing scarcity of the planet’s “Ensure availability and sustainable management of fossil raw materials. water and sanitation for all” By developing products using renewable raw materials within its An expanding global population and growing urbanization “Bio-based products” innovation platform, the Group is helping are sharply impacting water demand and tightening access to to preserve non-renewable fossil materials and to introduce ecosafe drinking water. Access to high-quality water for everyone design solutions with optimized environmental footprints, for is therefore a major challenge. In addition, industrialization is example through recycling or as part of the circular economy increasing the need for wastewater treatment and driving the (see paragraph 2.4.5.2 of this chapter). emergence of new needs among the Group’s customers. The Group’s ongoing commitment was demonstrated in 2016 To help prevent the risk of a shortage of water resources, the by the fact that products at least 20% made from renewable Group is undertaking, with its “Water management” innovation raw materials accounted for around 10% of Group sales. These platform, to develop materials that will make filtration processes products are described in paragraph 1.4.4.2 of this document. more effective, more energy-efficient and less costly. These The decline compared to the 13% reported in 2014 was mainly solutions, detailed in paragraph 1.4.4.2 of this document, due to the consolidation of Bostik in 2015 and the disposal of the include the Rilsan® powders chosen for decades by many cities activated carbon and filter aids business in 2016. to coat their drinking water network and wastewater treatment Leveraging their more than 60 years of expertise, the Group’s installations and a special grade of Kynar® PVDF resins used in R&D teams will continue their efforts in this field to further expand multi‑layered drinking water pipes. the range of solutions offered. In addition, the Group is continuing its efforts to optimize its The Group is also striving to reduce its own use of raw materials, own water consumption in its production processes. As part of particularly petrochemical feedstock, as part of the continuous this process, the Group has launched “Optim’O”, a program to improvement in its production processes (see paragraph 2.4.2.1 improve water management. These initiatives and their impacts of this chapter). are described in more detail in paragraph 2.4.2.3 of this chapter. “Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable “Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and and modern energy for all” sustainable industrialization and foster innovation” New energies are one of the Group’s important research areas. This SDG addresses the important social challenge of sustainable By offering innovative solutions in this area, the Group is helping and inclusive industrialization. Two of its main drivers are to preserve the planet’s fossil resources and fight against climate technology and innovation, particularly digital technologies and change. electronics, which will enable manufacturers in the developed world to optimize their production facilities and supply chain. With its “New energies” innovation platform, the Group In developing countries, they will help to give equal access to offers innovative new solutions for solar power, photovoltaics, information and knowledge to the more than four billion people wind power and energy storage, which are described in living without internet access in these countries. The Group is paragraph 1.4.4.2 of this document. positioning itself, with the “Electronics solutions” innovation platform, as a player in the upstream part of this chain. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Innovation information 2 The electronics industry is characterized by strong growth and very Assuming that 100,000 vehicles driving 20,000 kilometers a short time-to-market cycles for new solutions. With its Technical year were equipped with this innovation, CO2 emissions would Polymers range, the Group offers solutions for the smartphone be reduced by 140,000 tonnes a year. and tablet segments, as described in paragraph 1.2.1.3 of this The Group’s lightweight materials solutions are presented in detail document. in paragraph 1.4.4.2 of this document. In addition, an ambitious research project in the area of In addition, within the Fluorogases Business Line, the Group is nano‑scale semiconductor etching, housed in the incubator, developing chemicals with low global warming potential (GWP), aims at using the directed self-assembly process, based in particular low-GWP HFO refrigerants with zero ozone-depletion on ultra-pure block copolymers, where the Group enjoys potential (ODP) (see paragraph 1.2.2.3 of this document). unique expertise. By enabling the fabrication of even smaller silicon chips, this innovation offers a promising pathway to increasing microprocessor storage capacity, a key factor in the spread of digital technology. These products are described in paragraph 1.4.4.2 of this document. “Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable” With growing urbanization, access to high-quality, sustainable housing is becoming increasingly problematic. The “Home “Take urgent action to combat climate change and efficiency and insulation” innovation platform offers solutions its impacts” that insulate buildings more effectively, which in turn improves the energy efficiency of their air-conditioning systems. These An increasing global population, growing urbanization, rising innovations are also helping to fight against global warming. living standards (with a corresponding increase in the number of cars and air travel) and the faster pace of industrialization in One of them is the Kynar Aquatec® PVDF resin, a water-based emerging markets all contribute to the gradual global warming formulation for the white paint on reflecting roofs, whose use of the planet and to climate change. The fight against global reduces a building’s energy consumption in high-sunlight regions warming is therefore a major challenge that mobilizes the entire by 20%, or 20 kilowatt-hours per square meter a year. For international community. ten buildings with a roof area of 15,000 square meters, this would represent a total reduction of 1,500 tonnes of CO2 a To actively participate in this fight, the Group is developing, year, assuming an emission coefficient of 0.5 tonnes of CO2 per within its “Lightweight materials and design” innovation 1,000 kilowatt-hours. platform, solutions that reduce vehicle weight and thereby their fuel consumption. In doing so, they are helping to limit carbon In addition to addressing these energy efficiency challenges, the emissions in the transportation industry. These products include the Group is also participating in the development of solutions that Altuglas® ShieldUp nanostructured PMMA sheet that replaces glass reduce a home’s environmental footprint and make it healthier in automobile windows, the Rilsan® HT polyamide 11 and, more and more comfortable for residents. In particular, these solutions recently, the Kepstan® PEKK to substitute metal, and thermoplastic are being tested in the Smart House by Arkema, a world-unique composites such as the Elium® resin. In addition, Bostik adhesives laboratory-house for sustainable construction. and the Platamid® offer automotive and aerospace manufacturers The Group’s home efficiency and insulation initiatives and lightweight bonding solutions for materials assembly. solutions are described in more detail in paragraph 1.4.4.2 of For example, in the case of cars, the use of Altuglas® ShieldUp this document. roofs can reduce fuel consumption by 0.4 liters and reduce CO2 emissions by seven kilograms per 100 kilometers traveled. 2.5.3 R&D organization and outcomes R&D organization and outcomes are described in section 1.4 of To develop the technologies of the future and invent new products, this document. The key R&D indicators are presented in the table the Group is innovating directly with its ecosystem in a seamless, of CSR indicators in paragraph 2.8.3 of this chapter. interconnected way. Initiatives undertaken as part of partnerships and open innovation are described in paragraph 1.4.2.3 of this document. 41 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2.6 SOCIAL INFORMATION PROMOTING THE INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE DEVELOPMENT OF ALL ITS EMPLOYEES 2.6.1 Social management The Group’s success is deeply linked to its 19,637 employees • programs focused on working conditions that are designed to in some 50 countries around the globe, who each contribute drive continuous improvement. They include initiates to improve to its development and performance. The Group is benefiting the working environment and preserve employee health and from a strong corporate culture, rooted in the four core values of safety. They are also designed to foster positive employee simplicity, solidarity, performance and accountability. relations, by paying close attention to employee feedback, The Group’s human resources policies are designed to encourage maintaining social dialogue and broadening the diversity of employee development by providing career opportunities within national origins, profiles and educational backgrounds among an innovative, global company, and to attract and retain the employees. best talent. This implies an environment offering good working Based on the materiality assessment carried out in 2016 (see conditions and guaranteeing fair treatment in every circumstance. paragraph 2.1.2 of this chapter), the Group has decided to These policies cover both personal development initiatives and reinforce the employee relations aspects of its CSR process with programs focused on the workplace environment as follows: two new targets focused on diversity. • personal development initiatives concern hiring, training and career development, with the aim of improving each employee’s 2025 TARGETS skills and capabilities. Career management policies help to build career paths that enhance the expertise of employees • 23% to 25% of senior management and executive and, by extension, the entire Group. They are supported by positions to be held by women; and training programs that provide the knowledge and practices • 42% to 45% of senior management and executive required to take up a new position or acquire new job skills. positions to be held by non-French nationals. Employee development is also being encouraged by a policy of proper recognition and fair compensation, regularly benchmarked against peer groups; and The Group ensures that it consistently complies with the constitutional texts, treaties, conventions, laws and regulations in force in the countries and regions in which it operates, as detailed in paragraph 2.7.3 of this chapter. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 2.6.2 Employment Through its human resources policies, the Group endeavors to offer its employees varied career paths and opportunities, in particular by encouraging transfers among subsidiaries and businesses and by developing their capabilities. The Group supports the personal development of every employee, provides opportunities for promotion and transfer and is actively broadening the diversity of its teams. 2.6.2.1 TOTAL HEADCOUNT AND EMPLOYEES Every reporting company considers as an employee, any person hired under an employment contract. The number of employees, BY REGION, GENDER AND AGE which does not include interns or temporary workers, is calculated Data in this section concern all of the companies that are more on a headcount basis, regardless of working hours. than 50%-owned by the Group. They describe how the workforce For further details on the methods used to collect and calculate breaks down by various criteria and how the Group manages this data and their possible limitations, please see the note on its human capital. methodology in section 2.8 of this chapter. TOTAL HEADCOUNT AND BREAKDOWN BY REGION The total workforce over the past three years is the following: Total headcount 31 December 2016** 31 December 2015 31 December 2014* GROUP TOTAL 19,637 18,912 14,280 France 7,145 7,282 6,716 Rest of Europe 3,838 3,120 1,839 North America 3,694 3,568 2,609 Asia 4,061 3,979 2,874 Rest of the world 899 963 242 Of which permanent (1) 18,607 17,801 13,832 Of which fixed-term 1,030 1,111 448 (1) See the note on methodology in section 2.8 of this chapter. * Excluding Bostik. ** Including Den Braven. The number of employees rose by 3.8% from 2015 to 2016. This was primarily due to the net positive impact of the acquisition of Den Braven (+982 employees) and the disposal of the activated carbon and filter aids business (-319 employees). 43 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information The consolidation of Den Braven, which has extensive operations in Europe outside France, impacted the breakdown by region. Consequently, the headcount breaks down by region as follows: 47% 39% 36% 21% 21% 20% 20% 19% 19% 18% 16% 13% 5% 5% 2% 2014* 2015 2016** 2014* 2015 2016** 2014* 2015 2016** 2014* 2015 2016** 2014* 2015 2016** France Europe excluding France North America Asia Rest of the world * Excluding Bostik. ** Including Den Braven. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 HEADCOUNT BY REGION AND GENDER Women represented 24.6% of Group employees. This proportion has been gradually rising in recent years, with a 0.8‑point increase in 2016. Men Women 5,440 5,285 5,090 2,899 2,955 3,019 2,799 2,889 2,429 2,053 2,109 1,842 1,860 1,626 1,456 1,024 1,042 939 769 805 765 772 691 710 556 383 192 191 189 50 2014* 2015 2016** 2014* 2015 2016** 2014* 2015 2016** 2014* 2015 2016** 2014* 2015 2016** France Europe excluding France North America Asia Rest of the world % % % % % % % % % % % % % % .2 .3 .0 .8 .1 .5 .3 .6 .8 .6 .7 .7 .7 .8 .0 % 24 25 26 20 22 24 21 21 21 26 25 25 20 19 21 % of women * Excluding Bostik. ** Including Den Braven. The fact that the majority of employees are men reflects the high are North America and Europe (excluding France), particularly percentage of jobs traditionally held by men in non-managerial Germany where the percentage of working women is traditionally positions (supervisors and operators), who account for 73.8% of lower. the workforce. The regions with the lowest proportion of women 45 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information HEADCOUNT BY CATEGORY AND GENDER At 31 December 2016, managers accounted for 26.2% of Group employees. The following chart shows the breakdown of the workforce by category over the past three years. 74.9% 74.2% 73.8% 25.1% 25.8% 26.2% 26.6% 27.4% 28.3% 2014* 2015 2016** Managers Of which % women managers Non managers * Excluding Bostik. ** Including Den Braven. At 26.2%, the percentage of managers rose slightly by 0.4 points compared to 2015, corresponding to an increase of 562 people. Nearly 20% of these people were promoted from within (excluding Den Braven), attesting to the dynamic career development process deployed across the Group. Women accounted for an average 28.3% of managers, an increase of 0.9 points year-on-year, and 3.7 points higher than the percentage of women in the workforce as a whole (24.6%). Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 EMPLOYEE AGE PYRAMID BY GENDER Men Women Under 2,036 30 years 804 from 30 3,742 to 39 years 1,361 from 40 4,321 to 49 years 1,325 from 50 3,957 to 59 years 1,127 60 years 746 and over 218 EMPLOYEE AGE PYRAMID BY CATEGORY Managers Non managers Under 354 30 years 2,486 from 30 1,275 to 39 years 3,828 from 40 1,581 to 49 years 4,065 from 50 1,559 to 59 years 3,525 60 years 370 and over 594 These age pyramids are typical of the chemicals industry. The designed to ensure that, over time, this expertise is transferred to preponderance of employees over 30 reflects the fact that, a new generation of employees. However, the high proportion compared to other industries, both managers and non-managers of employees over 50 is prompting the Group to address the spend a longer time in professional education and training. foreseeable departure of nearly a quarter of its current workforce This means that the Group can build its growth on well-trained, over the next ten years, by leveraging its hiring and career experienced employees. Human resources policies are also management policies to gradually replace them. 47 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2.6.2.2 RECRUITMENTS AND DEPARTURES Each year, the Group offers numerous opportunities for internships, apprenticeships, doctoral research positions and jobs The Group’s recruitment policies are designed to attract talented, under France’s International Volunteers in Business (IVB) program. highly skilled individuals to support its growth. In 2016, for example, 19 IVB contracts were offered in the United In keeping with its founding values of simplicity, solidarity, States, Asia and Europe. The Group aims to further broaden performance and accountability, the Group attaches a these international opportunities by offering students from partner great deal of importance to finding applicants with cultural schools the possibility to intern abroad. Final-year internships, awareness, teamwork skills, a solutions-driven approach and an IVB contracts and doctoral research projects are managed at entrepreneurial spirit. the corporate level to monitor the future recruitment pool more effectively. A recruitment charter has been issued to help promote the principles of fairness and non-discrimination in the selection of Another major objective in France is to develop work-study job applicants. programs, whose participants represent an important source of new hires. The objective is for one-third of positions open to In 2016, the Group revised its employer brand in order to young graduates to be offered or open to people already on integrate the brand identity of Bostik which was acquired in a work‑study contract with the Group. Students on work-study 2015. The new employer brand has been deployed across the programs accounted for 3.9% of the workforce in 2016. organization through a variety of communications media, with an ample presence on social media so as to reach the broadest In the United States possible audience of young graduates and potential applicants. Arkema Inc. is nurturing close relations with universities whose It was supported by a revamp of the careers section of the students can meet the Group’s hiring needs. In 2016, for example, corporate website, which enhanced existing content concerning a series of meetings was organized between Group researchers the Group’s human resources policies and jobs with testimonials and students from MIT, the University of Massachusetts, Cornell from employees based at locations around the world. University and Pennsylvania State University. In addition, 51 internships were offered during the year. The Group also Proactively attracting talented young graduates recently invested in an MBA Rotational Leadership Development In order to continuously improve the recruitment and hiring program with the goal of recruiting candidates with technical process, the Group nurtures special relationships with the best backgrounds who are capable of moving into management educational and training institutions for all its professions. positions. The two-year program offers participants experience in a variety of corporate positions. In France In China The Group takes part in a large number of school events, such as job forums, presentations and plant tours. These initiatives To meet its hiring needs, operations in China are fostering seek to promote the Group and its professions to the students closer relations with selected universities. In 2016, six university of general engineering schools (Mines de Paris, Centrale Paris visits were organized, with 32 job offers for young graduates. and Polytechnique), chemical engineering schools (such as These initiatives attracted 1,350 students and almost as many ESPCI, Chimie Paris, ENSIC and ENSIACET), business schools applications. (particularly HEC, ESSEC and ESCP-Europe), and technical schools in the fields of safety and maintenance. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 RECRUITMENTS UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY REGION In 2016, the Group hired 1,694 people under permanent contracts, compared with 1,450 in 2015. Recruitments under permanent contracts 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 31 December 2014* GROUP TOTAL 1,694 1,450 1,022 France 295 259 376 Rest of Europe 186 173 47 North America 530 473 293 Asia 511 439 277 Rest of the world 172 106 29 * Excluding Bostik. These data do not include Den Braven. 37% 33% 31% 30% 30% 29% 27% 18% 17% 12% 11% 10% 7% 5% 3% 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 France Europe excluding France North America Asia Rest of the world * Excluding Bostik. These data do not include Den Braven. The geographic distribution of recruitments shows that Asia and North America have been the most active regions in recent years, in line with the Group’s expansion in Asia and the higher turnover in both regions. 49 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information RECRUITMENTS UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY REGION AND GENDER Women accounted for 24.7% of recruitments in 2016. This figure has been about the same for the past three years and corresponds to the percentage of women in the total workforce: Men Women 403 400 363 329 272 224 213 199 173 136 137 127 127 110 110 111 104 96 89 86 69 64 46 50 35 35 23 12 17 6 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 France Europe excluding France North America Asia Rest of the world % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % .7 .2 .5 .5 .6 .9 .5 .3 .0 .1 .1 .7 .7 .0 .3 27 33 32 25 26 26 23 23 24 23 25 21 20 16 20 % of women * Excluding Bostik. These data do not include Den Braven. The chart above shows a relatively even distribution by region, albeit with a higher proportion of women among recruitments in France. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 50 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 RECRUITMENTS UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY CATEGORY AND GENDER 74.1% 73.7% In 2016, 26.3% of recruitments concerned managerial positions, 72.4% compared with 25.9% in 2015. This corresponds to the proportion of managers in the total workforce (26.2%), thereby ensuring an efficient succession process. The percentage of women among managerial hires continued to increase in 2016, to 34.1% from 31.9% in 2015. This was significantly higher than the percentage of women hires in general (24.7%). These proportions are in line with the percentage of women among the applicants for Group jobs. The growing 27.6% 25.9% 26.3% proportion of women among new managerial hires also attests to the Group’s decision to gradually hire more women across the organization, as described in paragraph 2.6.5.2 of this chapter. 30.9% 31.9% 34.1% 2014* 2015 2016 Managers Of which % women managers Non managers * Excluding Bostik. These data do not include Den Braven. 51 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information AGE PYRAMID FOR RECRUITMENTS UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY GENDER IN 2016 Recruitment practices are designed to provide the skills and expertise that the technical, sales and administrative professions need. The recruitment of people under 40 illustrates the initiatives in place to proactively respond to the wave of departures projected over the next ten years. Data by gender and category are summarized in the following two charts. Men Women Under 532 30 years 178 from 30 433 to 39 years 138 from 40 208 to 49 years 72 from 50 96 to 59 years 30 60 years 6 and over 1 These data do not include Den Braven. AGE PYRAMID FOR RECRUITMENTS UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS BY CATEGORY IN 2016 Managers Non managers Under 103 30 years 607 from 30 168 to 39 years 403 from 40 114 to 49 years 166 from 50 57 to 59 years 69 60 years 4 and over 3 These data do not include Den Braven. These two charts show that the proportion of women among new hires under 60 is about 25%, and is therefore independent of age. On the other hand, the proportion of managers among new hires increases with age. People 50 years old and over account for 7.9% of recruitments and people under 30 years old for 42%. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 DEPARTURES In 2016, the Group recorded 2,023 employee departures, versus 1,914 in 2015, which break down as follows: Rest of North Rest of France Europe America Asia the world Total TOTAL DEPARTURES 544 262 459 491 267 2,023 Of which resignations 52 106 254 395 59 866 Of which dismissals 26 55 94 56 197 428 Of which departures following a divestment* 253 66 5 324 * Disposal of the activated carbon and filter aids business (CECA). These data do not include Den Braven. RESIGNATIONS The following table shows employee turnover, corresponding to resignations as a percentage of the total headcount, for 2016, 2015 and 2014. 2016 2015 2014* Resignations 866 758 379 Turnover (resignations as a percentage of employees under permanent contracts) 4.7% 4.3% 2.7% * Excluding Bostik. These data do not include Den Braven. Concerning 2016 resignations, turnover by region and global 1,575 hours a year while part-time hours range from 50% to 80% turnover were both within the industry average. of the full-time equivalent. In the United States, full-time employees At constant scope, recruitments exceeded dismissals and work 1,960 hours a year and part-time hours range from 50% resignations by 446 people during the year, reflecting the to 90% of the full-time equivalent. For the Group overall, partGroup’s further expansion and active management of its human time employees accounted for 3.8% of the total workforce at capital to support its global growth. 31 December 2016, compared with 3.1% in 2015. Given the specific features of the Group’s industrial operations, some employee categories may work on continuous, discontinuous 2.6.2.3 ORGANIZATION OF WORKING TIME or semi-continuous shifts. In every country, the Group implements working times that comply In response to a sudden demand increase or unusual difficulties, with the relevant statutory and professional requirements. the Group may make use of fixed-term employment contracts, Employees work full time and, to a lesser extent, part time. overtime, subcontractors or temporary employment agencies, in At Arkema France, for example, full-time employees work compliance with local legislation and depending on the local labor market. 53 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2.6.2.4 ABSENTEEISM Absenteeism, which includes sickness, accident and maternity leave as well as strikes and unpaid leave, is presented in the following table: 2016 2015 2014* Percentage of hours of absence (excluding authorized leave) / number of hours worked 3.7 3.4 3.5 * Excluding Bostik. These data do not include Den Braven. The following table presents the percentage of hours of medical leave: 2016 2015 2014* Percentage of hours of medical leave/number of hours worked 2.6 2.4 2.4 * Excluding Bostik. These data do not include Den Braven. The absenteeism rate is low, in line with the average 3.5% to 68% of employees are eligible for some form of collective bonus, 4.5% reported by the global manufacturing industry. which give them a stake in the Group’s expansion and financial This indicator is often used to measure employee engagement performance. This is the case for the incentive and profit-sharing and satisfaction. The Group’s good performance attests to the schemes in effect in France. positive impact of the quality of work life improvement programs Nearly all employees, i.e. 99.2% of the total workforce, are underway in such areas as optimizing workstation ergonomics, covered by a guaranteed minimum compensation agreement. preventing stress, supporting teleworking and improving safety In the few countries where there is no minimum wage, Group (see paragraph 2.3.2 of this chapter). companies regularly perform benchmarking studies and are in line with standard chemical industry practices. 2.6.2.5 COMPENSATION AND THEIR EVOLUTION Employees may also receive various forms of long-term or deferred compensation, such as performance shares and employee share A key component of the Group’s human resources policies, total ownership plans. compensation is designed to recognize and equitably reward each employee’s contribution to the Group’s success. Employee share ownership The compensation structure comprises a fixed base salary, an Since its 2006 stock market listing, Arkema has encouraged individual bonus and a collective bonus, which are applied employee share ownership, with plans offered every two years in differently depending on the position and the country. This around 20 countries to enable the purchase of Company shares structure fulfills a number of objectives: on preferential terms. • compensate individual and collective performance; In 2016, Arkema carried out a new share capital increase • enhance each employee’s awareness of his or her reserved for employees, the fifth since its stock market listing ten responsibilities and involve everyone in meeting objectives; years ago and the first since Bostik employees joined the Group in early 2015. It was offered to employees in 26 countries around • offer fair compensation consistently across the organization; the world. The participation rate reached a new record, both and in France (67%) and abroad (21%), with an average 40% of • manage costs. employees investing in their company. In addition, the compensation structure is regularly benchmarked. As a result, 5.4% of outstanding shares were owned by employees 31% of employees receive some form of individual bonus, whose as of 31 December 2016, collectively making them one of the amount depends on their fulfillment of personal objectives and Group’s main shareholders. their contribution to the collective performance of a business, a For more details, please refer to paragraph 5.2.7 of this country organization or the Group. A significant portion of their document. bonus depends on a safety or other CSR objective. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 Performance shares 2.6.2.6 PENSION, HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS Performance share plans, which are granted every year by In most countries in which the Group operates, employees are the Board of Directors, concerned close to 1,200 grantees, or covered by mandatory public schemes addressing risks related to around 6% of the workforce, in 2016. The shares were granted death, disability, work incapacity, pensions and healthcare costs. to executives and employees who had demonstrated remarkable performance or whom the Group wished to incentivize and In addition to this statutory coverage, Group entities in France and involve more closely in its long-term development. abroad are responsible for implementing and updating health, welfare and employee benefit schemes, with a preference for For more information, please refer to section 3.5, paragraph 5.2.6 defined contribution plans, in compliance with the approved and note 28 to the consolidated financial statements at annual budgets and in line with local requirements and practices. 31 December 2016 in paragraph 4.3.3 of this document. Nearly 94% of Group employees thus receive supplementary life cover and 89% supplementary disability cover. 2.6.3 Training and personal development The Group is committed to fostering a workplace environment their expectations and how they could advance their career in that encourages the personal and professional development of its other Group professions. employees and to offering resources that help them to effectively meet this objective and improve their performance. 2.6.3.1 TRAINING POLICY Around the world, annual performance reviews provide one-onone opportunities for employees and managers to set objectives Professional training concerns all employees regardless of their for the coming year and to discuss the employee’s desired career job, level of responsibility or age. It enables everyone to develop path. They also review the training completed over the year, and or acquire the skills needed to hold a position, move to a new on that basis, determine the further training needed to improve position and fulfill the Group’s expectations in terms of technical the employee’s expertise and capabilities. Performance reviews expertise or management practices. This is why the Group has are conducted for every employee, regardless of category. reaffirmed its desire to provide every employee with access to lifelong learning and continued employability. In all, 99% of Group companies conduct annual performance reviews. Training hours are reported for entities at least 50%-owned and employing more than 30 people, corresponding to 92% of the In addition to these reviews, meetings with career managers total workforce. provide an opportunity to review the employee’s career path, NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS (EXCLUDING E-LEARNING) 2016 2015 2014* Total number of training hours, Group-wide 464,706 463,065 334,278 Training hours per employee per year 27 27 26 Number of permanent employees having attended at least one course 16,256 17,062 11,534 Percentage of permanent employees having attended at least one course during the year 94.7 99.3 88.9 * Excluding Bostik. These data do not include Den Braven. The number of training hours has increased over the past three when Safety Academy training was rolled out to every employee. years, reflecting the momentum in the deployment of the Group’s In France, the vocational education and training reform that came training policies. into effect in 2015 did not have a negative impact on the number In 2016, they leveled off somewhat after rising sharply in 2015 of courses offered, despite the removal of compulsory training. 55 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WHO TOOK AN E-LEARNING more than 20 modules in French, English and sometimes Chinese, COURSE or else subtitled in German or Italian, depending on the course. To facilitate access to training, the Group offers e-learning One reason for their growing popularity is the ease of enrollment, modules, which are easier to use, particularly for courses on given that almost every employee has a log-in and access to a safety and corporate subjects. The curriculum currently consists of computer. 2016 2015 2014* Number of employees who took an e-learning course 9,298 8,218 4,442 Percentage of employees having taken at least one e-learning course during the year 54 45 33 * Excluding Bostik. These data do not include Den Braven. E-learning courses continue to grow in popularity, as measured In France, a special initiative has been undertaken in recent years by both the number and percentage of participating employees. to expand the management training curriculum and to add the In 2016, the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics training following courses to the “Managers’ Passport” induction training module (described in paragraph 2.7.3 of this chapter) was program: rolled out around the world, backed by a dedicated employee • managing psychosocial risks and quality of work life; communication campaign. In early 2017, employees will also • working together internationally; be able to sign up for an energy saving awareness module, developed to support the Arkenergy project. • managing teams remotely; • communicating one-on-one: realignment meetings, annual performance reviews, job interviews; 2.6.3.2 SPECIAL PROFESSIONAL TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR EMPLOYEES • communicating interpersonally; and • reviewing management practices in accordance with the The Group’s training policies are especially designed to improve Arkema Management Way. employee skills in the areas of safety, health, the environment, its businesses and management. International initiatives include: 2.6.3.3 TALENT MANAGEMENT • the Safety Culture process that was deployed in 2016 at Bostik One of the cornerstones of the Group’s human resources via the Safety Academy module; and development process, talent management helps to diversify the experience that employees acquire along their career paths, while • a further session of the Arkema Executive Program which was steadily enhancing their capabilities, which is a fundamental organized in 2016 in association with INSEAD. Offered every driver of the Group’s development. two years, the program is attended by some forty high-potential managers from a variety of businesses and countries across This process therefore focuses on both: the Group. • ensuring that the Group has the expertise it needs to secure its Regional initiatives: successful development, today and over the medium-term; and • in December 2016, 32 Asian managers attended a Share • helping employees to build their career paths, by enabling Strategic Challenges seminar held in China, enabling them not them to increase their skills and achieve their objectives, based only to deepen their understanding of Arkema’s strategy and on the possibilities and opportunities available in the Group. projects but also to embrace its changes and challenges; and Employee talent management is led by career managers, whose • during the year, two programs based on the Arkema Cornell responsibilities include: Leadership Program already offered in the United States were • overseeing talent management at the corporate level introduced in Asia and Europe. Known together as the Arkema for managers in France and grade 15 jobs and higher Leadership Academy, these courses focus on developing internationally; and leadership skills for managers, offering a valuable addition to the courses dedicated to the Group’s high potentials. • working in collaboration with other career managers in each country or facility for administrative, technical and supervisory employees. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 Talent management policies are based on the same principles 2.6.3.4 INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE regardless of employee category, country, age or gender, as follows: The Group, which mainly operates in Europe, North America and Asia, is actively pursuing an international job mobility policy • providing each employee the resources and support he or she designed to ensure that it has the skills and capabilities it needs needs to manage every phase in his or her career; at all its sites, and to broaden employee skills by offering them • leading a proactive promotion-from-within policy; opportunities to work in different environments. • identifying and developing high-potentials to encourage This policy is being applied through five programs aligned with acceptance of responsibility and support career development; the different international mobility objectives, as follows. • encouraging mobility among subsidiaries and geographies; and Expertise • enabling every employee to move up in the organization This program enables employees who are contributing to and enrich his or her experience and skills, while ensuring implement strategic Group projects in a country where the organizational flexibility. requisite skills are not yet available to gradually transfer those capabilities to local employees. In every country, a career development program has been rolled out Group-wide for high-potentials, based on feedback Development to participants after their self-assessment has been compared with those of their manager and their manager’s manager. This This program concerns employees who are going to take up a system provides input for preparing personalized action and position in their area of expertise for a set period (on average improvement plans involving coaching, new experience and three years) in a country where similar capabilities exist locally, training. with the goal of broadening their skills and returning home with their newly acquired experience. In France International In addition to the recruitment targets for young people and seniors (see paragraph 2.5.1.2 of this chapter), the Provisional This program is for employees whose career is exclusively Management of Employment and Skills agreement renewed international, with no further reference to their country of origin. in 2016 for Group companies in France includes measures for recognizing experts through skills/professions charts, in Expatriation in Europe addition to the Hay classification. The agreement also includes This program enables French employees to work on strategic specific measures to manage career endings for seniors, such projects or develop their careers in another European country. as knowledge transfer, retirement counseling, and the possibility of working 80% of full-time equivalent at 90% of pay for the 24 months preceding retirement. Talent Program Introduced in 2016, this new program offers an international In the United States experience to talented junior employees identified after being hired for an initial position or completing an IVB contract with To support the talent management process, human resources the Group. teams are using the SAP SuccessFactors software to manage hiring, career development, annual performance reviews, training and performance initiatives for all US employees. The system is On average, only around 80 employees are working as now being introduced worldwide to support a holistic, global expatriates, reflecting the Group’s priority focus on hiring locally vision of employee career paths. whenever possible, including for executive or high responsibility positions. In China In 2015, a talent management leader was appointed and tasked with encouraging the development of employee skills not only in China, but also across all of Asia, in liaison with the country human resources managers. 57 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2.6.4 Social dialogue The Group respects the fundamental freedoms of its employees, • financial issues: review of the consolidated financial statements, such as the freedom of association and expression, protects their annual report and investments; personal data and respects their privacy, as defined in its Code • labor issues: human resources policy and the employment of Conduct and Business Ethics. situation and outlook; Among the fundamental principles and rights at work, the right to • environmental issues: Group policy and emerging European freedom of association and to collective bargaining is a vector of regulations; and social progress that the Group encourages wherever it operates. • organizational issues: significant changes in the Group’s Accordingly, in addition to complying with host country legislation, organization, developments in the businesses and the creation the Group facilitates employee representation in order to support or termination of operations affecting at least two European suitable collective bargaining processes. In countries where the Union countries. law does not provide for employee representation, specific bodies can be set up locally. A consultation and dialogue structure has In 2016, two plenary sessions were held on 7 and 8 July and been implemented at the European level with the European Works 7 October at the Arkema head office. Council. The European Works Council’s liaison office, consisting of The social dialogue process and the results of the collective 11 members appointed from among the Council’s employee agreements signed within the Group are presented in representatives, meets yearly with management for updates on paragraph 2.6.4.1 of this chapter. the Group’s progress. In 2016, it met on 22 March. Lastly, the Group strives to develop two-way feedback and consultation with employees, either directly in the form of surveys In the United States or via employee representatives. Employees at unionized facilities are covered by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with local and national trade unions for an average period of three years. They deal with such 2.6.4.1 THE SOCIAL DIALOGUE ORGANIZATION issues as compensation, the safety of people and processes, and As part of its employee relations policy, the Group fosters quality of work life. ongoing dialogue with employee representatives in every entity, in accordance with local cultural norms and legislation. In China The memo describing Group human resources policies also The first Employee Representatives Congress (ERC) of Arkema explains the principles for implementing social dialogue, which China Investment Co. Ltd, the Group’s main local subsidiary, was are in full compliance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct elected in late 2007 and began operations in January 2008. It and Business Ethics. currently has 34 members. The ERC has a broad remit, ranging from pay negotiations to safety and training. It complements the At the European level labor unions already in place at the Group’s local production plants. The social dialogue body is the 26-member European Works Council, which holds a one-day plenary meeting once a year to discuss issues within its remit, including: • business issues: market trends, commercial situation, activity level, main strategic priorities, growth outlook and objectives; Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 58 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 Around the world, a high percentage of employees were represented by elected bodies or unions in 2016, as shown in the following table. Percentage of employees represented by elected bodies and/or unions, by region 2016 France 100% Rest of Europe 90% North America 78% Asia 83% Rest of the world 88% GROUP TOTAL 90% These data do not include Den Braven. 2.6.4.2 EMPLOYEE RELATIONS WITH REGARD TO 2.6.4.3 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS THE GROUP’S DEVELOPMENT Since the Group was founded, its collective bargaining policy The Group acts within the framework of a structured, permanent has led to the signing of a wide range of agreements in each consultation approach with employee representative bodies that facility or company. aims to accommodate changes in the Group. In France, some agreements are Group-wide and therefore In particular, when a reorganization project is approved and applicable to every Group company in the country, while others implemented, in-depth discussions are held with the representatives have been negotiated only for a given company or facility. as part of information and consultation procedures, both at In other countries, collective bargaining procedures are aligned corporate level and locally. Moreover, after the project is with national employee representation practices and legislation. announced, management is careful to engage with employee Negotiations are designed to raise the social status of representatives for at least three months before implementation employees in correlation with the Group’s development and the begins. Similarly, much attention is paid to responding responsibly macroeconomic environment. The main issues negotiated in 2016 to the social impact of these changes. The employee support concerned total compensation (salaries, health and welfare plans, measures undertaken during a reorganization primarily concern health insurance, employee savings plans and other employee transfer or outplacement opportunities for the employees whose benefits), employment and skills management, quality of work life, jobs have been eliminated, offered under the best possible workplace health and safety, workplace equality and diversity, conditions and in compliance with national legislation. and social dialogue. In France, five major agreements were For example, ahead of the European Union’s ban, effective signed in the subsidiaries or Group-wide during the year. 1 January 2017, on the use of certain fluorogases in automotive Collective agreements have a positive impact on working air conditioning systems, in September 2016 Arkema France conditions, as illustrated in France by the measures taken in favor submitted a plan to shut down the Pierre Bénite plant’s production of people with disabilities, described in paragraph 2.6.5.3 of this unit for R134a fluorogas, which was specifically banned by chapter, and the second agreement signed in 2016 concerning the new regulation. The unit will be shut down, with the loss workstation ergonomics, described in paragraph 2.3.2.4 of this of 38 jobs, and have an organizational impact only as from chapter. March 2017. However, the project will not involve a redundancy plan because all of the employees concerned are offered transfers to other Group units. 59 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2.6.5 Diversity, equal opportunity and equal treatment As part of its policy of non-discrimination, workplace equality and diversity, the Group commits to promote the elimination of all 2025 TARGET forms of discrimination in its operations, encourage diversity as a valuable asset in its global business and hire people solely on 42% to 45% of senior management and executive the basis of its needs and each applicant’s personal qualities, as positions to be held by non-French nationals. defined in its Code of Conduct and Business Ethics and its human resources policy memo. Workplace equality is one of the major priorities of the In 2016, 39% of senior management and executives were Group’s human resources policy, along with the prevention of non‑French nationals. discrimination in general. A special attention is given to ensure gender equality in the workplace, facilitate the integration of 2.6.5.2 MEASURES TO PROMOTE GENDER EQUALITY disabled employees and prevent discrimination on the basis of age or nationality. Initiatives undertaken to encourage workplace The Group ensures that women enjoy the same career equality and deliver measurable results include: development opportunities as their male counterparts. In recent years, a policy of gender equality and equal pay has been • a program that periodically revises job descriptions to ensure deployed, with initiatives in the following four areas: that they are non-discriminatory and consistent across each profession, with a particular focus on accurately describing • strengthening the principle of non-discrimination in the hiring the related tasks and responsibilities. In addition, the positions, process; job titles and requisite profiles are reviewed once a year, • ensuring equal pay for equal work; department by department; and • encouraging and facilitating career development; and • recruitment policies based on the sole criterion of suitability for the job. In the United States, for example, Arkema Inc. • encouraging parenting across the organization. gives training to people involved in the recruitment and hiring The second diversity objective set for the human capital aspects process, provides them with job descriptions and applicant of the CSR process concerns promoting women to executive profiles, and remedies any situation where there is a significant positions, where the proportion of women needs to increase. underrepresentation of minorities or women in the workforce. This issue was also identified during the materiality assessment Diversity is an important issue for the Group, as a powerful lever performed in 2016. Since 2015, an action plan has been in place for driving team performance and attracting the finest talent. to encourage female talent. Today, 35% of middle managers are This is why the Group is also aiming to enhance its employer women, who therefore represent a promising source for meeting brand image. It has therefore set two new diversity objectives, the 2025 target. as specified in paragraph 2.6.1 of this chapter and described in detail in the following sections. 2025 TARGET 2.6.5.1 MEASURES TO FOSTER INTERNATIONAL 23% to 25% of senior management and executive positions to be held by women. DIVERSITY In every country and region where the Group operates, it is committed to developing local skills and capabilities, with a In 2016, women accounted for 18% of all senior managers preference for hiring locals in every aspect of the business, from and executives across the Group, compared with 17% in 2015. shop floor to executive teams. The Group also offers career This figure is consistent with the average 0.5% a year increase opportunities abroad. Several expatriation programs have been required to meet the 2025 target. designed, including the recent “Talent Program” for the most junior employees. In France Encouraging the presence of non-French executives was also an In 2015, Arkema France signed an agreement on gender equality important issue identified during the 2016 materiality assessment. and diversity, covering such issues as hiring and induction, The Group has therefore set the following objective for 2025: compensation and promotions, access to training and work/‌life balance. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 60 Corporate Social Responsibility Social information 2 In 2016, the Group strengthened its policy of hiring and promoting have exceeded that target at the end of 2016. Data are available women. Practical initiatives were deployed, in particular only at the end of the first quarter of the next reporting year. the expansion of a mentoring program run by senior Group In addition, actions in favor of the disabled have been pursued executives to help women move into positions of responsibility. and strengthened in the following areas: To lead the entire process, a diversity steering committee • retention: performing a wide variety of workstation ergonomic comprising business Managing Directors and corporate studies; installing appropriate upgrades; and training Vice‑Presidents was formed in 2016, with the goal of approving occupational health services and correspondents; and recommending initiatives to support gender diversity. • hiring and integration: diversifying methods of approaching the In the United States labor market; making the new-hire safety videos and corporate website pages accessible; and expanding the network of Arkema Inc. has prepared an action plan supporting workplace disabled employment correspondents; equality and equal pay for all employees and job applicants, with similar qualifications, regardless of race, ethnicity, national origin, • increasing the use of social enterprises and work centers: religion or gender. The plan, which is specific to each facility, identifying a partner to support the sites in contracting more is updated every year for the period from 1 June to 31 May. In business with social enterprises; appointing a correspondent in addition, to encourage diversity in hiring, Arkema Inc. vacancies the Procurement department; and expanding local partnerships; for outside applicants are posted on job search sites intended to • training: continuing to support “Manufacturing Operator” job reach veterans, women and the disabled, and mailed to local certification in partnership with industry peers; and launching community organizations that help people in these categories a new project to train disabled laboratory technicians; and find employment. • communication and awareness training: continuing to raise employee and manager awareness through local initiatives 2.6.5.3 MEASURES TO PROMOTE THE RECRUITMENT and corporate information. OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES One of the flagship commitments of the Group’s disability 2.6.5.4 MEASURES TO HIRE AND RETAIN SENIORS policy is to hire and maintain the employability of people with In France, the issue of recruiting and retaining seniors was disabilities, through dedicated training programs and workstation included in the 2013 strategic workforce planning (SWP) and modifications. In addition, the Group’s recruitment procedures intergenerational management agreement signed by two unions. make it possible to offer disabled talents real job opportunities. Under the agreement, which defined “seniors” as people over The following paragraph describes the measures taken in France 50 years old, the Group pledged to undertake initiatives in the that illustrate the approach taken by the Group. For the other following areas: regions, similar measures have been implemented taking into • a target of having seniors account for 10% of people recruited account local conditions and legislation. under permanent contracts; In France • retaining senior employees; A third agreement signed by Arkema France with all of the • supporting career-endings; unions and covering the 2014-2016 period has confirmed • transitioning to retirement; and the Group’s commitment to retaining disabled employees and guaranteeing their access to training and career development • knowledge transfer. opportunities, while leading an open hiring and integration policy In 2016, 295 people were recruited under permanent contracts and expanding partnerships with social enterprises. in France, of whom 27 were over 50. This came to 9% of all The agreement includes the following recruitment targets: raise new recruitments, close to the targeted 10% but down from 12% the percentage of disabled employees to 4.45% of the total, and in 2015. increase the amount spent on disabled contractor labor by 5%, Changes in French legislation concerning retirement and senior compared with the 2011-2013 period. employment resulted in a modification to corresponding employeeGiven that the amount spent on disabled contract labor rose related liabilities as described in note 19 to the consolidated 4.46% in 2014 and by 4.54% in 2015, the Group is expected to financial statements at 31 December 2016 in paragraph 4.3.3 of this document. 61 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Societal information 2.7 SOCIETAL INFORMATION ENCOURAGING OPEN DIALOGUE WITH ALL THE GROUP’S STAKEHOLDERS 2.7.1 Societal management The Group’s societal management practices integrate a certain Responsible Care® Global Charter, whose declaration of support number of international documents and principles. For example, was signed on 16 November 2006. the Group has endorsed the ten principles of the United Nations All of these principles are expressed in corporate reference Global Compact, which concern such issues as respect for human documents, such as the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics; rights, international labor standards, environmental protection the Supplier Code of Conduct; the Health, Safety, Environment and the fight against corruption. The Group’s values are also and Quality Charter; and the Energy Policy. shaped by the principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization and the In addition to complying with international conventions and host OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. country legislation, the Group is committed to complying with competition rules and to rejecting all forms of corruption and Lastly, the Group complies worldwide with the principles of fraud. It also condemns fraud and corruption and works to prevent the International Council of Chemical Associations’ (ICCA) it in business transactions with its partners. 2.7.2 Institutional initiatives As a responsible chemicals producer, the Group interacts Employees in charge of institutional relations are responsible for with public authorities in every country where it operations, in monitoring public initiatives at the local, national or international particular to contribute preparing legal and regulatory frameworks level that may impact the Group and, in response, defending or favorable to the development of its businesses, in full accordance promoting the interests both of the Group and of the chemical with its values and social responsibility commitments. As part of industry in general. The priority issues addressed concern business this process, it may take part in public debate on issues directly competitiveness, both globally (i.e., at Group level, such issues as related to its businesses, while maintaining a position of strict taxation, particularly on output, payroll taxes, employment law, political neutrality. regulation in general, etc.) and locally (i.e., at the plant level, such These public initiatives fully comply with the lobbying rules in issues as health, safety and environmental legislation, and support each host country. For example, the Group has been entered in for expansion projects and reorganizations), the energy transition the European Union Transparency Register and has pledged to (secure access to competitive energy over the long term, energy comply with the related Code of Conduct. In the same way, it efficiency, etc.), climate change (carbon markets and prices), is registered as a lobbyist with the French National Assembly. and the circular economy. The consolidated budget allocated to institutional relations amounted to around €400,000 in 2016. The Group is also active in several business federations or associations, such as the French Association of Private Enterprises In the United States, Arkema Inc. files quarterly activity reports (AFEP) and the Cercle de l’industrie in France, and chemical with both houses of Congress, as required under section 5 of industry trade associations, such as Union des industries the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995. Expenses reported for chimiques UIC in France, CEFIC in Europe and the American 2016, calculated according to the prescribed rules, stood at Chemistry Council in the United States. around $500,000. Two Arkema Inc. employees have been registered as lobbyists to Congress, particularly on the issue of refrigeration gases. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 62 Corporate Social Responsibility Societal information 2 2.7.3 Compliance and ethics THE CODE OF CONDUCT AND BUSINESS ETHICS • systematic prior approval required for any export to countries subject to commercial or financial restrictions, according to the The Code of Conduct of the Group is effective since 2006 and export control procedure; and was revised and renamed in 2013 as the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. • the introduction of a Code of Conduct e-learning module and an annual compliance statement, which designated employees Built on Arkema Group values and the principles of the Global are expected to sign, thereby attesting that they will abide Compact, the code describes the good business practices to be by the Code of Conduct’s principles. In 2016, the statement applied in every aspect of the Group’s operations. was signed by 99% of the designated senior level employees It may be downloaded from the corporate website and covers across the global organization, including subsidiary Managing the following main points: Directors, business line Managing Directors, corporate Vice‑Presidents and plant or facility Managing Directors. • as concerns bribery, employees may not offer, provide or accept, directly or indirectly, any unfair advantage, be it Application of the compliance program is overseen by the pecuniary or otherwise, whose purpose is to secure business Compliance Committee and the ethics mediator. relations or any other business advantage. The counterparties The Compliance Committee, whose members are appointed by concerned include people in positions of public authority, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and which reports business intermediaries, customer employees and political to the Executive Committee, consists of the Internal Audit and parties; Internal Control Vice-President, a Human Resources department • employees must scrupulously comply with all applicable rules representative, the Sustainable Development Vice-President, the relating to antitrust legislation in every country in which the Group Safety and Environment Vice-President, a representative of Group operates; and the Legal department, a representative of the Finance/Treasury/ Tax department and, since October 2016, a member of the • employees must comply with import and export regulations. Executive Committee. It is responsible for monitoring compliance Group-wide in the PROCESSES FOR IDENTIFYING AND REDUCING following areas: antitrust laws, business intermediaries, fraud, THE RISKS OF NON-COMPETITIVE PRACTICES, business practices and integrity, work environment integrity and CORRUPTION AND FRAUD environmental stewardship. The committee met four times in 2016. The Group has put in place a compliance and business ethics Appointed by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the program, whose cornerstone is the Code of Conduct. The ethics mediator is fully familiar with the Group’s operations and compliance program mainly covers antitrust, export control and businesses, with a career situation that ensures independent anti-corruption legislation. It defines and describes guidelines, judgment. procedures and risk management processes applicable throughout the Group. He or she is bound by an obligation not to disclose the identity of people raising ethics issues to third parties, or to disclose To ensure that the program runs smoothly, the following resources information likely to help identify such people. This obligation have been implemented: may be tempered and third-parties informed on a need-to-know • training to build employee awareness of the need to comply basis as strictly required to address and solve the question raised with competition rules, export control regulations and or to handle the case concerned, the said third parties then also anti‑bribery practices; being bound by the same obligation of confidentiality. • a practical guide to competition covering rules and In the host regions, the regional Vice-Presidents are appointed as recommended behaviors issued to employees; correspondents of the ethics mediator. • the verification of business intermediaries prior to appointment, For all practical questions regarding an ethical issue in according to the business intermediary procedure, to minimize general, and particularly any problem in applying the Code of the risks of corruption-prone situations arising; Conduct and Business Ethics, an application may be made to the Compliance Committee and the ethics mediator either by executive management or by an employee. 63 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Societal information Lastly, as part of the global risk management process, the Internal elimination of forced or compulsory labor and the effective Audit and Internal Control department regularly performs audits abolition of child labor. In line with this, the Group ensures that the in the subsidiaries. These include an analysis of the management human rights and dignity of its employees, contractors, temporary processes to help detect possible risks of fraud and to define, workers and suppliers are consistently upheld, by undertaking where appropriate, the necessary corrective measures (for to exclude all forms of discrimination, harassment, forced labor more information on the global risk management process, see and child labor, as well as any infringement of the freedom of paragraph 1.7.1 of this document). association. The Group also undertakes to comply with labor legislation in COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS every country in which it operates, in alignment with the ILO’s fundamental conventions. The Group recognizes the importance of protecting human rights wherever it operates, both in conducting its business and in its supplier relationships. PROMOTING AND RESPECTING THE FUNDAMENTAL Its CSR policies are guided by the Universal Declaration of CONVENTIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR Human Rights, the ten principles of the United Nations Global ORGANIZATION Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises The Group endeavors to comply with the constitutional texts, and the eight fundamental conventions of the International treaties, conventions, laws and regulations in force in its host Labour Organization (ILO) concerning respect for freedom of countries and regions. All of this information may be found in association and the right to collective bargaining, the elimination detail on the arkema.com website. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, the 2.7.4 Procurement, suppliers and subcontracting The Group has integrated labor, environmental and social confidentiality and the transparency and accuracy of reported issues into its procurement process and strives to build long‑term, information. The Code has been posted on the corporate website balanced, sustainable, trust-based relationships with its and the process of informing existing suppliers was completed in suppliers and subcontractors. These relationships are managed 2015. New suppliers are systematically informed of the Code’s transparently and in accordance with negotiated contractual provisions. While their selection process continues to focus on terms, including those related to intellectual property. In support, bids offering the best combination of performance, cost and the following resources have been deployed. quality, it now integrates their CSR performance as well. THE SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING TRAINING The Group’s responsible procurement process is guided by the AND AWARENESS ethical principles expressed in the Code of Conduct described Group buyers are all trained to apply the Supplier Code of in paragraph 2.7.3 of this chapter. The Group has also signed Conduct, with regular follow-up meetings to inform and maintain the national inter-company charter of the French purchasing awareness. managers’ organization and the state-sponsored inter-company mediation initiative Médiation Inter-Entreprises, which is based on ten responsible procurement commitments. As part of this process, ASSESSMENTS BY THREE PROCUREMENT a dedicated Code of Conduct for suppliers summarizing all of DEPARTMENTS the related CSR aspects was issued in 2014. The Goods and Services Procurement department regularly The Supplier Code of Conduct’s guidelines also cover assesses the employee safety performance of the leading environmental stewardship and the quality and safety of contractors working on Group sites. As explained in section 2.3 supplied products and services. Lastly, as part of the focus on of this chapter, the safety of contractor employees is considered business integrity and transparency, suppliers must comply with just as important as that of Group personnel, and their incidents laws governing competition, corruption, conflicts of interest, are recorded in the consolidated indicator. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Societal information 2 Logistics services contracts are awarded on the basis of the In addition, every year, the Internal Audit and Internal Control provider’s safety, security and environmental performance, department audits subsidiaries by conducting a range of tests while highway hazardous materials transporters are selected on supplier approval and assessment processes and on the based on third-party assessments, such as the Safety and Quality practices and risks associated with the raw materials and goods Assessment System (SQAS) in Europe and the Road Safety and and services procurement. Quality Assessment System (RSQAS) in China. Similarly, vessels chartered worldwide for the bulk transportation of Group products are first vetted by a third party. MEMBERSHIP FOR THE TOGETHER FOR To assess raw materials suppliers, pre-approval questionnaires SUSTAINABILITY (TFS) INITIATIVE are used to assess their management system, compliance with To base its requirements on accepted standards and avoid the the principles of the Responsible Care® program and certification need for duplicate supplier assessment procedures, in 2014 to ISO-type standards. the Group joined the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, founded by six European chemical companies. This global program is designed to encourage social responsibility across F CUS: SUSTAINABLE CASTOR the chemical industry service chain, in line with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the Responsible Care® CARING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL Global Charter. It enables member companies to share the findings AND SOCIAL STANDARDS of assessments or audits of their suppliers’ CSR performance (SUCCESS) conducted by Ecovadis or independent third parties. Ecovadis analyzes supplier documents and questionnaires on the basis of In May 2016, the Group and three other partners CSR criteria in line with international standards, and ensures a launched the “SUCCESS” initiative to make the castor oil 360° watch on information reported by external stakeholders. supply chain more sustainable by improving the living and working conditions of castor bean farmers in India, the In the coming years, the Group will use its supplier risk analyses world’s largest producing country. During this three‑year to determine which suppliers to assess and audit as part of the project, farmers will be trained and supported during the TfS program. growing season. THE IMPACT OF SUBCONTRACTING The Group subcontracts for two main purposes: for the production of certain finished products representing very limited quantity, and SUPPLIER AND PROCUREMENT PROCESS AUDITS for maintenance. Subcontracting therefore accounts for part of Under the Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers agree to meet all the €240 million in capital expenditure dedicated to safety, the of the Group’s CSR expectations and to cooperate with its audits environment and the maintenance of industrial units. of their Code compliance. Under the Group’s procurement policy, contractors are bound Supply chain service providers are regularly audited with visits by the Supplier Code of Conduct and its general purchasing to transportation companies and outside warehouses and conditions. assessments of their performance. These audits are supported by Following the amendment to France’s Grenelle II legislation, third-party assessments, such as the Safety & Quality Assessment the amount of food waste in company cafeterias was assessed. System (SQAS) for overland transportation, the Chemical The vast majority of providers have already implemented or are Distribution Institute for maritime shipping, and the European preparing to implement improvement plans in compliance with Barge Inspection Scheme for river shipping. A certain amount of the law. packaging is also inspected. 65 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Societal information 2.7.5 Direct and indirect socio-economic impact In the 50 countries where it operates, the Group’s business More generally, the Group has a policy of supporting innovative operations are contributing to develop the local economy, by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in related business creating and maintaining direct and indirect jobs, developing areas through joint projects and equity investments. Each research local skills and expertise, purchasing local goods and services, center, for example, works closely with neighboring schools or forming business partnerships and paying taxes. laboratories as part of clusters while creating possibilities for In particular, the Group focuses on hiring locally at every level partnerships with local SMEs. The Group is a founding member of the business, including the senior management teams of its of Axelera, a world-class competitiveness cluster in the field non‑French subsidiaries. In this way, more than 80% of the of chemistry and the environment that brings together and executives at the operating facilities outside France were hired coordinates players from industry, research and education in the locally. Auvergne Rhône-Alpes region in France. As seen in this document, and particularly chapter 4, the Group’s These kinds of local partnerships are contributing to stimulate economic contribution to host communities includes a wide range innovation, while deepening the Group’s local roots. For example, of components – sales, capital expenditure, operating expenses, at the Lacq site in France, the Group provides technical and wages and salaries and payroll taxes, income and other business infrastructure support to innovative young businesses setting up taxes, dividends, etc. – that together make up the Group’s in the Chemstart’up business incubator. economic and social footprint. It is also positioned as a key early-stage player in strategically In addition to contributing to the local economy, the Group is crucial industries such as thermoplastic composite materials, deploying a policy of revitalizing regional labor markets and renewable raw materials and new energies. supporting scientific research upstream from industrial innovation. SUPPORT FOR SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH REVITALIZATION OF REGIONAL LABOR MARKETS Under its ambitious innovation policy, the Group maintains The Group pays close attention to the possible consequences close ties with the scientific and educational ecosystems in its of business relocation. When such reorganization is called host regions worldwide, in particular through a wide variety of for in France, the Group endeavors to offset any job losses, partnerships with universities and public and private research wherever possible, and contributes to revitalize the impacted laboratories. These partnerships, such as the ones in France with labor markets. These initiatives are legally defined in accordance Compiègne Technology University for the Smart House by Arkema with the revitalization agreements signed with public authorities and with Hydro Québec in Lacq, are described in section 1.4 of and include a variety of measures, such as: this document, which looks at open innovation programs. • financial support for the creation or acquisition of companies; and • a search for new business activities and support for their development. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 66 Corporate Social Responsibility Societal information 2 2.7.6 Corporate citizenship and philanthropy As a responsible company in an increasingly interconnected • Listening to understand expectations world, the Group is particularly attentive to the need to nurture Understanding the concerns of people living in nearby close ties with all its stakeholders. Around the world, the Group communities is key to effectively addressing their concerns about is deploying nearness communication initiatives to foster industrial and chemical risks; high‑quality, trust-based relationships with host communities. This open dialogue also helps the Group to better understand the • Engaging in dialogue and informing communities about the expectations of people living in nearby communities and ensure Group’s activities that they are properly addressed in its CSR strategy. At the core of the initiatives are events and tours that enable neighbors to discover what the plant does, the products it makes and the processes it uses, and get a reassuring first-hand view of THE COMMON GROUND® INITIATIVE how the site runs and what its projects are; and Formalized and introduced nearly 15 years ago, the pioneering • Risk prevention and progressing Common Ground® initiative takes community relations beyond the legal minimum requirements by actively encouraging local In addition to continuously improving the safety, health and dialogue and exchange in every host country. It is based on three environmental performance of its production facilities, the Group key principles, designed to improve the social acceptability of is deploying a risk prevention culture in every host country. As chemical plants: part of this proactive approach, incident or accident drills are regularly organized to test emergency response resources and procedures, along with the systems for alerting, informing and protecting employees and the local community. BUILDING BETTER RELATIONS AROUND THE WORLD In 2016, more than 850 Common Ground® initiatives were carried out worldwide, with 86% of production plants actively participating. These initiatives broke down by region as follows over the past three years: 1,014 985 866 540 542 376 353 336 328 124 105 96 23 38 4 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 Asia North America Europe Rest of the world Total * Excluding Bostik. In all, 92% of production plants took part in these initiatives in the United States, 84% in Europe, and 93% in Asia. 67 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Societal information These initiatives are primarily aimed at local communities, academia and associations, as shown in the following breakdown over the past three years. 577 546 334 309 292 292 240 145 130 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 2014* 2015 2016 Associations Education Local community * Excluding Bostik. The decrease in the number of Common Ground® initiatives, from 1,014 in 2015 to 866 in 2016, primarily reflected the decrease in the number of local community initiatives after additional security measures were deployed by the plants. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 68 Corporate Social Responsibility Societal information 2 Initiatives involving local communities and the public In 2016, the Group began working with France’s C. Génial Foundation to support its programs designed to promote and In 2016, around 70% of Group facilities conducted public tours, valorize sciences among middle and high school students in in particular to explain how the solutions offered by chemistry and France. With the partnership, Arkema reaffirmed its commitment chemicals can benefit everyone in their daily lives. to attracting young people to science and developing bridges In the United States and Asia, many plants also take part in between business and academia by taking part in the Foundation’s information meetings organized by local resident associations. flagship initiatives. In recent years, the Group has partnered two important science and industry events in France: • the Fête de la Science, an initiative of the French Ministry F CUS: ARKEMA CHEMART of Higher Education and Research to encourage interaction GREEN INNOVATION CLASS between research scientists and the general public; and In 2016, a number of educational initiatives were offered • the Semaine de l’Industrie, a week-long event that gives young in schools near Group plants in China, whereby employees people and career seekers insights into the world of industry met with children and talked to them about safety and the and its job opportunities. need to protect the environment. In addition, the Group also donated a large number of recycled computers and Educational initiatives books to improve the schools’ educational materials. Around the world, the Group gives priority attention to strengthening its ties with schools and universities. Programs and events are regularly conducted in cooperation with schools, to provide young people with information on careers Initiatives involving associations in the chemicals industry and to promote the development of The Group’s values of solidarity and responsibility show through in a scientific culture. Locally, the production facilities periodically the initiatives being led in partnership with non-profit associations organize tours for school groups, take part in educational in its host regions. Many examples around the world attest to the initiatives, and speak at conferences at higher education venues, dedication of Group employees to helping the neediest and to such as Rho University in Italy. actively participating in their local communities. The Group also offers opportunities for socially disadvantaged The Group regularly leads or partners a broad range of young people, and helps them to earn academic qualifications. community outreach initiatives in such areas as: To promote access to the prestigious ENSIC chemical engineering school, Fondation de France and the Group founded Fondation • jobs for the disabled, with support for several associations that ENSIC to grant scholarships to students experiencing financial are helping disabled people to enter the mainstream workforce; hardship. Since it opened, the foundation has provided support • health and community, with corporate and employee for around a hundred students. participation in a large number of charitable campaigns; and In the United States, the Arkema Inc. Foundation, set up in 1996, • the environment, with programs to improve biodiversity (see runs a number of disinterested initiatives focused on science and paragraph 2.4.3 of this chapter). education at all levels. Its yearly Science Teacher Program has reached hundreds of researchers and teachers. 69 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2.8 REPORTING METHODOLOGY 2.8.1 Methodological note on environmental and safety indicators 2.8.1.1 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING TOOLS For activities that were acquired in 2016, such as OP Systèmes in AND SCOPE Lacq, France, all operations for the year are included in the scope of reporting. However, the operations of Den Braven, acquired on 1 December, were not included in the 2016 scope. Absolute data In China, the Taixing plant, which reported partial environmental Absolute environmental data are compiled by its Reporting data during its first reporting campaign in 2015, reported data of Environmental and Energy Data (REED) system, which is in line with Group standards in 2016. accessible worldwide via the web platform of a service provider. Operations that started up in 2016 reported data from their The values of the absolute indicators, once published after review start-up date. by the independent third-party auditor, are not amended in the REED system. Any subsequent retroactive modifications made Intensive data (EFPIs) due to a change in the estimation method or a correction are addressed in section 2.4 of this document. To manage its environmental performance more efficiently and report consolidated data that more accurately track this The data are entered by the plant Health, Safety and Environment performance year by year, Arkema uses a methodology that departments and validated at two levels, geographic and enables production facilities to report relative indicators, known corporate. as Environmental Footprint Performance Indicators (EFPIs). This The scope of consolidation for environmental reporting covers method of calculating the intensity of emissions or resource all Group industrial sites for which operating and emissions consumption relative to production volumes, compared with permits were held in the name of the Group or a majority-owned a baseline year, minimizes the impact of any changes in the subsidiary at 31 December 2016. On this basis, the scope business base and plant output, as well as any changes to the covered 99% of the Group’s industrial operations in 2016. method used to estimate or calculate environmental footprint The scope of consolidation for environmental reporting covers all variables. of the industrial sites operated by the Group or by majority‑owned These relative environmental data are compiled by the same REED subsidiaries, head offices and research and development centers, environmental reporting system, which is accessible worldwide corresponding to around 91% of the production base. It should be via the web platform of a service provider. noted that this scope covers more specifically 98% of the industrial EFPI data are entered by facility Health, Safety and Environment sites operated by the Group or by majority-owned subsidiaries. (HSE) departments and validated first by the Industrial Operations sold or discontinued in 2016 were removed from the Vice‑President then at Group level. They are subject to a large scope of reporting for the year, but remain in prior-year data. number of consistency tests. This was the case in 2016 for the activated carbon and filter The scope of EFPI reporting covers facilities for which operating aids business. and emissions permits were held in the name of the Arkema Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 70 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2 Group or a majority-owned subsidiary at 31 December 2016 The environmental reporting system is governed by an and which rank among the biggest contributors to consolidated Environmental Reporting directive, an EFPI Reporting directive data. In all, these sites account for around 80% of the total priorand an Energy Reporting directive issued by the Group Safety year emissions or consumption. and Environment (DSEG), Sustainable Development (DDD) and Operations sold or discontinued in 2016 were removed from the Energy Procurement (DAMPE) departments and accessible to all scope of reporting for the year, but remain in prior-year data. employees on the corporate intranet. Operations started up in 2015 have been included in the scope of Calculation and estimation methods are subject to change, for EFPI reporting in 2017, compared with their 2016 performance. example due to changes in national or international legislation, measures to improve consistency among regions, or problems Operations acquired in 2016 will be included in the 2018 scope with their application. of EFPI reporting for all of their 2018 activities, compared with their 2017 performance. The directives may then be expressed in guidelines and handbooks, which are supported by training sessions in each The EFPI methodology allows new reporting units to be included region as required. in prior-year performance data. Should the inclusion of a large number of new units result in a significant change to the confidence The safety reporting process is covered by a Monthly Safety interval in the calculation of the Group’s EFPIs, consideration will Reporting directive issued by the Group Safety and Environment be given to whether an adjustment factor should be applied or department and accessible to all employees on the intranet. whether the use of a new baseline year should be used. 2.8.1.4 CLARIFICATIONS CONCERNING THE 2.8.1.2 SAFETY DATA REPORTING TOOLS ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY INDICATORS AND SCOPE The following information is provided to clarify the definition of Safety data: the indicators applied by the Group. • are recorded in the SafetyLog application accessible on the Total acidifying substances employee intranet; This indicator is calculated using sulfur oxide (SOx), ammonia • are entered by the reporting units and validated at corporate (NH3) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions converted into tonnes level; of sulfur dioxide (SO2) equivalent. • cover all of the industrial sites operated by the Group or by majority-owned subsidiaries, head offices and research and Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) development centers, corresponding to around 99% of the The list of products regarded as VOCs may vary from country scope; to country, in particular between Europe and North America. • include Bostik as from 2015 unless specified otherwise; and The VOC definitions used by the Group are those recommended • do not include Den Braven in 2016, because it was acquired in Europe by directive 2010/75/EU on industrial emissions, on 1 December of that year. known as the Industrial Emissions directive (IED). Emissions from US sites are therefore obtained by adding products 2.8.1.3 CHOICE OF INDICATORS, MEASUREMENT such as fluorinated organic compounds to national reported data. METHODS AND USER INFORMATION Chemical oxygen demand (COD) Group indicators have been designed to track the emissions and consumption levels that concern its operations, in accordance with For reporting purposes, COD is measured in effluent released the French New Reporting Requirement Act and its associated into the natural environment. decree of 20 February 2002. In cases where wastewater from a Group facility is treated They were introduced at the time of the Group’s creation and in an external plant, the reported data takes into account the have been tracked since 2006. effectiveness of the treatment process. They also comply with the standards defined in Articles L. 225‑102‑1 In cases where a Group facility takes in COD-laden water, the and R. 225-104 et seq. of the French Commercial Code as reported data concerns the net COD load effectively introduced amended by the “Grenelle II” Law no. 2010-788 of 12 July in the ecosystem by the Group (outgoing less incoming). 2010. 71 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology Waste such as those available in the EPA-2012 database in the United States, the 2013 Baseline Emission Factors for Regional Power The distinction between hazardous and non-hazardous waste Grids issued by China’s National Development & Reform Council may vary from one region to another. The definitions used by (NDRC) for China, SEMARNAT data issued by Mexico’s Federal the Group are those of the Basel Convention on the Control Environmental Agency for Mexico and data issued by the French of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their environmental agency, ADEME, for a variety of countries. Disposal. For the purposes of this report, Scope 3 indirect CO2 emissions By-products that are sold to third parties for reuse without were estimated using Group company logistics data, which processing at a Group site are not counted as waste. account for 99% of consolidated shipments. By shipment, the Group means the transportation of products to customers as Water use well as any post-production logistics. Emissions are calculated All sources of water are included in the reported data, including by taking such logistics data as tonnes transported, number of groundwater/wells, rivers, seawater, public or private networks shipments, and average kilometers for each mode of transportation and drinking water, excluding rainwater collected in separate (road, rail, air, etc.) and applying the emission factors defined networks. in the Guidelines for Measuring and Managing CO2 Emissions from Freight Transport Operations published by the European Energy use Chemical Transport Association (ECTA) and the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) in March 2011, based on Reported use corresponds to net energy purchases. the work of Professor Alan McKinnon of Heriot-Watt University It does not include self-generated energy, which corresponds in Edinburgh, UK. The reporting period runs from 1 October to to the energy produced by exothermic chemical reactions and 30 September of the following year. A detailed explanation of the therefore does not draw down the planet’s energy resources. reporting methodology is available to stakeholders upon request. Sales of energy are deducted from purchases of energy. This is The methodology has proven effective and was further improved the case, for example, for facilities fitted with combined heat and in 2016 to make it more reliable and applicable to a wider power plants that generate steam and electricity from purchased scope of reporting. Current reporting practices are showing their gas (reported), then sell the electricity (deducted). limits, particularly as concerns operations outside Europe. These limits mainly relate to reported distances, with average distances In cases where sites do not have any December data due to used in the absence of actual data, and emissions factors, with late reporting by energy providers, the values for the year are standard factors used in the absence of transporter data. These extrapolated from the data at end-November. methodological limits mean that 2016 data are accurate to within plus or minus 15%. Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions For reporting purposes, direct GHG emissions correspond to Accidents those defined in the Kyoto Protocol. Total recordable incident rates (TRIR) and lost-time incident Their impact is calculated in equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide rates (LTIR) are calculated for both Group and on-site contractor (t CO2 eq.). employees on the basis of US standard 29 CFR 1904. In this report, 2012 emissions have been calculated using the Global Warming Potential values published in 2007 by the Process safety Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The safety performance of a plant’s production processes is assessed by means of performance indicators that measure and For relative data, EFPI calculations include fluorinated greenhouse analyze process safety incidents. The Group reports and classifies gases that are not listed in the Kyoto Protocol but are listed in the process safety indicators in accordance with European Chemical Montreal Protocol. Industry Council (CEFIC) guidelines. Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions AIMS-audited sites For the purposes of this report, indirect Scope 2 CO2 emissions The Group tracks the increase in the percentage of facilities were calculated using electricity and steam consumption and that have been audited in accordance with the AIMS standard. emission factors in tonnes per kilowatt-hour (KWh) or tonnes Depending on their specific features and size, some sites have had of steam reported by suppliers. Where this was not possible, the option since 2016 of performing simplified self‑assessments. they were calculated using figures provided by local authorities, This is the case for Bostik in particular. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 72 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2 2.8.2 Note on methodology used for employment, social and R&D information/indicators 2.8.2.1 REPORTING TOOLS AND SCOPE 2.8.2.2 CHOICE OF INDICATORS, MEASUREMENT Employee data are taken from several different reporting METHODS AND USER INFORMATION processes. The Group has defined indicators that are relevant to its activities The workforce data presented in section 2.6: and its employee relations policies. • are recorded in the AREA 1 application accessible via the Indicators concerning employees and safety performance were corporate intranet; introduced at the time of the Group’s creation and have been tracked since 2006. • are entered by the human resources managers or company Managing Directors (depending on their size); Additional employee information and indicators, and social data have been reported since 2012 via the AREA 2 compilation • are validated at the Arkema, Altuglas International, Bostik, system. They were expanded in 2013, in particular with the CECA, Coatex and Sartomer group levels; tracking of reported training hours. • cover all companies at least 50%-owned; The information and indicators also comply with the regulatory • cover Bostik from 2015 unless specified otherwise; requirements of Article 225-I of the French “Grenelle II” • include employees of Den Braven, acquired on 1 December Law no. 2010-788 of 12 July 2010 and its application decree 2016. of 24 April 2012. The quantitative and qualitative data concerning other employee Employee data reporting is covered by different procedural and social information: documents in the form of AREA 1 and AREA 2 guidelines, which have been provided to all of the contributors and validators. • are recorded in the AREA 2 application accessible via the corporate intranet; The calculation methods may have limitations and be subject to change, for example due to varying national labor legislation • are entered by human resources employees of the companies and practices, difficulties in reporting certain information in some or regional organizations; regions, or the unavailability of certain data in some countries. • are validated by the regional human resources managers or subsidiary Managing Directors; 2.8.2.3 DETAILS ON EMPLOYEE INFORMATION • cover all companies at least 50%-owned and employing more AND INDICATORS than 30 people, corresponding to 96.5% of the total workforce; • cover Bostik from 2015 unless specified otherwise; Headcount • do not include Den Braven in 2016, because it was acquired For the purposes of reporting, the headcount includes employees on 1 December of that year. on payroll (employees present and employees whose employment Any modifications or corrections to prior-year data are noted in contract, of any type, has been suspended) at 31 December of section 2.6 of this document. the reporting year. Permanent employees are defined as employees that have signed an employment contract for an indefinite period of time. Outside France, employees hired on fixed-term contracts for periods of more than 12 months and renewed more than once are also included among permanent employees. 73 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology Employee categories Absenteeism Data are presented by professional category. In France, manager The absenteeism rate corresponds to the total number of hours status (cadre) is determined by the collective bargaining of absence in the year (due to sickness, injuries, maternity leave, agreements governing the company concerned. Outside France, strikes and unpaid leave but excluding paid leave) divided by employees with a Hay job level of 10 or more are considered the total number of hours worked in the year. managers. Departures New hires Since 2016, departures are recorded only when the person leaves These data cover only the hiring of employees under permanent the Group, so that reported data no longer include inter‑subsidiary contracts, including the transformation of contracts (fixed-term into transfers. The 2014 and 2015 data in this chapter have been permanent contracts in France, for example). recalculated using the method applied for the 2016 data. Compensation 2.8.2.4 DETAILS ON R&D INFORMATION AND Collective bonus components are defined as components that INDICATORS vary depending on overall business criteria and the business and financial results of the employee’s company. In France, these take the form of incentive and profit-sharing schemes. Sustainable Development Patents Number of original patent applications filed in the reporting Health and welfare year by the Group in response to sustainable development issues related to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, as described Health and welfare cover refers to benefits from a collective or in section 2.5 of this document. mutual insurance plan providing cover for incapacity/disability/ death risks. R&D expenditure Training R&D expenditure is expressed as a percentage of consolidated revenue for the year. Training hours are defined as the hours spent in training by employees on permanent contracts (excluding e-learning). Number of non-disclosure, cooperation and intellectual property During verification by the independent third-party auditor for agreements 2015 reporting, an error was detected in the 2014 data reported by Arkema Inc. The figure of 136,992 training hours reported The number of contracts corresponds to the non-disclosure, under “education assistance” should have read 13,692 hours. cooperation and intellectual property contracts signed by Arkema The corrected consolidated figure for 2014 is therefore 334,000. France during the year and recorded by the R&D department in its Athena database. This correction does not impact the consolidated environmental and safety training data reported in 2014. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 74 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2 2.8.3 Indicators 2016 2015 2014 SAFETY (1) Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) per million hours worked 1.5 1.5 1.9 Lost-time injury rate (LTIR) per million hours worked 0.9 1.1 1.1 Percentage of sites audited according to Arkema Integrated Management System (AIMS) standards % 63 61 78 Percentage of sites having implemented peer observation % 56 57 77 Safety, environment and maintenance expenditure €m 240 203 211 Percentage of OHSAS 18001-certified sites % 47 52 60 Percentage of OHSAS 18001-certified sites in Europe % 54 51 62 Percentage of OHSAS 18001-certified sites in the Americas % 45 60 63 Percentage of OHSAS 18001-certified sites in Asia % 34 45 50 Number of Process Safety Incidents (PSIs) 12 27 33 ENVIRONMENT (1) Percentage of ISO 14001/RCMS-audited sites % 52 62 70 Percentage of ISO 14001-audited sites in Europe % 56 69 68 Percentage of RCMS-audited sites in the Americas % 57 60 84 Percentage of ISO 14001-audited sites in Asia % 34 41 50 AIR EMISSIONS Acidifying substances t SO2 eq. 3,570 4,430 4,750 Carbon monoxide t 690 1,900 3,030 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) t 4,800 5,010 4,600 Volatile organic compound (VOC) EFPI 0.80 0.83 0.79 Dust t 300 520 430 EFFLUENT RELEASES Chemical oxygen demand (COD) t O2 2,600 3,200 3,870 Suspended solids t 770 870 3,030 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) EFPI 0.78 0.93 1.03 WASTE Hazardous waste (excluding material recovery) kt 157 151 149 • of which landfilled kt 2.7 2.5 2.1 Hazardous waste recycled into materials % 15 15 16 Hazardous waste burned as fuel % 49 47 46 Non-hazardous waste kt 256 231 219 75 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2016 2015 2014 RESOURCES Total water withdrawn millions of cu.m 126 124 120 Net energy purchases TWh 8.25 8.48 8.36 • of which in Europe TWh 4.37 4.66 4.65 • of which in the Americas TWh 2.64 2.69 2.78 • of which in the rest of the world TWh 1.24 1.12 0.93 Energy EFPI 0.92 0.98 0.99 Net energy purchases by type • fuel TWh 4.42 4.69 4.52 • electricity TWh 2.71 2.70 2.44 • steam TWh 1.12 1.08 1.40 Natural gas in net purchases of fuel % 91 89 90 Low-carbon electricity in net energy purchases % 17 17 17 Number of energy efficiency audits in progress or completed 14 37 20 • of which in Europe 9 28 14 • of which in North America 5 8 5 • of which in Asia 0 1 1 Number of Arkenergy investments 51 38 47 • of which in Europe 31 21 31 • of which in the Americas 9 10 12 • of which in the rest of the world 11 7 4 Number of ISO 50001-certified sites 22 17 5 Number of sites working to achieve ISO 50001 certification 9 14 10 Direct greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to the Kyoto Protocol kt CO2 eq. 3,110 3,000 3,430 • of which CO2 kt CO2 eq. 1,540 1,440 1,380 • of which HFC kt CO2 eq. 1,530 1,510 2,010 Direct greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to the Kyoto Protocol, by region • Europe % 32 33 30 • Americas % 56 59 60 • Rest of the world % 12 8 10 Scope 2 indirect greenhouse gas emissions of CO2 kt 1,080 1,300 1,067 • of which in Europe kt 255 272 284 • of which in the Americas kt 425 521 545 • of which in the rest of the world kt 400 507 239 Scope 3 indirect greenhouse gas emissions of CO2 (to within 15%) Mt 0.26 0.2 0.2 Direct GHG emissions EFPI 0.60 0.62 0.70 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 76 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2 2016 2015 2014 ADAPTING TO THE CONSEQUENCES OF CLIMATE CHANGE Number of sites exposed to a severe risk of storms and/or flooding 22 21 18 Sales from products made in full or in part from renewable raw materials % 10 N/A 13 EMPLOYMENT (1) HEADCOUNT Total headcount at 31 December 19,637 18,912 14,280 • of which permanent employees 18,607 17,801 13,832 • of which fixed-term employees 1,030 1,111 448 Managers % 26.2 25.8 25.1 Women % 24.6 23.8 23.7 Women in senior management and executive positions (Hay grade 15 or higher) % 18 17 17 Non-French nationals in senior management and executive positions (Hay grade 15 or higher) % 39 N/A N/A Recruitments 1,694 1,450 1,022 Women recruitments % 24.7 25.4 25.0 New hires aged 50 and over % 7.9 8.0 9.8 New hires aged under 30 % 42.0 41.6 41.5 Departures 2,023 1,914 1,133 • of which resignations 866 758 379 • of which dismissals 428 253 239 • of which following a divestment/merger 324 354 213 Part-time employees % 3.8 3.1 3.7 TRAINING Number of training hours thousands 465 463 334 Number of training hours per employee 27 27 26 Number of employees under permanent contracts who received training, excluding e-learning 16,256 17,062 11,534 Number of employees who took an e-learning course 9,298 8,218 4,442 Number of safety training hours thousands 181 173 150 Number of safety training hours per employee 14 12 17 Number of employees who received safety training (excluding e-learning) 9,289 8,218 4,442 Number of employees who took safety-related e-learning courses 4,479 5,538 4,263 Number of environment-related training hours 19,029 20,447 15,837 Number of environment-related training hours per employee 6.3 7.2 7.6 Number of employees who received environment-related training (excluding e-learning) 3,012 2,841 2,070 Percentage of work-study students (Arkema France) % 3.9 4.2 4.6 Group companies conducting annual performance reviews % 99 97 95.6 77 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2016 2015 2014 HEALTH AND WELFARE Absenteeism % 3.7 3.4 3.5 Hours off work on medical grounds as a % of hours worked % 2.6 2.4 2.4 Employees benefiting from medical care % 92 95.2 83 Employees benefiting from supplementary disability cover % 89 86 95 Employees benefiting from supplementary life cover % 94 92 95 Employees covered by death benefits representing at least 18 months salary % 74 75 80 COMPENSATION Employees benefiting from minimum compensation guarantees % 99.2 99.5 99 Employees benefiting from collective variable compensation components % 68 60 65 Employees benefiting from individual variable compensation components % 31 22 18 REPRESENTATION Employees benefiting from employee and/or trade union representation % 90 88.2 94.2 SOCIETAL (1) Number of Common Ground® initiatives 866 1,014 985 Group industrial sites taking part in Common Ground ® % 86 82 90 European industrial sites taking part in Common Ground® % 84 88 85 North American industrial sites taking part in Common Ground® % 92 90 93 Asian industrial sites taking part in Common Ground® % 93 80 94 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Number of substances with REACH registration 317 277 274 Number of GPS sheets voluntarily published 145 145 145 INNOVATION (1) Sustainable development patents addressing SDGs 116 121 128 R&D expenditure as a percentage of consolidated revenues % 2.9 2.5 2.2 Number of non-disclosure, cooperation and intellectual property agreements signed by Arkema France 276 286 270 (1) Indicators are defined in detail in the methodological notes in sections 2.8.1 and 2.8.2 of this document. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 78 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2 2.8.4 Grenelle II, GRI-G4 and SDG concordance table The concordance table for social and environmental information corresponding to France’s Grenelle II legislation may be found in paragraph 7.3.2 of this document. The GRI G4 in accordance option is “Essential Criteria”. CONCORDANCE TABLE FOR THE FOURTH GENERATION OF THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE GUIDELINES (GRI G4) AND THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) Sustainable Development GRI indicator Goal Registration document GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from most senior decision maker 2.1.1 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 1.1.2/1.3/1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/ 2.1.1/2.1.3/2.1.4/2.5/2.5.2 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization 1.1 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 1.2 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Last page G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 1.1.1 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 1.1.1 G4-8 Markets served, sectors served, and types of customers 1.2/1.5 G4-9 Scale of the organization 1.1.1 G4-10 Employment by contract type, work time and gender SDG 8 2.6.2 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements SDG 8 2.6.4 G4-12 Supply chain 2.1.2/2.7.2 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 1.2 G4-14 Position regarding the precautionary principle 1.7 G4-15 Adherence to charters, principles or other initiatives 2.1.3/2.7.3 G4-16 Memberships 2.7.2 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities 2.1.2/2.8 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries 2.1.4/2.2.2 G4-19 Material aspects 2.1.2 G4-20 Boundary of material aspects within the organization 2.1.8 G4-21 Boundary of material aspects outside the organization 2.1.8 G4-22 Restatements of information 1.2 G4-23 Significant changes 1.2 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups 2.1.2 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 2.1.2 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2.1.2 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 2.1.2 79 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology Sustainable Development GRI indicator Goal Registration document REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 2.2.2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2.2.2 G4-30 Reporting cycle 2.2.2 G4-31 Contact persons 2.2.2/2.8.6 G4-32 GRI content for “in accordance” 2.2.2/2.8.5 G4-33 External assurance 2.2/2.8.5 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure 3/2.2.1 G4-56 Codes of conduct and codes of ethics SDG 16 2.7.3 ECONOMY G4-DMA 2.5.1 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-EC1 Direct economic value SDG 8 1.4/2.7.5/2.7.6 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services supported SDG 8 2.7.4 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 2.7.4 ENVIRONMENT G4-DMA 2.1.3/2.4.1 MATERIALS G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SDG 12 2.4.2 ENERGY G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization SDG 7 2.4.2 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption SDG 7 2.4.2 G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services SDG 7 2.4.2 WATER G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SDG 9 2.4.2 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawals SDG 9 2.4.2 BIODIVERSITY G4-EN12 Impacts of activities on biodiversity SDG 15 2.4.3 EMISSIONS G4-EN15 Total direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent SDG 13 2.4.4 G4-EN16 Total indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent SDG 13 2.4.4 G4-EN17 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in tonnes of CO2 equivalent SDG 13 2.4.4 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity 2.4.4 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions SDG 13 2.4.4 G4-EN21 Other significant air emissions SDG 13 2.4.4 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 80 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2 Sustainable Development GRI indicator Goal Registration document EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN22 Total water discharge SDG 6 2.4.4 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste SDG 6 2.4.4 G4-EN24 Significant spills SDG 6 2.4.4 G4-EN25 Waste deemed hazardous SDG 6 2.4.4 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services SDG 12 2.4.5 G4-EN28 Packaging materials reclaimed by category SDG 12 2.4.5 TRANSPORT G4-EN30 Impacts of transporting products, goods and materials, and members SDG 12 2.4.5 of the workforce SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN32 Suppliers screened using environmental criteria SDG 11 2.7.4 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, SDG 16 2.4.1/2.7.4 and resolved SOCIAL G4-DMA SDG 8 2.6.1 EMPLOYMENT G4-LA1 Employee turnover SDG 8 2.6.2 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 2.6.2 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 2.6.4 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA5 Health and safety committee SDG 8 2.3 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days SDG 8 2.3 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities G4-LA7 Workers exposed to diseases related to their occupation SDG 8 2.3 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions SDG 8 2.3 TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA9 Employee training SDG 8 2.6.3 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning SDG 8 2.6.3 G4-LA11 Regular performance and career development reviews SDG 8 2.6.3 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-LA12 Diversity SDG 5 2.6.5 EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men SDG 5 2.6.5 G4-LA14 Suppliers screened using labor practices criteria SDG 12 2.7.4 G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labor practices SDG 12 2.7.4 81 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology Sustainable Development GRI indicator Goal Registration document HUMAN RIGHTS DMA-HR 2.7.1 NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-HR1 Agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses 2.6.5 G4-HR4 Freedom of association and collective bargaining SDG 8 2.6.4 G4-HR5 Child labor SDG 16 2.7.1 G4-HR6 Forced or compulsory labor SDG 8 2.7.1 SOCIETY DMA-SO 2.7.1 LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-SO1 Operations with implemented local community engagement SDG 1 2.7.5/2.7.6 COMPLIANCE G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant SDG 16 2.7.3 risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SDG 12 2.7.3 G4-SO8 Compliance with laws and regulations SDG 12 2.7.3 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO9 Suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society SDG 16 2.7.4 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA-PR 2.1.3/2.3.5/2.4.5 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-PR1 Assessments of health and safety impacts SDG 12 2.3.5 G4-PR2 Compliance with laws and regulations SDG 16 2.3.5 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-PR3 Type of product and service information SDG 12 2.3.5 G4-PR4 Compliance with laws and regulations SDG 16 2.3.5/2.4.5/2.7.3 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes SDG 16 2.3.5/2.4.5/2.7.3 concerning marketing communications Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 82 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2 2.8.5 Independent third-party opinion pursuant to Article L. 225‑102‑1 of the French Commercial Code REPORT BY ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, APPOINTED AS INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT. This is a free English translation of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of Englishspeaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. For the year ended 31 December 2016 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as statutory auditor of Arkema S.A., appointed as independent third party and certified by COFRAC under number 3-1049 (1), we hereby report to you on the consolidated social, environmental and societal information for the year ended 31 December 2016 included in the management report (hereinafter named “CSR Information”), pursuant to article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a company’s management report including the CSR Information required by article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance with the procedures used by the Company (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), summarised in the management report and available on request from the Company’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Independent third party’s responsibility On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: • attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); • express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). Our work involved eight persons and was conducted between October 2016 and February 2017 during a fourteen week period. We were assisted in our work by our CSR experts. We performed our work in accordance with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement and with the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of statutory auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this engagement and with the international standard ISAE 3000 (2) concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. (1) For which the scope is available on the site www.cofrac.fr. (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. 83 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with article R. 225105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L. 2331 and the controlled entities as defined by article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the methodological note, presented in 2.8 section of the management report. Conclusion Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work We conducted around fourty interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: • assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; • verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important: • at parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; • at the level of a representative sample of sites and entities selected by us (1) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied and to identify potential undisclosed data, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents 43% of headcount considered as material data of social issues and between 17% and 100% of environmental data considered as material data of environmental issues (listed in the table of environmental indicators below) and 17% of “Common ground” initiatives as a main characteristic of societal data. (1) Social information: Arkema France S.A.; Bostik S.A.; Arkema Inc. (USA); Arkema Hydrogen Peroxide Co. Ltd. Shanghai (China). Environmental information: Arkema France S.A.: Mont, Lacq, Carling, Pierre-Bénite, Jarrie, La Chambre, Marseille, Lannemezan; Bostik S.A.: Ribécourt; CECA S.A.: Feuchy; Arkema Hydrogen Peroxide Co. Ltd. Shanghai (China); Arkema Delaware Inc. (USA): West Chester, Clear Lake; Arkema SRL (Italy): Spinetta. Societal information: Arkema France S.A. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 84 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology 2 SOCIAL INDICATORS Total headcount as at 31/12 and breakdown by age, gender and geographical area Recruits and leavers Number of training hours Absenteeism TRIR (Total Recordable Injury Rate) LTIR (Lost Time Injury Rate) Percentage of sites implementing peer observation Percentage of AIMS (Arkema Integrated Management System) audited sites Percentage of employees benefiting of personnel representation and/or trade union representation Percentage of employees benefiting from regular medical check-ups Percentage of women in management position Percentage of OHSAS 18001 certified sites by area ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Net purchases of energy Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions including CO2 (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) HFC emissions VOC emissions (Volatile Organic Compounds) All substances contributing to acidification Water withdrawn Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Hazardous waste Percentage of ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certified sites by area Number of first patent applications filed by the Group in response to sustainable development issues SOCIETAL INDICATORS Number of “Common Ground®” initiatives QUALITATIVE INFORMATION Social topic Social dialogue Occupational health and safety conditions Anti-discrimination policy Environmental topic Company organisation to take environmental issues into account and, as necessary, environmental evaluation and certification processes Employee environmental protection training and information Resources dedicated to preventing environmental and pollution risks Measures to prevent, reduce or remedy discharges into the water, air and soil that have serious environmental effects Water consumption and water supply adapted to local constraints, in particular the “Optim’O” project initiated to strengthen the water resources management Energy consumption and measures implemented to improve energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy Measures for prevention, recycling, reuse, or other forms of recovery and disposal of waste Societal topic Relationships with individuals or organisations affected by the group’s operations Importance of subcontracting and consideration, in the relationship with subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsibility Consideration of social and environmental issues in the company’s purchasing policy Actions taken to prevent corruption Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety 85 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting methodology For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. Emphasis of matter Without qualifying the above conclusion, we draw your attention to the methodological limitations noted on the indicator “Greenhouse gas emissions related to the transport and distribution of products”, as mentioned in paragraph 2.8.1 of the reference document including the management report. The limits are clearly explained and the Group is committed to improving the reporting processes at the subsidiaries level in order to move towards a more precise data. Paris La Défense, 27 February 2017 French original signed by KPMG S.A. Anne Garans François Quédiniac Associée Associé Sustainability Services 2.8.6 Contacts See section 7.2 of this document. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 86 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 1 2 APPENDIX 1 1.4 R&D STRATEGY AND INNOVATION 1.4.1 R&D objectives Research and development (R&D) is one of the key drivers in the • bio-based products; Group’s growth strategy. • new energies; R&D is focused on four primary goals: • water management; • contributing to the Group’s operational excellence by making • lightweight materials and design; innovative improvements to production facilities, thereby enabling the Group to produce safely and competitively with • electronics solutions; and the smallest environmental footprint possible; • home efficiency and insulation. • developing the Group’s products by continuously improving The R&D department is also responsible for preparing the Group their performance in existing markets and by systematically for future changes by developing disruptive innovations, be exploring new markets; they new products or new technologies. To do so, it relies on • anticipating technological and market changes and developing a dedicated unit called the “incubator”, which supports these products today that meet society’s needs in the coming years; innovations until they are ready to be brought to market. When and the products or technologies have reached an appropriate level of maturity, they are transferred to the relevant businesses for • introducing disruptive innovations that secure the Group’s commercial development. technological positioning in the medium term. In 2016, the Group was listed as one of the world’s 100 most In a constantly changing world, achieving these last two innovative companies for the sixth year in a row in the “Top goals is largely contingent on the Group’s ability to anticipate 100 Global Innovators” survey by Clarivate Analytics, formerly the main challenges of tomorrow. For this reason, the Group Thomson Reuters. takes ongoing measures to identify the main megatrends shaping society, a strategy that has led it to define and leverage research platforms in the six following areas: 1.4.2 R&D resources 1.4.2.1 QUANTITATIVE INFORMATION and functions of its products to new market demands. The division’s technical excellence is reflected in the strong R&D expenditure represented around 2.9% of Group sales reputation of brands such as Rilsan®, Pebax®, Luperox® and in 2016, and the Group’s R&D teams comprised more than Bostik®, and in the widespread consumer awareness of retail 1,500 researchers, spread across three regional research and brands like Sader® and Quelyd®; innovation hubs in Europe, Asia and North America. • the Industrial Specialties division represents 20% of the Group’s R&D efforts break down among the Group’s three divisions and R&D expenses, with an emphasis on ensuring the division’s its corporate research program as follows: processes are competitive and finding new applications and • the High Performance Materials division accounts for 52% end markets for its products. One of its primary objectives is of the Group’s R&D expenses, with a particular focus on the to continuously improve its main processes, such as those used materials of tomorrow. Innovations combining performance for fluorochemicals, thiochemicals and hydrogen peroxide, with sustainable development include materials made from in order to make them safer, more reliable, more productive renewable feedstocks, materials and adhesives with a low and therefore more competitive, while minimizing their environmental impact, lightweight materials for transportation, environmental impact. To this end, R&D teams study the benefits structural adhesives used to assemble these materials, and of new raw materials, test new catalysts and reactor types and functional adhesives for the construction and manufacturing develop new synthesis pathways. They also contribute to the industries. High Performance Materials fuels its growth by development of new products such as the new HFO low global expanding its product range and by adapting the performance warming potential (GWP) refrigerants; 87 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 1 • the Coating Solutions division accounts for 18% of the Group’s Partnerships R&D expenses, with its main priority being to develop innovative Partnerships are a fundamental prerequisite for research solutions for the coatings market while combining technical excellence. performance with sustainable development. In addition to working closely with customers to provide responsive technical Research partnerships may take the form of upstream partnerships support, the division’s R&D teams also carry out process with scientific bodies, research contracts, for example with research, which enables them to optimize production costs doctoral or postdoctoral students, and original and innovative and produce new formulas at an industrial scale; and structures. In France, for example, the Group takes part in industrial endowment programs, such as the Industrial Organic Electronics • the corporate research program represents 10% of the Group’s Chair in Bordeaux. It has also formed special partnerships as part R&D expenses. Defined by the R&D department and subject to of major strategic research programs, such as with the laboratory the approval of the Group’s Executive Committee, the program of the ESPCI physics and chemistry engineering college in Paris, aims to prepare the innovations of tomorrow. France. The Group also forms downstream partnerships with industrial 1.4.2.2 ORGANIZATION partners as part of joint research programs with customers, suppliers and even competitors to develop new products and The R&D department reports directly to the Chairman and Chief technologies. As part of this, the Group establishes many research Executive Officer. It coordinates all of the Group’s research partnerships with customers in order to better understand market programs worldwide, the development of research platforms and demand and to accelerate the development and time-to-market the implementation of partnerships. of innovative technical solutions. To steer and coordinate initiatives, the R&D department relies on Numerous structuring tools have been put in place both a scientific committee made up of the Group’s scientific directors, nationally and internationally to encourage the implementation who are specialized in either a major scientific field or a region, of collaborative research programs. The Group has made the the global R&D managers for the businesses, and the head of use of these tools a key priority in its research policy. Many intellectual property. Outside experts may also be invited to take collaborative programs have been undertaken with the European part to this committee. Commission, such as Horizon 2020, and with various French The R&D department ensures that all projects funded by the bodies like the national research agency ANR, the environment various businesses are scientifically and technologically relevant and energy management agency ADEME, and the interministerial and in line with the Group’s overall strategy, notably in terms of fund. These partnerships allow the Group’s R&D to benefit from sustainable development. It also creates and steers corporate R&D joint funding with the public sector and from active collaboration programs, identifies development opportunities and new research with multiple partners. In France, the Group has been particularly areas and manages open innovation tools. active in the various aspects of the French government’s To do this, it leverages the following resources: Investissements d’Avenir investment program by taking part in both collaborative research projects and multidisciplinary bodies • research centers spread across the three regional hubs in such as technological research institutes. In 2015, the Group Europe, North America and Asia; became a partner of the “Raw Materials” Knowledge Innovation • the Intellectual Property department, which directs patent filing Community (KIC) in Europe, which aims to address the problem of Group-wide and coordinates the management of intellectual European access to critical raw materials and to develop projects property, a fundamental part of the Group’s asset base (see in the areas of mineral extraction, recycling and rare product section 1.4.3 of this document); and substitution. • the “incubator”, which develops the Group’s disruptive innovations until they are ready to be brought to market. This organization is supplemented by R&D partnerships, which F CUS sometimes extend to shared laboratories (see section 1.4.2.3 In Asia, the Group has completed its research footprint below). by opening an innovation center in South Korea. Located on the campus of the Hanyang University in Seoul, the 1.4.2.3 COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH new laboratory is the result of a long-standing partnership between the Group and the university. Its integration into The R&D department implements an ambitious strategy based on the campus reflects the Group’s vision of partner-based partnership and open innovation. By collaborating with partners research as a bridge between industry and academia. around the world, the Group can keep up to date with the latest The center will specialize in high performance polymers scientific innovations, refine its technology watch, more effectively and renewable energies, two areas in which the university monitor social, industrial and technological megatrends and excels. therefore more accurately define its research priorities. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 88 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 1 2 Open innovation new energy technology innovation laboratory LITEN for new energies and new materials; In addition to research-contract partnerships, the Group has implemented a dynamic policy on open innovation. • the Lorraine-based Pôle de Plasturgie de l’Est (PPE) for the development of thermoplastic composites; and Two examples of this policy are outlined below: • Hydro-Québec, Canada’s largest electricity producer, which 1. The R&D department has set up several shared laboratories that in 2015 set up a shared energy storage R&D laboratory team Group employees with staff from another organization, with the Group at Arkema’s Lacq Research Center in France. most frequently on the latter’s premises. Examples of partners The laboratory will primarily work on developing the next include: generations of materials used to make lithium-ion batteries. • French atomic energy agency CEA, with the creation of three 2. The R&D department has a technology acquisition policy that shared laboratories within the following organizations: involves targeting high value-added SMEs and startups and French solar energy institute INES, with the aim of improving supporting them through the development process, allowing polymer performance in photovoltaic applications, them to grow in an application-oriented environment thanks to IT electronics laboratory LETI for organic electronics and the Group’s resources and expert staff. These equity interests micro-electronics, and enable the Group to position itself in the ultra-innovative product and high-tech markets. 1.4.3 Patent and trademark management The Group attaches great importance to industrial property rights Patent protection in countries where the Group seeks it is in respect of both trademarks and patents in order to protect the typically granted for the maximum legal duration of twenty years, innovations that result from its R&D and to promote its products calculated from the application date. The level of protection varies among customers. Together, the Group’s patents and trademarks from one country to another, depending on the patent type and represent a key asset for its business. scope. The Group seeks patent protection in many countries and regions, primarily in Europe, China, Japan, South Korea, North America, India and South America. 1.4.3.1 PATENTS To actively protect its markets, the Group monitors competitors Protecting the Group’s technologies, products and processes with and takes legal action against any third-party infringements of its patents is key in optimally managing its business. patents. The Group also challenges third-party patents that are Consequently, the Group files patent applications in its main granted without justification and takes legal action to have them markets in order to protect new chemical compounds, new high declared null and void. technical performance materials, new synthesis processes for The expiration of a basic patent for a product or process can major industrial products and new product applications. lead to increased competition as other companies bring new The number of patents granted and the number of patent products to market. In some cases, however, the Group may applications filed annually are good indicators of how much continue to benefit commercially from a patent after its expiration a company invests in R&D, and how promising the results are. by leveraging expertise related to a product or process or by filing In 2016, the Group filed 196 priority patent applications. At for application or improvement patents. 31 December 2016, it held 7,678 patents and had 5,031 The Group also has a policy of obtaining and granting patent patent applications pending (1). The high ratio of pending patent licenses to meet operating requirements. For inventions by applications to patents filed per year is due to the lengthy employees, the Group continues to use the system that it examination process. implemented in 1989, whereby it grants additional compensation to employees whose inventions have given rise to a commercially exploited patent. (1) All patent applications filed as part of a centralized process – with the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), for example – are counted as a single application, even though the application may result in several patents being granted depending on the number of countries subsequently selected. 89 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 1 1.4.3.2 TRADEMARKS In particular, the Group holds the trademark rights to its main products. Examples from the Group’s flagship brands include Trademark protection varies from country to country. While in Pebax®, Rilsan®, Forane®, Altuglas® and Plexiglas®, which is most countries, trademark rights are the result of registration, in used exclusively on the American continent. The Group has some, they may be based on usage regardless of registration. also trademark protected the names of its latest innovations, Trademark rights are obtained by registering the trademark such as Kepstan®, Nanostrength® and Apolhya®. The Group nationally, internationally or even supra-nationally in the case of further expanded its brand portfolio with the Bostik acquisition in EU trademarks. Registrations are usually granted for a ten-year February 2015, adding well-known trademarks such as Bostik®, term and can be renewed indefinitely. Sader® and Quelyd®. The Group implements a centralized, dynamic trademark Mindful of the importance of its brand portfolio, the Group registration policy that draws on a worldwide network of monitors trademark registrations by competitors in similar intellectual property advisors. business sectors and has a policy of taking legal action against infringements. 1.4.4 The incubator and the six innovation platforms 1.4.4.1 THE INCUBATOR • Bio-based Rilsan® and Pebax® polyamides The Group has developed a wide range of bio-based polyamides The incubator was set up to develop disruptive innovations. Since derived from the castor oil plant, which is mainly cultivated in its creation, it has notably developed piezoelectric polymers water-scarce regions of India. These unique products are used via the Piezotech subsidiary, a new PEKK polymer capable of in a wide variety of markets, including the automotive, energy, withstanding ultra-high temperatures, and nanostructured PMMA optics and electronics markets. for automotive glazing under the Altuglas® ShieldUp brand. The Group’s portfolio of bio-based polyamides has expanded The incubator was also behind the 2016 launch of the Group’s considerably since 1947, when polyamide 11 entered mass commercial thermoplastic composites line, which includes: production. With the Pebax® Rnew range, for example, the • the Elium® range of solutions for infusion molding and resin Group has developed thermoplastic elastomers that combine transfer molding (RTM) technologies; and blocks of polyamide 11 with blocks of flexible material. Boasting • the Polystrand ® range of continuous fiber-reinforced outstanding energy return, lightness, shock resistance and thermoplastic solutions in tape or sheet form, for thermo durability as well as a broad spectrum of flexibility, this range compression, thermo-stamping and lamination technologies. of polymers has become the standard for ski boots and sport shoe soles. 1.4.4.2 INNOVATION PLATFORMS The Group has six innovation platforms: bio-based products, new F CUS: PARTNERSHIP energies, water management, electronics solutions, lightweight materials and design, and home efficiency and insulation. Their WITH MIZUNO RUNNING purpose is to keep the Group’s R&D in line with the megatrends Mizuno, a major sportswear player and long-standing shaping our world now and in the future. Group partner, once again confirmed its trust in the Group by using Pebax® for its latest-generation running shoe. “Bio-based products” platform Mindful of the need to reduce the use of non-renewable fossil The Group has also leveraged its expertise in bio-based resources, the Group has long been involved in the development technology to develop the flexible yet temperature-resistant of bio-based products such as bio-based polyamides. Rilsan® HT range. These polyamides offer outstanding performance enabling them to replace metal automotive parts, thereby helping to lighten vehicles and, by extension, reduce vehicle emissions. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 90 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 1 2 The highly transparent Rilsan® Clear Rnew polyamides offer In the wind turbine market, where this resin’s recyclability another, equally renewable-based variation of this range, with represents a major advantage, 25-meter-long Elium® blades have notable applications in the eyewear industry. been installed on a demonstration turbine for qualification tests. Lastly, the Group has developed a range of new, highly rigid The Group has also developed, in partnership with IRT M2P, materials under the Rilsan® XD brand for the production of an industrial demonstration pilot showcasing fast resin transfer numerous small parts found in telephones, computers and tablets. molding (RTM) technology that uses Elium® resin. With the help of its partners, the Group hopes to quickly reduce cycle time to The castor oil production channel is not, however, limited to under two minutes, thereby fulfilling a highly important criteria polyamides. 2-octanol, for example, is obtained from castor oil for automotive applications. In terms of performance, replacing as a co-product of the polyamide synthesis process. It is used to steel parts with Elium® substitutes is expected to deliver weight synthesize 2-octanol acrylate, a new, largely bio-based product savings of between 30% and 50%. currently undergoing customer evaluation. The “Lightweight materials and design” platform places particular • Bio-methionine development partnership emphasis on fast manufacturing technologies, such as 3D printing. Together with South Korea-based CJ CheilJedang, the Group The Group regularly expands its product range with a view participated in the technical development of L-methionine, wich to becoming a key player in this fast-growing market, where is also partly based on the use of renewable raw materials. strong demand is being driven by the aerospace, electronics, automotive and healthcare industries. The Group has significantly Currently, virtually all methionine worldwide is produced diversified its product range over the past years and now caters from a chemical pathway using propylene. CJ CheilJedang to the demands of most additive manufacturing technologies. The has developed a completely different pathway that produces Rilsan® and Orgasol® polyamide powders in the Invent® range, methionine from renewable sources by replacing the use of for example, are used in selective laser sintering (SLS), offering propylene with a unique bio-fermentation process, for which the such benefits as an excellent finish, ease of use and superior Group developed a special sulfur-based intermediate. mechanical properties. The ultra-high performance Kepstan® Implemented in the Kerteh facility in Malaysia, this highly PEKK makes it possible to obtain particularly hard-wearing and innovative process has given rise to a number of patents. Its flame-retardant parts that meet the stringent specifications of the remarkable results have also led the Group to study biocatalysis aerospace industry. And the Group’s range of UV-curing acrylic as a synthesis process for other products in its portfolio. resins developed through the Sartomer subsidiary have been specially designed for PolyJet and stereolithography technologies, “Lightweight materials and design” platform which are widely used in the 3D printing industry. In 2016, Sartomer launched the new NextDimension™ range of high Lightweight materials, particularly for transportation applications, performance solutions to meet this market’s growing requirements can reduce fuel consumption while increasing vehicle speed for mechanical performance and esthetics. and automony. The strong trend toward their development offers benefits for both users and society as a whole. “New energies” platform Polymers developed by the Group are ideally positioned to The development of new energies is a far-reaching social support this trend, be they high-temperature polyamides designed megatrend driven by the world transition to a less fossil-fuelto replace certain metal components in car engines (Rilsan® HT), dependent economy. Innovative polymer materials and chemicals structural adhesives that substitute for metal attachment systems, are used to varying degrees in all available new energy solutions, or composite materials. including rechargeable batteries, supercapacitators, solar The development of thermoplastic composite materials is a good photovoltaic (PV) panels, wind turbines and heat pumps. Thanks illustration of the research platform’s work. Current carbonto its technological expertise, the Group can offer these various or glass-fiber-based composites make heavy use of thermoset markets a number of innovative solutions, including: polymers, for which the crosslinking process is irreversible. Examples include polyester and epoxy resins, which present two • Materials for rechargeable batteries limitations: they cannot be recycled and their production cycle The Group’s main material in this field is the Kynar® resin, a time makes them difficult to use in high throughput industries such fluoropolymer used in lithium-ion batteries for several applications, as automotive. such as the binder for the active phase and the membrane separating the electrodes. These products play a very important To address this challenge, the Group has developed thermoplasticrole in the battery’s lifespan and performance. For this reason, polymer-based composites by adapting its high-level chemical innovative research is constantly being undertaken to improve expertise in areas such as acrylics and polyamides to the specific their adhesion, chemical resistance, ease of use and other needs of various markets. The Elium® resin, for example, is used properties. in applications in the automotive and wind turbine industries. 91 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 1 The Group also develops lithium salts, which move lithium ions to transport drinking water and can be implemented without from one electrode to the other in lithium-ion batteries. Battery additives. Thanks to its purity, this solution delays the growth of manufacturers need lithium salts that can withstand the increasingly thin layers of bacteria. The grade has received KTW certification challenging conditions in which their products are used, including from the German water and gas agency. Similarly, Rilsan® fine high temperatures and rising electrochemical potential. The powders have been chosen by many cities to coat their drinkingGroup has developed a synthesis process for innovative salts water pipe networks and wastewater treatment plant equipment in its laboratories, in partnership, for example, with one of the because of their strength, durability and flow properties. world’s industry leaders, Hydro-Québec. Following the success However, the Group deploys its main water management of these laboratory tests, the process is now being extrapolated innovations in the area of filtration. Filtration membranes for to the pilot phase prior to commercial-scale production. waste and drinking water treatment are typically based on • Materials for photovoltaic cells fluoropolymers, notably PVDF. Kynar® resin delivers outstanding performance in this market. When implementing water filtration Photovoltaic cells are made up of a number of highly technical systems, one of the key factors to monitor is the gradual clogging organic materials that protect the silicon from outside elements. of the membranes by biofilms. With this in mind, the Group and The Group has harnessed its performance materials expertise to Polymem, a French SME specialized in hollow-fiber membrane bring this market a large number of innovations, such as: filtration modules, jointly developed new, more efficient and less • the Apolhya® grafted polyefins, which are used for their high energy-intensive hydrophilic ultrafiltration membrane technology transmittance and UV resistance. Apolhya® nanostructured that consistently produces excellent quality water. copolymers were used for the first time in 2014 in backsheets for PV cells; “Electronics solutions” platform • highly effective fluoropolymers for backsheet applications, and With its range of technical polymers (specialty polyamides and in particular the Kynar® resin films, which offer excellent UV fluoropolymers), the Group brings innovative solutions to the resistance, chemical stability and mechanical performance. In electronics market, which is currently experiencing strong growth 2014, the Group brought to market the new Kynar® SLM200 in the smartphone and tablet segments, among others. film which, thanks to its innovative formulation, provides effective protection for the backs of solar modules while offering The Group markets materials designed to meet the most exacting customers competitive price in this highly competitive industry; specifications, be it for electronic devices’ internal structural parts, and which are required to be increasingly fine and made using the same simple injection molding process as well as offering ultra• Bostik Vitel® polyester adhesives, which are used for binding high rigidity, or for external parts such as the casing, cables and photovoltaic backsheets (PVDF on PET). stylus, which need to be stain and shock resistant. Thanks to the The Group’s research also benefits wind turbines, supercapacitators Group’s global network and the close collaboration between and many other fields related to new energies. In addition, Group teams in research centers in France, the United States and Asia, R&D is also attentive to future industry developments, such as new technical solutions are constantly being developed to meet lithium-sulfur and lithium-air batteries. the needs of the main manufacturers. A new polyphthalamide, for example, was successfully launched “Water management” platform on the portable devices market in 2014, opening up new design An important part of the Group’s technological research into possibilities thanks to its exceptional rigidity, dimensional stability process improvement is aimed at decreasing discharges to and fatigue resistance. In addition, the Pebax® MH and MV range water. To this end, a global water management project, known delivers a full spectrum of antistatic additive solutions, particularly as “Optim’O”, has been launched within the Group (for more for electronics packaging. details, see section 2.4.2.3 of this document). One of this platform’s most ambitious projects concerns directed In terms of its product range, the Group develops innovative self-assembly (DSA), where block copolymers are used for solutions for water treatment, transportation and filtration. nanoscale semiconductor etching. Acrylic acid, for example, serves to manufacture polyacrylates Traditionally, lithography has been used to etch the structure that are used in water treatment plants to ensure the flocculation of of microprocessor and memory chips onto silicon wafers. suspended solids. The Group is also pursuing its developments to The lithography process uses UV light to project a pattern of use more hydrogen peroxide to disinfect cooling systems. Unlike the structure onto the substrate, meaning that performance is the chlorinated products typically used, this solution avoids governed by the laws of optics. However, this process has today chlorinated water discharges. reached its limits due to the use of extremely small patterns of just some dozen micrometers that are much smaller than the In terms of water transportation, the Group has launched a wavelengths of visible and UV light. Kynar® PVDF grade that is suitable for multi-layered pipes used Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 92 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 1 2 DSA lithography is a major breakthrough, converting lithography This expertise continues to be actively developed within Bostik, from an optical technology to a molecular one by harnessing where it forms a significant R&D focus. Particular attention is polymer-phase separation to trace the desired structure. With paid to formulations, where the Company proactively limits the this process, a 50/50 block copolymer will form nanometric use of additives with unfavorable toxicity profiles. For example, lamellar structures whereas a 30/70 block copolymer will form the most recent range of floor covering adhesives, Mipaflix 800, cylinders. These forms are correctly aligned thanks to precise are phthalateand solvent-free and have sufficiently low volatile control of the surface energies, enabling patterns to be etched organic compound (VOC) emissions to obtain an A+ rating as onto the surface of the silicon substrate before being transformed well as EC1 Plus, LEED and BREEAM certification. into electrical contacts. The coating resins business also contributes to the development In November 2015, the Group, which owns proprietary of healthier, more environmentally friendly homes. Most new technology for the synthesis of ultra-pure block copolymers grades of acrylic and alkyd emulsions, which are developed by with perfectly defined structures, formed a special partnership this business, can be used without the addition of a coalescing with Brewer Science, a major industry player. Numerous agent, enabling customers to prepare very low‑VOC coatings. other partnerships have since been developed with major Some grades also capture formaldehyde. In addition, the new semiconductor players to assess this technology and, if possible, binders for exterior paints offered by the Group have a high launch production by 2018. water content, enhanced dust resistance and excellent stability with regard to environmental conditions. Thanks to these “Home efficiency and insulation” platform improvements, consumers can use the coatings for a number of years, thereby reducing the environmental impact of maintenance Energy efficiency, health, comfort and environmental footprint are and replacement works. key concerns in the development of the building of the future, with consumer demand in the field regularly becoming greater and The innovation platform also benefits from the development of more complex. This trend is likely to continue over the long term. the Smart House by Arkema, which was inaugurated at the Against this backdrop and following the expansion of the Group’s Venette R&D site in France in 2015. This one-of-a-kind housebuilding material and home comfort product portfolio due to the laboratory was designed to bring together players in construction acquisition of Bostik in 2015, the Group has decided to make to cooperate on innovation and sustainable development. The home efficiency and insulation a key focus of its R&D strategy purpose of the concept house is to test, develop and approve and set up a sixth innovation platform in this area. new solutions to major challenges facing the construction industry, particularly energy efficiency, environmental footprint The Group offers solutions for the thermal insulation of buildings, and the health and comfort of building occupants. One year which is achieved by combining vacuums or air, which have after launching the Smart House, the Group is already benefiting low thermal conductivity, with materials that provide mechanical from the first tangible results and has opened up a dialogue with strength, such as glass, metal and wood. In particular, the Group a diverse range of players on the challenges and opportunities markets a range of high-performance adhesives and sealants, created by the shift toward sustainable housing. Be it with such as adhesives for making double-glazed windows and economists, rental companies, architects, customers, universities adhesives for constructing doors and insulation panels. or suppliers, these discussions make it possible to come to a better understanding of future needs and propose tailored solutions. 93 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 APPENDIX 2 1.7 RISK FACTORS 1.7.1 Comprehensive internal control and risk management procedures 1.7.1.1 GENERAL ORGANIZATION: OBJECTIVES Scope AND SCOPE OF INTERNAL CONTROL The internal control and risk management procedures are adapted AND RISK MANAGEMENT to the Group’s organization, which is structured around three components: Objectives • the three divisions, each comprising Business Lines, which are responsible for their respective performance and The Group applies the Reference Framework of the French the implementation of internal control procedures (see financial markets authority (Autorité des marchés financiers section 1.1.1.2 of this document); – AMF), published in 2007 and subsequently reviewed and expanded in 2010, which it has adapted to its business activities, • the corporate departments (or support functions), which assist size and organization. the divisions and the businesses in their area of competence, such as accounting, human resources, legal affairs and IT, to Internal control is a Group-wide process defined and implemented ensure the coherence and optimization of the Group as a whole by executive management, management and employees. Its (see section 1.1.1.2 of this document); and objective is to ensure: • the subsidiaries, in which the Group performs its business • compliance with current laws and regulations; activities (see section 5.1.2 of this document). • compliance with the instructions and guidelines issued by These internal control and risk management procedures apply executive management; to all fully consolidated Group companies. Internal control is not • the smooth operation of internal processes, notably those limited to procedures that improve the reliability of financial and serving to protect assets; and accounting information. • the reliability of financial information. Generally, internal control contributes to the management of the 1.7.1.2 PERSONS INVOLVED IN INTERNAL CONTROL Group’s activities, the effectiveness of its operations, and the AND RISK MANAGEMENT efficient use of resources. However, no internal control process can provide absolute Board of Directors and committees assurance that these goals are met. Despite the processes and The Board of Directors, the two committees in place (the Audit and controls in place, it cannot guarantee that all Group employees Accounts Committee and the Nominating, Compensation and will constantly comply with the internal control guidelines and Corporate Governance Committee), and their members, through apply all the defined procedures. their experience and expertise, contribute to the promotion of The Group has also implemented a risk management system that an internal control and risk management culture adapted to the enables the Executive Committee to ensure that risks are at a level activities of the Group. that it deems acceptable. This system contributes to: In particular, it is the responsibility of the Audit and Accounts • creating and protecting the Group’s value, assets and Committee to oversee the effectiveness of internal control and reputation; risk management systems, and assess the schedule of the internal • securing the Group’s decision-making and other processes so auditors and the results of their work. that objectives may be achieved more easily; Executive Committee • ensuring consistency between Group values and actions; and The Executive Committee implements the internal control process • rallying Group employees around a common vision of the main and ensures compliance by: risks. • defining the internal control framework and the rules for delegating responsibility; Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 94 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 • setting targets for each business, corporate department and The conclusions of its review are reported to the Executive subsidiary, and providing the resources for these targets to Committee. be met; Upon completion of the process, the Executive Committee may • supervising the implementation of the control procedures that decide whether or not to update the main risks described in help achieve the targets it has set; section 1.7.2 of this document. • assessing the risks specific to each project submitted to the The Risk Review Committee met twice in 2016. Executive Committee; and • carrying out a review (annually and as deemed necessary) of Internal Audit and Internal Control department the Group’s major risks, based on the work of the Risk Review The Internal Audit and Internal Control department is made up Committee and its risk mapping presentation. The Executive of the Internal Audit sub-department and the Internal Control subCommittee relies on the Internal Audit and Internal Control department, both of which are independent functions under the department and the expertise of all its own members to help responsibility of the Strategy Executive Vice-President. in its implementation and operation. The role of Internal Audit is principally to improve and develop Each member of the Executive Committee is responsible for controls in the Group’s management systems and processes and, ensuring that the Internal Control Framework’s Group-wide rules more broadly, to ensure that the Group’s operating procedures and principles are observed in the entities and, in particular, the comply with the Internal Control Framework. businesses that he or she supervises. All processes and management systems may be subject to an internal audit. The Internal Audit department discusses and agrees Risk Review Committee its findings with the audited entities before presenting them with a A Risk Review Committee was set up in October 2007 to set of recommendations and related action plans that the entities strengthen the formal framework of risk identification, analysis commit to implementing. and management, and to regularly monitor the development of An internal committee consisting of the Chief Financial Officer, risk factors. It is made up of the Strategy Executive Vice-President the Strategy Executive Vice-President and the Internal Audit (committee chairman), the Industry Executive Vice-President, the and Internal Control Vice-President regularly ensures that the Chief Financial Officer, the Legal Affairs Vice-President, the recommendations have been followed. Sustainable Development Vice-President, the Group Safety and Environment Vice-President, the Insurance Vice-President and The Internal Audit and Internal Control department defines a draft the Internal Audit and Internal Control Vice-President (committee program for the audit plan based on: secretary). • risk identification initiatives; Every six months or more often in response to specific events, • interviews with the Group’s operational and corporate the committee convenes under the chairmanship of the Group’s departments; and Strategy Executive Vice-President to review: • a selection of priorities from the various proposals gathered. • summaries of audits and assessments carried out by the Internal Audit and Internal Control, the Safety, Environment and Quality The final program is validated by the Executive Committee, and and the Insurance departments; then approved by the Audit and Accounts Committee. In 2015 in particular, a decision was made to adjust the number of internal • reports on fraud or attempted fraud prepared by the anti-fraud auditors to ensure adequate coverage of companies included in unit; Bostik’s scope of consolidation. • a summary and progress report of ongoing disputes presented In 2016, the Internal Audit department carried out the following by the Legal department; 30 audits: • assessments of commercial intermediaries made by the • 11 audits of industrial sites and 1 audit of a research center for commercial intermediaries review commission; Arkema France, Arkema Inc., Arkema Srl, Bostik France and • a list of risks identified in the surveys carried out by the Altuglas International SAS; Internal Audit and Internal Control, Legal, and Accounting and • 10 audits of subsidiaries in Europe, Asia, North America and Management Control departments; South America; • a risk map prepared by the Internal Audit and Internal Control • 3 process audits in Europe and North America; and department; and • 5 audits of businesses in Europe and North America. • the monitoring of corrective measures in all of these areas. The primary mission of Internal Control is to strengthen the Group’s Following its review, the Risk Review Committee can decide on internal control systems. Its initiatives are communicated and further corrective measures or request additional information, and implemented, at subsidiary level, by a network of correspondents can also request updates to the risk map. within the subsidiaries’ Finance and IT departments. 95 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 Internal Control is involved in the analysis and formal 1.7.1.3 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK implementation of processes that impact financial information, MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK for which key controls have been defined. The Group’s internal control and risk management systems are The methodology consists in: based on three core principles: • analyzing the main risks of error, omission or fraud in processes • clear definition of responsibilities and delegations of authority, or sub-processes, which could have a material impact on the observing rules governing the segregation of duties (in Group’s consolidated financial statements; particular distinguishing between those who perform actions • identifying and implementing control procedures to minimize and those who approve them), to ensure that any person who any risk of error, omission or fraud; makes commitments to third parties on behalf of the Group has • periodically checking the existence and effective operation of the authority to do so; these controls, carried out by the Internal Control correspondents • the identification, analysis and management of risks; and based in the subsidiaries (self-audit) or by the Internal Audit • regular reviews, notably via annual internal control assessments department; and and the internal audit program, to ensure internal control and • defining corrective measures in the event of shortcomings and risk management systems operate correctly. overseeing their implementation. The Group’s Internal Control Framework defines its organization The list of procedures covered by this methodology is based on and the guiding principles behind its operating procedures. the 14 procedures of the AMF Reference Framework application Approved by the Executive Committee and available to all guide published in 2007 and updated in 2010. It is tailored to employees, notably via the intranet, it is based on the Safety, the specific features and size of the subsidiaries. Health, Environment and Quality Charter, the Users’ Guide for Virtually all subsidiaries were covered by the internal control IT and Electronic Communication Resources, and the Code of system in 2016, with the exception of the new Den Braven entities Conduct and Business Ethics put in place by the Group. In line acquired on 1 December 2016. The internal control system with the AMF Reference Framework published in 2007 and implemented by Total in the companies included in Bostik’s scope updated in 2010, the Internal Control Framework is based on of consolidation is based on a detailed annual self-assessment five components: questionnaire. These companies will gradually switch to the • control environment; Group system according to a multi-year rollout plan, which started • risk management (detailed in section 1.7.1.4 of this document); in 2015 and will finish in 2017. At end-2016, a total of 60% of Bostik’s entities, representing 83% of Bostik sales, had been • control activities; integrated into the Group’s internal control system. • information and communication; and • continuous assessment of internal control systems. Divisions, Business Lines, corporate departments and subsidiaries Control environment The Group is organized into divisions as described in section 1.2 of this document. The divisions are made up of Business Lines, The control environment is the basis for the other components which coordinate the use of resources allocated to them by the of internal control and refers primarily to the organizational Executive Committee to meet the targets set in their respective principles of the Group, the Group’s values as set out in the areas. Each business is responsible for its own performance and Code of Conduct and Business Ethics and the level of awareness for implementing suitable control procedures and processes, in among employees. accordance with the principles and procedures mainly defined All employees are informed of the importance attached to in the Group’s Internal Control Framework, Code of Conduct and observing the rules of proper conduct set out in the Code of Business Ethics, charters and guidelines. Conduct and Business Ethics, the Health, Safety, Environment The corporate departments ensure that the Group’s organization and Quality Charter, and the Users’ Guide for IT and Electronic is consistent and optimized. Communication Resources. Each subsidiary is placed under the responsibility of a local The Group has put in place a compliance program, which executive who is responsible for employing the resources mainly covers antitrust, export control and anti-corruption defined with the businesses and the support functions to meet legislation. Each area is the subject of various procedures and/ the subsidiary’s targets, in accordance with current laws and the or guides, which are provided to employees. To ensure that the rules and principles defined by the Group. compliance program has been followed, the Legal department Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 96 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 sends a declaration of compliance each year to the heads of the Information and communication businesses, the corporate departments and the main subsidiaries IT systems are a key component of the Group’s organization. and sites, which they must sign and return to show that they are aware of the compliance program, that they have acted in Mindful of the opportunities and risks related to the use of accordance with it over the past year, and that they undertake information technologies, the Group has set up an IT management to continue to do so in the coming year. These heads are then structure to control risks while creating value and improving responsible for obtaining an identical declaration, signed by the performance. employees concerned within their business, corporate department, This approach consists in deploying Group-wide, and as part of its subsidiary or site. IT systems security policy, the ten IT management practices drawn A fraud prevention procedure was put in place from 2008 up formally by the French IT association for major companies, onward to record and centralize situations of fraud and therefore CIGREF (Club informatique des grandes entreprises françaises). improve their handling and prevention. For further details, see section 1.7.2.6 of this document. In general, the roles and duties of every operational and corporate Additionally: manager are set out in a job description. Their objectives, which • the Group has a highly detailed financial reporting system, an include an internal control dimension, are set by their respective essential management tool used by executive management; line managers, to whom they must periodically report on their • the main internal control documents are available on the activities. Group’s intranet; and Lastly, the Group has set up a dynamic human resources • each support function develops professional best practices and management approach and a policy of ongoing training designed to ensure that employees’ skills are continuously adapted, and to communicates them throughout the Group via the intranet. maintain a high level of individual engagement and motivation. Continuous assessment of internal control systems Control activities The internal control system is assessed on an ongoing basis. The Control activities involve applying the standards and procedures Executive Committee is responsible for the overall internal control that help ensure that Group management directives are system, its performance and its oversight. However, each entity implemented at every level of the Group. is responsible for improving internal control performance within its own scope. To this end, a set of regulations has been formally documented in the Internal Control Framework, and general principles applicable In general, any weaknesses in the internal control system must to all Group entities have been defined in order to be able to be reported to management and, if necessary, to the Executive control the application of the operating procedures defined by Committee. the Executive Committee. For example, delegations of authority In addition, recommendations made by the Internal Audit and investment management are the subject of specific notes. department on completion of its audits are systematically • Businesses and subsidiaries are responsible for operational reviewed, and a summary is presented to the Audit and Accounts processes and therefore for internal control. Committee. When decisions to apply corrective measures are adopted, their implementation is monitored on a formal basis. • Corporate departments are responsible for defining and communicating policy and best practice guidelines relating Furthermore, as part of their engagement, the statutory auditors to their area of expertise and ensuring that they are correctly may alert the Group (represented by the Finance department applied, particularly in the following fields: and the Internal Audit and Internal Control department) and the Group’s Audit and Accounts Committee regarding any • compliance with laws and regulations; weaknesses that they may have identified. These factors are taken • safety and environmental protection; and into account by the Group in its efforts to improve internal control. • the reliability of financial information. • Controlling access to IT systems forms a key part of internal 1.7.1.4 RISK IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT control and is subject to a formal management process, which In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to a number involves both the departments using the systems and the IT and of internal and external risks. Telecommunications department. As the Group’s structure is highly decentralized, risk assessment The Internal Audit team conducts assessments of the Group’s and management is the responsibility of the businesses, corporate compliance with its Internal Control Framework in accordance departments and subsidiaries. Each of these entities has a duty with the audit plan validated annually by the Executive Committee to reduce the risks inherent in their activities. and approved by the Audit and Accounts Committee. 97 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 The Group’s risk management system is based on regular reviews Controlling department, which is responsible for ensuring of risk identification, analysis and treatment, as follows: the reliability of the data constituting the Group’s financial • every month, each business presents its results and indicators information and for providing management analyses common to its operational executive Vice-President, who also sits on the to the Group’s different entities, thereby facilitating the Executive Committee, and the Executive Committee reviews the management of each entity, results of the divisions and their respective businesses; • cash management and optimization of Group financing, • the Accounting and Controlling department organizes a under the responsibility of the Financing and Treasury quarterly review of risks and legal disputes that may have to department, and be reported in the Group’s financial statements. The businesses, • investor relations, whose remit is to establish, develop and corporate departments and subsidiaries report on their entity’s maintain relations with investors, shareholders and financial risks, which are analyzed and addressed at quarterly meetings analysts, and publish financial information once it has been with the Chief Financial Officer, the Accounting and Controlling approved by the Company’s Board of Directors; department, the Legal department, and the Internal Audit and • delegated functions: Internal Control department; and • each business has its own management control team, which • the Internal Audit and Internal Control department carries out monitors and analyzes the business’ performance monthly, an annual survey of risks amongst the Group’s main entities, and namely the businesses, corporate departments and subsidiaries. The risks are identified and analyzed and the most significant • each subsidiary is responsible for its own monthly accounts risks are positioned on a risk map, which is presented to the Risk and for its half-year and full-year financial information. Review Committee. The Risk Review Committee then assesses Accounting reporting and management control the need to update the risk map and puts forward suitable action plans where necessary. The Committee’s conclusions The fundamental financial reporting principles are set out in are reported to the Executive Committee prior to the definition the financial reporting manual and the Group’s management of the internal audit plan. This plan is drawn up on the basis framework. These reference documents are updated annually by of the risk map and the need to cover the Group’s scope of the Accounting and Controlling department, following approval activity on a regular basis. Material risks known to the Group by the Chief Financial Officer or the Executive Committee, are allocated to a member of the Executive Committee. They depending on the type of amendment and its significance. are also examined by the Audit and Accounts Committee and One of the main purposes of accounting-related reporting is to presented to the Board of Directors. The main risks are set out in analyze actual performance compared with forecasts and prior section 1.7.2 of this document, where they have been classified periods based on the processes described below. into the following sections: Medium-term plan • economic and business risks, Every year, the Strategy department draws up a five-year medium• supply chain risks, term plan, which is reviewed by the Executive Committee. It • industrial safety, environmental and climate change risks, enables the Executive Committee to understand the financial consequences of the Group’s major strategic choices and the • regulatory and legal risks, main threats identified in the environment under consideration. • financial risks, Budget • IT risks, The budget sets out the financial performance targets for the • strategic projects risks, and following year in line with the medium-term plan approved by • insurance cover default risks. the Executive Committee. The budget is the main benchmark to measure the actual performance of the three divisions, their respective businesses, the 1.7.1.5 ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL INTERNAL corporate departments, the subsidiaries and the Group overall. CONTROL PROCEDURES The budget is prepared annually under the responsibility of the Operational and corporate managers’ control and understanding Accounting and Controlling department. of their business’ financial performance represent one of the key The businesses and corporate departments submit their budget factors in the Group’s financial control system. proposals, prepared with the subsidiaries, to the Executive Committee members overseeing them. Organization of the finance function The budget of each business and each corporate department is The finance function is the responsibility of the Chief Financial then submitted to the Executive Committee. Officer and includes: The process is completed when the budget is approved by the • functions under his direct supervision, in particular: Company’s Board of Directors. • the production of consolidated financial and accounting information, falling within the remit of the Accounting and Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 98 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 Year-end forecasts IT systems Once approved by the Executive Committee and reviewed by The IT and Telecommunications department defines and the Board of Directors, the budget may no longer be modified. coordinates the IT systems for the entire Group. Based on a frequency defined by the Accounting and Controlling The Group is continuing its transformation program using SAP department, quarter-end and year-end forecasts are prepared by integrated software. In particular, the financial system that has the businesses and corporate departments. been rolled out in Europe is now being extended to Asia. The Monthly reporting customer supply chain has also started to be upgraded, and is being deployed business by business. It represents a major step Every month, the Accounting and Controlling department in SAP integration. These developments are helping to improve prepares detailed consolidated reports by division and business the control environment of the Group, particularly through for the Executive Committee. procedure review, improved automated checks, and the removal Financial statements, analytical accounts and capital expenditure of interfaces. and cash flow details are presented together with a commentary Bostik has also started a program to transition its systems to SAP. on the past month’s significant events. The Executive Committee analyzes these reports in detail at one Representation letters of its monthly meetings. Each year, the Group issues a representation letter attesting in particular to the accuracy and consistency of the consolidated Consolidated financial statements financial statements. This letter is then signed by the Chairman The Company publishes consolidated financial information on and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and a quarterly basis. Figures for the six months to 30 June and the addressed to the Group’s statutory auditors. In support of this twelve months to 31 December are published as full financial representation letter, the operational and financial heads of each statements under IFRS, while the quarterly information to consolidated subsidiary make an annual undertaking to observe 31 March and 30 September is in summary form only (balance the internal control rules and ensure the accuracy of the financial sheet, income statement and cash flow statement). information supplied, in the form of a representation letter to The half-year financial statements to 30 June are subject to the Group’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief a review by the statutory auditors, while full-year financial Financial Officer and the statutory auditors. statements are fully audited. Following the same procedure, the Group’s half-yearly As part of the closing of each accounting period, the Accounting representation letter is based on the main subsidiaries’ half-yearly and Controlling department identifies the specific closing issues letters of representation, which certify that the subsidiaries’ halfduring preparatory meetings with the support functions and yearly consolidated financial statements have been prepared in businesses. Similar meetings are also organized at least once a accordance with the Group’s financial reporting manual. year with the Group’s main legal entities. Investor relations Each quarter, the Accounting and Controlling department receives a risk report from each business, corporate department and Press releases concerning financial information are prepared subsidiary. by the Investor Relations team and reviewed, internally, by the relevant units of the Finance department, and then by the statutory Additionally, each entity is responsible for identifying, compiling auditors and the Company’s Audit and Accounts Committee. The and monitoring its off-balance-sheet commitments. The Financing Company’s Board of Directors approves the final text. and Treasury department consolidates all these commitments every six months as part of the half-yearly and annual financial statement preparation process. 1.7.1.6 THE GROUP’S INSURANCE POLICY The Accounting and Controlling department is also responsible for The Group implements an insurance cover strategy that combines monitoring changes in accounting regulations and issues technical a prevention policy designed in close cooperation with insurers notes on points of specific relevance to the Group. (in particular for property damage, via periodic visits to the Parent Company financial statements sites together with technical recommendations followed up on a regular basis), and the purchasing of insurance policies. The preparation of the Company’s financial statements is part of the Accounting and Controlling department’s general process for The Group’s policy is to centralize its insurance against risks the preparation of annual financial information. Furthermore, the relating to the production, transportation and marketing of its Company submits management forecast documents to the Board products worldwide. The Group uses international insurance of Directors in compliance with the appropriate regulations. brokers to optimize its cover of all Group companies. As a general rule, the Group’s insurance cover limits apply either to each claim, or to each claim and each year, and vary according to the risks covered. In most cases, cover is limited both by certain exclusions standard to these kinds of contracts and by deductibles that are reasonable given the size of the Group. 99 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 For the financial year ended 31 December 2016, total premiums Property damage paid by the Group, and relating to the Group’s insurance policies The Group’s sites are covered by leading insurance companies presented here below, amounted to less than 1% of its sales for against material damage and any resulting business interruption. the period. This cover is intended to avoid any significant financial loss and The Group’s insurance policies are drawn up to cover current to ensure the resumption of operations in the event of property risks while also accommodating any new acquisitions or disposals damage. However, certain property and types of damage can that may take place during the year. In this respect, all Den be excluded from the insurance policy’s cover depending on the Braven companies were incorporated into the Group’s centralized country in which the loss occurs. insurance policies on the acquisition closing date. The cover includes a “direct damage” component and a The Group retains a certain level of risk through the deductibles on “business interruption” component (including sub-limits for its insurance policies, and centrally through a captive insurance machinery breakdowns, natural disasters and terrorism), with company that is active only in property insurance. The objective of the compensation period for the latter limited to either 24 or the captive company is to optimize the Group’s external insurance 36 months, depending on the site. Deductibles vary depending on costs. the size of the site concerned. The maximum total retention in the Descriptions of the Group’s insurance policies are provided event of a major claim is between €22 million and €26 million. below to a level of detail that enables it to comply with The combined cover limit of the policies in place for direct confidentiality requirements and protect the Group’s interests damage and business interruption can amount to €630 million. and competitiveness. The Group believes that its insurance policies are consistent with Transportation those currently available on the insurance market for groups of The Group is insured against the risk of damage to its similar size and involved in similar business activities. manufacturing assets, equipment, finished or semi-finished The Group selects its insurers from the best and most financially products and raw materials during transportation or storage by sound companies when subscribing its policies. However, third parties up to a limit of €12 million per shipment. The policy the possibility cannot be ruled out that, at the time of settling includes a deductible and several exclusions that are standard a claim, one or more of these insurers could be in a difficult, for this kind of agreement. even compromised, financial situation that puts payment of the compensation in doubt. Environmental risks Furthermore, developments in the insurance market could result The Group has entered into two environmental insurance in unfavorable changes to the Group’s insurance policies and programs with leading insurance companies. For production sites an increase in policy premiums, which could adversely affect the located in the United States, the dedicated program is limited to Group’s business, financial position or results. US$50 million. For production sites outside the United States, the program is limited to €50 million. The Group’s insurers, under certain conditions deemed customary in the insurance industry for the particular contract type, can These programs cover, under certain conditions, environmental prematurely terminate insurance policies in the event of a major liabilities linked to the production sites of the Group. They include claim. In such an event, the Group nevertheless remains covered in particular damages suffered by third parties as a result of throughout the notice period, which may vary from policy to pollution generated either on Group production sites or as a result policy. of transporting Group products. Civil liability Cyber risks The Group has contracted civil liability insurance policies with In September 2016, the Group decided to purchase and leading insurance companies. The civil liability policies are subject implement a cyber insurance program covering all subsidiaries to applicable exclusions but cover the Group worldwide against worldwide, within the limits of an annual coverage ceiling of the financial consequences of civil liability claims in the context €40 million and subject to a per-claim deductible of €2 million. of its business activities and in respect of physical, material or Coverage is effective from the first quarter of 2017. non-material damages or losses caused to third parties. These policies provide cover of up to approximately €900 million for the Group. Deductibles vary, particularly depending on the subsidiaries’ location. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 100 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 1.7.2 Main risks The Group carries out its business activities in a rapidly changing material adverse impact on the Group’s business activities, environment, which creates risks that may be beyond its control. financial position, results or future prospects. The items described below do not constitute a comprehensive list of the risks and uncertainties that the Group currently faces or Risk management may face in the future. Other risks and uncertainties of which the The Group seeks to secure its raw material and energy supplies Group is currently unaware or that it deems not to be significant at and to optimize their cost by diversifying its sources of supply. In the date of this document could also adversely affect its business some cases, it may also use derivatives such as futures, forwards, activities, financial position, results or future prospects. The swaps and options, on both exchange and over-the-counter means implemented by the Group to assess and manage risks, markets. These derivatives are matched with existing contracts particularly its regularly updated risk map, are generally outlined (see notes 23.5 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements in section 1.7.1 of this document and described in more detail at 31 December 2016 in section 4.3.3 of this document). below, for each of the risks to which the Group is exposed. The Group also seeks to pass on to its sales prices any increases The occurrence of one or more of the risks described below could in the cost of the raw materials used to manufacture its products. have a material adverse impact on the Group’s business activities, Thanks to its diversified portfolio of application-oriented products financial position, results or future prospects and, in certain cases, and markets, and its balanced global presence, the Group negatively affect the Group’s image or reputation. manages to limit the risks and adverse effects of demand volatility. These advantages also enable it to mitigate the risk related to worsening economic conditions in any one of its end markets. 1.7.2.1 ECONOMIC AND BUSINESS RISKS The Group is also continuing to consolidate its positioning in The Group has identified three main types of risks related to the higher value-added niche markets, a strategy that allows it to economic and business environment: risks related to fluctuations offset potential slowdowns in its main end markets. in supply and demand, country-related risks and competitionLastly, the Group’s integration in certain product lines such as related risks. acrylics, fluorochemicals and specialty polyamides reduces its exposure to market cycles. Risks related to fluctuations in supply and demand The Group’s results could be directly or indirectly affected by Country-related risks changes in supply and demand, both upstream of its activities The Group operates on the global market with production facilities (raw materials and energy resources) and downstream, in the mainly located in Europe, North America and Asia. Many of its various end markets it serves, such as the decorative paints, main customers and suppliers also operate internationally, with automotive, construction and energy markets. a presence in various countries and regions. Consequently, the Upstream of its activities, the Group uses raw materials and Group’s business and financial results are likely to be directly energy resources as part of its manufacturing processes. Some of or indirectly impacted by any adverse changes to the economic these materials and resources, such as propylene and butadiene, and political environment in the countries in which the Group are indirectly linked to the price of crude oil, while others, such operates. as sulfur, castor oil and fluorspar, are only minimally connected The direct and indirect consequences of conflicts, terrorist or not at all. Regardless of their link to the price of crude, the activities, political instability or the emergence of health risks prices of these raw materials can be highly volatile, with any in countries where the Group is active or markets its products fluctuation leading to significant variations in the cost price of could impact the Group’s financial position or future prospects, the Group’s products. in particular by causing delays or losses in raw material and External factors over which the Group has no control, such as product delivery or supply, and increased safety costs, insurance economic conditions, competitors’ activities or international premiums or other expenses needed to ensure the continuity of situations and events, can also lead to volatility in demand the operations concerned. and hence changes in the sales volumes and prices of products manufactured and marketed by the Group. This may have a 101 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 The Group’s international operations expose it to a multitude of 1.7.2.2 SUPPLY CHAIN RISKS local business risks. Its global success depends in particular on its ability to adapt to economic, social and political changes in Risks related to transportation each of its host countries, and to develop and implement effective policies and strategies in each of its foreign operations. The Group has various hazardous, toxic or flammable materials transported by road, rail, sea and air, particularly as part of Risk management shipments to customers in countries where it operates, giving rise In most countries in which it has industrial and commercial to the risk of accidents. Any such accidents could result in claims operations, the Group relies on subsidiaries, which are placed against the Group, in particular in its role as the shipper. under the responsibility of a regional Vice-President. This Furthermore, due to (i) stricter regulations on the transportation organization helps the Group maintain relations with local of hazardous materials, (ii) the temporary or permanent lack of authorities and economic players, defend its interests, and transportation means for certain toxic or hazardous products better anticipate changes in the local political and economic to certain destinations, (iii) the market dominance of a single environment. supplier, and (iv) job action affecting transportation, the Group Furthermore, with its balanced geographic presence in Europe, may face the following problems: North America and Asia, the Group is able to minimize the overall • delays in delivery or even refusal by its carriers to collect impact of variations in the economic and political environment shipments; in a given region, and to benefit from higher growth areas, particularly in Asia. • difficulties in meeting certain customer demands; • increases in certain shipping costs or shipping equipment rental Risks related to competition costs; and The Group faces strong competition in each of its businesses. • reductions in certain shipments, unless geographical swaps are In the Industrial Specialties division, the commoditization of set up with other manufacturers. certain products can lead to significant price competition. Some of The Group also owns or uses a small number of pipelines to the Group’s competitors are larger and more vertically integrated, transport hazardous chemical products. Despite the safety which could enable them to benefit from lower production costs measures that the Group has put in place for the operation of for certain products that are also manufactured by the Group. these pipelines, the possibility of an accident can never be ruled Downstream of Coating Solutions and in High Performance out. In addition to the environmental impact, such an accident Materials, an important role is played by differentiation, would adversely affect the operation of certain units at its industrial innovation, product quality and related services. sites and could therefore have a material adverse impact on the The economic emergence of certain countries, notably China, Group’s business activities, financial position, results or future has been accompanied by the rise of local competitors and, prospects. subsequently, growing competition on certain product lines, such Risk management as fluorogases and acrylics. This could intensify in the future or In order to prevent or minimize the risks related to transportation, extend to other products and, consequently, put lasting downward the Group endeavors to: pressure on the price of these products. • diversify its service providers and share its product movements The Group’s competitive position could also be affected by between several carriers where possible; innovative new products, new technologies, or the emergence of new competitors on the market. • use transportation methods that are deemed less dangerous (barge, pipeline, road-rail or rail), when technical and financial Risk management conditions permit; Since it was created, the Group has implemented a policy of • strictly select suppliers based on the Safety and Quality operational excellence and cost optimization to enhance the Assessment System (SQAS), which was established under competitive advantages that it enjoys in its various product lines the aegis of the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) and to guarantee the quality and performance of the products by a consortium of European chemical manufacturers whose offered to its customers. activities extend to the Middle East and Asia; The Group invests heavily in R&D, particularly in the High • assess the quality and safety performance of the carriers used; Performance Materials division, which has enabled it to bring to market a large number of innovative new products (see • ensure regular maintenance of the transportation equipment section 1.4 of this document). that it owns, hires or leases (freight cars, ISO containers, tankers and pipelines); The Group has also built its strategy around the development of customer and supplier partnerships with leaders in their respective • carry out systemic risk assessment studies when a modal shift fields, allowing it to build strong business relationships with its is required; and main partners. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 102 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 • implement a variety of operational risk assessment measures, These units present a particularly high level of physical integration including vetting bulk charter vessels and having the with the production capacities supplying the raw materials. transportation safety management system maintained by the Furthermore, the Group has entered into long-term agreements Transportation Safety team, which reports to the Group Safety featuring minimum supply commitments with a number of its raw and Environment department. materials suppliers. In the event of failure to fulfill these contractual For pipelines, the Group notably carries out hazard studies commitments or of early termination of the agreements by the and develops compensatory measures to minimize risks where Group, these suppliers could claim compensation or penalties. necessary, defines monitoring and response plans, and carries Other events that could have an adverse impact on the Group’s out drills with the emergency services. industrial and financial performance include failure to perform by a major supplier, the non-renewal of supply contracts for Risks related to storage certain raw materials or their renewal on less favorable terms, The Group uses many storage and warehousing facilities located and significant price increases. on its industrial sites and elsewhere that may present risks to the The Group’s main contracts are described in section 1.5 of this environment or to public health and safety. The Group could be document. held liable for accidents occurring in the storage and warehousing facilities that it uses. Risk management Moreover, some of the storage providers that the Group uses One of the aims of the Group’s centralized procurement policy derive substantial revenues from it in certain regions. Should one for raw materials and goods and services is to analyze and of these providers fail to perform, the Group could be compelled comprehensively address the Group’s exposure to the risk of to renegotiate storage contracts under less favorable terms, or to significant dependence on supplies and suppliers. store its products in other locations. This policy is based on the following principles: Risk management • diversification of sources of supply when technical conditions To anticipate and minimize the above-mentioned risks related to permit; storage, the Group endeavors to: • the development of long-term partnerships and contracts for • diversify its service providers where possible; supply situations that are subject to severe structural constraints due to the supply and demand balance or the limited number • develop alternative emergency solutions combining of suppliers; transportation plans and distribution schemes, with a lag time for implementation; • careful management of the duration of contractual commitments; • supply chain and inventory management adapted to both • select suppliers based strictly on the SQAS Warehouse and CDIT (Chemical Distribution Institute – Terminals) guidelines; business and industrial requirements, particularly for strategic and products; • a thorough assessment of suppliers based on the following • conduct storage audits prior to signing contracts – repeated every three years for warehouse facilities hosting hazardous criteria: position in the relevant market, industrial performance, materials – under the responsibility of the relevant business financial strength and development; and management. • participation in certain investments or development projects. With regard to the supply of propylene for the Acrylics business Risks related to dependence on suppliers at the Carling site in France following the shutdown by Total The Group has developed a policy of spreading supplier risk at Petrochemicals France of its steam cracker in Carling, a new product-line level and at geographic exposure level for its supplies agreement was signed on 3 September 2015 with the Total of raw materials, energy and gas, services and some equipment. group. The Group is working with the Total group on the supply However, in the case of certain raw materials or equipment that of propylene to the site beyond the end of the current agreement. are essential to its business, the Group is significantly dependent The Group has also included the risk of failure to perform by one on a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, one single of its suppliers in its insurance policies. supplier. For example, some of the Group’s operational units in France – in the acrylic acid, oxo alcohols and functional polyolefins segments – were built downstream of steam crackers. 103 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 Risks related to dependence on customers as per directive 2012/18/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control of major-accident The Group has entered into agreements representing significant hazards involving dangerous substances, which amended and financial income with certain customers. It cannot be ruled out subsequently repealed Council directive 96/82/EC, known that these contracts may not be renewed, may be renewed under as the “Seveso III directive”. It also operates facilities outside less favorable terms than initially agreed, or may be terminated. Europe that have been given a similar classification due to their Risk management use, production or storage of hazardous substances that may The Group has a highly diversified customer base and makes present significant risks to the health or safety of neighboring less than 25% of its sales to its top 30 customers. No customer communities and to the environment. In this respect, the Group represented more than 2.5% of Group sales in 2016. could be held liable (i) following injury or damage to property or people, notably due to exposure to hazardous substances being Furthermore, the Group’s business policy is based on developing used, produced or destroyed by the Group or present on its sites, alliances or partnerships with customers in order to establish solid, or (ii) for having caused damage to natural resources. long-term relationships. Created by French Act no. 2003-699 of 30 July 2003 on the However, in some exceptional cases, when the customer prevention of technological and natural risks and compensation breaches its contractual commitments, the Group may initiate for damages, Technological Risk Prevention Plans (PPRTs) form legal proceedings or arbitration to enforce its rights. part of the Group’s risk management policy for areas hosting Lastly, the Group hedges its customer risk with a global credit high-risk industrial sites corresponding to “upper-tier Seveso” insurance program that, given the quality of its customer portfolio establishments. The Group has completed studies for the 16 and low claim rate, allows it to cover a significant proportion of relevant French sites and is implementing the appropriate its accounts receivable. additional resources, working alongside the local authorities to further secure the facilities in compliance with the regulatory processes. The Group has estimated the cost of all measures that 1.7.2.3 INDUSTRIAL SAFETY, ENVIRONMENTAL it is responsible for implementing in the coming years, and set AND CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS aside provisions to this end. Currently, one PPRT is still pending approval. The Group’s business activities are subject to frequently changing international and national laws and regulations in the areas of These risks, over and above any liability issue, could have an environmental protection and health and safety. These laws and impact on the Group’s results, financial position or business regulations impose increasingly strict obligations, particularly activities. concerning industrial safety, emissions and discharges to air, Risk management water and land of toxic or hazardous substances (including waste), the use, labeling, traceability, handling, transportation, All the Group’s facilities and activities worldwide are covered by storage and disposal of toxic or hazardous substances and a Group-wide safety management program adapted to the risks exposure thereto, the clean-up of past industrial sites, and soil that each may face. and groundwater remediation. Developed in line with the Health, Safety, Environment and Quality Charter, the program is based on taking action at three Risks related to the operation of industrial facilities priority levels: The Group’s facilities may be subject to risks of accidents, • at the technical level, for example when designing or improving fires, explosions and pollution due to the very nature of their production units (process safety and ergonomics), or drawing operations and to the level of hazard, toxicity or flammability of up specifications for hazardous material transportation certain raw materials, finished products and production or supply equipment; processes. Any accident, regardless of whether it occurs at one • at the organizational level, by ensuring that each entity’s of the Group’s production sites or during the transportation or management system complies with the Group’s safety use of products manufactured by the Group, may cause delays requirements, which are also adapted to the level of risk at each in production or give rise to compensation claims on grounds of site. These requirements are reflected in the Arkema Integrated contractual liability or product liability, as appropriate. Management System (AIMS), which combines all the Group’s Furthermore, the Group’s production facilities may experience safety, environment and quality audits in a single audit; and extended shutdowns, particularly as a result of problems with • at the human level, by developing social dialogue and a safety raw material or energy resource supplies, reliability of major culture that raises everyone’s awareness of their individual equipment or even job action. responsibility and of the importance of their behavior. In addition, the Group operates many industrial facilities, These points are detailed in section 2.3 of this document. including 33 sites in Europe classified as “Seveso” establishments Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 104 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 The Group has also taken out insurance policies for civil liability Furthermore, several types of serious government-declared health and property damage with leading insurance companies (see crises could result in the shutdown of facilities, research centers, section 1.7.1.6 of this document). and even head offices and other facilities. Serious health crises of this sort notably include: Risks related to security • major epidemics or pandemics; The Group may suffer the consequences of possible malicious acts • crises related to contaminated or polluted medicines, food or against its facilities or its employees, including theft and pilferage vaccines; risks particularly in the fields of research and technology and the growing threat of cybercrime. • health crises related to climate or weather events, such as heat waves, droughts, tornadoes, cyclones and exceptional Risk management flooding; and Security directives are regularly updated in line with • the consequences of long-term, chronic exposure to a hazardous recommendations from the public authorities in order to strengthen contaminant. the security of the Group’s industrial facilities. Risk management The Group’s upper-tier (“seuil haut”) Seveso sites in France have undergone security audits by the French authorities, with no The Group has put in place safety and monitoring procedures at evidence found of significant deviations from standards. The the Group level and at individual production sites. It also conducts audits highlighted the Group’s high levels of security, and led to regular research into the toxicity of the products it uses, and in adjustments being made where necessary. addition has developed a tool for monitoring individual exposure to toxic products. The various procedures in place are described In addition, the Group has raised security levels at its industrial in section 2.3.2 of this document. facilities and R&D centers since 2015 in response to the terrorist attacks in Paris that year. It has also taken additional security The Group may also be forced to withdraw certain products, measures in response to deliberate acts of violence at other particularly in certain sensitive markets. industrial companies in Isère and Étang de Berre, France. In the event of a serious health emergency, crisis units managed The Group’s action plan also covers cybersecurity and protection by trained employees are set up in the facilities, in the countries from cyber attacks (see section 1.7.2.6 on IT risks). The Group and at the Group level, to define the standards that guarantee has notably begun working more closely with French IT security high levels of health protection and the rules governing certain agency ANSSI in France and developed a specific strategy to activities in order to achieve the lowest possible risk level, and enhance cyber security. to put in place response plans to address health emergencies and exceptional situations. Additionally, in the specific event of epidemics or pandemics, most Group sites around the world Risks related to health have set out business continuity plans with actions on two levels: The Group uses and has used in the past toxic or hazardous • health and organization measures to limit the transmission of substances to manufacture its products. Employees and former viruses and protect the health of employees and subcontractors employees of the Group and, in some cases, employees of working on the sites by (i) informing all employees about health external companies and service providers, Group customers measures, raising awareness and providing alcohol-based and people living near the Group’s industrial sites, may have hand sanitizers and protective masks, (ii) issuing instructions been exposed or may still be exposed to these substances on how to contain isolated cases, (iii) reducing the number of and, as a result, may have developed or may develop specific meetings and business trips, and (iv) implementing teleworking illnesses from such exposure. In addition, for certain substances solutions; and currently regarded as risk-free, chronic toxicity, even at very low concentrations or exposures, could be discovered in the future. • measures to adapt business activities to the level of absenteeism by creating a structure that enables a site to continue operating Certain products may also be used directly or indirectly in despite the absence of significant numbers of employees and, sensitive applications, particularly medical and food applications. in extreme cases, to ensure safety and environmental protection in the absence of a very large number of employees. 105 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 Risks related to the environment Risks related to climate change The Group has activities in business areas that entail significant Due to their geographic location, some Group industrial sites environmental liability risks. (35 sites) are exposed to seismic and/or climate risks such as While the Group has secured insurance policies from leading floods, droughts and storms, the extent and frequency of which insurance companies to cover environmental risks (see may evolve as a result of climate change. In 2016, a total of section 1.7.1.6 of this document), it cannot rule out the possibility 22 sites (versus 21 in 2015) were identified as currently being that claims will be made in connection with its operations or exposed to climate risks. However, the Group has no data products, seeking to hold it liable for uninsured events or for enabling it to estimate how the exposure of these or other sites amounts exceeding the cover limits. Furthermore, any accident, may evolve in the future as a result of climate change. regardless of whether it occurs at one of the Group’s production The Group monitors developments in international, European sites or during the transportation or use of products manufactured and national regulations on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by the Group, may cause delays in production or give rise to reduction, notably as concerns CO2 quota systems. The tightening compensation claims on grounds of contractual liability or product of such regulations could have a negative impact on the Group’s liability, as appropriate. business activities, operating costs or profitability. Should the Group be held liable for environmental claims, Risk management the amounts covered by provisions or included in the Group’s The Group pays close attention to the publication of any works investment plans could prove to be insufficient due to the intrinsic that will enable it to assess the mediumand long-term impact uncertainties involved in projecting expenditure and liabilities of climate change on its industrial operations and supply chain. relating to health, safety and the environment. The assumptions used to determine these provisions and investments may need to At the same time, it implements a range of Group-wide initiatives be adjusted, mainly due to changes in regulations, changes in to anticipate the effects of climate change as effectively as the interpretation or application of regulations by the relevant possible. In 2016, for example, an internal carbon pricing authorities, the technical, hydrological or geological constraints of system was introduced to steer investment toward low-carbon environmental remediation or the identification of as yet unknown solutions. And in the same year, the Group implemented the pollutants. “Optim’O” water management plan in a drive to further improve water management at its sites and in its production processes. Achieving compliance for Group sites that are still in operation, For further details on these initiatives, see section 2.4.2.3 of this or for sites where operations have ceased, entails a risk that could document. generate substantial financial costs for the Group. Lastly, Fluorogases have been identified as the products that Contingent environmental liabilities are detailed in note 21 to have been most exposed to regulatory developments for many the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 in years. Accordingly, the Group is already anticipating the relevant section 4.3.3 of this document. regulatory changes by developing new blends or substitutes. Risk management Environmental risk is managed by the implementation of a policy Risks related to the management of sensitive data and in defined and monitored by the Environmental Remediation team particular the dependence on certain technologies within the Group Safety and Environment department and rolled In the course of its business, the Group uses both technologies that out within the Group’s various businesses under the responsibility it owns and a certain number of technologies under license from of the industrial Vice-Presidents. The components of this policy are third parties. Furthermore, in some cases, the Group’s activities detailed in section 2.4 of this document. rely on technologies that require specific skills from its employees. The Group also benefits from guarantees from subsidiaries of The Group also invests in new industrial units and is exposed to Total S.A. with respect to former industrial sites, which were the risk of disclosure of confidential documents and of copying granted prior to Arkema’s stock market listing. A description of of processes or technologies that are critical to its production and these guarantees can be found in note 30 to the consolidated to maintaining its international competitiveness. financial statements at 31 December 2016 in section 4.3.3 of If the Group were no longer able to use these technologies, it this document. could have an adverse impact on its business activities, financial position, results or future prospects. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 106 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 Risk management 1.7.2.4 REGULATORY AND LEGAL RISKS The Group implements a technological development policy for The Group is subject to complex and constantly changing its processes, in particular as part of its R&D programs, to give local, national and international laws and regulations that it direct ownership over the technologies that it uses in its major differ depending on the countries in which the Group operates. activities, and to help reduce its level of technological exposure These laws and regulations encompass a large number of fields, to third parties. including safety, environmental protection, antitrust law, company The Group also has an employee retention policy (see section 2.6 law, commercial law, patent protection, labor law, tax law and of this document), and ensures that skills in certain sensitive customs regulations. technologies are shared by a sufficient number of employees. The Group’s corporate and regional units and subsidiaries ensure Furthermore, the Group only subcontracts equipment essential to regulatory watch in their respective fields of expertise in order its critical processes to specific companies bound by confidentiality to maintain a high level of knowledge and anticipate possible agreements. Files and technical manuals are managed by a future changes. restricted number of individuals, specifically the business process officers and technical center engineers. Risks related to product regulations The Group has decided to strengthen its security policy and to If existing regulations were to be amended to become more improve the documentation to be applied in its sites worldwide, restrictive for the Group or if new regulations were adopted, by drawing on services provided by the French State in France it could (i) compel the Group to significantly scale back on and on feedback from other regions. This strategy resulted in production and marketing of certain products or, possibly, updates and improvements to application guides and procedures, discontinue production and marketing altogether, (ii) restrict the particularly to take into account IT risks, the protection of sensitive Group’s ability to alter or expand its facilities, and (iii) possibly data, the protection of sites and the protection of employees compel it to abandon certain markets, incur significant expenditure working in high-risk countries. The documentation includes security to produce substitute substances, institute costly emissions control audit guides, vulnerability analysis guides and the classification or reduction systems or exclude the Group from certain markets of documents containing sensitive data. if it could not develop substitute products. The Group continues to strengthen employee training and A large number of these regulations, described in section 2.3.4 awareness initiatives in this area. of this document, require chemical products to be recorded in lists, called inventories, and accompanied by files of varying Risks related to land that the Group does not own degrees of complexity. While the Group owns most of the land on which its industrial Risk management sites are built, some industrial facilities around the world are located on land that belongs to third parties, either due to local To ensure that its products are marketed in accordance with local, regulations or for technical or strategic reasons. In such cases, national or international regulations, the Group employs regulatory the Group occupies the land under the terms of leases or similar experts supported by a global network of correspondents agreements. based in the industrial sites, businesses and subsidiaries, and experts in physicochemistry, toxicology and ecotoxicology who If these agreements were to be terminated or not renewed, or work to improve knowledge and understanding of the hazard if a site were to be expropriated, it could adversely impact the characteristics of the substances and products manufactured, Group’s business activities, results or financial position. imported and marketed by the Group. All these experts also use efficient IT resources and have access to databases allowing them Risk management to follow scientific developments and regulatory changes, and to When negotiating contracts, the Group secures its right to occupy produce the documents required to comply with the regulations land by implementing sufficiently long terms and lengthy notice within the prescribed time. These experts take part in professional periods. Contractual expiration dates are monitored regularly to associations that monitor proposed regulatory changes at the state anticipate any problems regarding renewals. or agency level, thus helping the Group to anticipate regulatory changes and prepare accordingly. 107 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 In cases where product regulation changes lead to restrictions on industrial property protection policy, see section 1.4.3 of this the use of raw materials or the marketing of finished products, the document). The Group is also attentive to any infringements of Group relies on its R&D to develop alternative solutions. This is the rights conferred by its patents and trademarks. If, therefore, the case, for example, with the Group’s successful development of products on the market suggest that protected products or resins for paint formulations that meet the latest VOC requirements, technologies or trademarks have been infringed, the Group can such as alkyds in emulsions, VAE emulsions, powder resins and take what action it deems necessary to notify, end and sanction high solid resins. the infringement of its intellectual property rights. Finally, in the particular case of the Registration, Evaluation This risk is managed by the Intellectual Property department, and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) regulation and which reports to the R&D department for patent matters and to local legislation described in chapter 2 of this document, the the Legal department for trademark and design matters. The Group has put in place a specific organization to optimize the role of these departments is to apply in practice the principle of implementation of these regulations. respect for intellectual and industrial property rights enshrined in the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. They go about this by Risks related to industrial property ensuring customers are only offered products that are not covered by valid, third-party patents, based on the best knowledge that The Group’s patents and trademarks represent an asset that is can be obtained by regularly reviewing competitors’ patents all essential for its business activities. For this reason, the Group throughout the development of new products. In addition, the attaches great importance to industrial property rights in respect role of the Legal department is to constitute trademark rights for of its trademarks and patents, in order to protect the innovations certain product ranges and, where appropriate, protect them via coming out of R&D. The Group is also attentive to the risk of direct designs. To this end, it carries out research for prior user rights and indirect patent infringement as well as all types of trademark before trademark and/or design applications are filed, to the infringements. greatest extent allowed by resource availability and information Patent infringement can occur when a third party uses products accessibility, in order to identify any prior third-party rights that or industrial processes patented by the Group. Trademark may form an obstacle to a new project. infringement, on the other hand, can occur when a third party unlawfully seeks to take advantage of the investments or Risks related to business practices reputation of Group brands in a given market. These actions have an instantly negative impact on the Group’s sales and results and The Group operates in many countries and, for this reason, is can harm the reputation and the perceived quality of the products subject to a range of antitrust and anti‑corruption laws as well as concerned as well as the image of the Company. export control regulations in certain countries. Non-compliance with any of these laws or regulations may result in significant Patent infringement can also occur involuntarily because of the fines being levied on the Group or civil or criminal charges being Group, particularly given the risk related to the time during which brought against it and/or its employees. patent applications are not made public. Patent applications filed by third parties and made public only on publication could Risk management impact ongoing developments or even products recently brought The Group has put in place a “Business compliance and ethics to market. This situation would oblige the Group to change the program”, which notably covers antitrust, export control and product, thereby increasing the related R&D costs, or to negotiate anti‑corruption legislation. Procedures and/or guides have been a license to use the patented component. In either case, there issued on each of these topics. Training is also given within the would be an impact on the project’s profit margins. Group to prevent risky behavior and maintain a suitable level of Inadequate protection of the innovations resulting from its research awareness in these areas. For further details on this program, see or trademarks could therefore have a material adverse impact section 2.7.3 of this document. on the Group’s business activities, results, financial position or The Group also exercises particular caution with regard to: future prospects. • planned export sales to countries subject to economic sanctions Risk management or other restrictive measures. In such situations, in-depth reviews The Group has developed an assertive policy to protect are carried out to avoid any risk of violating the export control its innovations and know-how (registration of patents and regulations; and trademarks), particularly with the support of a global network of • the choice of commercial intermediaries used in order to industrial property consultants (for further details on the Group’s minimize the risk of corruption. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 108 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 Risks related to current or potential litigation 1.7.2.5 FINANCIAL RISKS In the normal course of its business, the Group is or may become The Group is exposed to various types of financial risks, such as a party to a number of administrative, legal or arbitration liquidity risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk proceedings, as a result of which it may be found liable on (counterparty risk), pension funding risk and tax risk. various grounds, such as violating antitrust laws relating to cartel behavior, full or partial failure to fulfill contractual obligations, The information provided below is based on certain assumptions termination of established commercial relationships, pollution, or and expectations that, by nature, may prove to be inaccurate, non-conformity of products. particularly with respect to changes in exchange rates and interest rates, and the Group’s exposure to the associated risks. A description of the most significant current or potential litigation is given in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements at 31 Liquidity risk December 2016 in section 4.3.3 of this document. To the best of the Group’s knowledge, there are no other administrative, legal The Group uses bond issues and loans from banking institutions to or arbitration proceedings currently underway, or with which the finance its day-to-day operating requirements and development. Company or the Group are threatened, that are likely to have or However, unforeseen needs may also arise, resulting in particular have had over the course of the past twelve months a material from an increase in working capital requirement or unfavorable adverse impact on the results or financial position of the Company market conditions. Additionally, market conditions may make it or the Group. difficult to refinance bonds at maturity, or one or more banks may be unable to meet their obligations to the Group with respect to Provisions are made in the accounts every time the payment one of its main credit lines, which would significantly reduce the of a quantifiable and large indemnity is likely (see note 20 to Group’s access to financing under equivalent terms. the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 in section 4.3.3 of this document). However, the resulting provisions, For further details on borrowing terms and in particular on early and in particular those relating to large claims, can prove repayment clauses, see section 4.1.8.1 and notes 22 and 23 to insufficient, which could have material adverse consequences the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 in on the Group’s business activities, financial position, results or section 4.3.3 of this document. future prospects. Risk management In addition, it generally cannot be ruled out that, in the future, new The Group’s financing policy, implemented by the Financing proceedings, related or unrelated to existing proceedings, could and Treasury department, aims to provide the Group with the be initiated against a Group entity. Should such proceedings have necessary financial resources to fund its operations over periods an unfavorable outcome, they could adversely impact the Group’s of time adapted to its repayment ability. This policy is based on business activities, financial position or results. the following principles: Risk management • having the Group’s long-term credit rated by two rating All legal risks related to current or potential litigation are subject agencies, and maintaining the ratings at least at their current to a quarterly review. On the first day of the last month of every level; quarter, each business, corporate department and subsidiary must • having a gearing ratio of around 40%; provide the Group’s Accounting and Controlling department and Legal department with a written summary of any legal risks or • maintaining cash reserves in excess of €500 million; proceedings that affect the Group’s business activities, results • maintaining average maturity at over three years; and or financial position or are likely to do so. Representatives • diversifying its sources of financing. from the Accounting and Controlling department and the Legal department meet to analyze the risks and legal proceedings At 31 December 2016, the Group had a strong financial profile, that were identified and to determine, in conjunction with the with: businesses, corporate departments and subsidiaries, the amount • a gearing ratio of 35%; of the provisions relating to such risks and legal proceedings based on the rules described in note B. “Accounting policies” to • cash reserves of around €800 million; and the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 in • a Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) program, representing a section 4.3.3 of this document. maximum amount of €2.5 billion, to facilitate access to bond markets. 109 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 At the date of this document: Foreign exchange risk linked to future flows, such as capital • without taking into account the issue of perpetual hybrid bonds expenditure or sales flows, particularly export sales, may also classified as equity, completed on 29 October 2014, the be hedged. The Executive Committee is responsible for deciding average maturity of the Group’s financial resources is around whether such hedging is necessary, while implementation is four and a half years; and carried out by the Financing and Treasury department using simple derivatives. • the Group’s long-term credit ratings are BBB (stable outlook) according to Standard & Poor’s and Baa2 (stable outlook) For further details, see notes 23 and 24 to the consolidated according to Moody’s. financial statements at 31 December 2016 in section 4.3.3 of this document. Consequently, at the date of this document, the Group is able to meet its financial commitments as part of its operations, and does Competition risk has gradually decreased following the not anticipate any problems in the coming months. implementation of a more balanced Group development and geographic expansion strategy. Foreign currency risk Translation risk is not hedged as the Group considers that it is inherent to its worldwide operations. However, the Group reduces Given its international operations, the Group is exposed to its balance sheet risk through a policy of allowing its companies various types of currency risks: to contract debt only in their functional currencies, except when • transaction risks related to the Group’s day-to-day operations a foreign-currency loan is backed by a commercial risk in the and development projects; same currency. • translation risks related to the consolidation in euros of Group subsidiary accounts in currencies other than the Interest rate risk euro. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of these currencies, The Group is exposed to interest rate fluctuations. particularly the US dollar-to-euro exchange rate, have had in the past and may have in the future a material impact on At 31 December 2016, the Group’s debt stood at €2,105 million, the Group’s financial position and operating income. For an which mainly included a €500 million bond issue with a indication of the impact of the translation effect on the Group’s 4% fixed rate, a €480 million bond issue with a 3.85% fixed income statement and balance sheet, especially with regard rate, a €150 million bond issue with a 3.125% fixed rate and to the US dollar-to-euro exchange rate, see sections 4.1.5 and a €700 million bond issue with a 1.50% fixed rate. Neither 4.1.9 of this document; and the revolving multi-currency credit line nor the commercial paper program had been used at 31 December 2016. The terms of • competition risk related to the fact that, proportionately, in this financing are described in section 4.1.8.1 of this document. the euro zone, the Group incurs more operating expenses in euros than it generates sales in the currency owing to the fact Given the Group’s net debt and the distribution of net debt that it is an export-focused company. As a result, the Group’s between fixed rate and variable rate borrowings, a 1% increase competitive position may be affected by the weakness of certain in interest rates would reduce the cost of the debt by around currencies, and in particular the US dollar against the euro, €3 million. compared with its competitors positioned in countries with a Risk management weak currency. Furthermore, the weakness of certain currencies The Group’s policy is to minimize the impact of interest rate in countries with major imports from the Group may affect its fluctuations on its financing costs. results. • Interest rate risk exposure is managed by the Group’s Risk management Financing and Treasury department and is hedged using simple The Group’s objective is to minimize the impact of exchange rate derivatives. fluctuations on its results and financial position. • The Group gives priority to fixed-rate borrowing due to the Transactional risks are systematically hedged when recorded in historically low rates. However, the Group regularly re-assesses the accounts. Group companies hedge their foreign currency its position based on market developments, and could enter into assets and liabilities against their respective functional currencies. rate swaps on its bonds in order to reduce the cost of its debt. Revenues and costs in foreign currencies are hedged essentially For further details, see note 23 to the consolidated financial by spot foreign exchange transactions and sometimes by forward statements at 31 December 2016 in section 4.3.3 of this transactions. document. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 110 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 Credit risk counterparty and therefore to an adverse impact on the Group’s results. • Accounts receivable and other debtors The Group fosters relations with a large number of counterparties, Risk management most of which are its customers. At 31 December 2016, accounts The Group’s objective is to minimize this risk by centralizing the receivable net of provisions amounted to €1,150 million. These management of its financing resources and requirements. accounts receivable are detailed by due date in note 23.4 to • The Group recycles the financial surplus of its subsidiaries the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 in through intra-Group current accounts wherever local regulations section 4.3.3 of this document. permit. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is linked to the individual • Any new relationship between a Group subsidiary and a characteristics of its customers. Default by one of these customers banking or financial institution is first approved by the Financing is likely to lead to a financial loss limited to the uninsured share and Treasury department. of the customer’s debt to the Group. • The Group minimizes its exposure to credit risk by investing only Risk management in highly secure assets with leading diversified counterparties. The Group’s objective is to secure the collection of its accounts For further details, see note 23 to the consolidated financial receivable through a global insurance policy implemented by the statements at 31 December 2016 in section 4.3.3 of this Financing and Treasury department. document. • The Group has a highly diversified customer base and makes less than 25% of its sales to its top 30 customers. Risks related to pension funding • There is no geographical concentration of credit risk as the The Group has obligations to its employees for pension benefits Group makes significant sales in a large number of countries. and other post-employment benefits in most countries where it • The Group hedges most of its customer risk with a global credit operates (see section 2.6 of this document). These obligations insurance program which, at the date of this document, does could: not yet cover the recently acquired Den Braven entities. Given • exceed its related provisions if the actuarial assumptions used the quality of the Group’s customer portfolio and low claim were inaccurate or if regulations changed; or rate, this program allows it to cover a significant proportion of • result in asset shortfalls in certain countries where the Group its accounts receivable. The Group strives to further minimize operates, particularly the United States and the United Kingdom, this risk through a specific credit risk management policy in the event of an adverse trend in the financial markets. that consists in regularly assessing the solvency of each of its uninsured customers. Uninsured customers whose financial Risk management situation does not meet the Group’s solvency requirements are The Group’s objective is to minimize this risk by opting for defined only supplied after payment. contribution plans wherever possible. Thus: For further details, see note 23 to the consolidated financial • the main defined benefit plans have been closed to new statements at 31 December 2016 in section 4.3.3 of this entrants for a number of years, or more recently in the case document. The policy concerning provisions for doubtful accounts of the Bostik plans in the United Kingdom. In some cases, the on fully or partially uninsured accounts receivable is also detailed plans have also been closed to further accrual; in note 23. • certain plans have been the subject of a transfer of pension • Investments rights to insurance institutions, in particular in France and the Investment risk is related to financial investments with financial Netherlands; and institutions. The Group is indebted overall, but at times may be • the management of assets allocated to cover employee required to invest cash, in particular to maintain a certain level of pension benefit obligations in some host countries, when such liquidity, to comply with local regulations or to manage cash lags. requirements exist, is outsourced to qualified professionals At 31 December 2016, the amount of cash invested with banking and controlled by independent trustees who themselves use institutions or money market funds amounted to €623 million. the services of recognized professionals. Default by any one of these counterparties is likely to lead to a financial loss limited to the amount invested with the defaulting For further details, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 in section 4.3.3 of this document. 111 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 Tax and customs risks shutdown or serious disruption of the operation of all or part of an industrial unit or department; and Changes in tax or customs duty laws or regulations or amendments in the interpretation of case law, international treaties or • risk of intrusion or malicious use of the IT systems, particularly to administrative doctrine in any one of the many countries in which steal information, misappropriate money, disrupt the operation the Group operates could adversely impact its business activities, of industrial facilities or impede the Group’s business activities. financial position or results. Risk management Furthermore, the Group benefits from special tax treatment in The IT and Telecommunications department aims to provide some countries, such as reduced tax rates under certain conditions systems access to authorized users while ensuring the integrity and for limited periods of time. If such special tax treatment were and confidentiality of sensitive data. to be withdrawn, amended or not renewed, it could adversely impact the Group’s financial position or results. Accordingly, the Group has adopted an IT Systems Security Policy that sets out the objectives and rules to be applied to Similarly, certain customs procedures may be reviewed by the guarantee the reliability of its IT systems based on the three criteria customs administration on account of different practices in place of availability, integrity and confidentiality mentioned above. The in different countries or changes to regulations, which could Group has also defined and implemented an internal directive to adversely impact the Group’s business activities, financial position bolster the security of its industrial networks, as well as a regular or results. compliance audit plan at its production sites. Risk management The Group’s IT Systems Security Policy is currently being The Group’s objective is to comply with the tax and customs implemented by Bostik as part of its migration to the standards regulations in all the countries in which it operates, while of the Group IT and Telecommunications department. minimizing its tax burden. Pursuant to this policy, the IT and Telecommunications department The tax function is overseen by a team within the Financing and implements a variety of initiatives, including technical measures Treasury department that is made up of specialists supported (network protection, high-availability architectures with data by local employees and that uses the services of major external replication, redundant data centers, standard workstation consultants whenever necessary. The Central Tax department is architecture with up-to-date antivirus software, segregation of responsible for regularly updating the Group’s transfer pricing industrial networks, etc.) and organizational measures (remote policy. Tax audits are overseen by the tax department, which access for key employees, IT systems monitoring, enhanced ensures corrective measures are implemented when required. ID and access-right security management, regularly tested business recovery plans, formal classification of information, In addition, the Group has a dedicated “customs” team that user awareness-raising, annual reviews of IT risks, security patch centralizes all key issues, with the help of an internal and external management policy, etc.). Strict version management procedures network of customs specialists and purpose-designed IT systems. that include non-regression testing are also in place to minimize For further details on the financial impact of tax disputes, see any incidents brought about by the rollout of new versions of note 21 to the consolidated financial statements at 31 December software or hardware. 2016 in section 4.3.3 of this document. The Group has also helped to boost the overall level of IT security by setting up a Security Operations Center, thereby increasing its 1.7.2.6 IT RISKS surveillance and response capabilities in the event of a security breach of its IT systems. Industrial and management processes, and communication between employees and third parties, are highly dependent The regular review of the Group’s IT Systems Security Policy, on information technology systems based on complex and particularly with regard to industrial systems, and closer ever-changing technical environments. Their failure could have collaboration with government security bodies enables the a material impact on the Group’s business activities, results Group to deal with threats to its management systems and to or financial position. These threats also apply to the industrial the operations of its industrial units (see section 1.7.2.3 on businesses’ production unit control systems. The main cyber and industrial safety, environmental and climate change risks). The other risks related to IT systems are as follows: Group also adapts its security policy in line with regulatory developments on personal data protection (European General • technical risk of an interruption in the operation of critical Data Protection Regulation) and network and information system applications or the loss of sensitive data, resulting in the security (European NIS directive). Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 112 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 2 Lastly, the Group has set up an internal control system consisting not be achieved. This could consequently impact the valuation of a number of general IT controls to ensure the reliability of the of goodwill and have a material adverse impact on the Group’s Group’s critical processes and compliance with security rules. The business activities, results or financial position. effectiveness of these measures is assessed every year and action plans are put in place to address any identified weaknesses. Risk management The Group endeavors, before entering into any external growth transaction, to take all necessary precautions when identifying 1.7.2.7 STRATEGIC PROJECTS RISKS targets, in particular by conducting in-depth evaluations of the activities and companies concerned and the various liabilities Risks related to innovation related to the business being sold, and by negotiating appropriate guarantees from the sellers with the advice of external consultants Innovation is a key part of the Group’s strategy. The business with expert industry knowledge. Furthermore, acquisitions are activities, results and future prospects of the Group are heavily carried out by teams of qualified experts under the responsibility reliant on its ability to produce new products and new applications of the Strategy department. and to develop new production processes. Furthermore, the Group invests in new industrial units and is exposed to the risk of The Group’s policy in terms of business disposals is to limit its disclosure of confidential documents and of copying of a process liability with respect to guarantees to the buyers. or technology that is critical to its production and to maintaining its international competitiveness. Risks related to joint ventures Risk management The Group is subject to risks related to the non-controlling interests that it holds in companies, some of which are major suppliers Each year, the Group invests heavily in R&D to develop new or customers of the Group. The joint ventures included in the products and processes. In the High Performance Materials Group’s scope of consolidation are described in the notes to and Coating Solutions divisions, the regular introduction of the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2016 in innovative new products is a key success factor. Similarly, in section 4.3.3 of this document. Industrial Specialties, process performance is a major driver of competitiveness. The Group focuses its R&D efforts on fast-growing In accordance with the contracts and agreements governing the markets such as new energies, water treatment, 3D printing and operation, control and financing of these joint ventures, certain lightweight materials to replace metal and glass. strategic decisions can be made only with the agreement of all partners. There are risks of disagreement or deadlock between This major focus on innovation also enables the Group to adapt the partners in these joint ventures. In certain cases that are to regulatory trends. beyond the Group’s control, these joint ventures could also make Furthermore, the Group only subcontracts the manufacture of decisions that go against the Group’s interests. Lastly, despite equipment essential for critical processes to specific companies all the precautions taken when choosing partners, the Group bound by confidentiality agreements. Files and technical manuals cannot rule out the possibility that one of its partners could file are managed by a restricted number of individuals, specifically for bankruptcy. the business process officers and technical center engineers. Investment decisions made within these joint ventures, whether as part of general operations or pursuant to specific agreements Risks related to mergers, acquisitions and disposals with the partners in these companies, may require the Group to As the Group implements its strategy, it may provide a number of incur additional expenses, to invest further or to purchase or sell guarantees to third parties when disposing of businesses. It cannot certain companies. be ruled out that when some of these guarantees are invoked, the compensation claims could exceed the provisions made by Risk management the Group and therefore have an adverse impact on its results The Group has a small number of non-controlling or jointor financial position. controlling interests in joint ventures, and accordingly protects its interests by introducing, where possible, contractual terms The Group has also carried out several acquisitions in recent designed to resolve deadlocks and maintain the Group’s decisionyears that may expose it to various risks and in particular potential making powers. The contracts or agreements relating to joint liabilities or responsibilities related to these activities. Should ventures that the Group considers material are described in the assumptions on which these acquisitions were made fail to section 1.5 of this document. materialize, the development prospects of these activities may 113 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 2 1.7.2.8 INSURANCE COVER DEFAULT RISKS covered by the existing insurance program, or that it will incur very large expenses that will not be reimbursed or only partially The Group’s insurance policy is part of the overall risk reimbursed under its insurance policies, cannot be excluded. management framework and, as such, is described in detail in Indeed, while the insurance market offers property insurance section 1.7.1.6 of this document. levels that cover any probable maximum claims, this is not the At the date of this document, the Group believes that the limits case with respect to civil liability, where the potential maximum of cover described in said section take into account the type of claims exceed what the insurance market can offer on acceptable risks incurred by the Group and are consistent with those currently terms for the Group. available on the insurance market for groups of similar size and For a description of the various types of insurance contracts involved in similar business activities. subscribed by the Group, see section 1.7.1.6 of this document. However, in some cases, the possibility that the Group could be required to pay substantial compensation for claims that are not Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 114 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 3 2 APPENDIX 3 3.3.2 Duties and operating procedures of the Board of Directors 3.3.2.1 DUTIES represented. In accordance with its Internal Rules, in all cases permitted by law and if specified in the notice of meeting, The Board of Directors is a collegiate body which takes decisions directors attending the meeting by means of videoconferencing collectively. It is mandated by and accountable to all of the or any other telecommunication method that meets the requisite shareholders. technical specifications set by current laws and regulations, The Company’s Board of Directors exercises the powers assigned are deemed present for the purpose of quorum and majority by law in order to act in the Company’s best interests in all requirements. circumstances. It decides the Company’s overall business strategy Decisions are taken by majority vote of the members present, and oversees its implementation. Subject to those powers expressly deemed present or represented. In the case of a split vote, the conferred upon the shareholders and within the limits of the Chairman has the casting vote. Company’s corporate purpose, the Board of Directors considers any issue involving the proper operation of the Company and In accordance with corporate governance best practice and decides on any issue concerning the Company. the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code in particular, the Board of Directors’ Internal Rules also set out the rights and To this end, it must in particular monitor and review the Group’s obligations of the directors and notably impose that: strategic developments, appoint the executive officers responsible for managing the Company in line with the corporate strategy, • before accepting their duties as director of the Company, the monitor the implementation of this strategy, take decisions directors must ensure that they are familiar with the Company’s regarding major transactions, ensure the quality of information Articles of Association, the Board of Directors’ Internal Rules, supplied to shareholders and the markets, particularly in the and the legal and regulatory provisions governing the functions financial statements, and guarantee the quality of its operations. of a director of a French joint stock corporation (société anonyme), and in particular the rules relating to the definition The Board of Directors can decide to set up one or more of the powers of the Board of Directors, multiple directorships, specialized committees. It defines the composition and remit of the agreements falling within the scope of Article L. 225-38 of these committees, which operate under the responsibility of the the French Commercial Code, the holding and use of insider Board of Directors. In accordance with the Internal Rules of the information, the declarations of trading in the Company’s Board of Directors and each of its committees, some matters are shares and the black-out periods during which directors may therefore subject to prior review by the appropriate committee not trade in those shares; before being submitted to the Board of Directors for approval. • the directors are elected by all the shareholders and must act in all circumstances in the Company’s best interests; 3.3.2.2 OPERATING PROCEDURES • the directors must devote the necessary time and attention to The operating procedures of the Board of Directors are their duties. Consequently, the directors may not hold more determined by current laws and regulations, the Company’s than four other directorships in listed companies, including Articles of Association and its Internal Rules as updated in 2016 foreign companies, outside the Group. Accordingly, the to allow for the appointment of a senior independent director, directors undertake to inform the Chairman of the Nominating, and on 27 February 2017 in order to ensure compliance with Compensation and Corporate Governance Committee of any the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. new non‑executive or executive directorship that they might accept in a company outside the Group or outside the group The Board of Directors meets at least four times a year and of which he or she is a member, including their participation in whenever the interests of the Company so require. Meetings the committees of these companies’ boards; executive directors are convened by its Chairman. The convening notice may be may not hold more than two other directorships in listed delivered by any means, even verbally, eight days before the date companies outside the Group and must seek the opinion of of the meeting and, in urgent cases, without notice. It specifies the Board of Directors prior to accepting any new directorship where the meeting will take place. In principle, meetings take in a listed company; place at the Group’s head office but may in certain cases be held by conference call in accordance with the law, the Company’s • the directors must be committed and, where possible, take Articles of Association and the Board of Directors’ Internal Rules. part in all the Company’s Board of Directors’ meetings and the meetings of the committees to which they have been appointed, The Board of Directors’ meetings are chaired by the Chairman of as well as annual general meetings; the Board or, in his absence, by the oldest director in attendance. • prior to each Board of Directors’ meeting, except in the event The Board of Directors may legitimately deliberate even in the of an emergency justified by exceptional circumstances, the absence of a notice of meeting if all members are present or agenda and information on items on the agenda that require 115 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 3 special analysis and prior consideration, are sent to each The agenda of the Board of Directors’ meetings included recurring director with the notice of meeting or at least in sufficient time annual topics, in particular (i) approval of the Company’s annual before the meeting, whenever this can be accomplished without and half-yearly consolidated financial statements and review of any breach of confidentiality. The directors may also request the quarterly financial information and management forecast from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer any additional documents, as well as the Company’s draft press releases, the information they may consider necessary to properly fulfill their annual budget, and preparation of the annual general meeting, duties, particularly in the light of the meetings’ agenda; including approval of the draft resolutions, (ii) approval of the • if they deem it necessary, the directors may also request strategy presented during the annual seminar, (iii) approval additional training on the Group’s specific features, businesses, of the Chairman of the Board of Directors’ report on the and sector of activity, at the time of their appointment or during composition of the Board of Directors, the application of the their term of office. This training is organized by the Company, principle of gender balance, the conditions of the preparation which pays the related costs; and organization of the work of the Board of Directors as well as the internal control procedures put in place by the Company • all documents provided for Board of Directors’ meetings and and, more generally, questions of governance, (iv) setting of the all information collected during or outside Board of Directors’ compensation conditions for the Chairman and Chief Executive meetings are confidential, without exception, whether or not the Officer and Executive Committee members, as well as the setting information collected is presented as being confidential. In this and allocation of attendance fees among Board and Committee regard, the directors must consider themselves bound by strict members, (v) review of reports on the work of the specialized professional confidentiality beyond the simple duty of discretion committees, and (vi) the annual assessment of the Board of provided for by the law. Furthermore, the directors undertake Directors. not to express their individual views outside the boardroom on matters discussed during Board of Directors’ meetings, or on In 2016, the Board of Directors also reviewed the following: the opinions expressed by individual directors; and • the risk map; • as required by law and regulations, the directors must refrain • the 2016 insurance program; from trading in the Company’s securities (including derivative • the assessment of the Board of Directors’ operating procedures financial instruments) insofar as, by virtue of their duties, they for 2015 conducted by an independent advisory firm; have access to insider information. Furthermore, the directors must disclose any transactions they have entered into in respect • confirmation of the Company’s governance structure, the of the Company’s securities. re‑election of Thierry Le Hénaff as a director and as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for the duration The internal rules also provide that, when the positions of of his term of office; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held by the same person, the Board of Directors shall appoint one of the • the appointment of François Enaud as senior independent independent directors to serve as senior independent director, director; based on the recommendation of the Nominating, Compensation • the Bostik integration process and progress made on the and Corporate Governance Committee. For further details, see implementation of synergies between this new business and section 3.3.3 of this document. the rest of the Group; In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code and with best • the acquisition of the Den Braven group; governance practices, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer • various strategic investment or divestment projects, some key does not take part in any discussions concerning his term of office and compensation. This gives the other Board members projects (including Sunke), and, more generally, the Group’s the opportunity of conducting discussions without his presence at overall strategy, in particular during the strategic annual least once a year. However, since 2016 the internal rules have seminar and the monitoring of key operating priorities; provided that following the annual assessment of the Board of • the 2016 performance share plan; Directors’ operating procedures, the senior independent director • the appointment of Marie-José Donsion as a director and may organize and chair a meeting of non-executive directors, member of the Audit and Accounts Committee to replace Claire from which executive or employee directors are excluded. Pedini; • the Group’s environmental and safety situations; 3.3.2.3 ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS • changes in the competitive environment; The Board of Directors met eight times in 2016 (versus six in • feedback from the 2016 road shows; 2015). These meetings included a conference call organized to discuss a strategic project and the meeting held to renew the • renewal of the Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTN) program and term of office of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the of the authorization to issue bonds; Company at the close of the annual general meeting of 7 June • the changes in the Executive Committee and its succession plan, 2016. There was a high attendance rate at these meetings of including for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as well 95% (versus 93% in 2015 and 96% in 2014). On average, the as the management policy for executives; and meetings lasted approximately three hours. • the proposed share capital increase reserved for employees and former employees of the Group. Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA 116 Corporate Social Responsibility Appendix 3 2 At each meeting, the Chairman reviewed the transactions 3.3.2.4 ASSESSMENT OF THE OPERATING concluded since the previous meeting, and sought the PROCEDURES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS authorization of the Board of Directors for the main projects underway that were likely to be completed before the next In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code and its internal meeting. The Board of Directors was also informed at least once rules, the Board of Directors conducts an annual assessment of a quarter of the Company’s financial situation, cash position and its operating procedures by means of a formal questionnaire. commitments. Every three years in principle, an assessment is conducted by an external consultant. The form and terms of the Board’s assessment Since the beginning of 2017, the Board of Directors has met are discussed by the Nominating, Compensation and Corporate twice. These meetings focused in particular on: Governance Committee every year. • the 2017 budget; The Board of Directors’ 2015 operating procedures were • an insight into important topics, namely human resources assessed at the beginning of 2016 by Spencer Stuart, which policies, safety and the Group’s CSR approach; conducted individual interviews of each director based on a • the presentation of the 2017 insurance program; guide that was approved by the Chairman of the Nominating, Compensation and Corporate Governance Committee and the • updates to the risk map; Secretary of the Board of Directors. Prior to the interviews, each • the Board of Directors’ self-assessment of its operating director was invited to complete an online questionnaire. The procedures in 2016; findings from this assessment process were detailed in a report that was first presented to the Nominating, Compensation and • the assessment of directors’ independence and the allocation Corporate Governance Committee on 19 February 2016 and of attendance fees; then to the Board of Directors on 2 March 2016. The assessment • the closing of the consolidated and Company financial showed that the operating procedures of the Board of Directors statements for the year ended 31 December 2016, the proposed in 2015 were very good and that the Board had demonstrated allocation of profit and dividend distribution, and all related its maturity and efficiency and continued to improve since the documents (the management report, the Chairman of the Board previous independent assessment conducted by an external of Directors’ report prepared pursuant to Article L. 225-37 of consultant in 2012. Moreover, more than three-quarters of the the French Commercial Code, and more generally the 2016 directors who also sit on other companies’ boards considered that reference document), the preparation of the annual general Arkema’s Board of Directors had the best operating procedures. meeting, and, in particular, the resolutions to be submitted to Following the assessment and the presentation of the report, shareholders as well as the financial forecasts; certain areas for improvement were identified and agreed by • the definition of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s the Board. (For more details, see 2015 reference document). powers to issue deposits, commitments and guarantees for For 2016, the annual assessment of the Board of Directors was 2017; carried out formally on the basis of a questionnaire prepared • the review of related-party agreements and agreements by the Nominating, Compensation and Corporate Governance entered into and authorized during previous years which were Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. This implemented in 2016; assessment was discussed at the Board of Directors’ meetings on 18 January 2017 and 27 February 2017 respectively. After • the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s compensation analyzing the answers given by the directors, the Nominating, policy, the related special report and the draft resolution Compensation and Corporate Governance Committee presented submitted to the annual general meeting in accordance with a report to the Board of Directors showing that directors continued Article L. 225-37-2 nouveau of the French Commercial Code, to be very satisfied with the operating procedures of the Board as introduced by Act no. 2016-1691 of 9 December 2016 and that the areas for improvement identified in early 2016 had relating to transparency, the fight against corruption and all been taken into account, in particular through enhanced risk modernization of the economy, known as the « Loi Sapin II»; monitoring by the Board, the Board’s ongoing work in relation to • the components of compensation due or awarded to Thierry its own composition and evolution, and the scheduled presentation Le Hénaff, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, for 2016, of the Group’s CSR approach in a more detailed manner. submitted to the shareholders’ vote in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code; • the compensation conditions for the Executive Committee members (fixed compensation for 2017, variable part for 2016 and criteria used to determine the variable part for 2017); and • the annual reports of the Audit and Accounts Committee and the Nominating, Compensation and Corporate Governance Committee. 117 Communication On Progress 2016 ARKEMA Sustainable development Division 420, rue d’Estienne d’Orves 92700 Colombes France www.arkema.com arkema société anonyme with a share capital of €757,179,470 445 074 685 rcs nanterre Cover photo credit: Getty Images Matthew Benders Design and production:
