2016 Annual Sustainability Report Summary Introduction 03 Message from management 06 Value creation model 12 High-value Strategic priorities Risk management 13 19 relationships 24 Ethical and responsible relationships 25 Customer satisfaction 26 Employee engagement 30 Supply chain responsibility 34 Social development 35 Shareholder and investor relations 40 Relationship with the industry 41 About Oi 08 Results 21 Environmental Purpose, values and attitudes 09 Core business 11 Economic and financial results 22 management 43 Impact mitigation 44 Social report 46 Financial statements GRI content index 53 Corporate information and credits 69 Annex I – additional indicators 70 Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management INTRODUCTION Consultation with stakeholders INDUSTRY SURVEY Rating the issues considered material to sustainability according to: This publication contains information about our operations, policies, practices, performance and management in 2016. It describes the main points that served as guidelines for our relationships and initiatives during the year to create value for our stakeholders and the environment and to foster long-term sustainability. This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI’s G4 Three peers This report covers all our operations in Brazil – Oi S.A. and its subsidiaries – Guidelines’ Core option. It also considers the Abrasca (Associação Our 2014 between January 1 and December 31, 2016 and follows the Global Reporting Brasileira das Companhias Abertas, or Brazilian Association of from the Initiative (GRI) guidelines, thus allowing its users to compare our profile and Public Companies) Criteria for Preparing Annual Reports, the Sustainability economic, social and environmental performance over the last six years in which Ibase Social Report, NBCT 15 (Norma Brasileira de Contabilidade Brazilian we have adopted those guidelines. G4-3, G4-7, G4-28 Técnica 15, or Brazilian Accounting Standard 15), CPC (Comitê de Pronunciamentos Contábeis, or Brazilian Accounting Standards Report We also present data from previous years throughout the report to Committee) and Codim (Comitê de Orientação para Divulgação de market contextualize this year’s information, as well as future prospects and goals Informações ao Mercado, or Guidance Committee for the Disclosure to provide readers with an overview of the path and business model we are of Information to the Market). Accounting data follow the IFRS planning to follow. (International Financial Reporting Standards), as recommended by the CVM (Comissão de Valores Mobiliários, or Brazilian Securities Commission). G4-15, G4-32 Key industry performance indicators of the European Federation Material topics LEARN MORE AT THE END OF THIS PUBLICATION of Financial Analysts Societies G4-2, G4-18, G4-25, G4-26 The GRI Index sets out the indicators reported and their locations in this document, thus making it easier to find information. (EFFAS) In line with the GRI guidelines, in 2014, we consulted our stakeholders to find out what issues they considered material to the sustainability of our business – as The Progress Achieved box describes our initiatives in line with the far as their relationship with Oi is concerned – and ultimately prepare a strategic, commitments we took on by subscribing to the UN Global Compact objective report. This consultation process, as well as the findings outlining the material topics presented in the report, is described below. We intend to to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. The Governance & Accountability implement a new process to reassess materiality by 2019. Institute’s global study “Sustainability What Matters for the Telecommunications Industry” [3] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Online consultation With stakeholders G4-24 We conducted an online opinion survey with our stakeholders to find out which of the topics determined in the previous step they considered material to Oi’s sustainability. We obtained 333 responses from the following stakeholders: • Customers from all segments; • Administrative service providers; • Operational service providers; • Direct employees; • Independent contractors; • Financial agents; • Shareholders, investors or market analysts; • Members of the Legislative and Executive Branches; • Representatives of social entities; • Representatives of environmental entities; • Representatives of other telcos; and • Representatives of universities. [4] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Senior management’s priorities We interviewed 20 members of Oi’s senior management, including the CEO and the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and conducted a prioritization test, based on the topics determined in the first step, to find those material to our sustainability strategy in the short term. Open channel Our Corporate Financial Officer can be contacted at: Material topics pp-sustentabilidade@oi.net.br or invest@oi.net.br, for questions or suggestions. G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-27 G4-31 Consolidation of findings and matrix of material topics: Customers Satisfaction Assurance Compliance with laws and regulations related Consumption management of natural resources to its operations, services and product offerings in the company's operation High Governance Standards Well defined business strategy and solid Creation of jobs Customer’s Data Privacy and Safety economic performance Product lifecycle management Health and Safety of employees Social and economic development through infrastructure and offered services Promotion of sustainability in the value chain, Clear and transparent communication with especially suppliers About the matrix: the topics in the upper fields are considered material since our customers and stakeholders Digital inclusion in Brazil stakeholders believe they are more relevant to Oi’s sustainability at present. Innovation for social development and improved As such, they are addressed in greater detail throughout this report. environmental management [5] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Marco Norci Schroeder | Chief Executive Officer MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT G4-1 In 2016, Oi concentrated its efforts on the transformation of its business in At the same time, the Company continued to prioritize the pursuit of higher order to ensure a sustainable future and consolidate its prominent position in operational efficiency. Despite inflationary pressure, costs and expenses the Brazilian telecommunications market. This change, based on the strategy in Brazilian operations fell 2.0% in 2016 compared with 2015, a reduction of of convergence, digitalization, customer experience and austerity in costs, has approximately 8% in real terms in the period. The result was chiefly due to our been leading to greater operational efficiency, higher costumer profitability and efforts during the year on several fronts to control costs, optimize operations, improved service quality. From the macroeconomic point of view, 2016 was a increase productivity and improve the quality of services provided. challenging year with a direct impact on our revenues, mainly in the Personal Mobility (especially in prepaid) and B2B (business-to-business) segments. The One of the highlights of our operational efficiency fronts in 2016 was the prepaid segment is directly influenced by Brazil’s unemployment rate. In the absorption of the activities of network service providers, outsourced companies B2B segment, the economic downturn had a strong impact on both companies responsible for network maintenance, installation and repair. This move was and the government, which are seeking alternatives to reduce costs. As a designed to improve our customers’ experience and reduce the cost of field result, consolidated net revenues from the Company’s Brazilian operations operations. The direct management of field operations enabled the Company totaled R$ 25,996 million in 2016, down 5.0% from 2015, mainly impacted by to improve the efficiency of network preventive maintenance activities, thus the deterioration of the macro environment and the annual cut in regulated reducing the number of repairs and increasing productivity. At the same time, interconnection tariffs. the Company invested heavily in the training of field technicians, as well as in enhancing their quality of life. Despite this less dynamic economic scenario, Oi obtained important results in 2016, including annual revenue growth of 23.6% in pay TV, 6.9% As a result of this strategy, Oi improved in several operational indicators, in broadband and 9.4% in postpaid. In the pay-TV segment, Oi recorded including the average waiting time for problem resolution, which fell more the best performance in the period, being the only operator to post growth than 30% in the year, and the average time until installation, which dropped among the major economic groups on the market. These results partially almost 60%. These results had a direct impact on the improvement of the offset the macroeconomic effects and the reduction in regulatory tariffs. The quality of services, evidenced by the 28% reduction in complaints to ANATEL service convergence strategy has been extremely important to reduce the for technical reasons. macroeconomic impact, especially in the Residential segment. As part of another relevant cost reduction front, the Company implemented As a result of the strategy of digital transformation, Oi has been spearheading several actions to reduce energy consumption, promoting a culture of innovation in a highly dynamic market and positioning itself as a benchmark in conscious consumption through efficient energy use processes, automation the telecommunications sector, enabling the creation of new digital services and replacement of inefficient equipment. We have also made some changes and products. We have established partnerships to create innovative telecom related to lighting, air-conditioning, co-generation and telecom equipment. solutions with Brazilian startups and research institutes, such as the first Oi also increased the amount of energy contracted in the free market, reference lab in Latin America for the development of Internet of Things (IoT) encouraging the expansion of renewable source generation companies, such projects and solutions focused on the digital transformation of cities, which will as small hydroelectric power plants, biomass power plants, wind farms and contribute to issues such as urban mobility, quality of life and climate change. solar power plants. [6] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Oi invested R$ 4.8 billion in Brazil in 2016, 17.6% more than in 2015, Oi has been working to conclude the negotiations with its creditors in order demonstrating its long-term commitment to transformation and the to secure approval for the judicial reorganization plan and thus ensure the sustainability of our business. Investments in infrastructure ensured a more Company’s future sustainability. It is important to mention that the Oi Group efficient operational performance and improved both service quality and the plays an important role in the domestic market and invests heavily in the user experience, underlined by the continuous improvement of several network country, supporting almost 130,000 direct and indirect jobs. We have reinforced quality indicators, directly reflected in the creation of value for the business. our commitment to our public pledges, including the Global Compact, reflected in our corporate policies, and to social responsibility, through several actions In the regulatory sphere, it is important to highlight the evolution of discussions focusing on the Sustainable Development Goals. about the country’s regulatory framework and the concession model, especially in terms of enabling the reduction of concessionaires’ obligations Due to regulations of market sustainability indexes, which prevent the and their migration to an authorization environment. Anatel has been studying participation of companies undergoing judicial reorganization, we have been the best way to estimate the gains resulting from the migration and the excluded from portfolios and ratings in which we used to be included until then, reduction of obligations related to services that the population does not need such as the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) and the Efficient Carbon Index as a way to offset higher investments in broadband. (ICO2) of the BM&FBovespa (now B3), the Euronext Vigeo Emerging 70 index of this European stock exchange, and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) As widely disclosed to the market, in June 2016, Oi and some of its subsidiaries of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), in the Emerging Markets category. filed a request for judicial reorganization. The purpose of this legal instrument is However, as indicated above, the Company is maintaining its strategy of to enable – through approval of a judicial reorganization plan by the creditors – incorporating sustainable principles and actions into all its business fronts. the settlement of the companies’ debt and to equip them to continue investing in the improvement of the services provided to their customers, carrying out their In sum, although the Oi Group is under judicial reorganization, it remains operational activities on a business-as-usual basis and preserving jobs. committed to continuing its operational transformation and investing in infrastructure in order to increase efficiency and improve the quality of While it has been increasing investments in infrastructure and consistently services provided to over 63 million customers throughout the country in a improving quality indicators, since the beginning of the judicial reorganization sustainable manner. process, the Company has been recording strong cash generation, showing that it has a healthy operation and great value creation potential. Between Enjoy your reading! June and December 2016, Oi’s operational cash generation totaled over R$ 2.7 billion, closing the year with a cash position of R$ 7.8 billion. José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha Marco Norci Schroeder Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer [7] ABOUT OI CHAPTER. 1 Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Purpose, values and attitudes Core business PURPOSE, VALUES AND Values ATTITUDES Customers first Credibility must be earned We know we must be constantly aware of our customers’ trends and demands We believe we must be honest in everything we do – from the connections to create connections that promote change in a world evolving faster than ever. we create to the way in which we execute our processes. Strategic Opportunities We anticipate customers’ needs and think about others before thinking of us. Our customers guide everything we do. That is how we have gained trust and built sound, lasting and serious relationships and business with all our partners. “Being an organization recognized for outdoing itself constantly to offer remarkable experiences and connection solutions. Accordingly, we improve people’s everyday lives, thus promoting stakeholders’ sustainable growth driven by true connections.” Commitment to evolution Oi is each one of us We seek to promote collaborative environments, encourage an entrepreneurial Oi is the pulse and vibe of each one of us, whether or not we are at work. spirit, innovation and curiosity in everything we do. We walk and we grow together in the same direction. Purpose We know that, by contributing to people’s development, we are moving society forward and fulfilling our purpose of maximizing connections that drive people. We know our every gesture, action or decision represents the entire organization. Therefore, we act as part of the whole, always in search of the best path. “Boosting connections that drive people.” Being connected allows people to reach further, be more relevant, access Focus leads to results more information, find satisfaction and happiness. We believe our role is to develop any and all solutions to bring together people, objects and institutions Having a focus means looking straight at a goal, knowing where we want to get, – solutions that create new possibilities and make everyday life better. making choices and setting priorities. That means fostering a prosperous environment for Brazilians to develop themselves, realize their dreams and conquer the world. It allows us to do everything more effectively, managing the Company’s resources as if they were ours. [9] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Purpose, values and attitudes Core business Cost control Customer vision We control costs in our activities and are responsible for the use of the Oi Attitudes We offer efficient solutions that are suitable to both internal and external customers, in line with the Company’s resources. We always act with awareness. We do not tolerate waste and think business strategy. about how to best use the Company’s resources at all times. We plan our activities in advance and we are always seeking new ways to Attitude of ownership We are always attentive. We listen to your needs. increase productivity. Only those who know customers well can meet their We act and make decisions as if the Company were ours. expectations and gain their trust. We are fully committed. We go beyond our obligation: we prioritize what is best for the business and we are aligned with the Company’s ethical principles. This is how we evolve, overcome challenges and produce sustainable results. Focus on results Collaborative spirit Our actions are driven towards reaching established goals. We work collaboratively in order to ensure the delivery of results. We are tireless; we never give up. With attention to detail, we We share knowledge and experience. We help one another. We want answer all questions and prioritize what is most important. We solve everyone to grow. Together, we are stronger. Together, we can do more. problems in a rapid and assertive manner. We like to celebrate good results! [ 10 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Purpose, values and attitudes Core business CORE BUSINESS G4-4, G4-8, G4-9 We are a telecommunications utility and offer mobile phone, fixed line, broadband, pay TV, public telephone services and network usage (interconnection), as well as Information and Communication Technology (ICT) solutions. Headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, we offer services throughout Brazil by means of a structure of 14,431 direct employees and 116,460 contractors who serve approximately 63.6 million Revenue Generating Units (RGUs). We have approximately 363,000 kilometers of fiber optic installed and own Brazil’s largest backbone. Our mobile coverage reaches approximately 88.9% of Brazil’s population. G4-5, G4-6 RGUs per segment Personal Mobility B2B1 – Fixed line, broadband, TV, mobile Residential – TV, fixed line phone, data network and Oi Soluções and broadband services 16.4 million 39.9 million 6.6 million RGUs RGUs RGUs 1. B2B: Business-to-Business [ 11 ] VALUE CREATION MODEL CHAPTER. 2 Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Strategic priorities Risk management STRATEGIC PRIORITIES G4-13 In 2016, our strategic plan remained focused on digitalization, convergence, data, cost control and improved user experience. We achieved operational improvements in our business segments, especially in the Residential division. Operational improvement and new businesses Our strategy was based on operational improvements with cash accumulation, Operational quality especially: Focusing on the operations, we have improved network quality, increased Our operational plan was based on four pillars: • Growing focus on execution, doing more with less and ensuring the investments and prioritized structural projects, with quality forums and 1. Select investment in network offensive elements; Company’s operational feasibility; processes to ensure revenue. Network modernization and expansion, 2. Operational model based on production control and planning (PCP); • Continuous improvement in operational efficiency and strict cost control; combined with the launch of strategic products, supported by the direct 3. Field staff automation with operational efficiency gains; • Increased investments despite the macroeconomic headwinds; management of field operations and the new customer service model, have 4. Absorption of network service providers, outsourced companies responsible • Better service quality, with improvements in several quality and operational increased operational efficiency, thus improving our customers’ experience. for plant maintenance, installation and repair. indicators (including Anatel2, Special Civil Court (JEC)3 and Procon4 indicators), reflecting a better customer experience; At the end of the year, 75% of field technicians performing operational activities • Continuation of the digital transformation in order to ensure the sustainable were working at companies linked to Oi and under our management. We directly future of the business, based on innovation and value creation; supervise these activities, providing training and guidance, as well as adjusting • The judicial reorganization process is progressing as expected. processes. This has led to both quality improvements and cost reductions. Main operational indicators and their improvements The average waiting time until the Compliance with the schedule The average time for service Oi’s share of complaints to Anatel fell 9%, while complaints for technical service repair fell of visits requested by customers installation declined reasons dropped compared with increased 2015; 42.9% 60.3% 41.6% 14.8% 2 Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações, or Brazilian National Telecommunications Agency. 3 Special Civil Court, a Justice bureau created to process less complex cases. 4 Consumer protection agency. [ 13 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Strategic priorities Risk management Corporate Governance Our Bylaws, approved in September 2015, are characterized by the adoption of the highest corporate governance standards. New businesses At the same time, we have Oi’s Best Governance Practices In 2016, we reaffirmed our positioned ourselves as commitment to the development a pioneering company in of innovation initiatives. Thanks to the IoT segment after the the continuous investment in R&D launch of Latin America’s and innovation projects, which first IoT laboratory Simultaneous, Adoption of Promotion of sustainable totaled over R$ 78 million in 2016, we equipped to work with immediate and fair International practices, such intensified our activities in science LTE-M (Long Term disclosure of material Financial Reporting as publishing the and technology institutions and Evolution for Machines, information; Standards (IFRS); Company’s Sustainability incubators in order to explore highmobile phone technology Policy and Annual potential business opportunities for IoT) in partnership with Sustainability Report; unrelated to the core business, such Nokia. The technology in Publication of the as healthcare, mobile advertising – the laboratory, the only one Annual Management Unrestricted adoption advertising on websites or mobile in Brazil, represents next Report; of principles of Commitment to corporate applications – and IoT applications. generation connectivity conduct; social responsibility for the IoT segment through investments in Using the Innovation Belt, we and will allow us to Oi Futuro; have developed groundbreaking support select partners Ombudsman and projects with partners, enabling in the development Grievance Mechanisms Adoption of Information the creation of pioneering offers in of solutions with high in place; Disclosure and Securities Separation between the telecommunications market. potential for disruption, Trading Policies; the Chairman of the Solutions like Oi Smart and Oi Mais making the laboratory Board of Directors and Saúde show that an open innovation a hub for initiatives of Chief Executive Officer strategy, which brings us closer to this kind. The laboratory positions. the startup ecosystem, enables us to will become a new explore opportunities associated with source of opportunities our business more rapidly to be explored through and effectively. partnerships in one of the markets with the highest growth potential in the coming years. For further information about Oi’s governance structure, bylaws, bodies and policies, please go to: http://www.oi.com.br/ri > English > The Company > Boards and Committees > Executive Board. G4-34, G4-38 [ 14 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Strategic priorities Risk management Sustainability governance We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2009 and, as such, we undertook initiatives related to the UNGC principles and the Sustainable Development Goals (learn about the connection between the information in this report and the UNGC principles on the next page). In this regard, we were involved in different national and international sustainability initiatives. We disclose information to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) voluntarily and publish our inventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the Public Emissions Registry of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program every year. In addition, we undertook initiatives related to Termo de Mútua Cooperação contra a Pedofilia (Mutual Cooperation Agreement Against Pedophilia), which brings together telcos, the Federal Public Attorney's Office, the Brazilian Federal Police and the Safernet Brasil organization to prevent and stop crimes against children and adolescents over the internet. G4-35, G4-42, G4-43, G4-46, G4-49, G4-50 We have a number of internal committees and committees responding • Anti-Fraud and Anti-Corruption Committee: an internal committee directly to the Board of Directors to manage sustainability issues: composed of executives responsible for deliberating on serious incidents of fraud and corruption; • Executive Sustainability Group: advises the Company’s Management Committee in the adoption of sustainable practices; • Corporate Governance and Finance Committee: composed of independent members appointed by the Board of Directors, to which • Management Committee (CDG): a high-level internal committee it reports directly, this committee is responsible for ensuring the best formed by L1 officers (level 1 officers report directly to the Chief corporate governance and business conduct practices are adopted Executive Officer) that monitors issues material to the Company and continuously; makes decisions related to them; • Risks and Contingencies Committee: composed of independent • Ethics Committee: an internal committee formed by executives members appointed by the Board of Directors, to which it reports appointed by the Executive Committee, it is responsible for constantly directly, this committee oversees contingency management and reviewing the Code of Ethics and managing issues related to it. It control and ensures the Company’s management and inspection examines and deliberates on violations of the Code of Ethics and bodies work in a coordinated manner; decides on the sanctions to be imposed, which are reported to the Executive Committee and posted on the Decisions Board; • Quality Committee: a strategic committee, formed by L1 officers, that monitors quality indicators and material issues and makes decisions related to them, in order to improve the customer experience. [ 15 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Strategic priorities Risk management Sustainable Development Goals Progress Achieved – 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere. 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and Global Compact sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition 1. Businesses should support 6. Businesses should uphold the and promote sustainable agriculture. 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries. and respect the protection of elimination of discrimination in internationally proclaimed human respect of employment 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. 11. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and rights. and occupation. sustainable. 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote 2. Businesses should make sure that 7. Businesses should support lifelong learning opportunities for all. 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. they are not complicit in human a precautionary approach to rights abuses. environmental challenges. 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. 3. Businesses should uphold the 8. Businesses should undertake 6. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine freedom of association and the initiatives to promote greater sanitation for all. resources for sustainable development. effective recognition of the right to environmental responsibility. collective bargaining. 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern 15. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 9. Businesses should encourage energy for all. ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, 4. Businesses should uphold the the development and diffusion and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. elimination of all forms of forced of environmentally friendly 8. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic and compulsory labour. technologies. growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. 16. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, 5. Businesses should uphold the 10. Businesses should work against accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. effective abolition of child labour. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 17. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. [ 16 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Strategic priorities Risk management Correlation with the Global Compact Principles Correlation with the Sustainable Development Goals Item Actions/Initiatives Page(s) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 1 Sustainability Policy 25 Occupational Health and Safety 2 25 and Environmental Policy 3 Stakeholder Engagement Policy 25 4 Code of Ethics 25 5 Climate Change Policy 25 6 Internal Ombudsman Channel 25 7 Ethics Committee Operations 15 8 Online ethics training (e-learning) 77 9 Sustainability in the Supply Chain 34 10 IoT Laboratory 6 and 14 11 Supplier Training 34 GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Emissions 12 72 Inventory Annual information for the Carbon 13 15 and 72 Disclosure Project (CDP) 14 NAVE – Advanced Education Center 38 Oi Kabum! School of Arts 15 38 and Technology 16 Oi Novos Brasis 39 17 Childhood and Adolescence Fund (FIA) 39 18 Subsidized Sports Sponsorship 39 19 Cultural Centers 38 20 Telecommunications Museum 38 [ 17 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Strategic priorities Risk management Correlation with the Global Compact Principles Correlation with the Sustainable Development Goals Item Actions/Initiatives Page(s) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Freedom of Association with Unions, 21 Collective Bargaining, Collective Labor 32, 51 and 77 Agreements and Workload Agreements Waste/Solid Waste 22 49 and 73 Management Program Selective waste collection in the main 23 73 administrative buildings 24 Ombudsman channel on the website 25 25 Actions to reduce GHG emissions 73 Collection and special disposal of 26 44, 73 and 74 batteries and mobile phones 27 Own fleet management 73 28 Use of reusable envelopes 71 Term of Mutual Cooperation 29 15 Against Pedophilia 30 Mapping of corporate risks 19 and 20 Brazilian Navy Partnership 31 36 Antarctic Base Digital Inclusion National Broadband 32 36 Program (PNBL) Digital Inclusion Broadband 33 36 at Schools Program (PBLE) Digital Inclusion General 34 36 Universalization Target Plan (PGMU) 35 Digital Inclusion Backhaul 36 Public disclosure of Reports, Results, 36 Minutes, Material Acts and Facts, 40 Notices and Filings. Internal control environment 37 appropriate for Sarbanes-Oxley 19 Certification 38 Energy Efficiency Initiatives 44 and 45 [ 18 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Strategic priorities Risk management RISK MANAGEMENT G4-2, G4-45, G4-46 Our risk management and internal control processes are monitored and overseen Given the need for clear mechanisms to assess and manage the risks that In 2016, we strengthened our risk management model by maintaining the by the Management Committee, which reports to the Fiscal Committee and the affect our business, we have implemented the following components in the operation of the Business Continuity Committee, implemented in 2012. The Board of Directors. management process: Committee operates in compliance with standard ABNT NBR ISO 22301:2013 in order to mitigate possible risks that may impact not only Oi’s operations, but We have a Risk Management and Internal Control Policy that has been • Risk Dictionary: ensures a clear and objective description of the risk using a especially society or the environment. approved by senior management and published internally. This policy common language. It can be used not only internally, but also in the various considers the Company’s consolidated structure and its monitoring, reviewed market disclosures related to this matter; Below are the main risks to which our business may be exposed. Please refer to and updated every year, in order to ensure the identification and prioritization sections 4 and 5 of our Reference Form, available on http://www.oi.com.br/ri, for a of critical risks and the development of management strategies in order to • Methodology: formalizes the processes and procedures for identifying, detailed description of each of them and the management strategies adopted. implement actions and controls to mitigate these risks. Our policy is in line analyzing, mitigating and reporting relevant risks; with the best market practices: • Risk Repository: gathers information associated with each relevant risk, • Best Corporate Governance practices of the Brazilian Corporate Governance simplifying the analysis and correlation between the various recorded risk Institute (IBGC); factors, supporting the hierarchy of responses and the identification of synergies between mitigation actions. • ABNT NBR ISO 31000:2009 – Risk Management – Principles and Guidelines; • The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO – ERM); • ABNT NBR ISO 22301:2013 – Company security – Business continuity management system; In 2016, we launched Oi’s Integrity Program to improve our corporate risk mitigation structure and anti-corruption mechanisms, and to optimize business processes in keeping with market’s requirements regarding transparency of operations. • Law 12,846/13 (anti-corruption) – to assess corruption risks. [ 19 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Strategic priorities Risk management Operational risks Connected with: Process Energy soundness shortage Market risks Reliability Dependence We monitor the main financial risks through rules defined by the Financial Investment and Hedging Policies, which formalize the s; of internal on strategic management of the Company’s exposure to market, credit and liquidity risk factors. We monitor our financial transactions in order to ensure t e compliance with the limits set out in the policies and report to senior e ra management. We are mainly exposed to market risks arising from h a ng es. systems suppliers exchange rate fluctuations, which impact our liabilities in foreign t currency, and interest rate changes, which affect the fair value and cash flow of financial transactions. Exc st ra t e re In Customer Network default security [ 20 ] RESULTS CHAPTER. 3 Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Economic and financial results Value Added Distribution (VAD) ECONOMIC In 2016, Oi distributed approximately R$ 16 million in value added, to: AND FINANCIAL G4-EC1 RESULTS G4-9 Value Added Distribution 2014 2015 2016 Total (R$ ,000) (%) Total (R$ ,000) (%) Total (R$ ,000) (%) Government 9,915 58.7% 8,551 38.2% 11,560 72.7% Consolidated net revenues amounted to R$ 25,996 million in 2016, of which R$ 9,376 million from the Residential segment, R$ 7,849 million from Personal Employees 2,540 15.0% 2,443 10.9% 2,537 16.0% Mobility and R$ 7,607 million from the B2B segment. Net revenues from other Shareholders 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% international operations closed the year at R$ 833 million. Retained (4,408) -26.1% (5,168) -23.1% (6,944) -43.7% Despite the year-over-year decline in net revenues, the broadband and pay-TV products stood out in 2016, partially offsetting the drop in revenue from fixed Independent Contractors 8,837 52.3% 16,951 75.8% 8,928 56.1% line products and contributing to the increase in the number of households with bundled packages, thus leading to a rise in net average revenues per user and greater customer loyalty in the Residential segment. Operating costs and expenses (not including depreciation and amortization) amounted to R$ 19,620 million in 2016, broken down as follows: R$ 6,399 million R$ MM Dec/16 Dec/15 Debt in third-party services, R$ 4,330 million in rent and insurance, R$ 2,852 million in Short-Term 48,191 13,192 At the end of 2016, our consolidated gross debt totaled R$ 48,191 million. The personnel, R$ 1,540 million in network maintenance services and R$ 1,173 million annual reduction in debt was due to principal and interest amortizations made in interconnection costs. Long-term 41,789 before the request for judicial reorganization was filed, in June 2016, in addition to the positive impact of the appreciation of the real against the dollar (+16.5%) and EBITDA came to R$ 6,377 million, with a 24.5% margin, in 2016. The annual net Total debt 48,191 54,981 the euro (+19.1%) on debt in foreign currency. loss of R$ 7,121 million was mainly impacted by the write-off of tax credits on the accumulated tax loss in the income tax and social contribution line, reflecting In R$ 13,448 12,922 Net debt closed 4Q16 at R$ 40,342 million, 2.0% down from 3Q16. Net debt fell the estimated tax result of the judicial reorganization plan. In foreign currency 34,638 46,935 for the second consecutive quarter, driven by a reduction in gross debt and an increase of 9.9%, or R$ 708 million, in cash in the quarter, thanks to positive Swap 105 -4,876 operational cash generation and income from financial investments. Oi’s cash position came to R$ 7,849 million on December 31, 2016. (-) Cash -7,849 -16,826 (=) Net Debt 40,342 38,155 [ 22 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Economic and financial results Capital Expenditures R$ MM Investments in Brazil 2016 2015 Investment in Brazilian operations totaled R$ 4,759 million in 2016, 17.6% up on 2015. At the end of 2016, Oi had completed all planned network capacity expansion In 2016, 85.5% of the total Network IT services 4,068 447 3,525 301 projects in order to support increasing data traffic and the improvement in fixed, mobile and pay-TV services, as well as to continue enabling the launch of new offers better suited to current customer needs. In the mobile segment, we investment in Brazilian operations, Others 244 222 successfully completed actions in 3G and 4G access networks and structural actions in the network core, enabling service expansion. In fixed line, we moved forward with the structural infrastructure projects, especially those related to amounting to R$ 4.1 billion, was Total 4,759 4,048 the expansion of the 100 Gbps Optical Transport Network (OTN) backbone, the modernization of the IP network core and the expansion of its access through the Single Edge project, in addition to other initiatives to upgrade and optimize the absorbed by the network, mainly access network capacity. allocated to: (I) improving the quality of the 3G mobile network, (II) improving the fixed network for broadband services, (III) optimizing the Oi TV platform, and (IV) implementing and expanding the 4G network. [ 23 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships Desenvolvimento da sociedade relations the industry HIGH-VALUE RELATIONSHIPS CHAPTER. 4 [ 24 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE RELATIONSHIPS G4-56, G4-57, G4-58 Transparency and constant dialogue are key elements of our relationship with We believe we must be ethical and responsible with the environment and our different stakeholders. We seek to be close to society, suppliers, customers and stakeholders to ensure the longevity of our business. We adopted principles investors at all times in order to anticipate their needs, engage in discussions and policies governing the everyday conduct of our direct and indirect about public policies and provide any clarification that may be needed. employees, as representatives of Oi, considering our wide reach through thousands of employees, suppliers and millions of customers nationwide. The idea is to ensure ethical and responsible decisions and initiatives at all times. Code of Ethics: Stakeholder Engagement Policy: Climate Change Policy: Our Code of Ethics sets principles and values that govern employees’ This policy governs decision-making processes related to This Policy describes our climate governance strategy to manage the conduct with peers, partners, customers and suppliers. It contains stakeholder engagement by setting guidelines for all employees in risks and impacts of greenhouse gas emissions and provide a basis the principles of social and environmental responsibility and their relationship with our different stakeholders. The purpose is to for developing mitigation or adaptation mechanisms that ensure the recommendations about respecting diversity, using assets build sound relationships that create sustainability value. Company’s longevity in a low-carbon economy. and resources properly, handling confidential information, and dealing with government bodies, media, investors, customers and suppliers. An audio version is also available so people with visual Confidential mechanism for filing grievances about violations of impairment can also have access to our Code of Ethics. the Code of Ethics: Anti-corruption Policy: This policy sets out the rules and guidelines that must be observed • Interactive (internal stakeholders) Sustainability Policy: and complied with in order to ensure that the activities conform to • 0800 282 2088 Our Sustainability Policy consists of 27 principles governing business the anti-corruption regulatory requirements. • On Oi's website: http://www.canalconfidencial.com.br/oi/ practices to ensure economic and financial profitability with social and environmental responsibility. All incidents reported are examined by the Fraud Investigation Board Institutional Policy: to determine the appropriate course of action. This policy formalizes the concepts and establishes guidelines for Occupational Health and Safety and Environment Policy: interactions of our executives, employees and representatives with This policy describes management’s and employees’ duty to promote public agents or government officials. the highest degree of physical, mental and social well-being for the Please go to whole staff by maintaining a healthy and safe working environment, http://www.oi.com.br/ri > English > The Company > Sustainability and based on health, safety and environmental risks management. http://www.oi.com.br/ri > English > The Company > Codes and Policies for our policies. [ 25 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Convergence and digital Our main challenge in 2016 was to transform efficiency into experience. In order to Through Minha Oi, via website or mobile app, our customers can securely increasing data transmission capacity and quality, the network, which uses improve our customers’ experience, we had to be innovative, bet on the synergies monitor their spending on fixed voice, broadband and mobile without Optical Transport Network (OTN) equipment, was designed to further protect between teams, combine knowledge, be assertive in the use of resources and wasting paper. In addition to reducing the Company’s costs, the online bill is our customers from interruptions caused by accidents and external events, improve processes with impacts on internal improvements and customer service more practical for customers. including weather conditions. and satisfaction. We invested in the digitalization of services, maintaining our focus on the operational front; we were able to increase investments and make Developed internally based on employee suggestions, the Dados Fácil We expanded our 4G coverage, reaching over 88 municipalities in December, in improvements, despite the adverse scenario throughout the year. (Easy Data) tool automated complex stages of the corporate data service compliance with the Anatel resolution that set out a minimum coverage of 80% delivery process, expediting customer service. A pioneering initiative in in all the cities with more than 200,000 inhabitants. This project, carried out in At the end of 2016, we repositioned ourselves in the market with the launch of the telecommunications market, the solution enabled the digitalization of partnership with two other operators (Tim and Vivo) that work with us under the the most complete product in the industry, Oi Total, which combines mobile, processes and was developed for the team supporting field technicians, ran sharing model (network sharing), built 1,575 sites, 504 of which under Oi’s broadband, pay-TV and fixed voice. Oi Play, Oi’s content portal (free for all reducing activation time and improving productivity, quality and safety. We responsibility, distributed in 30 municipalities. customers), features movie, TV and internet content any time, anywhere. have launched a pilot version for our technicians’ mobile devices, which allows them to set up corporate customers’ routers and data links directly on their smartphones, without needing to contact the support team. It also eliminates the need for paper documentation of the technical visit report, which may be Oi Total’s launch was based on ethnographic qualitative research, digitally signed by customers, reducing the activation time and logistics costs, and eliminating the need for the support team to travel. We activated Brazil's first fully designed to map consumer behavior. The research identified that customers were greatly interested in content and needed to be connected to various devices at the same time. In addition, more than In our corporate customer segment, which focuses on small and medium enterprises, the Oi Mais Empresas solution offers our customers the possibility of using the app to request a series of services, such as bill copies and repairs, interconnected network with 3,200 people responded to an extensive questionnaire to determine Oi Total’s portfolio of plans and prices. as well as acquire new products or services. We activated Brazil's first fully interconnected network with 100 Gbps/second 100 Gbps/second connections, connections, extending for 30,000 km on national territory. In addition to extending for 30,000 km on national territory [ 26 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry Service Improvement Service cost Customer satisfaction1 Number of Complaints to Anatel indexed indexed repeated calls related to customer service We have established a new customer service quality model, improving efficiency, reducing costs, enhancing satisfaction and establishing a new indexed indexed competitive model for customer service partners. Our model used to be focused on two suppliers and, in 2016, we expanded it to six suppliers, dividing -16% total traffic volume between them. Every quarter, we carry out an evaluation +13% -19% -30% of our partners based on four indicators: number of repeated calls, number of complaints to Anatel per answered call, customer satisfaction levels observed in surveys and billing complaints. Based on this information, we classify partners based on their performance and then increase or reduce their traffic volume accordingly. We thus encourage healthy competition and improve service quality, rewarding the partners who obtained the best results. 4Q15 4Q16 4Q15 4Q16 4Q15 4Q16 4Q15 4Q16 Complaints to Anatel Complaints to Procon Complaints to Special Monthly Average. Indexed Monthly Average. Indexed Civil Court (JEC) Monthly Average. Indexed -10% -19% -36% 1 We contact customers who call the customer service center within 24 hours after the call to assess their satisfaction with the service provided by the operator. The survey’s results are used as input for the calculation of the operators' variable compensation and the granting of bonuses to partners. 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 [ 27 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry G4-PR5 In order to continue improving, we conduct an outbound phone survey to In 2016, we conducted 30 surveys on various topics in order to understand assess the satisfaction level of customers contacting our Customer Service Center (CSC) one business day after the contact at most. Those customers are asked by a voice message to rate their latest contact from 0 to 10. consumer problems and/or needs that can only be identified through research. The surveys are used to detect our customers’ behavior related to a service or a certain functionality and are used as input in decision making related We have a 24/7 This survey allows us to monitor satisfaction on a daily basis, use the results to make decisions related to products or partners and take corrective action to the format of new offers, corrections, communication approaches and improvements to internal processes. This quantitative research also allows us to measure customer satisfaction. customer service whenever we detect significant problems. The phone surveys conducted by the Customer Service Center showed an overall satisfaction rate of 6.32 in 2016. call center Mobile Residential States G4-PR3 2015 2016 2015 2016 All our telecom services comply with Law 9,472/97 (Lei Geral de RGC is concerned with users’ and carriers’ rights and obligations. For Amapá, Maranhão, Piauí, Pará Telecomunicações, or General Telecommunications Act); RGC (Regulamento example, users have the right to receive an invoice with a detailed 5.42 6.08 6.02 6.16 Geral dos Direitos do Consumidor dos Serviços de Telecomunicações, description of the services used, as well as the respective charges and and Ceará states or General Regulations on the Rights of Telecommunications Service taxes. One of the duties of service providers is to handle users’ queries, Consumers), approved by Anatel (Agência Nacional de Telecomunicações, complaints, compliments, etc. Federal District; Amazonas, Mato Grosso do Sul, Rondônia, Roraima, or Brazilian National Telecommunications Agency) Resolution 632/2014; and 5.74 6.33 6.92 6.95 Anatel’s specific regulations on each service. In the specific case of the In this regard, we have a 24/7 customer service call center and contact Goiás, Acre, Mato Grosso and Tocantins states Conditioned Access Service (SeAC), we also comply with Law 12,485/2011 and channels at our stores or on our website. In addition, we are working to offer Ancine’s (Agência Nacional de Cinema, or Brazilian National Cinema Agency) more and more digital channels to speed up customer service. standards. Therefore, there are specific definitions and requirements for the Minas Gerais and Espírito Santo states 5.31 6.06 6.35 6.33 features and provision of each service. Rio Grande do Norte, Paraíba, Bahia, Alagoas, Pernambuco and 5.43 6.13 6.21 6.47 Sergipe states Rio de Janeiro state 5.63 6.22 6.17 6.43 São Paulo state 5.26 5.76 5.96 6.17 Paraná, Rio Grande do Sul and Santa 5.86 6.40 6.75 6.95 Catarina states [ 28 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry CUSTOMER DATA SECURITY Our initiatives to ensure the security of customer information flowing internally comply with the applicable legal standards. They are intended to set technology standards for our network and raise staff’s awareness, mainly in Information security management ensures the minimum security the fields of business, information technology and engineering. A series of approvals will determine whether the user really needs that requirements are complied with in product R&D information. Information security management ensures the minimum security requirements are complied with in product R&D and in the testing phase, prior to production. It is also necessary whenever customer information is disclosed or stored externally. We seek to improve our internal processes constantly to increase customer data security. Customers’ personal data and other phone communication information are only disclosed to government authorities in the cases in which the law or the Constitution provides for the disclosure of telecommunication data. In 2016, we received 983 complaints through Anatel channels about the misuse of personal data. G4-PR8 Complaints about misuse of personal data 2015 2016 Oi Broadband 476 105 Oi Fixed line 656 396 Oi Mobile 439 438 Oi TV 46 44 Total 1,617 983 [ 29 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Workforce profile G4-9, G4-10 2016 2015 2014 Employees by position Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Executive Board 94 83 11 114 99 15 113 100 13 Managers 791 553 238 883 641 242 924 679 245 1. All employees are permanent in accordance with CLT Supervisors/coordinators 874 547 327 923 584 339 996 633 363 (Brazilian Labor Act) and work full time. Staff 12,672 7,854 4,818 14,637 9,198 5,439 16,262 10,460 5,802 2. All contractors are hired in accordance with CLT. The term of their work contracts and working hours are Total (1) 14,431 9,037 5,394 16,557 10,522 6,035 18,295 11,872 6,423 exclusively determined by the Company. Oi does not monitor individual service providers’ data; therefore, it cannot show their breakdown by gender. Contractors (2) 116,460 125,816 159,277 3. All apprentices are on a fixed-term contract in Apprentices (3) 116 51 65 101 40 61 150 78 72 accordance with CLT and work 4 hours a day. Interns (4) 340 172 168 346 189 157 670 414 256 4. Interns are on a fixed-term contract, governed by Lei do Estágio (Internship Act), and work 4 or 6 hours a day. Total 131,347 9,260 5,627 142,373 10,751 6,253 177,572 12,364 6,751 [ 30 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry 2016 2015 2014 Employees by location Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female South 1,539 1,101 438 1,817 1,342 475 2,159 1,596 563 Southeast 8,464 5,193 3,271 9,606 5,929 3,677 10,676 6,615 4,061 Midwest 1,189 858 331 1,331 954 377 1,563 1,118 445 Northeast 2,603 1,461 1,142 3,022 1,776 1,246 2,962 1,929 1,033 North 636 424 212 781 521 260 935 614 321 Total 14,431 9,037 5,394 16,557 10,522 6,035 18,295 11,872 6,423 Development G4-LA9, G4-LA10 In 2016, we took another step to encourage the development of our employees through the improvement of the training platform. We launched Oi Educa, a training management tool that enables better process control In the period, training totaled and offers more learning resources and experiences. In addition to traditional e-learning, the platform offers video aids, virtual classroom, document library, chats and forums, creating an environment that fosters collaboration and interaction between employees. We have definitively entered the era of 210,772 hours, social learning, in which collaboration and knowledge sharing are key drivers of people development and, consequently, the evolution of the business. 13% more than in 2015. [ 31 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry Other initiatives Trilhas de Liderança (Leadership Trails): these are training programs for the Health and safety Company’s leaders. The idea is to allow them to perform their activities in an G4-LA5, G4-LA7, G4-LA8 excellent manner, based on the best management practices. Multiplicadores de Qualidade (Quality multipliers): program for selecting and We greatly value our employees’ health and safety. Consequently, we seek training multipliers in different areas by tapping into technical experience and to identify all possible risks inherent in the business and manage them in a expertise already available and/or acquired through training. In addition to the proactive and careful manner. This concern also applies to our contractors. We supported more than technical aspect, multipliers are also trained in communication techniques and knowledge replication. Programa Geração (Generation Program): promotes the development of The activities performed by our employees are considered to involve low risk for occupational diseases. Nevertheless, we have Internal Accident Prevention Committees and Volunteer Fire Fighting and Prevention Brigades. 610 lives among pregnant young talent engaged in their professional growth. Programa Geração Estágio Técnico (Technical Internship Generation We also manage occupational safety actively and carefully to maintain a culture of prevention, mainly in field activities, thus mitigating all possible risks. women and babies in Program): focuses on the Network and System Technology and Operations areas and received 6,641 applications for the 99 places offered. We provide employees with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and Collective Protective Equipment (EPC), in compliance with legislation. In addition, we provide the program for the safe Programa Geração Estágio Superior (Higher Education Internship Generation Program): approximately 27,300 people applied for the 209 places offered. medical, hospital and dental care, and drugstore discounts for employees and their dependents, in accordance with collective bargaining agreements. management of pregnancy Pursuant to our National Accident Reduction and Safe Labor Plan, we In 2016, we offered around 23,015 hours of training to participants of the trained 344 Cipa (Internal Accident Prevention Committee) members. The Generation Program. program also offered 462 training courses on “Conscious and Defensive Driving”, reinforcing the need to raise the awareness of employees about the appropriate use of vehicles both at work and outside it. The “Risk Perception Focusing on the physical and emotional well-being of our employees, we Hours of training by gender and Safe Task Planning” course was delivered to 1,424 employees. In addition, continued with the Oi Vida em Dia (Oi Up-to-Date with Life) program, which 1,520 employees received training on how to work safely with electricity and at was launched in 2014 and promotes initiatives designed to value, care for and height in order to ensure the health and safety of workers directly and indirectly recognize our human capital. As part of our programs to monitor health and Gender 2015 2016 involved in these activities. quality of life management, we performed 12,880 medical tests, monitored around 1,900 employees and/or dependents with chronic diseases and The program went beyond training, bringing the concept of prevention to the supported more than 610 lives among pregnant women and babies in the Male 142,368 157,313 field. In 2016, our safety team conducted more than 1,600 field inspections program for the safe management of pregnancy. and raised the awareness of over 9,700 employees about safety through Female 44,056 53,458 actions including the Weekly Safety Dialog (DSS), the Internal Week for Workplace Accident Prevention (National SIPAT) and awareness campaigns. Total 186,424 210,772 [ 32 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry Health and Safety Indicators G4-LA6 Injury Rate North Midwest Northeast South Southeast 2016 Total 2015 Total 2014 Total Male 0.81 0.44 0.14 0.18 0.12 0.19 0.19 0.08 Female 0.00 0.59 0.09 0.00 0.18 0.17 0.14 0.35 Total 0.52 0.48 0.11 0.13 0.14 0.18 0.18 0.18 Independent Contractors 1.95 1.18 1.85 1.85 1.97 1.83 1.11 1.59 Total lost workdays North Midwest Northeast South Southeast 2016 Total 2015 Total 2014 Total Male 20.87 13.35 1.98 2.09 3.01 4.50 4.84 3.24 Female 0.00 9.73 1.31 0.00 2.76 2.56 2.40 3.02 Total 13.41 12.37 1.68 1.50 2.91 3.78 3.94 3.16 Independent Contractors 17.88 22.42 4.82 21.11 18.00 18.75 33.48 75.63 Total absenteeism North Midwest Northeast South Southeast 2016 Total 2015 Total 2014 Total Total HCOi 574 1253 2615 1537 8452 14431 Total HDM Oi 151536 330792 690360 405768 2231328 3809784 Days lost (absenteeism) by Oi employees 1902 3829 9543 3337 27162 45773 Total absenteeism of Oi employees 1.26 1.16 1.38 0.82 1.22 1.20 1.40 Total absenteeism of contractors We do not control contractors’ doctor’s notes. Learn more about our health and safety indicators in the additional indicators annex (learn more on page 70). [ 33 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY G4-12, G4-HR10, G4-EC9 Supplier chain Sharing good practices profile and job training We had a total of 1,446 suppliers in 2016. We paid them around R$ 9.7 billion, Good practices 99.8% of which to Brazilian companies. observed in the IQF and ultimately increase operational efficiency and reduce In 2016, we reviewed all the regulatory documents in order to adjust the occupational accidents and labor claims for both the Company and the supplier. Our suppliers are mainly Network Service Providers (NSPs), call center Compliance Policy in the supplier selection process. companies and technology and equipment providers, which account for about 50% of total payments to suppliers. They work in key points for our operational During this process, we request all suppliers to accept our Sustainability Training quality and service excellence. Policy and Code of Ethics, as well as meet the requirements set out in the social and environmental annex, which addresses health, safety, In addition, we have been assessing and monitoring the sustainable practices • NSPs: implementation and maintenance of the external plant, optical fiber environmental and human rights issues. of suppliers critical to the longevity of our business, as well as those of infrastructure and specialized licensing and site acquisition services. suppliers considered relevant by the social and environmental criteria, such We used the new sustainability criteria to assess 115 (19.3%) of all the suppliers as NSPs and call center companies, actively and continuously. In addition, • Technology and equipment companies: mobile network equipment, audited in 2016. Our diversified criteria to select and contract suppliers cover we check CEIS (Cadastro Nacional de Empresas Inidôneas e Suspensas, or equipment for customers (data, satellite and voice), switching, transmission issues such as occupational, environmental and social impacts; compliance Brazilian National Registry of Dishonest and Ineligible Companies), a database (radios and backbones), technical support, platforms and specific with legal requirements; and social and environmental responsibility. maintained by the Office of the Comptroller General of Brazil intended to identify equipment for the digital TV segment. companies that have suffered sanctions barring them from participating in The Third Party Management Division and the Health, Safety and Environment Division public tenders or entering into contracts with government bodies. • Call center: handling calls from and to customers of all our segments. monitor supplier compliance by auditing the Supplier Qualification Index (IQF). All contracts are based on standard drafts, with clauses covering all the items We conducted 21 IQF assessments of those suppliers in 2016. We focused listed above, in compliance with Brazilian anti-corruption laws or any other mainly on HR and Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) management of seven applicable anti-corruption laws, especially the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices previously selected suppliers. The evaluation generates a grade based on process Act (“anti-corruption regulations”), and a commitment to abstain from any acts compliance and an action plan, under the responsibility of the contract manager in breach of anti-corruption regulations. and the evaluated supplier in order to remedy any possible non-compliance [ 34 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT G4-15 We seek to create value through our activities to further social development by increasing access to telecom services and digital inclusion, and by focusing our corporate social investment on educational, culture and social innovation projects through Oi Futuro. Learn more about the main initiatives we undertook in 2016 below. G4-PR1, G4-PR2 As part of our social development goal based on access to telecommunications, we promote the responsible use of technology and telecommunications by engaging users and raising awareness of situations that may bring risks to society. It is worth mentioning our activity does not pose risks to customers’ health and safety. Electromagnetic radiation from our cell sites is within the limits prescribed by law and is much less energetic than that from radio and TV stations. The coverage of our cell sites ranges from tens of meters to around five kilometers. Noise levels are also within the limits prescribed by federal law. We monitor those levels continuously and submit regular reports to Anatel about the intensity of those radiation fields and the adoption of measures to reduce noise levels. [ 35 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry Access to telecom services and digital inclusion G4-EC7 Plano nacional de banda larga (PNBL) services. We invested over R$ 19.7 million in 2016 in 351 locations, of which R$ 13.8 million (116 locations) related to individual access and R$ 5.8 million We implemented PNBL (Plano Nacional de Banda Larga, or Brazilian National (235 locations) to public access. Broadband Plan) in 4,687 cities and towns, thus helping to increase access to broadband internet connection, promote digital inclusion, and reduce social and regional gaps in Brazil. Backhaul Note: On December 31, 2016, the commitment to adhere to the PNBL objectives was terminated. In 2016, we invested R$ 11.6 million in the Backhaul project to expand broadband services to more cities and towns, at no cost for customers, and At the end of Programa banda larga nas escolas (PBLE) upgrade speeds provided. At present, the Backhaul project is present in over 3,140 Brazilian cities and towns. 2016, we provided At the end of 2016, we provided broadband to 52,869 schools in urban areas and 3,740 schools in rural areas, including 533 new schools which Services for the brazilian army and navy broadband to began to be served in 2016. The PBLE (Programa Banda Larga nas Escolas, or Broadband at Schools Program) is designed to provide internet access equal to or higher than 2MB for all urban public elementary, middle and high We provide telecom services for the Brazilian Army to help it protect Brazilian borders, thus contributing to national security. Overall, we are present at 66 points in border regions, in ten Brazilian states. 52,869 schools in schools and teacher training schools for elementary, middle and high school teachers, indicated by the MEC (Ministério da Educação e Cultura, or Ministry of Education and Culture) by 2025. By ensuring fixed and mobile voice, data and TV services to the Comandante Ferraz Antarctic Station, we have enabled the military and research teams urban areas and Plano geral de metas de universalização (PGMU) that work on the base to communicate with their families, other Brazilian universities and research centers, and the outside world in general. In 2016, we carried out the preventive maintenance of the equipment installed in the 3,740 schools in We are involved in PGMU (Plano Geral de Metas de Universalização, or General Target Plan for Universal Access), intended to increase access to fixed line station, monitoring and guiding Navy technicians. rural areas [ 36 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry Social investment G4-EC8, G4-SO1 We invested our own and incentive funds in social projects through the Sponsorship and Events division and Oi Futuro, our social responsibility institute. Oi Futuro promotes, supports and develops innovative and collaborative initiatives to improve society’s quality of life. With educational, cultural, social innovation and sports activities, the institute promotes initiatives that foster personal and collective development, encourage We invested our own and incentive funds in social projects through innovation experimentation and nurture connections. In 2016, Oi Futuro developed its new strategic planning in line with Oi’s positioning the Sponsorship and Events division and Oi Futuro, our social and the new challenges faced by society. The main investments and projects of Oi Futuro and the Sponsorship and Events division in 2016 included: responsibility Institute G4-EC4 (R$ ,000) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Education 17,089,255 14,828,654 17,748,406 16,478,242 8,907,144 Culture 50,209,240 50,726,996 52,507,145 57,121,725 36,071,379 Sustainability 6,982,943 4,795,575 5,326,162 4,986,839 3,283,887 Sports 17,439,070 7,980,600 23,185,711 28,983,029 21,620,514 Oi Futuro’s administrative structure* 4,821,037 4,503,187 4,401,795 4,160,759 5,060,773 Total 96,541,545 82,835,012 103,169,220 111,730,593 74,943,697 Direct investment 39,546,550 37,565,407 43,861,206 43,243,120 26,492,296 Through tax benefits 56,994,996 45,269,605 59,308,014 68,487,473 48,451,402 [ 37 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry Education Oi Futuro invests in innovative models to inspire new forms of teaching and and graduates closer to the technology and innovation market. The event Cultural centers: Part of the cultural projects supported were learning. The Núcleo Avançado em Educação (Nave, or Advanced Education includes pitch presentations of the best projects, as well as lectures, debates undertaken in both cultural centers sponsored by Oi in Rio de Center) prepares young people for the digital and creative economy, focused and exhibits. Around 150 students, eight organizations and six companies Janeiro, in the Flamengo and Ipanema neighborhoods. The Oi on the production of games, apps and audiovisual products. The program participated in the event held by the Recife school. Groups that presented Futuro spaces have their own curators, and their mission is to is developed in partnership with the Rio de Janeiro and Pernambuco State advanced-stage projects received a six-month mentorship with professionals further and disseminate new artistic languages by investing in Education Departments and offers integrated high school education. In addition from several areas of the creative industry, including Oi employees, in order to the combination of art, technology and science. Its programme to receiving vocational training, Nave students are encouraged to develop their further develop the projects until they are ready to be launched in the market. featured in three of the traditional Top-10 lists of the O Globo entrepreneurial spirit and make their first professional connections through newspaper: “Emoticom” (Emoticon dance), “A Paz Perpétua” integration events and projects with the innovation market. Learn more on: http://www.oifuturo.org.br/en/education/nave/ (The Eternal Peace Theater) and “Espírito de Tudo” (Spirit of Everything visual art show by Rosângela Rennó). The two schools currently gather around 1,000 students and 70 educators of Oi Kabum! School of Arts and Technology offered creative regular and technical disciplines. economy courses – photography, graphic design, web design, Learn more on: http://www.oifuturo.org.br/en/culture/ computer graphics and video – to youth from low-income urban In 2016, Nave Recife was recognized by the InnoveEdu platform, which communities, public school students or graduates in the first gathers education institutions from several countries, and was one of the 12 half of 2016. Telecommunications museum: A permanent attraction of Oi schools selected to participate in the Destino Educação – Escolas Inovadoras Futuro Flamengo, the museum celebrated its ninth anniversary (Education Destiny – Innovative Schools) documentary series, which was Learn more on: http://www.oifuturo.org.br/en/culture/oi-kabum/ and received more than 17,000 visitors in 2016. Included in produced and broadcast by the Futura channel and shows new forms of the international category of technology museums and a teaching and learning around the world. Nave Recife also won the Aberje pioneer in the use of interactivity in Brazil, it preserves and Award in the North and Northeast regional unit, in the “Communication and Culture disseminates the history of telecommunications in Brazil Relationship with Society” category. In addition to these recognitions, two short and has a unique collection of over 100,000 items, including films created and produced by Nave students were selected to participate in In the cultural area, the institute acts as a creative catalyzer, encouraging handsets, phone booths, phone books, switchboards, Anima Mundi, Latin America’s largest animation festival. people through art, stimulating collaborative production and promoting access photographs, technical catalogs and historical documents. In to culture in the digital era. 2016, the Telecommunications Museum’s website was launched Nave Rio participated in Festival do Rio, one of Brazil’s main film events, where to publicize its activities and its Educational Program made it hosted several free workshops for Mostra Geração (segment of the festival Programa Oi de Patrocínios Culturais Incentivados (Oi great strides in terms of accessibility and diversity through focused on children and young people), with storytelling classes for educators Sponsorship Program for Cultural Projects Receiving Incentives): continuous initiatives, catering to people with disabilities, as well and theme techniques, such as the “Hero’s Journey”, “Robotics in Movies” and This is a support program for projects in all Brazilian regions as transgender and young people, in its social and educational “Video Game Scripts”, for the general public. selected through calls for proposals, thus reaffirming Oi's and Oi initiatives. It also launched a specific publication about the Futuro’s commitment to Brazilian artistic production. A total of topic, Caderno Acessibilidades (Accessibility Booklet), designed In order to bring schools closer to their surrounding communities and inspire 89 music, audiovisual, performing and visual arts, technology, to share experiences and aspirations related to access to other educational initiatives, we held another edition of the Nave de Portas new media, mobile art, dance, intermedia and popular culture contemporary art, education and information in order to make Abertas (Nave Opens its Doors) event, receiving more than 1,000 participants in projects were supported in 2016. The program also won the cultural spaces more democratic, receptive and open to all, Rio and 1,400 participants in Recife to share the projects developed by students. Aberje Award in the “Communication of Cultural Programs, without exception. Another relevant Nave initiative was the Decola (Take off) event, which was Projects and Actions” category in the Espírito Santo and Rio de promoted by Oi in partnership with Oi Futuro in order to bring high school seniors Janeiro regional unit. Learn more on: http://www.oifuturo.org.br/en/culture/telecommunications-museum/ [ 38 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry Social innovation Sports The Oi Novos Brasis (Oi New Brazils) program supported innovative entrepreneurial projects that bring forward proposals to overcome current We invest in sports projects that connect people and promote inclusion and citizenship through Programa Oi de Patrocínio Esportivo Incentivado The Oi Novos Brasis (Oi New Brazils) urban challenges, thereby contributing to the development of society. Since 2004, Oi Novos Brasis has selected projects of non-profit organizations (Oi Sponsorship Program for Sports Projects Receiving Incentives). The program sponsors sports and parasports projects intended to improve individuals’ life quality and health, and promote accessibility and diversity. In 2016, we program supported innovative from all Brazilian regions designed to promote diversity, accessibility and social inclusion through the use of technology. Through Oi Novos Brasis, Oi Futuro contributed to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, defined supported five sports projects. Learn more on: http://www.oifuturo.org.br/en/sustainability/fia/ entrepreneurial projects in a collective and participatory manner and approved by the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit. In order to ensure the measurement of results and the monitoring of activities of supported organizations, the indicators for each project were defined and monitored by a system developed by Oi Futuro, SIGA (Sistema Integrado de Gestão e Avaliação, or Integrated Management and Evaluation System). Each project was also evaluated by an external specialist and an auditor. In 2016, we supported 23 projects in 17 states and benefited over 16,000 people. Among the results, it is worth noting over 10,000 hours of educational and training activities, 126 tonnes of organic waste collected, reforestation of around 20 hectares for recovery of degraded areas, 34 hectares of agroforestry systems, over 6,300 seedlings planted to create nurseries and seed banks, and around 380 partnerships established with community associations, NGOs, public authorities and schools, among others. Learn more about the projects supported by Oi Novos Brasis, its goals and results on: http://www.oifuturo.org.br/en/sustainability/oi-novos-brasis/ FIA (Fundo da Infância e da Adolescência, or Fund for Children and Adolescents) We support local, state and national Councils for the Rights of Children and Adolescents through the FIA. In 2016, we supported eight initiatives that foster the development of children and adolescents at social risk. Through this initiative, we contributed to strengthening public policies that ensure the rights of children and adolescents from all over the country. Learn more on: http://www.oifuturo.org.br/en/sustainability/fia/ [ 39 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry SHAREHOLDER AND INVESTOR RELATIONS Relationship We have a dedicated Investor Relations (IR) team that organizes events, meetings and conference calls with Brazilian and foreign investors; Apimec (Associação dos Analistas e Profissionais de Investimento do Mercado de Capitais, or Association of Capital Market Analysts and Investment Professionals) public meetings; and Oi’s participation in conferences and road shows in Brazil and other countries, as well as in conferences for investment and capital markets professionals. The purpose is to ensure the Company will provide information for the market in a responsive and assertive manner. The missions of the IR department are to develop and implement an appropriate and consistent transparency and information disclosure policy; build a close relationship with analysts and investors; and be the main communication channel with Brazilian and international capital market agents. IR issues announcements and posts information through the official channels indicated by the regulatory bodies of the capital markets in which the Company is listed, and our IR website (which has a mobile version). [ 40 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry RELATIONSHIP WITH THE INDUSTRY G4-SO6, G4-EC7 We greatly value cooperation in the industry, for example, in infrastructure sharing, and participate actively in discussions about key issues for the consolidation of telecommunications in Brazil. Federal legislation on The Regulatory and Institutional Affairs department represents us before regulatory bodies – mainly Anatel, the Ministry of Science, Technology, Innovation and Communication, and Ancine – and the local, state and federal the telecommunications Legislative and Executive branches of government. The department follows the guidelines set by our Institutional Relationship Guide, Code of Ethics and Institutional Policy of Oi Companies to ensure an ethical relationship. industry Our Caple (Comitê de Acompanhamento das Proposições Legislativas, or Legislative Monitoring Committee) monitors and examines bills floating in G4-14, G4-16 local, state and federal Legislatures concerned with issues related to the telecommunications industry. In 2016, it met eight times to discuss and follow Some important issues related to the Brazilian federal legislation on the up on 106 bills. Created in 2009, the Caple has examined 1,351 bills either with telecommunications industry were discussed in 2016. We participated a direct impact on the telecommunications business or of general interests to jointly with SindiTelebrasil (Sindicato Nacional das Empresas de Telefonia the private sector in Brazil. e de Serviço Móvel Celular e Pessoal, or Brazilian National Association of Telephone and Cellular and Personal Mobile Service Companies) in discussions about different federal bills, including contributions to PL (Projeto de Lei, or Bill) 3,453/2015 (PLC Supplementary Bill 79/2016), which restructures the sector’s legal framework, especially regarding obligations under the concession model, aligning it to the new reality of the telecommunications market. We greatly value cooperation Below are other important pending bills in the National Congress: in the industry • PL 3,434/2015, on the Conduct Adjustment Agreement (TAC) entered into by Anatel and operators; • PL 5,845/2016 and PL 5,846/2016, on the use of equipment resulting from theft from telecommunications infrastructure networks; G4-SO6 • PL 5,476/2001, on the termination of the basic subscription rate; • PL 7,415/2012, concerned with alterations in the prepaid credit validity period In compliance with Law 9,504/1997, we do not support or contribute to for mobile phones; political parties or related institutions because we are a public utility. • PDS (Projeto de Decreto Legislativo, or Legislative Decree Bill) 14/2016, which deals with the rules for the sale of data plans in fixed broadband. [ 41 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Ethical and responsible Customer satisfaction Employee engagement Supply chain responsibility Social development Shareholder and investor Relationship with relationships relations the industry State and local legislation on the telecommunications industry Some of the issues we discussed with local and state political leaders were: List of entities in which the institutional area operates. Not complete. • Laws regarding the installation and expansion of mobile phone services; Entity Abbreviation Entity Name • Urban and environmental licensing for telecommunications infrastructure; • Land use legislation; • Right-of-way on state highways; ABDTIC Associação Brasileira de Direito da Tecnologia da Informação e das Comunicações • Laws against the theft of cables and batteries; • Undergrounding in urban areas; ABR Telecom Associação Brasileira de Recursos em Telecomunicações • Confaz (Conselho Nacional Fazendário, or National Finance Policy Council) Agreement 56/2012; Abrafix Associação Brasileira de Concessionárias de Serviço Telefônico Fixo Comutado • Confaz Agreement 102/2013 or implementation of a law that allows using ICMS credits to pay expenses on telecom services hired by the states; ABTA Associação Brasileira de Televisão por Assinatura • Rules for shutting off service for lack of payment; • Rules for including/removing consumer names in/from bad credit lists; • Laws on data packages and use information for consumers; ACEL Associação Nacional das Operadoras Celulares • Incentive laws for cultural activities and sports. Febratel Federação Brasileira de Telecomunicações GSMA Groupe Speciale Mobile Association Ibrac Instituto Brasileiro de Estudos de Concorrência, Consumo e Comércio Internacional Seta Sindicato Nacional das Empresas Operadoras de Televisão por Assinatura e de Serviço de Acesso Condicionado Sinditelebrasil Sindicato Nacional das Empresas de Telefonia e de Serviços Móvel Celular e Pessoal Telcomp Associação Brasileira das Prestadoras de Serviços de Telecomunicações Competitivas Telebrasil Associação Brasileira de Telecomunicações [ 42 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Impact mitigation ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CHAPTER. 5 [ 43 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Impact mitigation IMPACT MITIGATION G4-EN27 In 2016, we proceeded with environmental management activities, through the effective implementation of the Company’s environmental governance, Energy savings came to established in 2015, and continuing the great advances recorded in 2014, when we created our Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) department. The focus on reducing the impacts of our operations, raising the awareness of approximately R$ 41.99 million, our employees and cutting costs through a more appropriate strategy for the management of natural resources evolved and produced good results. G4-PR1 considering the 2% growth in the G4-EN6 In 2016, we established a partnership for the launch of the Oi Troca Fácil offer, which grants discounts in the purchase of mobile phones Company’s operations In 2016, our operational highlight was once again our energy management. In at our stores in exchange for the customer’s old handset. The used mid-2015, we created the Energy Executive Area and, since then, have managed handsets are collected by one of our partners, carefully revised to significantly reduce energy consumption. In 2015, our energy consumption fell and tested by a team of specialized technicians and subsequently 5.53% compared with 2014 and, in 2016, it declined 2.58% compared with 2015. sold with three months’ warranty. This offer follows a conscious The strategy of our Energy area is based on the following goals: Savings came to approximately R$ 41.99 million, considering the 2% growth in the consumption model that strays from the traditional, being concerned Company’s operations. In 2017, we plan to reduce energy consumption by 3.6%. about environmental impacts and moving toward circular economy. I. To reduce energy costs; A total of 11,617 handsets were exchanged in 2016. II. To plan and control energy consumption; Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions, related to the purchase of electricity, III. To improve and optimize processes; accounted for 63% of our total emissions in 2016, considering scope 1 + scope We also mitigate the indirect impacts of our business by placing IV. To introduce managemen t procedures for processes and results 2. The reduction in Oi’s consumption combined with the decline in the emission boxes for customers to dispose oftcell phones, batteries and related to energy consumption; factor of the National Interconnected System (SIN) led to a 36% reduction in accessories in our stores. In addition, we collect batteries in our V. To implement energy projects; scope 2 emissions compared with 2015. administrative facilities. VI. To create a culture of energy rationalization at the Company; and VII. To build closer ties with utilities. [ 44 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Impact mitigation War Room Oi's energy consumption mix • Weekly meetings attended by executives of the Energy and Operations areas with the goal of implementing actions designed to reduce energy consumption and promote the rational use of 17% electricity at Oi’s units. • Primary focus: shutting down equipment and sites during idle time and using natural light and ventilation more effectively. • Secondary focus: turning on equipment automatically on a local scale by installing timers 83% and thermostats. • Approval of approximately R$ 1 million in the 2016 budget for the implementation of projects focusing on energy efficiency and consumption reduction, and plan to invest R$ 2 million in 2017. 2016 ENERGY EFFICIENCY Energy Management System • We began the process to implement an energy management system that allows us to effectively manage energy consumption and online real-time demand at 200 sites, accounting for around 38% In 2016, the Company carried out its main energy of the Company’s energy consumption. efficiency actions and projects. • Consumption savings are estimated at around R$ 13 million/year at these sites. 57% 43% Free market • In 2016, 20 units migrated to the free market, representing more than 13,616 MWh of energy from renewable sources and another 99 units are expected to migrate in 2017, representing over 67,872 2020 MWh in renewable energy. • We expect 42.5% of the total energy consumed by the Company to come from renewable sources in 2020. Learn about other environmental aspects related to our business and performance in 2016 in the annex to Captive market this publication (learn more on page 70). Free market (renewable sources) [ 45 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management SOCIAL REPORT 1 – Basis of calculation 2015 – R$ thousand 2016 – R$ thousand Net Revenue (NR) 27,353,765 25,996,423 Operating Result (OR) -6,054,610 -3,236,328 Gross Payroll (GP) 2,442,570 2,536,981 Total Value Added (TVA) 22,363,828 15,903,630 2015 2016 2 – Internal social indicators % of % of % of % of % of % of R$ thousand R$ thousand GP NR TVA GP NR TVA Meals 188,518 7.72% 0.69% 0.84% 201711 7.95% 0.78% 1.27% Payroll taxes and benefits 493,396 20.20% 1.80% 2.21% 546978 21.56% 2.10% 3.44% Private pension plan 58,286 2.39% 0.21% 0.26% 57698 2.27% 0.22% 0.36% Health 146,424 5.99% 0.54% 0.65% 162445 6.40% 0.62% 1.02% Occupational health and safety 13,463 0.55% 0.05% 0.06% 8437 0.33% 0.03% 0.05% Education 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Culture 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Professional training and development 4,261 0.17% 0.02% 0.02% 9574 0.38% 0.04% 0.06% Daycare or daycare assistance 11,723 0.48% 0.04% 0.05% 11831 0.47% 0.05% 0.07% Sports 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Profit sharing 214,375 8.78% 0.78% 0.96% 84000 3.31% 0.32% 0.53% Transport 42,506 1.74% 0.16% 0.19% 41424 1.63% 0.16% 0.26% Other 12,172 0.50% 0.04% 0.05% 17005 0.67% 0.07% 0.11% Total – Internal social indicators 1,185,125 48.52% 4.33% 5.30% 1141104 44.98% 4.39% 7.18% [ 46 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management 2015 2016 3 – External social indicators % of % of % of % of % of % of R$ thousand R$ thousand OR NR TVA OR NR TVA Education 16,478 -0.27% 0.06% 0.07% 8,907 -0.28% 0.03% 0.06% Culture 57,122 -0.94% 0.21% 0.26% 36,071 -1.11% 0.14% 0.23% Health and sanitation 126 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 83 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Sports 28,983 -0.48% 0.11% 0.13% 21,621 -0.67% 0.08% 0.14% Combating hunger and supporting food security 486 -0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 197 -0.01% 0.00% 0.00% Sector indicator Other 8,536 -0.14% 0.03% 0.04% 8,345 -0.26% 0.03% 0.05% Total contributions to society 111,731 -1.85% 0.41% 0.50% 75,225 -2.32% 0.29% 0.47% Taxes (excluding social contributions) 8,384,978 -138.49% 30.65% 37.49% 11,230,516 -347.01% 43.20% 70.62% Total – External social indicators 8,608,439 -142.18% 31.47% 38.49% 11,380,965 -351.66% 43.78% 71.56% [ 47 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management 2015 2016 4 – Environmental indicators % of % of % of % of % of % of R$ thousand R$ thousand OR NR TVA OR NR TVA 4.1 Investments related to the company's production/operations Land expropriation 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0 Environmental liabilities and contingencies 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0 Technological and industrial development program 729 -0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Energy conservation 892 -0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 1,570 -0.05% 0.01% 0.01% Environmental education 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Sector indicator 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Other 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Total investments related to the company's production/operations 1,621 -0.03% 0.01% 0.01% 1570 -0.05% 0.01% 0.01% 4.2 – Investments in external programs and/or projects Community environmental education projects 738 -0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 366 -0.01% 0.00% 0.00% Preservation and/or recovery of degraded environments 0 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Other 0 0 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Total investments in external programs and/or projects 738 -0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 366 -0.01% 0.00% 0.00% Total investments in the environment (4.1 + 4.2) 2,359 -0.04% 0.01% 0.01% 1,936 -0.06% 0.01% 0.01% [ 48 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management 2015 2016 Distribution of investments in the environment R$ thousand % of the total R$ thousand % of the total Total investments in environmental prevention initiatives 127 0.00 0 0 Total investments in environmental maintenance initiatives 0 0.00 0 0 Total investments in environmental compensation initiatives 765 0.00 0 0 Number of environmental, administrative and court proceedings filed against the entity: 126 814 Amount of the fines and indemnifications related to environmental issues resulting from Not reported Not reported administrative and/or court proceedings: ( ) has no targets ( ) has no targets Regarding the establishment of annual targets for minimizing waste and consumption in ( ) meets from 0% to 50% ( ) meets from 0% to 50% general during production/operations in order to increase effectiveness in the use of natural ( ) meets from 51% to 75% ( ) meets from 51% to 75% resources, the company: (x) meets from 76% to 100% (x) meets from 76% to 100% [ 49 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management 2015 2016 2015 2016 5 – Workforce indicators 5 – Workforce indicators In units In units In units In units Number of employees at the end of the period 16,557 14,431 Number of employees by level of education: Number of employees hired in the period 2,497 2,154 Illiterates 0 0 Number of employees departed in the period 4,272 4,291 Middle school 25 67 Number of outsourced employees 125,816 116,460 High school/vocational education 7,564 6412 Number of interns 346 340 College degree 7,277 6447 Number of employees over 45 years old 3,886 2984 Postgraduate degree 1,691 1505 Number of employees by age: Number of women working at the company 6,035 5,394 Under 18 years old 0 0 Percentage of senior positions held by women 27% 28% Between 18 and 35 years old 7,095 6629 Number of men working at the company 10,522 9,037 Between 36 and 45 years old 5,589 4818 Percentage of senior positions held by men 73% 72% Between 46 and 60 years old 3,432 2659 Number of black people working at the company Not reported Not reported Over 60 years old 441 325 Percentage of senior positions held by black people Not reported Not reported Number of employees with disabilities or special needs 355 290 Gross remuneration divided by: Employees Not reported Not reported Members of management Not reported Not reported Difference between the lowest salary paid by the company and the (national or regional) minimum wage: Difference between the lowest salary paid by the company and the 72 210 minimum wage Source FPW payroll FPW payroll [ 50 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management 6 – Relevant information regarding the 6 – Relevant information regarding the 2015 2016 2015 2016 exercise of corporate citizenship exercise of corporate citizenship Ratio between the company's highest At the Not reported Not reported Not reported At the company Not reported and lowest compensation Number of customer complaints company Total number of occupational accidents 84 105 and criticisms: At Procon Not reported At Procon Not reported ( ) Senior management ( ) Senior management In court Not reported In court Not reported The social and environmental projects (x) Senior and mid-level (X) Senior and mid-level At the developed by the company were developed by: management management Not reported At the company Not reported Percentage of resolved complaints company ( ) All employees [ ) All employees and criticisms: At Procon Not reported At Procon Not reported ( ) Senior management ( ) Senior management (x) Senior and mid-level (x) Senior and mid-level In court Not reported In court Not reported The health and safety standards in the management management Total fines and indemnifications to At Procon Not reported At Procon Not reported workplace were defined by: ( ) All employees ( ) All employees clients as a result of orders by courts ( ) All + CIPA (Internal Accident ( ) All + CIPA (Internal Accident or consumer protection or defense Prevention Committee) Prevention Committee) agencies: In court Not reported In court Not reported (X) Does not get involved (X) Does not get involved Measures taken by the entity to solve or Regarding freedom of association, the ( ) Follows ILO standards ( ) Follows ILO standards minimize the causes of complaints: right to collective bargaining and internal ( ) Encourages and follows ( ) Encourages and follows representation of workers, the company: Number of labor proceedings filed ILO standards ILO standards 43,394 37,008 against the entity: ( ) Senior management ( ) Senior management Upheld NA* NA* ( ) Senior and mid-level ( ) Senior and mid-level Private pension applies to: Dismissed NA* NA* management management (x) All employees (x) All employees Total fines and indemnifications Not available Not available ( ) Senior management ( ) Senior management paid as a result of court orders: ( ) Senior and mid-level ( ) Senior and mid-level Total value added to distribute Profit sharing applies to: 22,364 15,904 management management (R$ thousand): (x) All employees (x) All employees Distribution of Value Added (DVA): R$ thousand % of the total R$ thousand % of the total In the selection of suppliers, the same ethics ( ) Are not taken into account ( ) Are not taken into account Government 8,551 38.2 11,560 72.7 and social and environmental responsibility ( ) Are suggested ( ) Are suggested standards adopted by the company (X) Are required (X) Are required Employees 2,443 10.9 2,537 16 ( ) Does not get involved ( ) Does not get involved Shareholders -413 0 -178 0 Regarding employees' participation in ( ) Supports (X) Supports Third Parties 16,951 75.8 8,928 56.1 volunteering programs, the company: (X) Organizes and encourages ( ) Organizes and encourages Retained -5,168 -23.1 -6,944 -43.7 [ 51 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management 7 – Other information In item 3 “Others”, we considered the Sustainability line (support for Community The comparative Financial Statements of December 31, 2015 were Development projects and Environment and Biodiversity). The Administrative retrospectively adjusted in order to reflect the effects of net assets related Structure of Oi Futuro was also considered support areas (Communication, to the accounting treatment of the goodwill of assets recorded in TmarPart’s HR, Finance, Planning, Assets and Sponsorship Processing). non-current assets, as of September 1, 2015, when TmarPart’s merger by Oi was approved. The accounting treatment of the goodwill of assets was the In items 4.1 “Technological and industrial development program” and 4.1 object of the material fact disclosed by the Company on August 1, 2016. “Energy conservation”, we adjusted the amounts disclosed in the last report, which were denominated in reais (R$), contrary to what was indicated in the Pursuant to ICPC 09 (R2), items 77 and 78 and CVM Instruction 319/1999, on table’s header (R$ thousand). December 7, 2015, the Company filed a technical consultation with the CVM and, on July 29, 2016, received Official Letter 149/2016-CVM/SEP/GEA-5 from In item 4.2 “Number of environmental, administrative, and court proceedings the Superintendence of Corporate Relations of the Brazilian Securities and filed against the company”, only the ADMINISTRATIVE proceedings are Exchange Commission (SEP), containing the SEP’s statement with respect to informed. The COURT proceedings will not be reported due to a Management/ the Company’s consultation concerning the treatment of goodwill. In the SEP’s Strategic decision. understanding, “goodwill should not be lowered for TmarPart but maintained in assets to be incorporated into Oi, respecting the base valuation of the net In “Number of black people and %” of item 5, Oi does not collect the assets acquired under the business combination between independent parties information according to IBGE’s criterion (self-declaration) in the system. that took place at the time of the acquisition of Brasil Telecom S.A.” The “Total number of accidents” We will not disclose the numbers as a Company filed an appeal with the CVM Committee challenging the decision, management/strategic decision. pursuant to CVM Resolution 463/2003 of August 15, 2016. Regarding item 6*, more specifically in relation to the number of cases At the close of 2016, the Company reassessed the situation in question considered “upheld”/”dismissed”, it is not possible to provide this information and, taking into account the conclusions of said official letter, restated its because the absolute majority of the proceedings are “partly upheld . financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015. [ 52 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management GRI CONTENT INDEX G4-32 Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Strategy abd Analysis G4-1 Message from Management 6 Immaterial G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 3, 19 Material Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 3 Immaterial G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 10, 11 Material G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 69 Immaterial G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 11 Immaterial G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form of the organization 3 Immaterial G4-8 Markets served 10, 11 Material G4-9 Scale of the organization 10, 11, 22, 30 Material G4-10 Employees’ profile 30 Material 100% of Oi’s employees are G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements covered by collective bargaining Immaterial agreements. G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 34 Material G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s structure 13 Material Commitments to external initiatives Description of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the G4-14 41 Immaterial organization Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other G4-15 3, 35 Immaterial initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: holds a position on the governance G4-16 41 Immaterial body; participates in projects or committees; provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues [ 53 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Material Aspects Identified and Limits The Report and the Financial Statements cover OI S.A. and its subsidiaries; however, the social G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements and environmental indicators Immaterial are related only to the Parent Company since those aspects are not managed by its subsidiaries. G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries 3 Immaterial G4-19 All material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 5 Immaterial G4-20 For each material aspect, the aspect boundary within the organization 5 Immaterial G4-21 For each material aspect, the aspect boundary outside the organization 5 Immaterial Restatements are contextualized and G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports Immaterial explained in the respective indicators. There were no significant changes G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries in scope and thresholds of material Immaterial aspects in relation to previous years. Stakeholders Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4 Immaterial G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 3 Immaterial G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 3 Immaterial Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how G4-27 5 Immaterial the organization has responded to them [ 54 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 3 Immaterial G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2015 Immaterial G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual Immaterial G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content 5 Immaterial In accordance option chosen (core or comprehensive), GRI Content Index and external G4-32 3, 53 Immaterial assurance G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report The report was not externally assured. Immaterial Governance Governance Structure and Composition G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees 14 Material Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the G4-35 15 Immaterial highest governance body to senior executives and other employees Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with G4-36 responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders Compliance Executive Area report directly to the highest governance body Stakeholders can access the highest governance body through Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on the Ombudsman's Office and the G4-37 economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom whistleblower channel since the Material and any feedback processes to the highest governance body Committees that manage the contacts of those channels have access and report directly to the Board of Directors. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 14 Material The Chairman of the Board of Directors is G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Material not an Executive Officer. [ 55 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment The members of the Board of Directors Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, are elected at an Annual General G4-40 and whether criteria such as diversity, independence, expertise and experience and Material Meeting (AGO), and the Board elects the stakeholder engagement (including shareholders) are considered members of its advisory committees. The Company’s Bylaws and the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors establish criteria that prevent the Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided election of members of the Board of G4-41 Material and managed Directors with interests in conflict with those of the Company and require members of the Board of Directors to report any perceived conflicts. Highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values, and strategy Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and G4-42 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, 15 Material and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Highest governance body’s competencies and performance evaluation Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective G4-43 15 Material knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics In 2017, the management performance evaluation forms and the schedule for the implementation of the stages Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to G4-44 of the management performance Material governance of economic, environmental and social topics program will be evaluated by the Board of Directors of Oi S.A. Under Judicial Reorganization. Highest governance body’s role in risk management Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, G4-45 19 Material environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk G4-46 15, 19 Material management processes for economic, environmental and social topics [ 56 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment The Company reports its earnings Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social results to the market and the Board G4-47 Material impacts, risks, and opportunities reviews Oi’s risks and opportunities at least on a quarterly basis. Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s The Report was approved by the G4-48 Material sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Company's senior management Highest governance body’s role in evaluating economic, environmental and social performance G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 15 Material Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest G4-50 15 Material governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Ethics and Integrity Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of G4-56 25 10 Material conduct and codes of ethics Organization's internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful G4-57 25 Material behavior, such as helplines or advice lines Organization's internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical G4-58 or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation 25 Material through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Category Economic Aspect Economic Performance G4-DMA Type of management 22 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 22 Immaterial G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 37 Immaterial [ 57 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Aspect Market Presence G4-DMA Type of management 70 The purpose of all Oi’s selection processes is to find and hire the Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at G4-EC5 best applicants regardless of the 6 Immaterial significant locations of operation vacant position and the unit. For more information, see page 70. Aspect Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Type of management 36, 37, 41 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 36, 41 Immaterial G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 37 Immaterial Aspect Procurement Practices G4-DMA Type of management 34 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 34 Immaterial Category Environmental Aspect Materials G4-DMA Type of management 44 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 71 7 and 8 Immaterial G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 71 8 Immaterial Aspect Energy G4-DMA Type of management 44, 45 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 71 8 Immaterial G4-EN5 Energy intensity 71 8 Immaterial [ 58 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with the Global Indicator Information or page Omissions Process materiality Compact Commitment G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 44 8 Immaterial G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 71 8 and 9 Immaterial Aspect Water G4-DMA Type of management 72 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 72 7 and 8 Immaterial Aspect Biodiversity G4-DMA Type of management 72 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 72 7 and 8 Immaterial Aspect Emissions G4-DMA Type of management 44, 72, 73 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 72 7 and 8 Immaterial G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 72 8 Immaterial G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 72 8 Immaterial G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 72 8 Immaterial G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 73 8 and 9 Immaterial G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 73 8 Immaterial Aspect Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Type of management 73 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 73 8 Immaterial Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous G4-EN25 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of 73 8 Immaterial transported waste shipped internationally [ 59 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Aspect Products and Services G4-DMA Type of management 44, 73, 74 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 73 7, 8 and 9 Immaterial The percentage in relation to all the products is not presented as the only information G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 74 8 on reclaimed Immaterial products refers to Oi TV’s decoders. This information is not scheduled to be disclosed. Aspect Compliance G4-DMA Type of management 74 This information was not published Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for because it is G4-EN29 74 8 Immaterial non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations confidential and it is not scheduled to be reported. Aspect Transport G4-DMA Type of management 74 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials G4-EN30 74 7, 8 and 9 Immaterial for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce [ 60 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Aspect Overall G4-DMA Type of management 74 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 74 7 Immaterial Aspect Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Type of management 74 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through G4-EN34 74 8 Immaterial formal grievance mechanisms Category Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect Employment G4-DMA Type of management 75, 76 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, G4-LA1 75 6 Immaterial gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time G4-LA2 76 Immaterial employees, by significant locations of operation Aspect Labor/Management Relations G4-DMA Type of management 76 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are G4-LA4 76 3 Immaterial specified in collective agreements Aspect Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Type of management 32 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and G4-LA5 32 Material safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs [ 61 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment The Company does not control contractors’ absenteeism and, Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total G4-LA6 33 therefore, this Material number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender information is neither published nor scheduled to be published. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 32 Material G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 32 Material Aspect Training and Education G4-DMA Type of management 31 Average hours of training by employee category is not reported because this information is not G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 31 6 monitored by Oi and Immaterial is not relevant to day-to-day training management. Therefore, it is not scheduled to be reported. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of G4-LA10 31 6 Immaterial employees and assist them in managing career endings [ 62 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Aspect Diversity and Equal Opportunit G4-DMA Type of management 76 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according G4-LA12 76 6 Immaterial to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA Type of management 77 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant G4-LA13 77 6 Immaterial locations of operation Aspect Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Type of management 77 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal G4-LA16 77 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 Immaterial grievance mechanisms Category Social: Human Rights Aspect Investment G4-DMA Type of management 77 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning G4-HR2 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 77 1 Immaterial employees trained Aspect Non-discrimination G4-DMA Type of management 77 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 77 Immaterial [ 63 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Aspect Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA Type of management 34, 77 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and G4-HR4 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support 77 3 Immaterial these rights Aspect Child Labor G4-DMA Type of management 34, 77 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and G4-HR5 77 5 Immaterial measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Aspect Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Type of management 34, 77 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory G4-HR6 77 4 Immaterial labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Aspect Indigenous Rights G4-DMA Type of management 77 G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken 77 1 and 2 Immaterial Aspect Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Type of management 34 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 34 1 and 2 Immaterial Aspect Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Type of management 77 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal G4-HR12 77 1 and 2 Immaterial grievance mechanisms [ 64 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Category Social: Society Aspect Local Communities G4-DMA Type of management 37 The percentage of operations is not specifically published. Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, The Company is G4-SO1 37 1 Immaterial and development programs considering monitoring and reporting this information, but has no scheduled date to start. Aspect Anti-corruption G4-DMA Type of management 15, 78 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 78 10 Immaterial G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 78 10 Immaterial Aspect Public Policy G4-DMA Type of management 41 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 41 10 Immaterial Aspect Anti-competitive Behavior G4-DMA Type of management 78 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly G4-SO7 78 Immaterial practices and their outcomes [ 65 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Aspect Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Type of management 78 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal G4-SO11 78 Immaterial grievance mechanisms Category Social: Product Responsibility Aspect Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Type of management 35, 44 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts G4-PR1 35, 44 Immaterial are assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning G4-PR2 the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type 35 Immaterial of outcomes Aspect Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Type of management 28 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and G4-PR3 service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories 28 Immaterial subject to such information requirements 78 In 2015, the Company was fined Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning R$ 47,981.36 in a 2012 lawsuit, tried G4-PR4 Material product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes in 2015, related to undue billing and violation of users’ rights. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 11 Material [ 66 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Aspect Marketing Communications G4-DMA Type of management 67 Oi does not sell banned products. G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products The industry is tightly regulated, and Material ANATEL is strict with carriers. Throughout 2016, the Company complied with CONAR’s (Conselho Nacional de Autorregulamentação Publicitária, or Brazilian National Council for Advertising Self-Regulation) Code of Ethics in its promotion and advertising, as well as the principles of honesty Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes and transparency toward consumers. G4-PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, Material Three complaints were filed against Oi, by type of outcomes of which two were dismissed and one led to a ruling, which the Company has complied with. In the latter case, one of the Company’s communications failed to state how long customers had to keep the plan for, and the Company promptly provided this information. [ 67 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Connection with Indicator Information or page the Global Compact Omissions Process materiality Commitment Aspect Customer Privacy G4-DMA Type of management 29 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of G4-PR8 29 Material customer data Aspect Compliance G4-DMA Type of management 68 In 2016, the Company was fined R$ 439,542.90 in a lawsuit filed in 2015 and tried in 2016 related to the undue billing of calls between mobile stations in the same Registration Area (11) within Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the this Area as VC2 instead of VC1, in G4-PR9 Material provision and use of products and services non-compliance with items III and XII of article 6 combined with article 25 of the Personal Mobile Service Regulations, approved by Resolution 477, of August 7, 2007, combined with items I and III of article 127 of Law 9472, of July 16, 1997. [ 68 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management CORPORATE INFORMATION AND CREDITS G4-5 Headquarters ADR depositary Contacts Rua Humberto de Campos, 425 – Leblon CEP: 22430-190 – Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil Phone: (+55 21) 3131-2918 bank pp-sustentabilidade@oi.net.br invest@oi.net.br Fax: (+55 21) 3131-1144 The Bank of New York Mellon Site: www.oi.com.br Oi S.A. c/o BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 505000 Louisville, KY 40233-5000 Credits Book-entry Phone (toll free): 1-888-BNY-ADRS (269-2377) Phone (international): +1 201-680-6825 Direct mailing for overnight packages effective June 5th: Coordination and text share services BNY Mellon Shareowner Services 462 South 4th Street Suite 1600 Chief Financial Officer | Compliance Officer | Sustainability and Integrity Division Graphic design Banco do Brasil S.A. Louisville KY 40202 MZ GROUP’’ Rua Professor Lelio Gama, 105, 38º andar – Centro www.mybnymdr.com CEP: 20031-900 – Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil E-mail: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com Independent auditors (on December 31, 2016) Phone.: (+55 21) 3808-3715 KPMG Auditores Independentes | SEC e CVM Fax: (+55 21) 3808-6088 E-mail: aescriturais@bb.com.br External assurance of the GHG Inventory ABNT, accredited by Inmetro Stock Exchange B3 – Brasil, Bolsa, Balcão (BM&FBovespa) Ticker symbols: Oi S/A | OIBR3 and OIBR4 (on December 31, 2016) New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the U.S. ADR symbol: OIBR.C (on December 31, 2016) OTC Markets Pink Open Market in the U.S. ADR symbol: OIBRQ (on December 31, 2016) [ 69 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management ANNEX I – ADDITIONAL INDICATORS This document, an integral part of Oi's Annual Sustainability Report, presents indicators reported previously as complementary information to the material State 2016 State 2016 topics covered in the main publication. Male Female Consolidated Male Female Consolidated Below are our performance indicators based on GRI’s G4 guidelines. They bring information about our operations and our subsidiaries’ operations from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. Acre 119% 118% 118% Paraíba 112% 100% 100% To learn more about Oi and the relevant aspects of our current sustainability Alagoas 103% 128% 103% Paraná 100% 111% 100% strategy, read our Annual Sustainability Report, available on: www.oi.com.br/ri Amapá 113% 163% 113% Pernambuco 101% 101% 101% Amazonas 125% 100% 100% Piauí 112% 105% 105% Economic dimension Bahia 100% 100% 100% Rio de Janeiro 100% 100% 100% Ceará 103% 101% 101% Rio Grande do Norte 103% 101% 101% G4-EC5 – Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Federal District 114% 101% 101% Rio Grande do Sul 109% 100% 100% The differences in average salaries by employee category are explained by Espírito Santo 103% 112% 103% Rondônia 101% 144% 101% different professional development levels and length of service. We do not use the national minimum wage as the basis for our employees’ compensation Goiás 113% 111% 111% Roraima 101% 147% 101% and our wage floor was set at R$ 1,090.00 in 2016. The lowest salary paid by the Company in 2016 was 23.9% higher than the national minimum wage. Maranhão 103% 105% 103% Santa Catarina 100% 105% 100% Mato Grosso 105% 105% 105% São Paulo 107% 107% 107% Mato Grosso do Sul 109% 111% 109% Sergipe 120% 146% 120% Minas Gerais 100% 100% 100% Tocantins 109% 119% 109% Pará 100% 100% 100% Note: A ratio of 150%, for example, means that the lowest wage is 50% higher than the Brazilian national minimum wage. We are present throughout Brazil; therefore, we do not use the classification “important units” and present the information by state. [ 70 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Environmental dimension G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume G4-EN2 – Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials G4-EN5 Energy intensity Volume of recycled The Energy Division started monitoring the energy intensity indicator in 2015, Materials used by type 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 based initially on the ratio between energy consumption and the number of materials used employees. Packaging materials Metal cables (in meters) 3,051,336 2,127,525 13,260,079 In 2016, the result was 10MWh consumed per employee on average per month. Optical cables (in meters) 1,383,682 235,000 7,609,919 The analysis of energy consumption showed that it fluctuated in line with annual Bags purchased for use in seasonality. Although the number of employees fell slightly during the year, 467,500 112,000 300,000 store sales (in units) consumption per employee increased in 2016, but the variation was immaterial. Splice closure (in units) 181,133 N.A. 531,448 Interoffice mail envelopes (in Oi is an energy-intensive company, which means that equipment accounts for 60,000 0 10,000 Wires (in meters) 147,014,815 189,261 235,470,500 units) most of our energy consumption. As a result, the reduction in headcount does not significantly impact energy consumption. Based on this information, we Cardboard boxes for Terminals (in units) 109,841 N.A. 2,254,945 conclude that we have to work on this indicator to be able to set effective goals. shipping products and coils 45.45 101.00 80.45 of corrugated cardboard (in tonnes) G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Materials used in operations We do not have separate measurements of those reductions due to the Direct energy purchased difficulty in obtaining related data. We have no strategy or scheduled date to Metal cables (in meters) 583,953 10,788,446 12,134,366 2014 2015 2016 and consumed (GJ) disclose tentative results yet. In fact, we are going to study energy intensity indicators used in our industry to develop an action plan. Optical cables (in meters) 12,065,311 11,240,147 7,865,793 Local power grid 5,247,375 4,924,414 4,839,258 Splice closure (in units) 218,051 294,437 439,114 Free market 1,019,130 996,447 994,639 Wires (in meters) 186,834,000 123,946,511 224,918,500 Total energy purchased 6,266,504 5,920,861 5,833,897 Terminals (in units) 2,024,819 1,173,535 1,947,346 The energy consumed by Oi is broken down into energy purchased from utilities, which accounts for around 83% of total energy consumed, and energy purchased from the free market. We consumed 1,601.88 GWh in 2016. Our goal is to reduce energy consumption by 3.6% in 2017. [ 71 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) G4-EN18 GHG emission intensity Consumption (m ) 3 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) In 2013, we developed a specific indicator for the telecommunications industry Groundwater 44,477 67,967 75,585 G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) – emissions (tonnes of CO₂e) per Revenue Generating Unit (RGU) – jointly with other telcos. In 2016, our emission intensity totaled 0.004476 tonnes of CO2e per Rainwater 85 25,088 11,355 Since 2009, we have been annually mapping our direct and indirect emissions RGU, 12% lower than in the previous year. in our inventory of GHG emissions, filed voluntarily with the public registry Municipal water supplies or other 992,938 1,417,395* 1,751,707 of emissions of the Brazil GHG Protocol Program (the methodology used to prepare the inventory) and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Total 1,037,500 1,510,450 1,838,647 0.005421 G4-EN15, G4-EN16 Direct and indirect emissions – scopes 1 and 2 2014 2015 2016 *2015 figure adjusted based on the assessment by the Property area. (tCO2e) 0.005071 Scope 1 (generators, own fleet 41,108.47 47,040.64 77,172.78 In 2017, we will continue investing in our employees’ awareness and introducing and cooling gases) practices intended to reduce water consumption. We use groundwater and rainwater not because there is no municipal service available, but in order to Scope 2 (electricity 235,131.25 203,105.17 130,527.61 allow a reduction in the use of concessionaire water to clean patios, preserve purchased and consumed) gardens and supply bathrooms, among other uses. Total 276,239.72 250,145.82 207,700.39 In 2017, we plan to reduce the consumption of water supplied by the municipal network by 5%. 0.004476 G4-EN17 Indirect emissions – 2014 2015 2016 scope 3 (tCO2e) G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Goods and services 75,066.90 79,113.46 41,605.43 purchased In 2016, we launched the Prad (Plano de Recuperação de Área Degradada, or Damaged Land Recovery Plan), agreed upon with Ibama (Instituto Brasileiro Activities related to fuel and do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis, or Brazilian Institute energy not included in scopes 1,887.90 1,964.76 2014 2015 2016 of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources), related to the backbone 1 and 2 project in Amapá, Manaus and Boa Vista, meeting Ibama’s requests and ensuring environmental compliance in the underwater crossing of fiber optic Transportation and upstream 35,789.24 4,956.80 13,803.24 cable and cable grounding in Juruena and Juara, both in Mato Grosso. distribution Business travel 5,513.12 4,771.10 3,950.80 In 2017, we expect to prepare and present the Prad for Oiapoque to Calçoene, in Amapá, and finalize the environmental compliance process for the fiber optic Commuting 11,251.72 14,375.51 15,453.36 and telephone network on BR 230 highway, KM 115.87, in Várzea Alegre, in Ceará. Total 127,620.98 105,104.76 76,777.59 *Related to energy consumption from condominium apportionment. [ 72 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management G4-EN19 – Reduction of GHG emissions G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method The figures for our GHG emissions in 2016 show our continuous progress Non-hazardous waste by The hazardous material transported by Oi is comprised of stationary regarding Climate Change. Our strong commitment to reducing overall costs 2014 2015 2016 batteries, which are carried between stations, sites and the central supply type and disposal method was crucial for the results achieved. center in each state. The 64% increase in our scope 1 emissions was caused by the 112% upturn in Landfill (in tonnes) 985 511 129 emissions from mobile sources. The growth recorded in this category and the G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services consequent 47% reduction in emissions from purchased goods and services under our scope 3 inventory was due to the absorption of Rede Conecta Recycling through selective In 2016, we mitigated the environmental impact of waste with the environmentally (formerly RM), which used to be a network service provider until June 2016 and waste collection in friendly disposal of 3.5 thousand tonnes of scrap material (operational) – including whose emissions were recorded in this category. The geographic expansion of 4,982 4,592 4,627 copper, aluminum and iron materials; batteries; telephone cables; computer administrative facilities SEREDE’s operations (now an Oi company) also contributed to increasing the (in tonnes) waste; plastic; and parts of public telephones, among others. The implementation mobile source category in scope 1 of our GHG emission inventory. of the PGRS (Plano de Gerenciamento de Resíduos, or Waste Management Plan) led Recycling through scrap to improvements in waste treatment/recycling and traceability, helping reduce the The reduction in Oi’s consumption combined with the decline in the emission 2,756 6,497 2,188 usual environmental impacts of operational processes. sale (in tonnes) factor of the National Interconnected System (SIN) led to a 36% reduction in scope 2 emissions compared with 2015. One of those impacts is emissions from our own and third parties’ fleets, a total Recycling of handsets, of 35,000 vehicles. We introduced in 2014 a fleet management system, which accessories and batteries 3,151 16,086 2,527 In scope 3, in addition to the above-mentioned reduction in emissions from optimized the performance of those vehicles. The system puts the whole (in items)(1) purchased goods and services, we also observed a substantial reduction in the activity record of each vehicle in a user-friendly interface for the fleet manager. business travel category. The 17% decline in the category was due to emission This allows us to improve in aspects such as aggressive driving, preventive reductions of 14%, 12% and 14% related to the use of taxis, vans and air travel, Recycling of light bulbs maintenance and use of more efficient routes. Oi’s Gestão de Frotas (Fleet 21,912 67,672 41,741 respectively. This was the result of the Company’s strong focus on cost reduction (in items) Management) sprang from the innovation investment in a solution developed and efficient use of resources. by an incubated company and has already aroused interest among corporate Miscellaneous waste sold for customers as an ICT solution. 146,361 69,454 69,419 auction (in items) In 2016, the Oi Gestão de Frotas solution led to more efficient driving, with a reduction of up to 15% in fuel consumption in the 5,074 vehicles of (1) At the end of 2016, 229 kilos of handsets, batteries and accessories were directed to recycling and 625 kilos remained in our distribution centers. Rede Conecta’s fleet that use the system. At SEREDE, we began the fuel G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) consumption reduction project in April 2016. The solution enabled more assertive routing and more accurate mileage, offering a fair allowance Emissions of ozoneG4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste, deemed hazardous compatible with the employee’s needs. However, this was only one of the tools depleting substances 2014 2015 2016 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annexes I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of used. In order to achieve a 26% reduction in average consumption between transported waste shipped internationally April and December 2016, and generate savings of approximately R$ 20 million (TCFC11E) in the period, we monitored consumption on a daily basis, imposing policies Total weight of hazardous with strict rules and controls for granting allowances (weekly, extra and travel), HCFC 22(1) 2.3654 2.0295 3.916 2014 2015 2016 as well as discounts for undue use, absenteeism, days off, lack of use and waste (t)* proportional vacation, carrying out a new monthly budget distribution for all HCFC 141b(2) 0.8336 0.2311 0.645 divisions and making individual adjustments. Waste shipped 987 2,546 433 (1) Considering an Ozone Depletion Potential (ODP) of 0.055. (2) Considering an ODP of 0.11. *Stationary batteries account for almost all hazardous waste. [ 73 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed (1) In 2016, mobile phone accessory, handset and battery waste collected at Oi stores was sent to Oi’s by category Air travel (km) 2015 2016 Chg% logistics supply centers and distribution centers for temporary storage. (2) In 2016, there were no expenses under “Environmental management and prevention costs” due We reclaimed decoders – equipment required for using Oi TV – for reuse after Short distance (up to 500 km) 4,000,495 2,935,454 -27% to the temporary suspension of the Building Risk project (Environmental Pillar) in order to align Oi’s customers’ contracts were terminated. In 2016, we collected 282,034 units and internal definitions. The project was resumed in 2017. our target for 2017 is to increase reclaimed goods by 60%, reaching 450,000 reclaimed decoders. This goal is expected to generate savings of around Medium distance 16,890,674 16,950,655 0.3% R$ 26 million for the Company in 2017. (500 km to 3,700 km) In 2016, we launched the Prad (Plano de Recuperação de Área Degradada, or Damaged Land Recovery Plan), agreed upon with Ibama (Instituto Brasileiro Long distance do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis, or Brazilian Institute of 5,208,851 3,699,040 -29% G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions (over 3,700 km) Environment and Renewable Natural Resources), related to the backbone project for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in Amapá, Manaus and Boa Vista, meeting Ibama’s requests. We also began the environmental compliance process for the works of the underwater crossing of This is confidential, strategic information, and we would rather not disclose it in G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type fiber optic cable and cable grounding in Juruena and Juara, both in Mato Grosso. this report. In fact, disclosing the amount of the fines we received in 2016 while the legislation applicable to us is being reviewed is contrary to our responsible Environmental protection In addition, R$ 556,000.00 was allocated to issuance of radiometric reports, used management policy. 2015 2016 to monitor the quality of radio signals, and prove it to Anatel and government expenditures and investments (R$) bodies. We also consider the R$ 4,300,000.00 spent to comply with the G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and conditions required by the regulatory agency (Anatel), as the health risks arising Treatment and disposal of waste (fixed from Base Radio Stations are also parameterized by this agency. materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce R$ 1,201,359.10 R$ 1,165,996.25 collection points + dumpsters) We mitigate the environmental impact in question, GHG emissions from vehicles G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, used by employees at work, through Oi's Gestão de Frotas. Disposal of batteries, handsets and and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 0 0 (1) accessories collected at Oi stores Concerning the impacts from different means of transportation, we conduct a In 2016, our Whistleblower Channel received two complaints (one founded and survey on a regular basis with employees to find out what means of transportation Environmental licensing costs R$ 1,181,186.50 R$ 732,758.21 one unfounded). The founded complaint referred to inappropriate disposal of they use in commuting, how far they travel and what kind of fuel they use. The telephone cables in an environmental protection area. As a result, the involved latest survey was taken by 1,806 employees (16% of all active employees on employees received written warnings and instructions to dispose of the the date of the survey). The findings allowed us to identify the main profiles and Issuance of radiometric reports, used material in appropriate places. calculate their respective GHG emissions, reported under scope 3 of the GHG to monitor the quality of radio signals, R$ 342,000.00 R$ 4,856,000.00 Emissions Inventory. and prove it to Anatel and government bodies in general Business travel, also monitored, decreased considerably year-over-year in 2016. Solid waste transportation and R$ 400,000.00 R$ 301,305.00 storage costs External assurance for the GHG R$ 19,124.00 R$ 19,124.00 inventory Environmental prevention and R$ 31,717.00 0 (2) management costs Total R$ 3,156,262.60 R$ 7,075,183.46 [ 74 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Social dimension Labor practices and decent work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region New hires 2014 2015 2016 Turnover rate (%) 2014 2015 2016 Number of terminations 2014 2015 2016 By gender By gender By gender Male 2,403 1,161 1,153 Male 14.83 10.89 12.5 Male 3,130 2,514 2,637 Female 1,936 1,336 1,001 Female 10.51 9.17 8.8 Female 1,986 1,758 1,654 By age group By age group By age group Under 30 2,399 1,358 1,132 Under 30 12.45 8.13 7.5 Under 30 2,249 1,388 1,135 Between 30 and 50 1,876 1,096 1,005 Between 30 and 50 11.89 10.19 11.4 Between 30 and 50 2,561 2,345 2,441 Over 50 64 43 17 Over 50 0.99 1.72 2.4 Over 50 306 539 715 By region By region By region South 535 142 193 South 3.53 1.9 2.2 South 783 499 477 Southeast 2,400 1,299 1,268 Southeast 13.68 10.88 12.1 Southeast 2,706 2,374 2,403 Midwest 347 140 156 Midwest 2.16 1.58 1.5 Midwest 458 393 308 Northeast 879 823 444 Northeast 4.76 4.7 4.3 Northeast 896 764 868 North 178 93 93 North 1.21 0.99 1.1 North 273 242 235 [ 75 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee part-time employees, by significant locations of operation category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity We offer all employees food/meal vouchers, transit passes, life insurance, health plan, dental plan, maternity/paternity leave and private pension plan, through the possibility of joining the voluntary plan – with variable contributions –, which 2014 2015 2016 Age group diversity of level offers retirement pensions, as well as illness and death benefits. of staff (%) Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements Executive Board 0.0 71.7 28.3 0.0 72.0 28.0 0.0 0.5 0.1 There are no such periods, but Oi’s employees, as well as their representatives Managers 1.5 86.6 11.9 1.0 85.0 14.0 0.0 4.7 0.7 and union, are duly notified of any significant operational changes. Supervisors/coordinators 24.8 66.0 9.2 25.0 64.0 10.0 1.4 4.1 0.6 Staff 24.1 61.3 14.6 22.0 63.0 15.0 18.4 56.9 12.5 Total 22.8 62.9 14.2 21.0 64.0 15.0 19.9 66.2 13.9 2014 2015 2016 Gender diversity by level of staff (as a % of total staff) Male Female Male Female Male Female Executive Board 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.6 0.1 Managers 3.7 1.3 3.9 1.5 3.8 1.6 Supervisors/coordinators 3.5 2.0 3.5 2.0 3.8 2.3 Staff 57.2 31.7 55.6 32.9 54.4 33.4 Total 64.9 35.1 63.6 36.4 62.6 37.4 [ 76 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category and relevant operating units Human rights Our guidelines for establishing salaries and positions do not allow gender G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, discrimination. The differences in average salaries between men and women aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor are explained by different professional development levels and length of employees trained service. G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced In 2016, we continued our Ethics and Anti-Corruption training programs. We held or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or Average compensation by several two-hour face-to-face training sessions to over 700 employees from compulsory labor Male Female Ratio F/M (%) different areas of the Company. We also offered online training programs that employee category (R$) in 2016 enabled 503 employees to learn more about the topic, totaling 533 hours. It is We do not accept child, forced or compulsory labor, and all our supplier important to mention that, since its launch, distance-learning training has already contracts provide for the duty and commitment to curb such practices. In Executive Board 39,866.00 34,449.09 86% benefited 9,030 employees and reviewed content will be available in 2017. addition, we audit suppliers critical to our business regularly to check for compliance with those legal and contractual requirements. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Managers 14,764.43 14,185.70 96% In 2015, the Whistleblower Channel received three discrimination complaints G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Supervisors/coordinators 4,261.61 3,910.11 92% and only one was considered founded. The report was confirmed and the result and actions taken of the investigation was submitted to Oi’s Ethics Committee, which resolved to Staff 5,740.65 4,010.72 70% fire the employee guilty of discrimination. We recorded no incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people in 2016. G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of formal grievance mechanisms association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved taken to support these rights through formal grievance mechanisms In 2016, the Whistleblower Channel received two complaints related to labor We guarantee our employees’ right of association, which is at risk in none of practices and both were considered unfounded. our operations. All employees are covered by collective agreements, which No such grievances were filed in 2016. contain clauses concerned with working hours, occupational health & safety, benefits and profit sharing. All collective bargaining agreements are duly entered into with the respective unions and filed with the Ministry of Labor Mediation System. [ 77 ] Introduction Social report Message from Management Financial statements GRI content index Corporate information and credits Annex I – additional indicators About Oi Value creation model Results High-value relationships Environmental management Responsibility for the product In 2016, we also implemented a number of preventive controls and monitoring G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes routines in order to ensure the program’s effectiveness, including actions concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes associated with supplier due diligence and the identification of politically exposed persons. In 2016, the Company was fined R$ 439,542.90 in a 2015 lawsuit, tried by a trial We expect the program to evolve in 2017, permeating the culture of ethics, court in 2016, related to undue billing and violation of users’ rights. transparency and anti-corruption; strengthening controls; promoting structured risk assessment; and disseminating the practice of mapping processes in the areas. Society G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures No such grievances were filed in 2016. We invested in training programs, updating the e-learning program on integrity and holding several face-to-face training courses for employees and executives of areas that interact with third parties and government officials. G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes In 2016, we created our Integrity Program. The initiative comprises necessary actions to promote ethics management, as well as to prevent, detect and In 2016, no legal actions were filed against the Company related to interrupt acts of fraud and corruption. this indicator. Among the adopted measures, we designed the Anti-Corruption Policy, which establishes the rules and conducts that should be followed by all employees G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved and reinforces Oi’s commitment to comply with national and international through formal grievance mechanisms legislation on the topic. No such grievances were filed in 2016. Oi’s Integrity Program is focused on enhancing governance levels, always in line with the Company’s priorities and supporting the business transformation process. We have the full support of senior management, imparting to all employees the importance of complying with the Code of Ethics and corporate policies, as well as acting with integrity in all day-to-day activities. [ 78 ]
