HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONTENT HUMAN RIGHTS CEO’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT/3 GRI INDICATORS/4 HUMAN RIGHTS/5 Policies and Procedures/7 Actions and Performance/8 LABOUR STANDARDS LABOUR STANDARDS/10 Policies and Procedures/12 Actions and Performance/13 ENVIRONMENT/15 ENVIRONMENT Policies and Procedures/16 Actions and Performance/19 ANTI – CORRUPTION/22 Policies and Procedures/24 Actions and Performance/26 ANTI – CORRUPTION Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 1 This is Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC’s Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It covers January 1st until December 31st 2016 and includes a reiteration of commitment from Hikma’s CEO to the principles and incorporates sections of Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility Report, Hikma’s policies, Code of Conduct, and GRI indicators. The report will demonstrate how Hikma is addressing each of the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted principles and continues to actively engage in and improve these practices over the years. We welcome feedback on its contents. Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 2 CEO’s Statement of Support for the UN Global Compact I am pleased to present to you Hikma Pharmaceuticals’ 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Communication on Progress report (COP). As a committed member of the UNGC since 2007, Hikma continues to support the ten principles and align its operations with the UNGC in all its locations. Doing business ethically is embedded in our corporate culture, and our mission to improve the lives of patients across the globe by providing high quality affordable medications is our promise. Our communication on progress report demonstrates Hikma’s commitment to bring about positive change in our local and global communities. In 2016, we witnessed the completion of the Roxane Laboratories acquisition (now West-Ward Columbus), our largest and most LABOUR STANDARDS significant acquisition to date, establishing us as a top ten US generics manufacturer. We formed new strategic partnerships and expanded our relationship with some of our existing partners. We also made investments through our venture capital arm, Hikma Ventures, in Propeller Health, the leading digital solution for respiratory medicine, and in Chrono Therapeutics for their wearable transdermal smoking cessation device. As we develop and grow, our COP report reveals our continued commitment to the United Nations’ Global Compact vital initiative and demonstrates our alignment with its principles in the areas of human ENVIRONMENT rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We employ over 8,600 people with operations in the Middle East and North Africa, US and Europe. We believe it is our duty as a growing multinational business to endorse the COP’s principles and encourage our stakeholders to do so as well. We remain committed to conducting our business in an ethical manner and to being active partners in shaping a sustainable future. Said Darwazah ANTI – CORRUPTION CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 3 GRI Indicators Principles GRI Indicators 1 LA7, LA10, HR2 2 LA7, LA10, HR2 3 EC1, LA7, LA10 4 SO3, HR2 5 SO3, HR2 6 EC1, LA7, LA10 7 EN3, EN8 8 EN3, EN8, EN22 9 EN3, EN8, EN22 10 SO3 LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost days, absenteeism LA10: average hours of training per employee per category HR2: percentage of suppliers / contractors undergone human rights screening EC1: direct economic value, including employee wages and benefits SO3: percentage of employees trained in anti – corruption policies EN3: direct energy consumption EN8: total water withdrawal EN22: total weight of waste Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 4 Principle One Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle Two Businesses should make sure that they are not HUMAN RIGHTS complicit in human rights abuses LABOUR STANDARDS “Hikma respects the dignity and human rights of its employees and others. Privacy and confidentiality are essential to business and Hikma will respect the privacy of its customers, counterparties and employees, and is committed to maintaining the confidentiality of their information. Hikma is not discriminatory and offers equal opportunities to all.” Dignity and Respect Principle, Code of Conduct ENVIRONMENT ANTI – CORRUPTION Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 5 “Hikma is committed to providing for its employees a safe and secure working environment.” Health and Safety Principle, Code of Conduct “Hikma seeks to engage with customers and suppliers whose employment practices respect human rights and whose ethical standards meet the standards set by Hikma.” Trading, Customers and Suppliers Standard, Code of Conduct “Hikma expects all of its units to comply with the highest standards of Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy Management to ensure the well-being of its employees and business partners. We ensure that Hikma complies with and exceeds, where possible, the relevant Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy legislations. We also aim to prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health at Hikma. [We] work with our suppliers and contractors, to bring our Health, Safety, Environmental and Energy Management standards into alignment.” Health, Safety, Environment and Energy Policy Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 6 Human Rights As a global pharma company, top worldwide, with 29 state-of-thepractices while also increasing quality is of utmost importance art manufacturing facilities. awareness for accountable in our business. At Hikma we procedures and ethical HUMAN RIGHTS provide quality through our performances. actions and services for all our Policies and Procedures The most important asset in a stakeholders including the public As a multinational company company is its people. To succeed as well as our employees. Our that operates in many cultures, at a business, the employees company mission, improving lives, it is imperative that our ethical must have a positive workplace puts the concept of human rights principles are unified across environment. Hikma was at every level of the company. the Group. At Hikma we have founded as a family business, and Since our establishment in 1978, many frameworks in place continues to view its employees Hikma has been dedicated to that continually measures and as such. We have several integrity, honesty, and quality in maintains our ethical practice. employee programmes in place all that we do. The company is The company does not condone in our locations, depending on LABOUR STANDARDS committed to the welfare and any bribery or corruption, we the country’s culture, that benefit education of our personnel, have a zero-tolerance policy on employees. dedicated to the societies in which we work and determined such matters. Universally, we have programmes to preserve and protect the Hikma’s Code of Conduct1 mirrors related to child care for environment in which we our ethical procedures in relation working mothers which surpass operate. These values which are to labour and human rights, governmental regulations. embedded in our culture have which is implemented through all Mothers get time off and have a steered us for the past 39 years businesses and company levels, flexible schedule when it comes and will continue to do so. from the board of directors and to a child’s schooling or illness, as management to our employees, well as monetary compensation Our company mission, improving ENVIRONMENT and our products. for when the child is home and in lives, is imbedded in our business nurseries. from the top down. The company The tenents of our Code apply to provides a high quality of service our company’s external partners Other employee programmes in all our actions. Our philosophy as well. To work with Hikma, a include social committees that teaches the concept of respect company must follow strict ethical offer extra financial support and protection of human rights in standards and transparency. to employees with specific all our sites. Hikma does not conduct business conditions, free Hikma medicinal with any partner who does not products for all employees, Our company’s mission goes maintain strong international excellent health insurance for hand in hand with our Corporate labour standards. The company all employees and their families Responsibility strategy wellbeing audits its partners on an annual as well as free cancer insurance and education. We endorse ANTI – CORRUPTION basis relating to business in some locations, free therapy this though our platforms our employment practices through in others, as well as music, people, community, environment the supplier audit procedure. language and sporting classes for and global welfare and ethics. All our company partners, employees. The company is constantly suppliers and contractors undergo At Hikma we have several policies growing. We currently have human rights screening. Hikma and bylaws which are regularly operations in the Middle East and also utilises Suppliers Audit updated and communicated North Africa, US and Europe, Questionnaires that relate to to our employees to ensure employing over 8600 people, the UNGC principles to aid employee rights are protected selling in more than 50 countries in determining the suppliers’ in all locations, such as the 1 The Code is available on the corporate website: Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 http://www.hikma.com/en/sustainability/Code-of-conduct.html 7 Employee Human Resource business integrity programme. both internally and externally, Bylaws which encompass the Hikma’s CR division works in across the Group. whole workforce. parallel with the Committee. The In 2016 the compliance The company also protects Committee has addressed a wide department continued to employees’ confidential range of ethical considerations implement its medium-term information and their right to and established procedures in global strategy for the delivery privacy with stringent legal and place to ensure Hikma is ethically of the commitment to business governing frameworks across the compliant in its business. integrity and ABC. Group. Some of the main functions of The company has a specific Health and Safety the CREC include administrating framework that demonstrates its the Group’s ABC compliance leadership structure and delegates As a company with programme, overseeing the authority and proprietorship for manufacturing operations, policies on ethics and business the programme. Operational employee health and safety is a conduct and developing the responsibility and oversight for fundamental part of the business. Code of Conduct. The CREC ABC is assigned by the Board From the top down, the company also manages Hikma’s Speak-Up to the Executive Vice Chairman, has a strong health and safety System, where employees can who delegates responsibility to programme in all its sites. anonymously raise any ethical his management team. The Chief The company has a solid health concerns. Compliance Officer (CCO) reports and safety directive that is Education directly to the CREC on ABC communicated from management matters. The CCO’s leadership to all levels of the company. We Employee education is integral of ABC issues is directed by the have a robust Health, Safety, to our company values. As soon CREC Chairman and the Executive Environment and Energy (HSEE) as new employees join Hikma Vice Chairman. The head of each department which ensures that they go through orientation business division is responsible all segments of the company at different departments and to be the compliance champion implement its policy, which is factories. Rotation plans are for their division. The CCO is regularly studied and updated. present for employees to expand supported by group and regional their talents, which is encouraged compliance officers at the In our factories, our employees by the company. Training operational level. The legal, HR, are thoroughly trained to sessions, both internal and financial and company secretarial operate in a safe environment. external, are also conducted in all departments also counsel and To guarantee all hazardous risks departments. provide executional support to are eliminated, the company Hikma has a strong education the compliance department. confirms that every available safety measure is present at programme the Continuing As mentioned previously, the our operations. This is achieved Education Scheme which allows company has developed a through extensive training, our employees to enhance their confidential and anonymous ensuring all safety relations education by pursuing a higher international reporting platform are properly understood and degree. Founded in 2010, the is which available for all our providing employees with state of company has currently aided fiftyemployees and is supervised by an the art safety gear. three employees in pursuing their external third party. Anonymous, higher education with a total cost toll free reporting hotlines are CREC of USD 928,107. available in the US and Europe, The Compliance, Responsibility which after examination by an and Ethics Committee (“CREC”) outsourced third party directly was founded in 2010. The CREC Actions and Performance go to the compliance team, the oversees Hikma’s approach Since its foundation, the company VP of Corporate HR and the to business integrity, social has always been dedicated General Counsel. As for our responsibility and ethics. Since its to operating with the highest locations in the MENA area, a establishment, the focus of the standards of integrity and web based compliance reporting Committee has been formalising, ethics. The company has always system is available, called “Speak developing and applying an ABC communicated its zero-tolerance Up” where employees can (Anti Bribery and Corruption) policy to bribery and corruption, anonymously report any issues. Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 8 In 2016, the company engaged integrity globally through the Health and Safety in a risk assessment and process Partnering Against Corruption Most of Hikma’s entities have enhancement exercise with Good Initiative. accredited safety standards, such Corporation to benchmark the FTSE4Good Index Series as OHSAS 18001 for Occupational company and improve its ABC Health and Safety, ISO 14001 (Anti Bribery and Corruption) For 2016 we have maintained our for Environmental management programme. The assessment membership in in the FTSE4Good systems, ISO 9001 for quality started on a group level in 2015 index series, which strengthens management system or their with an independent assessment our strong ethical standards equivalent. Our corporate Health of Hikma’s sites and was across the Group. The company and Safety department oversees completed in 2016. When the is proud to uphold its promise to our environmental management assessments were finalized the high corporate business standards HUMAN RIGHTS requirements from ISO 14001 and data was shared with the Chief and ethics. minimises the health and safety Compliance Officer and senior Participants such as NGOs, risks by continuing to satisfy the team and a road map was made governmental bodies, consultants, necessities for maintaining the for the future. academics and the investment OHSAS 18001 certification and Hikma’s policies have been community help to outline the annually renewing it. developed in parallel with its conditions for inclusion in the Employee Benefits ongoing focus on education indices. The focus areas include; and the spreading of ABC Anti-Corruption, Climate Change, Our employees at Hikma are compliance information across all offered extensive benefits, most Health and Safety, and Customer Hikma locations. The company’s importantly class A medical Responsibility. The presence of induction programmes certify that insurance for themselves and their LABOUR STANDARDS Hikma in the FTSE4Good Index all new employees understand immediate families for free, travel Series showcases the company’s Hikma’s ethical values; awareness insurance, and specialised benefits good ESG, Environmental Social sessions have been conducted modified to the company’s and Governance practices location. Other benefits include across the Group. In 2016 measured against internationally paid maternity leave, financial the Compliance Department recognized standards and strong maternity reimbursement for established an online training corporate social practices. the locations that don’t have tool for ABC issues, where all employees have undertaken Code of Conduct nurseries, retirement provisions the training. The company through social security and a The company’s Code is distributed provident fund. Differing benefits also developed, implemented to all members of staff. Currently are offered to staff of different and independently tested ABC ENVIRONMENT the Code is available in all the countries per local regulations procedures across all global major languages in which the and job requirements. operations. company conducts its business: The General Counsel supervises Arabic, English, French, German, In 2016 a salary progression the Group’s compliance within Portuguese, Italian and Russian. exercise programme was initiated the anti-trust, anti-money Annually, all employees are which will take place annually. laundering and trade sanctions obligated to state that they The salary progression of our legislation and reports to the have read the Code of Conduct, employees was mapped out Committee. The company has understood it and will stand by its compared to their rank for the created extensive policies and terms. Employees also confirm in past three years. This has been procedures to confirm compliance writing that they recognise their applied for the first time in 2016 ANTI – CORRUPTION which have been revised by the duty in reporting any suspected and will continue to be done on Committee in 2016. events of non-compliance with yearly basis. the Code. In 2016, the company Hikma is a founding member achieved 100% signatures from of the World Economic Forum’s senior managers across Hikma Partnering Against Corruption world-wide. Top management Initiative (PACI), the foremost undergoes face-to-face training business driven global antifor the Code and implement at corruption initiative. Hikma a departmental level for their continued to indorse business employees. Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 9 Principle Three Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle Four Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle Five Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle Six Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation “Employees’ right to free association and collective bargaining are recognised and respected There is a clear, transparent process for receiving employee suggestions, requests and complaints. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely fashion.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 10 “All public affairs activities undertaken by or on behalf of Hikma must be conducted ethically, must align with relevant local law requirements and applicable industry codes of practice and be approved in accordance with internal policies. Hikma employees will: have the right to be involved in political and lobbying processes in their own time as private citizens, but must be clear at all times that these activities are not undertaken HUMAN RIGHTS on behalf of Hikma.” Public Affairs and Governmental Interaction Standard, Code of Conduct “Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with. Effective communication with employees is promoted, so that issues arising from business decisions are addressed appropriately and in a timely fashion.” Employee Personal Information Standard, Code of Conduct LABOUR STANDARDS “Hikma is opposed to all forms of forced or child labour.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct “Hikma operates a discriminationfree working environment and is committed to promoting a culture of respect, dignity and equal opportunity in which employees’ individual rights are protected. Hikma believes that the diversity of its workforce is highly ENVIRONMENT valuable. Hikma is committed to providing an environment in which individuals can flourish based on talent, experience, and performance and where potential is recognised and encouraged.” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct “Discrimination is not tolerated and equal employment opportunities are provided to all. No forms of violence, bullying or harassment are tolerated. ANTI – CORRUPTION Employee rights are safeguarded and employment laws and regulations are complied with. The need for training and development is recognised as central to the on-going development of our people, and their skills and knowledge” Employment Matters Standard, Code of Conduct Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 11 Labour Standards The company aims to provide a Across the Group we maintain not related to a person’s ability to positive, pleasant and enriching the freedom of association perform a job.” work space for its employees. The needed for a fair representation Upon hiring new employees, our company does not condone any of our employees. In all our sites, human resources department kind of favouritism or inequality; employee concerns are heard. are trained to view all the workplace is a haven free There are unions and community candidates equally without any from discrimination. At Hikma groups present that represent discrimination. there is no forced or child labour and state staff concerns. In our in all its entities, the company sites where unions are present The company must confirm that is rigorous in operating at the employees are protected by all staff are knowledgeable about highest ethical standards. collective negotiation agreements employee rights including laws As stated in the Code of Conduct signed by the General Manager and regulations that protect the and the company principles, of that site and the head of the employee. Hikma also confirms Hikma does not employ employee union. that the entities its partners or discrimination in any way. The any company that is associated One of management’s key company adheres to stringent with Hikma supports and enacts responsibilities is to ensure moral standards that are aligned the anti-discrimination laws. employees are aware of their with universally accepted labour rights, managers are also Health and Safety requirements. responsible for union discussions. The company’s Health and We do not partner with any entity The matters discussed by Safety Policy is administered that condones or conducts child collective bargaining with across the Group. The policy is labour. Company labour laws trade unions and employee directed into health and safety across the Group clearly forbid representatives comprise financial processes for each unit and the employment of a minor under compensation such as salary function. Management ensures the age of eighteen. At Hikma expansions, bonuses, insurance the policies are applied into we apply strong ethical labour expansion that is annually their divisions. These policies are standards in our supply chain. We reviewed, the health and safety of regularly updated and thoroughly do not associate with any partner, employees, and employee training prohibit so employees can work supplier, or third-party source that sessions. in a safe environment. The health does not uphold international The company administers an and safety processes cover the labour standards. “Equal Treatment of Employees following areas: and Harassment” policy. Employee health Management shares the policy Policies and Procedures with employees and regularly Accident prevention As a multinational business that update their policy manuals: Health and safety training is constantly expanding, it is [At Hikma we believe in] “equal Monitoring, reporting and essential that company values and treatment of employees and communicating policies are uniform in all entities. do not condone favouritism or Hikma employs the necessary inequality in any shape or form. Training and development resources to confirm all employee Hikma does not discriminate Labour Standards rights and needs are met and based on a person’s race, colour, addressed. As a global business, religious creed, age, sex, marital Going forward, the company the company ensures its policies status, national origin, present or plans to boost its measurement meet and exceed the regulations past history of mental or physical of certain health and safety of the areas in which the business disability and any other factors indicators which will enable is located. Hikma to identify areas for Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 12 potential improvement to health MENA 2016 Conference. Our Innovation & Leadership and safety and further enhance senior managers participated in Advisory Board (I-LAB) our processes and procedures. various panel discussions, under In 2016, under our CEO’s the umbrella of supporting Grievance Procedure initiative, an advisory board was women in the workplace, formed called the Innovation & The company has always had gender equality, providing equal Leadership Advisory Board (I-LAB), an open-door policy where opportunities and inspiring with the purpose of sustaining employees can pass by and women empowerment initiatives. an inventive culture across the voice any concerns, and as the Women Empowerment and Group and nurturing young company grew official procedures Motivational Programme, talent. The I-LAB is a committee were put in place in the human entitled ‘Dare to Dream Big’, of employees under the age of resource department that call aims to empower and inspire our HUMAN RIGHTS thirty-five who advise the CEO for swift action for any labour employees and the community on cutting-edge technology ideas negligence. Employees inform at large. The ‘Dare to Dream Big’ and initiatives that will introduce the HR department of their motivational speaker sessions and inspire innovation in the complaints and HR is legally were founded in 2015 in Jordan, workplace. The committee meets obliged to take swift action. If an where successful female guest frequently and keeps our top employee wishes to anonymously speakers from various academic management up-to-date with report any grievances there is and professional backgrounds advances in digital health and a system in place called Speak spoke to our female employees in proposals on how to implement Up which is overseen by the monthly workshop style sessions. these advancements within the compliance department and a Hikma Young Professionals company. special board and administered by Excellence (HYPE) Programme LABOUR STANDARDS an external party. Unions The company strives to enhance The company has union labour and advance the communities representations in most of its Actions and Performance where the company is present, as sites in Europe and the MENA well as invest in the population’s At Hikma we believe in equality region. In the remaining locations youth. In 2016, 67% of our for all employees, and pride staff are represented by the HR employees were below the age of ourselves for being an equal department. 40. opportunity employer. A third In the United States at Hikma of the employees are female, In 2016 a programme called West-Ward, the labour laws a percentage that has been HYPE (Hikma Young Professionals that are administered in Hikma annually increasing. Females Excellence) was created, ENVIRONMENT are in line with the Americans also make up 77% of Portugal’s developed for young highwith Disabilities Act (ADA) workforce, and they occupy potential and high-performing of 1990 which protects any strategic top managerial positions recent graduates. HYPE is a discrimination against individuals across the Group. In 2016 a two-year rotational programme with handicaps. For 2016, we significant increase in female developed for talented continued our renewal with the management above the level individuals, where they are Collective Bargaining Agreement of M4 (management) occurred, exposed to company leadership with Teamsters Local 201, which particularly in the United States values, job rotation in operational, came into effect in November (26%). financial and commercial 1, 2014 and will remain until departments. The programme Women Empowerment October 31, 2019. In addition to is currently being run in Jordan. ANTI – CORRUPTION Initiatives the ADA, Hikma conforms with For the next year the company and works under the following Hikma has always supported is planning on expanding the Federal and State legalities: women in the workplace and rotational number and including the communities where the programme participants in The Civil Rights Act of 1991, company is present. In 2016, the US, EU and other MENA Title VII of the Civil Rights several initiatives under the theme countries. Act of 1964, as amended, 42 of women’s empowerment took U.S.C. § 2000e et seq, the Civil place; such as sponsorship and Rights Act of 1870, 42 U.S.C. participating in the Women’s § 1981 Entrepreneurship Day in the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 13 The Americans with Disabilities The Modern Slavery provisions Act, 29 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq will be included our Code of Conduct in 2017. In addition, The Rehabilitation Act of 1972, the communication department as amended, 29 U.S.C. § 701, is planning on raising awareness et seq on the MSA in all locations by The Age Discrimination in conducting training sessions in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. 2017. § 621 et seq The New Jersey Law Against Recognition Discrimination, N.J.S.A. 10:5-1 et seq., and/or under any other Hikma’s Chaiman & CEO applicable federal, state or received the “Leader of the Year” award, at the Third local antidiscrimination law Global Generics & Biosimilars The Employee Retirement Awards 2016 Income Security Act, 29 U.S.C. Hikma Egypt was awarded the § 1132(e) and 1140 et seq best purchasing performance The Conscientious Employee in the MENA region for 2016 Protection Act, N.J.S.A. 34:191 et seq The Family Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. § 2611 et seq (and any other applicable federal or state leave statute) In our Portugal location, Hikma Farmaceutica, our company surpasses the Portuguese labour laws, which calls for a lessening in the percentage of overtime payment. For overtime work the company pays a fixed amount monthly that represents roughly 15% of an employees’ salary. Company profits are distributed to the employees as well. As for the rest of the locations, no changes were made regarding unions, and no incidents were reported. All company unions abide by labour laws which are easily accessible along with union instructions that are imposed by specialised company staff. Modern Slavery Act In 2016, an internal Committee was initiated to assess and recommend how to best move forward and implement the MSA (Modern Slavery Act) within the company’s business and supply chain across the Group. Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 14 Principle Seven “Hikma expects all of its units to comply with the highest standards of HSEE Businesses should support a precautionary Management. approach to environmental challenges As a pharmaceutical company, we recognize that our operations have an effect on the local and global environment and we Principle Eight actively encourage the engagement of our staff at all levels to ensure implementing Undertake initiatives to promote greater and maintaining the standards that we set. environmental responsibility The purpose of this policy is… to minimize adverse impact on the environment HUMAN RIGHTS where possible, through the reduction Principle Nine of greenhouse gases (GHG) inventory by reducing the consumption of energy. Encourage development and diffusion of Hikma is committed to consider energy saving equipment and tools in any project in environmentally friendly technologies the future.” Environmental Principle, Code of Conduct “Hikma expects all its units to … maintain an operation that minimizes all adverse environmental and climate change impacts associated with our activities. As a Pharmaceutical Company, we recognize that our operations have an effect on LABOUR STANDARDS the local and global environment and we actively encourage the engagement of our staff at all levels to ensure implementing and maintaining the standards we set.” Hikma’s Health, Safety and Environment Policy “[Hikma is] committed to benefitting the communities in which it works through charitable donations, volunteering and the operation of its social and environmental policies.” Community Impact and Support Principle, ENVIRONMENT Code of Conduct “We are committed to doing business in an environmentally responsible manner. We continuously monitor and review our performance to meet current environmental legislation.” Corporate Responsibility Strategy ANTI – CORRUPTION Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 15 Environment Our purpose is to provide Policies and Procedures contamination and energy use, affordable high quality and we strive to achieve our set Health, Safety, Environment pharmaceutical products. goals and targets annually: and Energy Management We ensure that our products Various resources and benefit people around the The Health, Safety, Environment programmes are utilised to world, contribute to sustainable and Energy, (HSEE) is a groupreduce carbon emissions due development, remain dedicated wide corporate policy that is to business operations to improving global health endorsed by the Vice President standards and offer greater of Corporate Communication. Hikma’s environmental well-being to local communities This policy is periodically reviewed standards are reflected across and their environment. Hikma while training sessions and its supply chain and we recognises its responsibility as a awareness material on the policy will maintain constructive pharmaceutical manufacturer; are communicated to the entire engagement with our key an energy-intensive business, to staff. The policy dictates that all stakeholders to resolve assess and monitor its related our units comply with the most issues and help improve our environmental impact and ensure stringent industry applicable performance the adaptation of environmentally standards of health, safety, Contractors and visitors on friendly processes throughout its environment and energy (HSEE) any of our sites are required to business. management to ensure the follow Hikma’s environmental well-being of our employees and standards Human health is linked to the business partners; and to maintain wider environment, and we Hikma ensures the continuous an operation that minimises believe that climate change improvement of its Environmental all adverse environmental is a global environmental Management System, through an and climate change impacts challenge that requires mitigation active process including Standard associated with our undertakings. actions in the form of reducing Operating Procedures (SOPs), Going forward, we plan to GHG emissions. Hikma thus and implementing environmental update and recommunicate our incorporates environmentally programmes. health and safety policy for all responsible practices whenever locations for 2017, improve our Moreover, as a manufacturing possible across its operations, measurement of health and safety company, Hikma is keen to focusing on minimising waste, indicators and identify areas achieve the best possible results analysing carbon emissions, for potential enhancement and in preventing and managing monitoring and reducing energy further improve our methods and environmental accidents. usage, and minimising demands procedures. Standard Operating Procedures for water consumption. We recognize that our operations (SOPs) are strictly followed for the A preventive approach is prevention and management of affect the environment in which also adopted within Hikma’s environmental accidents within we exist and as such we actively operations towards the the Health, Safety, Environment encourage the engagement of environment. We are committed and Energy (HSEE) Management our staff at all levels to ensure to our employees, their families function. In addition, the implementing and maintaining and the community at large. environmental accidents due to the standards we set. Accordingly, we undertake production processes that may initiatives that protect the We aim to set measurable be harmful to operators are environment and seek sustainable goals and targets, which will minimised and mitigated by the development as key to our role as be monitored and tracked to Health, Safety and Environment a responsible business. improve our impact on climate (HSE) department, and alternative change, water pollution, land Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 16 processes are implemented where Senior Management is campaigns, volunteer in possible. committed to reducing their communities, can harmful emissions, optimizing attend awareness sessions Continuously seeking to reduce energy usage and minimising on environmental issues that energy costs and increase risk by setting a dedicated the company hosts, and are sustainability throughout all its budget program to achieve also encouraged to submit facilities, Hikma implements required targets new ideas to safeguard the Energy Conservation Measures environment (ECMs). ECMs consist of two MENA Operation VP’s have a types of technologies that enable savings objective that includes Greenhouse Gases energy saving results: savings on energy. They are As a company listed in the accountable to the board Energy Efficiency technologies: London Stock Exchange, Hikma HUMAN RIGHTS enables procured energy (both Business Unit Managers has a regulatory obligation to electrical and thermal) to be (GM) in each business unit report GHG emissions pursuant utilised more effectively within managers are responsible for to Section 7 of The Companies the facility. As a result, the user reviewing all HSEE activities Act 2006 (Strategic Report and does not need to use as much including the setting of Directors’ Report) Regulations energy to deliver the same emissions reduction target and 2013. tasks or processes the implementation strategy. The Greenhouse Gases GHG They are responsible for setting Decentralised Energy sources that constitute our up and ensuring the execution technologies: enables energy operational boundary for the of new energy saving projects to be produced at or near the 2016 reporting period are as point of use, generally from Plant Managers oversee the follows: LABOUR STANDARDS renewable energy sources. This processes to meet reduction Scope 1: Facility diesel contrasts with the traditional, targets at every manufacturing combustion, facility natural wasteful and increasingly site gas combustion, facility costly method of buying Engineering Managers LPG combustion, fugitive energy that is generated in a set plans and processes for refrigerants from aircentralised power station that meeting targets conditioning equipment and may be hundreds of kilometres vehicle fuel combustion away from the point at which CR Manager is responsible the energy is needed of the communication on Scope 2: Purchased electricity sustainable matters such consumption for our own use HSEE Architecture as climate change, energy ENVIRONMENT Hikma reports according to the The President and CEO of MENA efficient manufacturing Defra Environmental Reporting and Emerging Markets oversees processes, and a Hikma policy Guidelines 2013. Results are the responsibility of climate statement on energy and reported in tCO2e emissions, as change and energy reduction. climate change UK Government emission factors The HSE function is governed Health and Safety Manager for overseas electricity currently by the senior management in advises the GM and senior account for carbon dioxide each unit and each business unit management on HSEE emissions only. is responsible for implementing strategies, maintaining the company’s HSE policy at its Water Usage HSEE certifications (ISO location. Management ripples As a pharmaceutical 14001, OHSAS 18001) and down to the operational level manufacturing business, we technical implementation ANTI – CORRUPTION and has controls and checks at recognize that we have an of environmental plans every level as per the following important role in identifying and (ISO14001, energy procedures: responding to the risks of water conservation plan, waste Executive-level CR management plan) in resource scarcity. Hikma aims to committee reports directly to accordance with regulations promote a greater water usage the CEO and is accountable and codes; and developing risk responsibility by continuously for governing ethical and management policy measuring and reporting the environmentally sustainable company’s impact on water All employees take part in activities resources and annually improving global CR and environmental the company’s performance, Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 17 while continually searching labour. The management of Certified Management for new innovative ways to Hikma’s supply chain ensures Systems reduce, recycle, and reuse water that manufacturing processes We strive to reduce negative supplies. Hikma has installed comply with and exceed where environmental impacts, due several systems in its production possible, the relevant local and to our operations, through processes that have increased international environmental green investment and focus the efficiency of water usage legislations. Hikma works with on reducing the energy usage in its manufacturing facilities in suppliers and contractors to bring across our business. Our Jordan and Portugal. Our ability their health, safety, environmental consistent efforts resulted in the to reduce water consumption also and energy management achievement of certifications for enables us to deliver significant standards into alignment. the environmental management cost savings. We make sure that our strategic system (ISO 14001), occupational Over the past two years, Hikma suppliers are aware of and health and safety management has developed action plans to conform to the environmental systems (OHSAS 18001) and assess and monitor the influence provision of our policies. energy management system (ISO of its water withdrawal on the Hikma utilises a supplier audit 50001). environment. The company questionnaire that includes Hikma’s Health and Safety and avoids instances where the questions pertaining to Engineering departments for each impact of a specific withdrawal environmental and ethical Hikma subsidiary, are responsible can significantly affect the standards to help assess the for steering the ISO 14001 environment and have wider suppliers’ practices and increase management system, which fulfil impacts on the quality of life in their awareness of responsible the environmental requirements the area where it operates. operations and business ethics. from ISO 14001 in addition to Efficient Energy Management Below are the issues questioned managing health and safety risks with regards to ethical and in accordance with the OHSAS We behave in a sustainable 18001. The standards related to environmental matters in the manner in all aspects of our environmental management help supplier audit: operations; it is an integral part of Hikma (a) minimise any negative our corporate strategy and core Published Corporate environmental impact related to business. Hikma is committed Responsibility CR policies and operations (i.e. adverse changes to minimising its environmental involvement in community or to air, water, or land); (b) comply impact by promoting and charitable work and examples with applicable laws, regulations, adopting energy saving solutions. and other required environmental Environmental policies and Before administrating a new standards, and (c) continually implemented environmental project, the company considers improve its practices to achieve measures and waste energy saving equipment annual re-certification. management procedures and tools, whether it was an expansion project, a greenfield Obtained certification for Healthy Workplaces project or an acquisition. environmental, social and or We support and promote healthy health and safety management workplaces for our employees. Ethical Suppliers system(s) The “You Are Hikma” campaign, The supply chain process at an annual employee welfare Controls and measures related Hikma integrates environmental week, is held across our global to emissions of greenhouse and social elements guided by the locations to ensure the health gases (GHG) framework of the HSEE policy. and workplace safety of our Hikma chooses suppliers that Human Rights policies and employees. It is aimed at raising uphold ethical practices and do Anti Bribery laws awareness of health, workplace not break with internationally Code of Conduct safety and environmental proclaimed integrity measures. conservation. Hikma utilises the Suppliers Audit Non-discrimination (equal procedure to ensure that suppliers treatment of employees) policy Since 1994 Hikma has been are environmentally responsible, completely smoke-free in all of Animal testing policies its premises and its offices and abide by international labour laws, including refraining from factories worldwide. Hikma is child, forced and compulsory a proud member of the Global Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 18 Smoke-free Partnership (GSP), a Reports to 3rd party financial Waste Reduction and Recycling global partnership dedicated to entities as part of our loan We continuously seek to minimise promoting effective smoke-free agreements our impact on the environment air policies worldwide. through pollution prevention, Engaging the Community Actions and Performance resource conservation and We believe we have a role to play waste reduction initiatives. Climate Change Strategy This year our various sites have in helping the communities in which we live and work. Hikma We developed a five-year Climate proactively taken steps towards therefore undertakes a variety of Change strategy in 2015. The preserving the environment by public initiatives related to the strategy focuses on developing working with waste disposal environment. These initiatives effective techniques through partners, launching awareness HUMAN RIGHTS include: measuring GHG and setting plans campaigns with our employees to reduce emissions. The strategy and participating in local level Promoting responsible guidelines include monitoring environmental sustainability environmental practices and and setting goals and targets that programmes. An emphasis on advancing community wellness adhere to environmental issues recycling and beneficial use through education and that involve climate change, water programmes has become a awareness campaigns pollution, land contamination standard within Hikma and future Disaster relief support and energy use. In 2016, Hikma expansion of these programmes scored (C) in the CDP climate will remain a focus in the years to Contributing to policy change report. We aim to provide come. developments resources and programmes to Drug Take Back LABOUR STANDARDS Partnering with government improve our score for the years to agencies, non-governmental come. The (C) rating corresponds In 2016, our site in Columbus organisations, academia, and to management points awarded Ohio participated in “Drug other stakeholders for evidence of actions associated Disposal Day” as they do each with good environmental fall and spring of every year, an Philanthropic programmes event allowing residents of the management, as determined with environmentally related community to safely dispose by CDP and its partner outcomes of expired and unwanted organisations. The management Transparent Reporting score rewards action taken in drugs. They partnered with risk mitigation, risk assessments, Kroger, Cardinal Health and Hikma deploys transparent NBC4, working together to reporting systems that aim to and the implementation of increase awareness of the teen ENVIRONMENT show progress in energy, waste, an environmental policy that integrates environmental issues prescription drug abuse epidemic greenhouse gas emissions and through a multimedia community water consumption. The company into business strategy. campaign, ‘Prevent Teen measures its direct energy Water Policy Prescription Drug Abuse’. The consumption and total water event collected 3,056 pounds of In 2016, Hikma incorporated withdrawal, and aims to publicly expired or unwanted medications. a water policy into its Global disclose these figures. Some of This is about 4.5 million tablets. Climate Change Report (CDP) these are mandatory while others for the second year and filled HSEE Management are self-reporting standards that out the (CDP) water programme Hikma has chosen to report upon Environmental impacts are questionnaire to ensure the in order to ensure that processes recorded through effective protection of the environment ANTI – CORRUPTION are in line with Hikma’s quality measurement, monitoring and to minimise adverse impacts, standards. These include: and reporting wherever and by monitoring reporting on Global Reporting Initiative and reducing waste emissions whenever possible across (GRI) in water. Hikma scored ‘B‘ on Hikma’s operations. We the CDP’s water programme disclose our greenhouse gas CDP (Carbon Disclosure (“GHG”) emissions, which Project) Global Climate questionnaire for 2016, an improvement from its first helps us reduce our negative Change Report impact on climate change. We reporting year score of ‘B-‘ for Sustainability report as part of 2015. continuously develop energy the company’s annual report2 conservation and efficiency in our Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 2 http://www.hikma.com/en/sustainability/performance.html 19 operations; improve employee 612 kWh, which is equivalent to a organisational greenhouse engagement and product/process reduction in our carbon footprint gas emissions using the WRI’s innovations throughout our of more than 300Kg of CO2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol business. Throughout the year, emissions per day. Corporate Accounting and operators are trained periodically Reporting Standard. This year, This new operational concept is on Standard Operating we have reported in accordance implemented by utilizing a DO Procedures (SOP) to ensure with the GHG Protocol’s new (dissolved oxygen) sensor and that environmental procedures Scope 2 Guidance, which requires controller in the aeration tank. and hazards are mitigated in that we dual report our Scope The DO controller sends a signal manufacturing processes. 2 emissions using two different based on the DO level in the methodologies: the locationIn 2016, Hikma continued aeration tank to the air blowers’ based method and the marketto achieve the targets of control panel. This action keeps based method. the ISO 50001 for Energy the DO level within a specified Management System (EnMS) range by automatically switching For the majority of our operations for its main manufacturing site the blower on and off as required. outside the United States and in Jordan. Hikma was the first As a result, the active air blower Europe there are fewer options pharmaceutical company in of 30KW motor capacity is off to purchase electricity generated the Middle East and the first 85% of the time. from renewable sources, and Jordanian manufacturing plant to therefore our market-based In 2017, we will engage with achieve this certification in 2014. Scope 2 figure is higher than our our electricity suppliers to further This resulted from several years’ location-based figure. However, understand how we can purchase work in energy improvement there is significant progress cleaner energy, reduce our climate and energy management. In being made in the renewable impact through our purchasing 2016 Hikma included all its energy sector in the MENA power, and support the necessary three manufacturing facilities in region as demand is shifting to shift to a low carbon economy. Jordan and its manufacturing a preference for clean energy facility in Saudi Arabia; Jazeera GHG and governments are looking to Manufacturing Industry (JPI) in During the year ended 31 decarbonise their economies and its (CDP) climate change report December 2016, Hikma meet commitments set out in the and will gradually incorporate Pharmaceuticals PLC emitted United Nations Convention on the reporting processes to its 24,114 tCO2e from the Climate Change (UNFCCC) Paris locations worldwide. combustion of fuel and operation Agreement to avoid dangerous of facilities (Scope 1) and climate change. Energy Efficiency 78,279 tCO2 from (locationSupplier Practices We are keen to adopt green and based)-Electricity (Scope 2) and sustainable solutions. A budget is In 2016, Hikma continued 81,140 tCO2 from (marketdedicated for increasing energy and expanded its auditing based) Electricity. This is equal efficiency and for the energy procedure by identifying to 102,393 tCO2e total Scope 1 management system certificate its significant suppliers and and 2 emissions (location-based) renewal. It is part of the energy conducting a widespread audit and 16,17 tCO2e per full time management strategy at Hikma. on environmental issues in equivalent (“FTE”) employee In 2016 the process of installing Europe, the US, and the MENA (Scope 1 & 2 location based). LED lighting and energy saving region. Hikma will incorporate Performance the Modern Slavery Act related tools continued across Hikma’s facilities. Between 2015 and 2016 we questions to the Supplier Audit have seen an overall absolute Questionnaire in 2017. Since 2014 in Jordan, two decrease in emissions by 2.9% Certifications photovoltaic systems were and a decrease in emissions per introduced to supply usable In 2016 Hikma in Jordan full time equivalent employee of solar power, converting sunlight maintained its ISO 50001 5.5%. This is in part due to the directly into electricity. In 2016, certification for energy divestment of Bedford in the US a new operational concept was management, the first site in during the reporting year. introduced to the wastewater Jordan to receive this certificate treatment plant that allowed us Methodology and the first pharmaceutical to achieve daily reduction in the company in the Middle East. We quantify and report our plant’s electricity consumption of Hikma is upholding ISO 14001 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 20 for sustaining an Environment boasting innovative green Management System as we technology that will minimise passed the surveillance visit negative environmental effects with zero nonconformity in and increase its reliance on addition to the OHSAS 18001 for renewable energy. Meanwhile Occupational Health and Safety we will continue to recycle our Management Systems. Hikma’s paper and plastic waste in most main operations in Jordan, the of our Jordan locations through Jazeera Pharmaceuticals Industries our partnership with a certified (JPI) facility in Saudi Arabia, Hikma local company that collaborates Egypt and more recently the EPCI with the Ministry of Health. In this facility are ISO 14001 and OHSAS manner, we plan to reduce our HUMAN RIGHTS 18001 certified. carbon footprint and safeguard our natural resources. Corporate Initiatives Reporting 2016, Hikma continued to raise awareness and engage with its We report climate change data to employees on issues related to the CDP as part of our adherence health, workplace safety and the to sustainability and to increase environment, through its annual transparency to our stakeholders ‘You Are Hikma’ global campaign. and manage both risks and The campaign includes several opportunities arising from climate activities in its MENA and US change. Hikma has been actively LABOUR STANDARDS locations such as, medical testing, committed to reporting to the blood drives, awareness lectures CDP, in an effort to minimise on occupational health and environmental impact and global safety issues, administering first carbon footprint. The CDP aid, cleaning up and conserving expertly scrutinises a company’s natural parks, and sorting and carbon emissions and provides recycling waste. analysis for better operational functions. Safety sessions were conducted for our employees who work We started using the Credit 360 in factories such as the safe global sustainability software handling of materials and forklift in 2015 and expanded its use ENVIRONMENT training. Employees were also in 2016 for all our locations in able to conduct physical exams MENA, Portugal and the US. The internally such as blood pressure software facilitated collecting tests and eyesight exams to reliable and complex data across check on the basic health of our the entire group in a consistent employees. manner. In 2016, Hikma started incorporating the Modern Slavery Hikma sponsored the 2016 Earth Act into its reporting to ensure Hour Campaign, a global annual that human rights are maintained campaign to counter global in its own business and in its warming, which is organized supply chains. by the Royal Society for the ANTI – CORRUPTION Conservation of Nature (RCSN) in Jordan. The campaign aims to Recognition raise awareness of environmental threats as a result of wasteful use In 2016 Hikma maintained of energy. its membership in the FTSE4GOOD index series; an As part of our efforts to protect index designed to identify the local environment, in the companies that demonstrate MENA region, Hikma’s new strong Environmental, Social and headquarters will be one of Governance (ESG) practices. Jordan’s few green buildings, Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 21 Principle Ten Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery “Hikma has a zero tolerance of bribery and corruption. All directors, officers, employees, and other individuals working for Hikma and joint ventures in which it has an equity control are prohibited from offering or giving, either directly or indirectly, money or anything else of value, as a bribe or inducement: to make, (or as a reward for making or not making), a decision that is favourable to Hikma’s interests; or to seek to gain an unfair business advantage or otherwise influence business activities; or which compromises their judgment or their ability to act objectively. This standard applies to interactions with to all individuals and corporate bodies with whom Hikma does business – healthcare professionals, customers, suppliers, professional bodies, regulatory authorities, and NGOs – regardless of where they are located geographically. At Hikma we will: Act honestly, ethically and with integrity in all company interactions Not engage in or condone bribery or any other form(s) of corruption Not give or receive gifts or hospitality where this could give rise to a perception of a corrupt purpose.” Anti-Bribery and Corruption Standard, Code of Conduct Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 22 “Hikma does not condone or participate in any form of corruption and refrains from doing business with those who do not meet its standards.” Integrity Principle, Code of Conduct “Hikma wishes to encourage an environment in which full, free, and frank discussions can be held on issues that concern our employees. Therefore, Hikma has always had an open door policy regarding communication. Furthermore, we must hear from those who have any concerns about the ethics HUMAN RIGHTS and integrity of our business. As part of your commitment to this Code, you have a duty to report to the Company as soon as possible any suspected violations of the Code, its supporting policies or any applicable law or regulations of which you become aware.” Speaking Up Standard, Code of Conduct LABOUR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT ANTI – CORRUPTION Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 23 Anti – Corruption At Hikma we are committed to maintaining high standards of Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Architecture ethical conduct in our business and our dealings with people and Board entities. We understand that any failure of integrity puts our longCREC term success at risk. The company continuously promotes its core values of transparency, respect, Chief Compliance trust and quality. Ofﬁcer Good business ethics is Branded Injectables US & Generics embedded in our culture to Division Division Division Champion Champion Champion ensure ethical behavior across our businesses and geographies. We Group MENA US Compliance Compliance Compliance believe that a solid reputation for Ofﬁcers Ofﬁcers Ofﬁcers ethical values, in how we conduct our business is vital to our company’s reputation and success As participants of this global instructions. Hikma implements and ensures our business remains initiative, we commit to zero strict disciplinary measures on relevant and sustainable. tolerance of bribery and to the staff for ethical breaches in order Hikma has a zero-tolerance policy successful implementation of to maintain its high standards of for bribery and corruption and an anti-corruption and bribery integrity. does not conduct business with programme. Compliance, Responsibility and any company that fails to meet Ethics Committee (CREC) its standards. Our commitment is both ethical and practical in Policies and Procedures The Compliance, Responsibility nature. Hikma is publicly listed and Ethics Committee in the London Stock Exchange Hikma follows the UK Anti-Bribery (CREC) drives the Company’s and thus abides by the UK AntiAct 2010 and the Share Dealing commitment to business integrity Bribery Act 2010 and the Share Code and Disclosure policies, and human dignity. At Hikma, Dealing Code and Disclosure which prohibits the use of internal we pride ourselves on our ethical policies. Our Code of Conduct information for personal gain approach in business. sets the tone for our activities. or insider trading. Hikma has The CREC is a board-level zero tolerance of bribery and committee that is chaired by We are constantly seeking corruption. This has been clearly one of four board members; to develop and strengthen communicated to its employees. Dr Ronald Goode, Chair our global partnerships and Compliance Responsibility and initiatives to stay at the forefront Our staff is aware that the Ethics Committee. The CREC of combating corruption and company will not penalise any sets the overall strategy for the advancing healthcare and human individual for complying with the Group’s response to anti-money wellbeing. In addition to being principles enshrined in the Code laundering, bribery, corruption a signatory of the UN Global or in our ABC policies, even at and trade sanctions risks and is Compact, Hikma is a founding the cost of foregoing a business responsible for approving the member of Partnering against opportunity, losing revenue or contents of all of Hikma’s policies Corruption Initiative (PACI). profit or disobeying a superior’s in areas where ethical judgements Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 24 are important. The CREC oversees training for top managers, and Responsible Sales the Group’s ABC compliance training and discussion sessions at Hikma ensures that responsible programme, policies on ethics department level for employees sales are maintained through and business conduct and the and lower management. The the Code of Conduct and the development of the Code of Code is available on our website: induction training for new Conduct. The CREC also oversees www.hikma.com/en/sustainability/ employees. Hikma’s speak-up process for Code-of-conduct.html employees to raise ethical Medical representatives undergo Training and communication concerns, and, where relevant, extensive induction training on ABC policies and the Code oversees their investigation. when they join the company. continues to enhance employees’ The Induction program focuses The CCO reports to the CREC. He understanding of bribery and on the MENA region where HUMAN RIGHTS is supported by local compliance corruption risks, and increases departments in each major pharmaceutical sales mainly the penetration of compliance operational jurisdiction and local depend on direct contact issues into the decision-making representatives at the smaller between the business and doctors process for business departments sites. through medical and sales as they consider existing and new representatives. Hikma boasts a The CREC has a long-established business structures. strong team of over 2000 sales relationship with the CR Speak Up and marketing professionals Committee, which oversees for its branded segment in the the Company’s work on Hikma has an open-door policy region. charitable and humanitarian regarding communication, issues, environmental initiatives, questions or concerns about Transparency Measures the ethics and integrity of the LABOUR STANDARDS community involvement and Hikma’s reputation as a societal development. business. If, for any reason, responsible and trusted employees cannot report to As an organisation, Hikma is organisation is of great line management, they may committed to clear and open importance. We encourage make reports confidentially to communication. The company external stakeholder engagement any senior manager within the remains open to direct discussion and we are transparent in our business. In addition, Hikma has with shareholders. business activities. anonymous web and telephone Code of Conduct reporting lines in place across all Social media platforms are part operations, which report directly of Hikma’s communication Hikma’s Code of Conduct is channels, our online presence to the compliance department reviewed by the CREC and includes Facebook, Instagram, and Chair of the CREC. The ENVIRONMENT supported by the Board. It is Twitter, LinkedIn and YouTube. Company has established a benchmarked against good An internal social media policy committee of senior group industry practice and a peer was distributed to all Hikma employees representing the group of international companies. employees globally and has compliance, legal and human The Code is available in all of become part of the employment resources functions. This the major languages in which committee is responsible for contract to ensure responsible the Company conducts business: investigating and approving and ethical participation in both Arabic, English, French, German, appropriate action in relation to Hikma endorsed and non-Hikma Portuguese, Italian and Russian. all speak-up incidents. As part social media platforms. Each year all Hikma employees are required to confirm that of the employees’ commitment Ethical Suppliers they have read the Code, have to the Code, they have a duty to ANTI – CORRUPTION report any suspected violations. Hikma’s suppliers follow Good understood it and will abide Manufacturing Practices (GMP) by its terms. They confirm in Hikma remains satisfied that the policy and procedures enable and our significant suppliers are writing that they understand proportionate and independent ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 their obligations to report events investigation of matters raised certified or their equivalent. Our of suspected non-compliance including non-compliance and supply chain management teams with Code. All new employees that appropriate follow-up action implement auditing procedures are also trained on the Code of is taken. by identifying significant Conduct as part of their induction suppliers and conducting a training. The training plan for widespread audit to ensure that the Code includes face-to-face Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 25 they uphold ethical practices implementation, developed the the establishment of a regional and internationally proclaimed human dignity programme and registry for all companies integrity measures, in addition advanced an anti-trust, antioperating in the region. to environmentally responsible money laundering (“AML”) and Supporting Local Communities practices. trade sanctions programme. As part of our commitment Responsible Business toward local communities, Hikma Initiatives Actions and Performance distributed 1,000 blankets to 450 We are constantly seeking families across Jordan. In Egypt, Code of Conduct to develop and strengthen where the country experienced In 2016 employees continued our global partnerships and its coldest weather in decades, signing the Code of Conduct, initiatives to stay at the forefront Hikma Egypt distributed around confirming that they have of advancing healthcare and 150 blankets among 150 families understood it and will abide by human wellbeing. In 2016, from the underprivileged area of its terms. Employees also confirm Hikma became one of the World Giza. In Portugal, the company in writing that they understand Economic Forum’s WEF’s Health works with a charity called the their obligations to report events Industry Partners, with the Santa Casa da Misericordia, of suspected noncompliance with objective of exploring new and where the staff in Portugal the Code. In 2016, we achieved improved ways of developing the donated toys for children and 100% signatures from all senior standard of healthcare offered to volunteers aided in helping the managers across Hikma worldpatients around the world. elderly population by organizing wide. baskets of basic goods needs. Hikma also joined the B20 The company is also hiring more In 2015, Hikma updated its Code (Business 20) Anti-corruption refugees and aiding their families of Conduct and translated it into Working Group (ACWG), which in community integration. seven main languages in which operates under the umbrella it operates: English, Arabic, of the G20 international forum These campaigns took place Portuguese, French, German, of governments. The ACWG with the participation of Hikma Italian and Russian. It was focuses on different work streams employees, who are equally circulated to all Hikma employees related to projects tailored to committed to giving back to the and is available online on Hikma’s assist companies improve their community. By encouraging our corporate website. ethical conduct. Hikma is actively employees to partake in these involved in the procurement initiatives, we are also spreading CREC work stream that aims to the values of charity and In 2016, the CREC continued promote ethical practices across compassion within the company, focusing on the on-going governmental and private sectors. promoting strong community development and implementation In 2016, the B20 was hosted ties and instilling a sense of of Hikma’s compliance by China and will be held in responsibility towards the local programme through training Germany in 2017, where we plan community. and education of employees to to continue our involvement. Modern Slavery Act (MSA) strengthen their understanding Hikma remains a founding of compliance issues across Hikma is committed to ensuring member of the Partnering Against the group. A localized ABC that modern slavery in the form Corruption Initiative (PACI), programme was developed and of forced or compulsory labour an off-shoot of the WEF. PACI implemented to fit the specific and human trafficking does not undertakes initiatives to address needs of each location and to take place in any of its businesses global issues in anti-corruption comply with laws and regulations or supply chains across the globe. and compliance. We renewed of the different markets in our commitment in 2016 for In 2016, Hikma established an which Hikma operates. Local zero tolerance of corruption or internal committee comprising manuals were produced for bribery across any and all of our members of Communication, the US operations and training operations. Legal and Compliance sessions were conducted to teams to assess and make a guide employees in using the On a regional level, Hikma took recommendation on how to best manuals. Hikma also completed lead in the Beneficial Ownership move forward and implement the re-assessment of ABC Workshops tailored for entities the MSA within our business risk and verified procedural in the Middle East and promoted Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 26 and our supply chain on a group level. In 2017, we will include MSA provisions in our Code of Conduct by updating our COC in coordination with the Compliance department, in addition to raising awareness of the MSA in the group by training Hikma staff on labour standards and how to recognize and respond to any incidences of modern slavery. HUMAN RIGHTS Employee Training Hikma managers in different locations undergo mandatory training sessions on compliance and conduct. After completing the training courses, the managers in turn train their teams and support employees. In 2016, training sessions were held for all Hikma employees covering the following: LABOUR STANDARDS Code of Conduct Compliance Overview Sales and Marketing Policy Speak Up Conflict of Interest Interacting with 3rd parties Interacting with governmental ENVIRONMENT entities Hikma is in the process of developing a compliance online training tool for all employees, covering these topics. It will be launched in 2017. In 2016, Hikma continued conducting due diligence on any new 3rd parties they intend to deal with. In addition, a wide ANTI – CORRUPTION scale audit was conducted on its major suppliers and their procedures, ensuring that they do not participate in bribery or corrupt practices. Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress 2016 27 For further information please contact: Hikma Pharmaceuticals P. O. Box 182400 11118 Amman Jordan Telephone: +962 6 5802900 Facsimile: +962 6 5827102 www.hikma.com
