The United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 2017 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES 2 The Abraaj Group: 3 Letter From Our Founder 6 2016/17 Highlights An Introduction To Our Firm and Group Chief Executive From Our Group 8 Building Better Businesses 10 Sustainable Development Goals: Our Commitment Healthcare Education Energy 15 Sustainability In Action: 17 Celebrating Diversity 19 Meeting The UNGC Principles Ghana Home Loans 1 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES The Abraaj Group: An Introduction To Our Firm Who We Are Our Markets Our Strategy Building Sustainable Businesses We are a global institution investing in select We are focused on deploying long-term We invest in the emerging consumers We have a dedicated team of operating markets across Africa, Asia, Latin America, capital and resources in growth markets. and the fast-growing cities where they live. professionals who work hand in hand the Middle East and Turkey. Value creation These markets are characterized by Our mid-market private equity strategies focus with investment teams to actively drive is at the heart of what we do. consumption-driven economies, on consumer-facing businesses, capitalizing value creation in our partner companies. pro-business policies, rapid urbanization, on increasing disposable income, lifestyle Environmental, social and governance factors We currently manage US$ 11 billion in assets favorable demographics and growing changes and supply-demand gaps in are deeply embedded in our investment covering private equity, impact investing, private consumer classes. cities across our markets. process and this has proven to be a critical credit and real estate. By combining deep local value driver in our partner companies. reach with the consistent underwriting standards Our target markets are ultimately select cities We use private capital to tackle some of and world-class operating capabilities of a global within our regions, where economic activity, the world’s most pressing challenges. Responsible investing that enhances financial platform, we have become the partner of choice consumption and entrepreneurial talent Through our impact investing platform, returns is at the core of our philosophy as we for investors and partner companies alike. are concentrated. we take a partnership-based approach to deliver aim to leave a positive footprint in the markets on a range of environmental and social goals, and communities that we serve. such as building accessible and affordable healthcare systems and delivering clean energy We are actively engaged in key industry bodies US$ 11BN to businesses and communities in Africa and Asia. and work hard to encourage the adoption of “We use private responsible investing practices in the financial Our strategy is underpinned by three core services industry. We are proud to be a Assets under management capital to tackle goals: ensuring market-based returns for our investments, achieving outsized impact longstanding signatory to the UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investment and the some of the world’s and scale, and developing benchmarks that accurately capture the social and economic United Nations Global Compact. most pressing impact of our investments. 200+ Investments challenges.” Our private credit and real estate lines of business focus on addressing the needs of consumers and businesses in critical areas with the intention of achieving strong economic returns and delivering positive social impact. This is especially relevant in the markets where we invest, given the need for private credit to fill the financing gap for mid-sized businesses that, in turn, can have a positive multiplier effect in their eco-systems. 2 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Letter From Our Founder and Group Chief Executive 3 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Fellow Stakeholders, As an alternative asset manager focused It is an approach that is also adopted by our on growth markets with more than 200 partner companies who see the economic Welcome to The Abraaj Group’s 2016/17 investments, we have longstanding experience and social value of strengthening corporate United Nations Global Compact of embedding environmental, social and governance, investing in their people and Communication of Progress (COP). governance (ESG) best practices within our engaging with stakeholders. As you will see Since our inception over 15 years ago, partner companies. The benefits of taking such in the chapter ‘2016/17 Highlights From Our much has changed in the world around us. an approach are manifold and, in our view, Group’, our partner companies employ more However, our commitment to delivering very much a “trade-on” for businesses than 150,000 people, invest close to US$ 6 market-leading returns to our shareholders and society at large. million in training their workforce, and have and investors, and being an agent of change disbursed approximately US$ 3 million in their in the markets and communities we serve, In our markets, we have always set the bar high communities through a range of social initiatives. remains as unwavering as the day and maintained our commitment of going over I founded the firm. and above minimum standards. It is what led us In essence, we believe that diverse investment to embrace, and ultimately become a signatory strategies in the developing world can have a to, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) positive societal impact without reducing the on human rights, labor, the environment and financial returns available to investors. But, the anti-corruption. As you will read in our chapter discourse around investing with impact and on ‘Building Better Businesses’, the UNGC for impact is broadening – and for all the right principles have been a North Star for our firm reasons. In 2015, the international community when evaluating investments and encouraging established the UN Sustainable Development 150,000+ our partner companies to adopt similar standards. Goals (SDGs) to positively address and deliver Arif Naqvi on a range of social and environmental goals Founder and Group Chief Executive For several years now, there has been growing including creation of secure jobs, better The Abraaj Group evidence that “good” companies – those with education, health, infrastructure and Employees in our partner companies higher ESG standards – are more profitable clean energy. and valuable. The idea that there are necessary financial trade-offs is a myth that continues to be debunked. Having pioneered private equity c. US$ 6MN in many of the growth markets we invest in, our experience of nearly two decades has validated our belief that beyond viewing ESG as a tool Investing in professional development to reduce risks and liabilities, it is a core driver across our partner companies to increasing business performance and strengthening valuations. 4 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES “If you want to be a What has been largely overlooked is that the SDGs offer a pragmatic roadmap for effective It is my strong belief that the private sector – and the asset management industry at large – great company in business investment. For example, four areas reflected in the UN Global Goals – food and can, and should, spearhead the delivery of these economic and social goals. As growth the 21st century, agriculture, cities, energy and materials, and health and well-being – represent opportunities markets investors, we seek to be at the vanguard of this movement, and our ability for up to US$ 12 trillion a year in business to build meaningful partnerships in the pursuit you first have to be savings and revenue, according to the Business of desired outcomes is at the core of our and Sustainable Development Commission. investing philosophy. a good company As the chapter on ‘Sustainable Development This Communication of Progress shows how that realizes it Goals – Our Commitment’ will show, our firm has been actively gauging and managing the partnership, shared values and a commitment to achieving long-term growth and prosperity shapes must benefit its prospects of our investments against a set of SDG goals, namely healthcare, education our leadership, business, people and culture. communities.” and energy. Our investments in healthcare, for example, have served over 2.7 million patients  Arif Naqvi and our goal is to reach 10 million by 2020. Likewise, our investments in clean energy are set to power more than 1.5 million homes progressively over the next three years and will help reduce over 20 million tons of CO2 emissions during the lifetime of the projects. 5 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES 2016/17 Highlights From Our Group Group Highlights ESG Highlights 20 150,024 39,596 US$ 2.8MN Investments Number of Employees Number of Suppliers 2016 Community Expenditure in Partner Companies US$ 873.3MN 800,794 2.7MN Deployed US$ 5.8MN B2B Clients Served Patients Served Across Our Training Expenditure Healthcare Partner Companies 22 91.8MN 1.6MN Exits 43,255 B2C Clients Served Number of Students Enrolled Across Number of Workers Trained Our Education Partner Companies US$ 1.29BN Realizations Note: Group Highlights presented herein is from Note: ESG Highlights presented herein is from January 1, 2016 July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2017. Deployed amount to December 31, 2016. includes committed amount, and exits include signed deals that are yet to be closed. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Nothing contained herein should be deemed to be a prediction or projection of future performance. 6 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Recognition Of Progress The Abraaj Group Receives Aziza Receives A+ Rating for the the MEDA Award Third Consecutive Year Leading Tunisian soft discount convenience store chain Aziza, an Abraaj partner company, received The Abraaj Group received the highest the MEDA award in recognition of the successful accolade under the UN-supported Principles for completion of the Sustainability Innovation Grant Responsible Investment’s (PRI) Reporting and Program (SIG). SIG is a prestigious program Assessment Framework for the third consecutive developed by INFRONT (Impact Investing in year. The score is well above the industry Frontier Markets), an innovative public-private standard for private equity, which has been partnership between the Government of Canada ranked at level B for the past three and three Canadian organizations (MEDA, reporting cycles. Sarona Asset Management and MaRS Center for Impact Investing) for sustainable development in frontier and emerging markets. Tunis, Tunisia 7 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Building Better Businesses 8 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES “Sustainability and Since becoming a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) six years company committed to managing its talent by promoting from within, upskilling employees with Sustainability and ESG are constantly evolving, just like the businesses and organizations that ESG are constantly ago, Abraaj has embraced the 10 principles of the Compact which focus on human in-house training, and creating an energized workplace, making Java House a preferred commit to applying best practices. We implement ESG across all our investments through a robust evolving, just like the rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption to guide and frame our engagement with employer amongst Kenyan university graduates. management system focused on managing risk, identifying opportunities for development impact, businesses. We have aligned our Group Abraaj recognized an opportunity to and monitoring the ESG performance of our businesses and ethos and investment strategy with a institutionalize this business while upgrading partner companies through a combination globally recognized policy framework for Java House’s capacity to deliver quality offerings of qualitative and quantitative indicators. organizations that development, implementation and disclosure through the development of a European of ESG policies and practices. standard commissary – the first of its kind for Constantly improving and refining processes and commit to applying As part of our due diligence, we assess the region outside South Africa. This approach ensures continued food safety, reduction in food procedures are integral to the Abraaj approach, and we look forward to demonstrating this best practices.” companies based on their commitment to these principles. wastage through enhanced process flows, and efficient use of electricity through installation through our Communication of Progress. Tania Choufani of energy-efficient appliances and improved Managing Director and Head of ESG ESG is a key enabler in improving a company’s structural thermal fabrication. The Abraaj Group performance by minimizing risk and driving growth. Our 20 investments this year alone have From these experiences emerge valuable seen the value-add ESG has had on improving opportunities which play a vital role in the corporate governance, enhancing employee development of our businesses and contribute productivity and providing safer workplaces. to the SDGs which are consistent with the broad Responsible businesses offer scalable solutions to principles of the UNGC. societal challenges by addressing environmental problems, providing employment and supporting In July 2017, Cleopatra Hospital Group, an innovation. The principles of the UNGC go Abraaj partner company, was ranked among beyond business to benefit stakeholders. the top five listed companies on the S&P Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) ESG Index. Recently we applied the principles as part of our Launched in March 2010, it is the first ESG Index due diligence when reviewing the opportunity in the Middle East and North Africa covering Strengthening corporate governance at to invest in Java House Group – East Africa’s transparency and commitment to ESG. Cleopatra Hospital Group, Cairo largest casual dining and food services chain. We examined the working conditions of its employees and the company’s human resources system, as well as its health, safety and environmental practices. We discovered a 9 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Sustainable Development Goals: Our Commitment 10 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES In September 2015, countries around As a leading alternative asset manager in growth We have identified three SDGs which closely the world adopted a new set of goals for markets, we recognize our potential to help align with our strategy of making investments the next 15 years to end poverty, protect address some of these sustainable development which positively address and deliver on a range the planet and ensure prosperity for all. challenges. For us, investing for impact is core of social and environmental goals, including The SDGs include specific targets that to the markets in which we operate. We deploy better education, health, infrastructure, can only be achieved by governments, civil capital to tackle some of the world’s most clean energy and job creation. society and businesses working together pressing challenges and our investments have around the world. They are indivisible, already impacted hundreds of thousands of interlinked and influence each other, businesses, communities and individuals. requiring delivery through multi-outcome collaborations across the entire sustainable development agenda. Healthcare Education Energy Delivering accessible, affordable and Our investments in education benefit and create We have created a Clean Energy platform quality care is the centerpiece solutions for local communities and help to develop and invest in clean energy of our healthcare strategy. to address the demand gap for quality assets in growth markets. education across our markets. 11 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Healthcare QUICK LINK The Abraaj Growth Markets Health Fund In India, CARE Hospitals expands access 10 MN (AGHF) is building health ecosystems that to treatment via its telemedicine program, which deliver accessible, affordable, high-quality has provided 45,000+ remote diagnoses since Energy healthcare for middleand low-income patients its inception, and a Rural Health Mission that in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. has administered primary and chronic care to The number of patients to whom we will have nearly 190,000 patients across 133 villages delivered healthcare services by 2020 By upskilling allied health professionals in the last year alone. In Pakistan, Islamabad Education and non-physician clinical staff and introducing Diagnostics provides lab services for patients technologies to reduce costs and support in under-privileged areas and offers discounts 40,000+ clinical decision-making, these ecosystems are of 15-50% for low-income patients. pioneering a new model of healthcare that proactively supports wellness in the face These programs embody AGHF’s commitment of a growing non-communicable disease (NCD) to prevention and early intervention through The number of patients screened for burden. Prevention programs also form a population-level NCD strategy. By building NCDs in Nairobi a central pillar of our approach. continuums of care that are responsive to local needs, AGHF can address every aspect of NCD Effective August 2017, AGHF’s “platform” care from early screening to complex interventions comprises 2,600 hospital beds, 24 diagnostic – a critical capacity given that by 2030, NCDs units, and 17 primary care clinics that deliver will claim 10 times more lives in growth markets healthcare services to more than 2.7 million than malaria, TB and HIV/AIDs combined. patients per year, expanding to over 10 million patients served by 2020. Attaining SDG 3 in the face of a growing NCD burden will be challenging. By focusing At an ecosystem level, our partner companies on early detection and prevention, and providing are deeply engaged with the communities accessible, affordable and high-quality care at they serve: In Kenya, AGHF clinical officers population level, however, AGHF will dramatically manage a free screening program targeting increase “well-being for all at all ages”. NCDs, which has reached 40,000+ patients to date through collaborations with the Nairobi County Government, Kenya Red Cross, and private partners such as Philips and Novartis. 12 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Education QUICK LINK Across our education investments, A pilot project has recently been put in place 8 MN we continually strive to provide quality, to school 800 Syrian refugees in CIRA buildings accessible education for local communities. outside regular class times. Energy This is achieved through the provision The number of teachers and students of financial aid, promoting inclusiveness In Asia, we have invested in K-12 schools and to ensure equal access and supporting after-school institutes across Singapore, Thailand, currently using free online educational resources provided by CIRA a holistic education system. Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia, as well as Healthcare China and Hong Kong. These cover a wide age In the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), group ranging from pre-school children to adults. Abraaj has invested in building higher education 40,000 businesses and currently operates three Founded in 1977, our partner company, VUS, universities: Middlesex University Dubai, is Vietnam’s leading English Language Training NAHDA University in Beni Suef and BADR (ELT) operator, with a network of 22 large-scale University in Cairo. centers. With footholds across major Vietnamese The number of students served by VUS cities, VUS serves over 40,000 students at any given time Our partner company, CIRA, is the largest K-12 at any given time. VUS’s mission is to empower education group in Egypt, with more than 20 Vietnamese youth by providing access to ELT, schools and c.20,000 students operating under enabling them to acquire quality jobs locally the brand Futures Schools. CIRA builds, owns and globally, subsequently contributing to the and operates schools that offer English national economic growth of Vietnam. For the past two and international curricula as well as British, decades, VUS has provided quality English American, French and German education tracks. education through its centers to over one million Since 2016 CIRA has provided employment for local students aged four years and above. over 2,600 people – 1,760 of whom are It also helps those in need through the provision women. CIRA also provides education for those of scholarships (in excess of US$ 180,000) to in need and in vulnerable situations. It offers underprivileged students to study English at its a scholarship program (providing more than schools. VUS has the largest qualified English US $1 million in funds since 2014) and free online language teacher base in Vietnam, with over educational resources currently reaching eight 1,300 expatriate and Vietnamese teachers – million teachers and students. of whom 66% are female. 13 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Energy QUICK LINK Abraaj’s Clean Energy platform addresses has positively impacted the local 1.5 MN the energy gap demand for power generation community through: – particularly clean energy and associated Education infrastructure – through investment and • Local job creation and skill development: development in clean energy assets across Hiring from the local community for various The number of homes predicted to be Africa, Asia, Latin America and Turkey. construction-related activities and focusing powered by our Clean Energy platform The platform has closed three transactions on skill-set enhancement Healthcare over the next three years in Pakistan and India with a combined generation capacity exceeding 1 GW. • Improved water access: To curtail the significant distances that local community The platform will have a positive and sustainable members travel to collect potable water, Asia – 1,339 kWh/capita impact on economic development in growth markets. It is expected to generate sufficient the project has constructed water tanks at nearby villages and has been providing, US – 12,987 kWh/capita electricity to power 1.5 million homes progressively over the next three years and on average, 24,000 liters of water per month per village Current comparison of average energy will help reduce over 20 million tonnes of CO2 consumption emissions over the lifetime of the projects. • Improved social infrastructure: The project has implemented a sustainability program, These projects will additionally improve electricity focused on education, which has refurbished penetration rates, which are currently as low as two previously non-functional schools (now 35% in Sub-Saharan Africa, and help in reducing operational), hired teachers, and provided dependency on fuel imports in these markets. books and stationery to the schools Furthermore, the average energy consumption in growth markets in Asia is 1,339 kWh/capita, in comparison to the United States, which is at 12,987 kWh/capita, or Japan, which is at 7,820 kWh/capita. The energy consumption, and hence the investments in energy generation, will need to progressively increase as urbanization and GDP growth drive the need for clean energy. Across our clean energy platform, we focus on developmental impact predicated on tailored solutions to enrich the local communities. As an example, Jhimpir Power, a 50 MW wind project in the Jhimpir wind corridor in Southeast Pakistan, 14 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Sustainability In Action: Ghana Home Loans 15 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Building Resilient Cities Ghana’s urban housing needs are rapidly Meanwhile GHL Bank has also arranged for >56% expanding. The West African country has a more than US$ 30 million in investor financing population of 27 million people, with more for select developers using robust environmental, than half living in key cities. Visitors to Accra social appraisal and monitoring processes. or Kumasi in the Ashanti region are struck by The group runs various other sustainability The proportion of the population under the the youthfulness of the population, with more initiatives, such as its weekly Mortgage age of 24 in Ghana than 56% of the country under the age of 24. Education Clinics and annual training sessions This proportion is even greater in cities. for real estate developers on various subjects from architecture to city planning best This presents huge opportunities and challenges practices, designed to support the sustainable 1.2MN+ for financial organizations, such as GHL Bank – development of Ghana. formerly known as Ghana Home Loans – and a partner company of Abraaj. It received its full In October 2017, GHL Bank pledged to play banking license in June 2017 and has also a leading role in pioneering the implementation been investing in its mobile and internet banking of EDGE (Excellence in Design for Greater The deficit of housing units in Ghana solutions to provide an increased range of Efficiencies) certification in the local construction financial services to its database of existing industry. Launched by the International Finance and potential clients. Corporation, EDGE is an innovative assessment tool that measures the financial viability of green Ghana’s housing deficit has been estimated building projects. at more than 1.2 million units. The mortgage finance sector will play an instrumental role in All this feeds into the successful delivery of the the provision of affordable housing for first-time UN Sustainable Development Goal 11, “Make homeowners. GHL Bank has, during the past cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable,” decade, built a track record of serving those which Abraaj and our partner company, GHL, first-time buyers and provided more than are committed to contribute toward. 3,000 mortgages to them. 16 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Celebrating Diversity 17 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Our Culture, Our People 364 Diversity and inclusion are integral to our In addition, we have formed a Women’s Action firm’s values and collaborative culture. Network chaired by our Founder and Group We are strongly committed toward bringing Chief Executive, Arif Naqvi, and comprising together people with different outlooks, a mix of Partners and senior women across mindsets and approaches to create a truly the firm to address gender balance across Employees diverse and dynamic workplace. all levels and functions. The network drives Founded in 2002, Abraaj currently has initiatives focused on attracting, retaining over 300 employees from 49 nationalities and motivating female employees. 17+ in over 17 offices globally. More than 80% of our employees come from growth markets. Additionally, at the start of the year, we formed a Wellness Taskforce to promote a healthy Embracing diversity fosters an environment lifestyle across our firm through a series where employees are respected and valued. of initiatives. The On Our Way Challenge was Offices worldwide Centre and right: Abraaj Head of ESG Tania Choufani In recognition of this, Abraaj’s Talent Management a friendly competition designed to motivate and Hepsiburada (an Abraaj Partner Company) Team delivers annual diversity and inclusion our colleagues to be active one step at a time. Business Development Senior Manager Fulya awareness training to reiterate the importance Over 25 million steps were taken by 229 Abraaj Kultur discuss women business leaders and female 49 and benefits of these values for improved colleagues who had joined the call to move and entrepreneurship in growth markets at the 2017 Private collaboration and firm-wide performance. made an active effort to take better care of their Equity International Responsible Investment Forum health and well-being. Additionally, a number of We also recognize that many employees teams across our offices have joined marathons have to balance responsibilities at work with in New York, London and Dubai, in support of Nationalities across the firm responsibilities at home. In light of this, we have organizations such as Grassroot Soccer, Alliance developed family-friendly policies to support for a Healthier Generation, Shoe4Africa, Cancer our colleagues, with a focus on working parents. Research Institute, Cancer Research UK >80% This includes implementing flexible working and the Emirates Red Crescent. practices, favorable paid maternity and paternity leave, and a childcare travel policy enabling At Abraaj we have first-hand experience of primary caregivers to travel for business the benefits of diversity. This shapes our hiring with their young children at the firm’s expense. practices and professional development programs Of our employees are from growth markets as we focus on building an ever more dynamic, collaborative and inclusive professional culture. Abraaj colleagues participate in the Dubai Square Mile Relay, in support of the Emirates Red Crescent 18 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Meeting The UNGC Principles Abraaj is committed to meeting 01 Businesses should support 06 ...the elimination of discrimination the 10 Principles of the UNGC. and respect the protection in respect of employment and of internationally proclaimed occupation. This table directs readers to human rights; and... pages 4, 6, 9, 13, 18 relevant sections of the report. pages 4, 9, 18 07 Businesses should support 02 ...make sure that they are a precautionary approach to not complicit in human environmental challenges.... rights abuses. pages 4, 9, 16 pages 4, 9 08 ...undertake initiatives to 03 Businesses should uphold the promote greater environmental freedom of association responsibility; and... and the effective recognition pages 4, 9, 16 of the right to collective bargaining;... 09 ...encourage the development pages 4, 9 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 04 ...the elimination of all forms of pages 4, 5, 9, 14, 16 forced and compulsory labor;... pages 4, 9, 18 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 05 ...the effective abolition including extortion and bribery. of child labor; and... pages 4, 9 pages 4, 9 19 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES Disclaimer The information contained in this presentation is given without the value of the assets and market conditions at the time of investment thesis. The selected portfolio investments are This Brochure is being made available on a confidential basis any liability whatsoever to Abraaj Holdings, any of its affiliates or disposition, any related transaction costs and the timing and intended to be illustrative of the types of investments that may and is intended for discussion purposes only and is solely related entities or their respective members, directors, officers manner of sale, all of which may differ from the assumptions be entered into by Abraaj through its Funds. Abraaj does not for your information and may not be reproduced or further or employees (collectively “Abraaj”) for any loss whatsoever on which the information contained herein is based, actual intend to invest in any of the companies highlighted herein, distributed to any other person or published, in whole or in arising from any use of this presentation or its contents events or results may materially differ from those reflected or unless otherwise noted. Certain information contained in this part, for any other purpose. or otherwise. contemplated in such forward-looking statements. Nothing presentation concerning economic trends and performance contained herein should be deemed to be a prediction or are based on or derived from information provided by If you were provided with a copy of this Brochure by a person Unless otherwise indicated, information presented here is as of projection of future performance of the Fund. independent third party sources. Abraaj cannot guarantee other than a representative of the Abraaj Group, it is not 30 June 2017. the accuracy of such information and has not independently intended to be read by you and you should destroy the copy. The projected returns reflected herein have been prepared verified the assumptions on which such information is based. Information in this presentation is believed by Abraaj to be fair based on various estimations and assumptions made by Abraaj disclaims any responsibility for any errors or omissions By reading this Brochure you agree to be bound by the and accurate but Abraaj accepts no responsibility for such The Abraaj Group, including estimations and assumptions in such information, including the financial calculations, foregoing limitations and restrictions and, in particular, will be fairness or accuracy. No representation or warranty, express about events that have not occurred, any of which may projection, and forecasts in this presentation. taken to have represented, warranted and undertaken that: or implied, is made or given by Abraaj as to the accuracy, prove to be incorrect. Due to various risks, uncertainties (i) you have read and agreed to comply with the contents of completeness or fairness of the information or opinions and changes (including changes in economic, operational, This presentation does not constitute or form part of, and this notice including, without limitation, the obligation to keep contained in this presentation. In particular, no representation political or other circumstances) beyond the control of The should not be construed as, or relied upon in respect of, any this Brochure and its contents confidential; and (ii) you will not or warranty is made that any projection, forecast, calculation, Abraaj Group, the actual results of the referenced investments offer for sale or subscription of, or solicitation of any offer to subscribe for or purchase or subscribe for any investments, forward-looking statement, assumption or estimate contained could differ materially from the results expressed or implied purchase or subscribe for, any interests in any of the funds securities, investment advisory services or other transactions in this presentation should or will be achieved. There is a by the projected returns reflected herein in respect of managed or sponsored by Abraaj. Any such offer, subscription managed or sponsored by the Abraaj Group except on the substantial likelihood that at least some, if not all, of the such investments. Industry experts may disagree with the or solicitation will be made by means of an offering document basis of the information contained in the independent forward-looking statements included in this presentation will estimations and assumptions used in preparing the projected to be issued by Abraaj in connection with any such offering offering document. prove to be inaccurate, possibly to a significant degree. In returns. No assurance, representation or warranty is made by and any decision to purchase or subscribe for such funds considering any performance data contained herein, each any person that any of the projected returns are accurate or should be made solely on the basis of the information Members of Abraaj North America are also Registered recipient of this presentation should bear in mind that historic will be achieved, nor in respect of any other information in this contained in such offering document. This presentation Representatives of Blue Sand Securities LLC. Member FINRA/ returns, projected returns or financial market scenarios are document, and you should not place undue reliance on the is being made on a confidential basis and is intended for SIPC. Abraaj Capital Limited is a licensed holding company no reliable indicator for current or future performance, past projected returns nor any other information in this document. discussion purposes only and is solely for your information within The Abraaj Group and is regulated by the Dubai performance is not indicative of future results, and there can Additional information about the estimations and assumptions and may not be reproduced or further distributed to any other Financial Services Authority. This material is for Professional be no assurance that any future fund managed or sponsored used in preparing the projected returns and the factors that person or published, in whole or in part, for any purpose. Clients only. Abraaj Capital Asia Pte Limited is regulated by the by Abraaj will achieve comparable results or be able to avoid could cause actual results to differ materially from the projected If you were provided with a copy of this presentation by a Monetary Authority of Singapore. This material is for Institutional losses. Nothing contained herein should be deemed to be returns is available upon request. person other than Abraaj, then it is not intended to be read by and Accredited Investors only. Abraaj Advisers UK Limited is a prediction or projection of future performance of any fund you and you should destroy the copy. The material herein is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. managed or sponsored by Abraaj. The information contained in this presentation does not not directed at, nor intended for distribution to or use by, any constitute investment, legal, tax or accounting advice. person or entity in any country where such distribution or use In considering any performance data contained herein, Recipients of this presentation should conduct their own due would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject each prospective investor should bear in mind that certain diligence and other enquiries in relation to such information Abraaj to any licensing or registration requirements within such information contained in this presentation constitutes and consult with their own professional advisors as to the country. By viewing this presentation you agree to be bound by “forward-looking statements”, which can be identified by accuracy and application of the information contained in the foregoing limitations and restrictions and, in particular, will the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” this presentation and for advice relating to any legal, tax or be taken to have represented, warranted and undertaken that: “should,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “target,” “project,” “estimate,” accounting issues relating to a potential investment in the (i) you have read and agree to comply with the contents of this “intend,” “continue,” or “believe,” or the negatives thereof or regions described, including in respect of a fund managed or notice including, without limitation, the obligation to keep this other variations thereon or comparable terminology. Nothing sponsored by Abraaj. This presentation does not constitute a presentation and its contents confidential; and (ii) you will not contained herein, however, should be deemed to be a recommendation to invest in the regions described, or in any subscribe for or purchase any interests in any fund managed prediction or projection of future performance. Due to various such fund. This presentation includes descriptions of selected or sponsored by Abraaj except on the basis of information in risks and uncertainties, including future operating results, portfolio investments, including details on the transaction and the private placement memorandum for such Fund. 20 INTRODUCTION / FOUNDER LETTER / HIGHLIGHTS / BUILDING BETTER BUSINESSES / SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS / SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION / DIVERSITY / MEETING THE UNGC PRINCIPLES “Businesses cannot succeed in societies that fail. Being part of the United Nations Global Compact enables us to amplify our collective efforts in building sustainable businesses and communities that ensure dignity, respect and fair values.” Arif Naqvi Founder and Group Chief Executive The Abraaj Group 21
