Corporate Responsibility Report 2016/17 Statutory Report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act sections 99 (a) and (b) and UK Modern Slavery Act Table of Contents Introduction 2016/17 Highlights 3 CEO Statement 4 Company profile 5 Our role in society: Empowering people 6 Product development and safety 7 Supporting beyond expectations 9 Fighting for better care 11 Community engagement 13 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect 14 Code of conduct and compliance 15 Building a sustainable performance culture 17 Health and safety 20 Supply chain responsibility 22 Our environmental promise: Minimising our footprint 24 Raw material use and waste management 26 Energy consumption 26 Water management 26 Our approach to corporate responsibility 28 UN Global Compact 28 UK Modern Slavery Act 28 Governance and organisation of Corporate Responsibility 29 Stakeholder engagement 29 Materiality 30 Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report 31 Data tables 34 Environmental performance data 34 Social performance data 37 About this report This report presents Coloplast’s management of its In addition, this report constitutes the statutory social and environmental responsibilities. Topics report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section covered are based on Coloplast’s most recent 99a and 99b. The report is published annually materiality assessment disclosed on page 30. together with the Coloplast Annual Report, and covers the financial year 2016/17, from 1 October Together with Coloplast’s own ambitions, targets 2016 to 30 September 2017. This report also and challenges, this report includes general trends functions as the Communication On Progress (COP) in the health care industry, changes in key to the UN Global Compact as well as Coloplast’s demographic groups worldwide, and more. These statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act. trends are based on Coloplast’s own assessments of external events and the UN Sustainable For more about our approach to reporting and Development Goals. corporate responsibility, please see page 28. 2 Introduction 2016/17 Highlights Below is a summary of highlights specific to Coloplast’s 2016/17 corporate responsibility performance. You will find more information on these topics throughout the chapters of this report.  Launched new wound care dressing for faster  New safety plan and target (see page 20) healing (see page 7)  41% phthalate reduction achieved and new  Greenhouse gas emissions per unit exceeding target set (see page 7) target (see page 25)  Increased measures on data privacy including  Production waste per product above target certification on ISO27001 (see page 9) (see page 25)  Access to Healthcare made permanent and ten  New target to increase recycling rate (see page new projects approved (see page 11) 25)  MedTech Europe Code of Ethical Business  100% of electrical consumption to be from Practice implemented (see page 15) renewable sources by 2019 (see page 25)  New ambition to increase the percentage of  Updated materiality assessment (see page 30) women in top management (see page 17) 3 Introduction CEO Statement For 60 years, Coloplast has strived to make life Demonstrating our continued commitment, we easier for people with intimate healthcare needs. have approved ten new projects this year. Among Throughout the years, the secret to our others, the projects concern continence care in accomplishments is that we have not attempted to Australia, Brazil, Iran, Japan and Russia as well as succeed alone. Together with healthcare wound care in China. professionals, users, customers and partners we Forward together have always looked ahead. Working together in this way – sharing knowledge As we mark our 60th anniversary, we acknowledge across fields of expertise – has resulted in lifethe importance of collaboration and partnership changing products, services and increased access to more than ever. And we commit to continuing to healthcare that has given thousands of users lead the way in intimate healthcare. greater control and the confidence to live the life they want. Celebrating 10 years of partnerships Access to Healthcare is a Coloplast-sponsored Working together is also what will ensure the partnership programme that brings together success of the 17 UN Sustainable Development practitioners, users, NGOs and other public and Goals (SDGs). private partners to promote better intimate We have been committed to the UN Global healthcare globally – through education, advocacy Compact since 2002, and we are also committed to and partnerships. contributing to the success of the SDGs through In 2017, the Access to Healthcare programme collaboration whenever relevant – as in the case of marks its 10th anniversary. On this occasion, I am the SDG no 3 to ensure good health and well-being, proud to announce that we have decided to make which we support through Access to Healthcare. the programme a permanent commitment with the This report discusses our progress and challenges ambition of leaving a positive, lasting impact on the related to our corporate responsibility and the standard of care within ostomy care, continence SDGs. And, with this report, we reconfirm our care and wound care, globally. commitment to the UN Global Compact principles Thanks to the dedication of partners and Coloplast as well as commit to moving forward together to staff worldwide, the programme can now celebrate: reach the SDGs  46 projects since 2007  A presence in 10 countries Lars Rasmussen,  Approximately 12,000 healthcare President and CEO professionals trained 4 Introduction Company profile Coloplast develops and markets products and services that make life easier for people with very private and personal medical conditions within Ostomy Care, Continence Care, Wound & Skin Care and Urology Care. Business model Coloplast markets and sells products and services globally, and in most markets the products are eligible for reimbursement from local healthcare authorities. Coloplast supplies products to hospitals and institutions, as well as wholesalers and pharmacies. In selected markets, Coloplast is also a direct supplier to users (homecare). Coloplast employs about 11,000 people and operates globally with sales subsidiaries in more than 40 countries. There are production sites in Denmark, Hungary, the United States, China and France. Risks to society Coloplast is mindful of the risks posed towards society such as, but not limited to, labour and human rights in our direct operations and in our supply chain, anti-corruption among distributors and environmental strains from our production. Coloplast has policies in place for relevant risks on these four topics, which is addressed throughout this report. The policies are published along with this report on Coloplast.com. Our four business areas Corporate responsibility is anchored in Coloplast’s Ostomy Care products are for people whose values intestinal outlet has been rerouted through the Respect and responsibility is a guiding principle at abdominal wall. Examples of conditions, which Coloplast and at the heart of the Coloplast culture. could require a reroute include colorectal cancer, Corporate responsibility reflects Coloplast’s mission, bladder cancer and inflammatory bowel disease. vision and values and supports Coloplast’s leadership position and the broader responsibility Continence Care is about helping people manage that comes with it – responsibility to our users, to their bladder and bowel conditions. Examples of clinicians, to our employees, to business partners, to conditions, which affect continence include spinal society, to the environment, and to our cord injuries, Spina Bifida and Multiple Sclerosis. shareholders. Wound & Skin Care is the treatment of difficult-toMission heal wounds, while skin care products are used for Making life easier for people with intimate health prevention and treatment of damaged or at-risk care needs skin. Examples of condition, which require healing include leg ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, and pressure Values ulcers. Closeness… to better understand Passion… to make a difference Urology Care is the treatment of medical issues Respect and responsibility… to guide us related to the urinary system, the male reproductive system and female pelvic health. Vision Examples of urinary conditions include urinary Setting the global standard for listening and incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse, erectile responding dysfunction and enlarged prostate. Sales performance by business area Sales performance by region DKK million DKK million 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 12 mths 12 mths 12 mths 12 mths Ostomy Care 6,291 5,935 European markets 9,394 9,213 Continence Care 5,543 5,182 Other developed markets 3,642 3,177 Urology Care 1,641 1,497 Emerging markets 2,582 2,291 Wound & Skin Care 2,143 2,067 Other items -90 Other items -90 Net revenue 15,528 14,681 Net revenue 15,528 14,681 5 Our role in society: Empowering people These years, we are witnessing a demographic society, and to fulfil our part of the objective shared development that sees the world’s elderly with clinicians and users to achieve better health population grow. We are also seeing our industry outcomes. affected by the rise of the healthcare consumer, Coloplast contributes to better health outcomes by cost pressure from payers, digitalisation of innovating products and services, supporting users, healthcare information and increasingly training healthcare professionals and building consolidated and sophisticated channels. partnerships to increase access to products. This puts more pressure on healthcare systems and By doing so, Coloplast empowers people to be could limit access to innovative treatment. active in society and live the lives they choose. Coloplast is committed to helping address the Whether that is to resume their social lives, careers, structural changes faced by healthcare systems and or passions. Our approach to empowering people Topic Our responsibility How we measure progress Current status Quantitative target Product Translating user insights, technical  % reduction in total consumption of 41% 40% by end of 2017 development and breakthroughs and design thinking phthalates safety into products that redefine care and set new standards for safe product composition. Supporting beyond Anticipating needs and taking actionsNumber of users enrolled in Coloplast +500,000 N/A expectations that exceed the expectations of users Care (accumulated) and healthcare providers, both in person and on the phone, creating a community of support. Fighting for better Building sustainable partnerships that Estimated number of clinicians 12,000 N/A care improve framework conditions and trained in Access to Healthcare raise standards of care for people projects (cumulative) with intimate health care needs. Community Being an active member of the local  N/A N/A N/A engagement communities Coloplast operates in through activities that empower  people and motivate employees. 6 Our role in society: Empowering people Product development and safety Our responsibility Translating user insights, technical breakthroughs and design thinking into products that redefine care and set new standards for safe product composition. Progress 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Quantitative target % reduction in total consumption of 41% 23% 0% 40% by end of phthalates 2017 Performance highlights in 2016/17  Five additional distribution sites certified according to ISO9001 and ISO13485  Phthalate reduction target achieved To align quality management processes across Over the last three years, Coloplast has the distribution chain, Coloplast has certified an achieved a 41% reduction in phthalate additional five distribution sites in Europe consumption. The target was achieved through (Kungsbacka, Peterborough, Bologna, Madrid, a large-scale substitution project in Coloplast’s Lognés). portfolio of urine bags ensuring that 3 out of 4 urine bags sold are now phthalate-free. Our approach Coloplast wants to continue reductions, and has therefore set a new target to further reduce Coloplast is committed to investing in innovation phthalate consumption reaching 44% reduction because innovative products benefit users and before October 2018 baselined to 2014/15. healthcare systems alike. At the same time, the safety and quality of our products is crucial to  Faster healing with Biatain Silicone® sizes and Coloplast’s mission to make life easier for people with intimate healthcare needs. shapes The Biatain Silicone products are soft, flexible, Understanding users’ lives in full absorbent foam dressings with a silicone Getting an understanding of our users’ needs is an adhesive used for treating chronic and acute integrated and important part of Coloplast’s wounds. Biatain Silicone sizes & shapes was product development process. All the way from the launched in 2016 as an extension to the Biatain initial idea to final product. Based on this Silicone product range with eight new sizes and understanding, Coloplast is able to design products shapes designed to conform to the different that make a difference and solve the problems areas of the body. Users will experience not experienced by users. only a product which provides superior absorption and faster healing. Biatain Silicone® Our understanding comes from a wide variety of sizes and shapes received the recognised sources, which stimulate co-creation for innovation. consumer award Red dot award for its design. Coloplast conducts numerous focus groups, advisory boards and runs anthropological studies to get real insights into user needs. This year, for  New SenSura® Mio Hospital Assortment example, Coloplast has facilitated more than 40 The SenSura® Mio Hospital Assortment health care advisory boards involving around 600 provides postoperative solutions for all types of clinicians. stoma. The launch further strengthens the SenSura® Mio product portfolio and will help Raising the bar on clinical evidence for products ease patients’ transition from the hospital to Coloplast’s mission is to make life easier for people community. with intimate health care needs. This mission translates into focused value propositions across 7 Our role in society: Empowering people Coloplast’s four business areas that guide Phthalates are commonly used to make PVC Coloplast’s innovation management: plastics more flexible and durable. In the medical device industry, phthalates are used to soften  Ostomy Care: reduce the burden of leakage products like catheters and urine bags. Although Coloplast products are safe to use, Coloplast  Continence Care: reduce the burden of bladder recognises that there are concerns about the use of management phthalates. Coloplast has therefore adopted a precautionary approach and limits the use of  Wound & Skin Care: fewer days with wounds phthalates in products. This is an area where Coloplast leads by example and offers phthalate Urology Care: empower surgeons to do more free alternatives to 97% of our product range containing classified phthalates. For more The cornerstone of Coloplast’s value propositions is information, please see our official phthalates policy to deliver superior products that make a real on Coloplast.com. difference for our users. That is why, Coloplast is committed to raising the bar for innovation within Coloplast welcomes the increased awareness and Chronic Care by setting a new ambition for the regulation of these types of materials and clinical performance of products. Stronger clinical substances that may have long-term harmful performance will enable Coloplast to document the effects, and which many companies use in their evidence of products’ overall clinical outcome and products. value of the treatments – to the benefit of our users and society. Animal testing Animal testing is a standard method for Product safety documenting the safety of medical devices. By Coloplast is mindful of the materials and substances having a precise account of the composition of used in our products, and complies with Coloplast products, animal testing can sometimes international and local regulations and standards be avoided. However, in some cases animal testing including REACH, the EU’s chemicals legislation. is necessary due to legal requirements and safety assessments. Coloplast adopts a proactive approach in scouting for alternative substances. Through a structured All animal tests used by Coloplast are performed by monitoring process of changes in science and contract laboratories, which Coloplast audits for technology, Coloplast is able to identify compliance with our Animal Testing Policy. opportunities and risks early on, and proactively Coloplast has audited our main animal test substitute relevant substances – as in the case of suppliers, and found no non-compliances. phthalates. This year, Coloplast used 1,576 animals for testing Phthalates in relation to pre-clinical safety documentation. Coloplast has reached the target to reduce the Coloplast does not use transgenic animals in testing. absolute use of phthalates with 40% by 2017. For more information on Coloplast’s approach to Coloplast will continue this target and reduce animal testing, please read our Animal Testing phthalate consumption to 44% by 2018. Policy available on coloplast.com. 8 Our role in society: Empowering people Supporting beyond expectations Our responsibility Anticipating needs and taking actions that exceed the expectations of users and healthcare providers, both in person and on the phone, creating a community of support. Performance highlights in 2016/17 This transformation from passive patient to active consumer is redefining health care.  New self-assessment tool for people living with continence issues Coloplast’s ambition is to anticipate the needs and Bladder problems must be properly managed, if take actions that exceed the expectations of users left untreated they could result in serious health and health care providers, both in person issues. My Continence Check is a new selfand on the phone, creating a community assessment tool helping intermittent catheter of support. users become more aware of their bladder issues. The self-assessment is sent to Coloplast Coloplast works to develop tools and services that Care-users four times a year, and when no contribute to better health outcomes. For example, issues are identified, users get a sense of positive Coloplast products and services reduce hospital reinforcement and are more motivated to stay readmission of newly operated ostomates in the on the right track. If there are signs of more United States, while also improving quality of life serious issues, users are urged to see their significantlya) contributing not only to better health continence nurse for clinical advice. outcomes, but also potential savings for the United States health care system.  Coloplast® Care live in more than 20 markets The Coloplast® Care programme is now live in Supporting users more than 20 markets. All new ostomy and With the dialogue programme, Coloplast® Care, continence Care programmes have been coColoplast actively seeks to increase retention developed with local clinicians and key-opinion among users and to improve both products and leaders. education for users and clinicians. The Coloplast® Care programme is global, and is  Increased measures on data privacy including available for all users regardless of using Coloplast certification according to ISO 27001 products. Through straight-forward advice and Coloplast has completed the certification support, the programme guides people to a better process for ISO 27001 on information security. life by providing tips on how to take control of Coloplast expects to receive the certificate bladder or ostomy-related issues. The programme within the first quarter of the coming financial also offers people support in navigating the year. In addition, Coloplast has introduced the sometimes complex healthcare and reimbursement Coloplast IT Awareness programme (CITA) to system in terms of gaining access to needed make sure that employees and partners are products. properly equipped to handle increasingly complex IT security requirements. Read more on The Coloplast® Care programme has been cothe following page. developed with our international nurse advisory boards, and the programme’s content and call protocol has been clinically validated. By the end of Our approach 2016/17, Coloplast has enrolled an excess of 500,000 users into Coloplast Care. Among users, Today, more and more people want a say in their the programme has been received positively where care. They are searching for answers to make 83%b) expressed feeling an improved quality of life informed choices and take control of their recovery. through their participation. For example, 80% of internet users search for health information making health information the third most popular online search activity. a) Rojanasarot et al. 2017. ISPOR 20th Annual European Congress. b) Coloplast Market Study 2013. Data on file. 9 Our role in society: Empowering people Fewer days with wounds expertise. Our dialogue with users is focused on Accurate and timely wound assessment is product and lifestyle issues, and not on medical important to ensure correct identification of support. This is Coloplast’s promise to clinicians. underlying conditions and for developing a plan of To ensure that this boundary is respected, our staff care to address patient, wound and skin problems is trained by clinicians, and our people on the phone that impact healing. In collaboration with clinicians use assessment tools developed by our medical from around the world, Coloplast has developed the marketing team that have been endorsed by global Triangle of Wound Assessment to support our users and national advisory health care boards. in having fewer days with wounds. The Triangle of Wound Assessment is a holistic wound assessment Coloplast will recommend solutions within our own framework, introducing an intuitive way to assess portfolio, and clearly advise patients to contact their and manage all three areas of the wound: the clinician if they wish to undertake a major appliance wound bed, the wound edge and the periwound change. Coloplast therefore always recommends skin. Read more on listening to the advice of the health care triangleofwoundassessment.com professionals. Supporting clinicians Data privacy Through the education programmes Coloplast By pursuing online activities targeted at users, Professional and Coloplast HEAL, Coloplast works Coloplast is collecting and handling more personal to support the healthcare community through data. Users trust Coloplast with information about knowledge sharing and education. their personal life, and it is a priority for Coloplast to treat this data with the utmost respect and  Coloplast Professional provides clinicians with confidentiality. development opportunities, such as training, networking events and advisory boards within Many countries have legislation in place obligating Chronic Care. Besides creating opportunities for companies to handle personal data securely. clinicians to broaden their expertise and connect Coloplast handles and protects the data in with peers through courses and educational accordance with national law – and with the same events, the close cooperation with clinicians approach across our company. Internal audits and shapes the products, services and education third party audits are used to ensure secure and Coloplast develops. By sharing their insight with reliable data handling. our scientists, engineers, designers, and other experts, they ensure priorities are aligned. Today, more than 700 ostomy and continence In May 2018, the new EU Regulation on Protection care nurses from more than 20 countries are of Personal Data goes into effect. Coloplast has involved in our international advisory boards. already appointed a Data Protection Officer, and this year Coloplast has completed the certification  Coloplast HEAL is a global medical educational process for ISO 27001 on information security. programme for healthcare professionals working Coloplast expects to receive the certificate within with wounds. The programme aims to increase the first quarter of the coming financial year. the knowledge of modern wound healing principles and improve the standard of care for In addition, Coloplast has introduced the Coloplast wound patients around the world. It is part of IT Awareness programme (CITA) to make sure that Coloplast’s ongoing dedication to wound care employees and partners are properly equipped to education and support. The educational courses handle increasingly complex IT security have been developed in partnership with requirements. CITA applies to all employees with international wound care experts, and the access to Coloplast data as well as third parties content is peer-reviewed and endorsed by EWMA (European Wound Management working on Coloplast's behalf. All white-collar Association). The courses are available as eemployees and third-parties have completed learning modules in the HEAL online training training on CITA, while relevant blue-collars will be centre and as live educational seminars. So far, trained in the coming financial year. Training is Coloplast HEAL have trained more than 9,000 mandatory for all new employees. clinicians in 12 countries. Ethical marketing practices Coloplast respects the boundary between the clinical expertise of clinicians and our own product 10 Our role in society: Empowering people Fighting for better care Our responsibility Building sustainable partnerships that improve framework conditions and raise standards of care for people with intimate health care needs. Progress 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Quantitative target Estimated number of clinicians 12,000 11,000 9,150 7,000 N/A trained in Access to Healthcare projects (cumulative) Number of approved Access to 46 36 30 24 N/A Healthcare projects (cumulative) Performance highlights in 2016/17 care in China. For more information on the individual projects, please see Coloplast.com.  New Ostomy Life Study shares evidence based data and clinical insights The Ostomy Life Study is a recurring publication Our approach developed by Coloplast in cooperation with expert ostomy care nurses in the Global As a market leader reaching more than an Coloplast Ostomy Forum. The aim is to raise estimated 1.7 million chronic care users, it is awareness about important aspects of ostomy Coloplast’s responsibility to work for better care by sharing evidence based data and framework conditions for people living with chronic clinical insights in order to improve the standard intimate health care needs. of care. This year’s publication focuses on the challenges of people’s peristomal body profiles Coloplast works to promote users’ interests through and the challenges that they are dealing with in dialogue with practitioners, patient groups, payers their everyday life. To read the full study, please and other government authorities. see Coloplast.com. An important aspect of this work is engaging with  Access to Healthcare progamme made stakeholders in health policy dialogue, one that both permanent documents the effects and costs of different In 2017, the Access to Healthcare programme treatments and addresses issues such as quality of marks its 10th anniversary. Due to the great life and better standards of care. One example is in results achieved by the programme, it has been Japan, where studies show that bowel dysfunction is made permanent with a yearly spend of DKK very prevalent among spinal cord injured patients 5m and the ambition of leaving a positive, and negatively affect both the general health and lasting impact on the standard of care within quality of life of patients, as well as reduce their ostomy care, continence care and wound care, work productivity by 33%c). globally. An important Coloplast tool in promoting improved  Ten new Access to Healthcare-projects standards of care is our partnership programme, approved Access to Healthcare. Through Access to Coloplast has approved ten new Access to Healthcare, Coloplast works to promote better Healthcare projects to be rolled out in the intimate health care and educate stakeholders coming financial year. Among others, the globally. projects concern continence care in Australia, Brazil, Iran, Japan and Russia as well as wound c) Katoh et al. 2017. Data on file. 11 Our role in society: Empowering people Supporting users’ personal needs Improving access to healthcare Health care authorities, users, clinicians and Access to Healthcare, Coloplast’s corporate Coloplast have a shared interest in securing the best partnership programme, is committed to improving health outcomes. conditions for people who need care in the areas of ostomy, continence and wound care. Established in Many users of Coloplast products live with chronic 2007, the programme has so far supported 46 health conditions for their entire lives. Most do not projects in eleven countries. The programme is part pay directly for their health care solutions of Coloplast’s continued efforts to raise standards of themselves. In fact, nine out of ten do not. Typically, care with a yearly spend of DKK 5m. health care authorities or insurance funds provide users with reimbursement for Coloplast products. Sustained and sustainable dialogue with our Consequently, these institutions also influence the partners is pivotal to the success of Access to availability and selection of products and care. Healthcare projects, and all projects are created in collaboration with local stakeholders. People with intimate health care needs require Access to Healthcare projects bring together personalised solutions. For example, people with an practitioners, users, non-governmental ostomy can have dramatically different body types, organisations, and other public and private partners which influences the care they need and products to: they use. Living with the daily demands of a chronic health condition becomes even more complex  empower users when product access or reimbursement  train practitioners requirements delay or prevent people from  advocate for better care obtaining the personal health care solutions they need. Access to Healthcare projects also support the long-term ambitions of Coloplast by bringing us Additionally, many users confront significant taboos closer to consumers and helping us gain new or associated with their chronic conditions. Many daily deeper insights into the needs of other stakeholders, challenges are difficult to discuss, even with friends including health care practitioners, civil society and and family – bathroom routines, leakage issues, policy makers. For more about Access to odorous wounds that will not heal, or their Healthcare, please visit Coloplast.com. difficulties associated with going out in public for extended periods of time. Consequently, user Responsible advocacy groups for people with intimate health care needs Coloplast also works in partnership with many are often very focused on raising awareness of the different external stakeholders to share our views challenges associated with their chronic conditions. on the issues that affect our industry, clinicians and the rights of users. Coloplast works to address these challenges through education and dialogue with practitioners, Coloplast conducts advocacy both directly as a patient groups, payers and other government company and in coordination with external authorities. Coloplast seeks to build a consensus partners, including national and regional industry around the need for better access to the associations. Our work is guided by the principles personalised intimate health care solutions outlined in our Code of Conduct, Coloplast BEST, Coloplast users require. which emphasises respect for transparency and integrity in our stakeholder relations. To read Coloplast BEST, please visit Coloplast.com. 12 Our role in society: Empowering people Community engagement Our responsibility Respecting local communities and participating through activities that empower people and motivate employees. Our approach Within these principles, Coloplast will pursue tax opportunities if they arise and will proactively obtain Respecting local cultures, regulations and customs knowledge in order to have a competitive effective is important to Coloplast. Coloplast wants to tax rate and avoid double taxation. With increased contribute to the local communities in which the focus on tax management, Coloplast has made its company operates. Either through donations, tax policy publicly available on Coloplast.com. For involving local NGOs or inclusion at the work place. more on taxes paid this financial year, please read In light of this, Coloplast also considers tax the Annual Report. management to be an important part of community engagement as taxes contribute to value Empowering refugees generation. According to the UN, the current refugee crisis is the worst humanitarian crisis since World War II. As Donations a member of the global community, and based on To ensure that our donations are meaningful and appeals from the UN, Coloplast wants to contribute benefit both the local community and Coloplast as to solving this crisis. much as possible, Coloplast has a policy on donations, which leverages cash and product Coloplast has previously donated cash to the donations. Coloplast wants to focus donations on Danish Refugee Council, and has pledged to take activities that either seek to empower our users, 100 refugees into internships by the end of 2019 support the local community, or engage our within Europe. The length of internships may vary employees. For example, it is in line with the policy from one to three month per individual needs. The that Coloplast has a corporate partnership with the aim is to empower some of the many people fleeing Danish Cancer Society covering DK operations. to Europe by facilitating integration and resettlement through the workplace. The The policy is based on Eucomed Guidelines for programme has so far provided 13 internships in grants and WHO’s guidelines for donating medical Denmark and Sweden. equipment. Read the policy in full on Coloplast.com. Responsible tax management Coloplast sees taxes as an important part of the business as respecting local tax laws and regulations are important to Coloplast's reputation and brand. ln addition, taxes contribute to the economic value generation in the countries where Coloplast operates. ln Coloplast, taxes are paid where business activities generate value in accordance with internationally accepted standards. Coloplast does not allow commercial needs to override compliance with applicable laws, nor base commercial activities on tax avoidance schemes. To ensure this, Coloplast maintains an open dialogue with local tax authorities. 13 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Coloplast employs almost 11,000 people, operates Coloplast engages in ongoing dialogue with in more than 40 countries, and has distributors, employees and proactively informs of the rights of dealers and suppliers on a global scale. freedom of association at all production sites. In addition, Coloplast has established work councils Acting with respect towards people and local with employee representatives at all production customs is fundamental to Coloplast. In line with sites. Coloplast values, Coloplast supports Human and Labour Rights. However, Coloplast is aware that this may be different when it comes to suppliers. That is why Due to the skills needed to operate as well as the Coloplast works systematically to only approve placement of Coloplast production, forced labour suppliers in compliance with our Code of Conduct. and child labour are not considered material topics In cases of non-compliance, Coloplast seeks to to focus on within Coloplast’s direct operations. improve conditions through dialogue. Relevant human rights issues in our direct Read Coloplast’s policy on human rights in full on operations include health and safety, noncoloplast.com. discrimination and personal development. Coloplast works with promoting healthy lifestyle choices, reducing occupational injuries and building a sustainable performance culture. Our approach to acting with respect Topic Our responsibility How we measure progress Current status Quantitative target Code of conduct Ensuring that all our employees and  % of white-collar employees 95 100 and compliance business partners are aware of our trained in our code of conduct business ethical standards and collaborating to continuously  Number of legal actions for anti0 0 maintain and develop good competitive behaviour compliance practices. Building a Offering all employees equal  % of female managers 42 Above 40 sustainable opportunities for development as performance well as a working environment that  % of female top managers 14 22 by end of 2017 culture is engaging and motivating. Health and safety Offering healthy and safe working  Lost Time Injury frequency1), all 4.5 4.5 or less conditions. employees  % of workplaces with ‘very high’ 1.9 0.0 level of repetitive work Supply chain Being an active member of the local  Number of suppliers with 29 N/A responsibility communities in which Coloplast improved risk profile because of operates through activities that significant improvements empower people and motivate (cumulative) employees. 1) Lost Time Injuries – measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours. 14 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Code of conduct and compliance Our responsibility Ensuring that all our employees and business partners are aware of our business ethical standards and collaborating to continuously maintain and develop good compliance practices. Progress 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Quantitative target % of white-collar employees trained 95% 96% 94% 94% 100% in our Code of Conduct Number of legal actions for 0 0 0 0 0 anti-competitive behaviour Performance highlights in 2016/17 Coloplast BEST – our Code of Conduct The Coloplast Business Ethical Standards (Coloplast  Bribery risk assessment BEST) is our Code of Conduct and our guide leading Based on Coloplast’s bribery risk assessment of the way to global excellence when it comes to sales and marketing operations, Coloplast has operating an ethical company. followed-up with selected high risk markets to design mitigating processes and controls. Coloplast emphasises employees’ ability to use good Coloplast will monitor and review process and judgement and common sense at all times rather controls on an on-going basis. than learning a set of rules by heart. That is why Coloplast BEST is value-based rather than rule Implemented the MedTech Europe Code of based and has the ambition of installing a Ethical Business Practice compliance mind-set throughout the organisation. Coloplast has implemented the new MedTech All Coloplast employees (including executives, Europe Code of Ethical Business Practice that officers, directors and managers) are required to entered into force for MedTech Europe follow Coloplast BEST. corporate members on 1st January 2017. The new code will increase transparency and To read Coloplast BEST, please visit Coloplast.com. documentation of educational grants and interactions with healthcare professionals. Roll-out and continued training efforts Coloplast BEST was introduced through face-toface training followed up by an online test and a certification for all white-collar employees. The Our approach face-to-face training sessions were performed by Executive Management and then cascaded Coloplast’s good reputation is a prerequisite for our throughout the organisation to ensure that all continuous support of users with our products and white-collar employees were trained by their services, for creating value, and for being a manager. company where people are proud to work. It is essential to Coloplast to keep it that way. With face-to-face training, our purpose is to facilitate dialogue and to have the discussions on Coloplast sells products in more than 130 countries, compliance dilemmas with the employees who face and business cultures vary around the world. In them on a daily basis. navigating such different business cultures, Coloplast abides by national and international laws Going forward, Coloplast will continue its training as well as specific requirements for our industry activities as part of on-boarding new employees as through our well established Code of Conduct and well as develop new formats targeted employees in compliance setup. 15 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect high risk parts of the organisation to support our Whistleblower hotline culture of integrity. Coloplast has a global and independent Distributor handling whistleblower hotline, which enables employees and Coloplast has dedicated resources to conduct risk others to report breaches of our Code of Conduct. assessments and due diligence and to formulate All cases reported are followed up internally by a action plans for compliance improvements where committee of senior management. needed. Coloplast’s has implemented a system with an external partner to manage our integrity and In 2016/17, Coloplast has received a total of 11 compliance risks related to our close distributors. cases, 8 of which have been within the scope of the hotline, i.e. relating to the topics and subjects that Coloplast runs the process transparently with the may be reported via the hotline. The majority of distributors through dialogue about the compliance cases reported have been related to conflicts of situation in their market and on our Global interest or fraud against Coloplast. All relevant Distributor Code of Conduct, which sets forth cases have been investigated and followed up with Coloplast’s expectations to a distributor. It includes appropriate remediation and sanctions up to the UN Global Compact’s ten fundamental termination of contract. principles within human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption, which Coloplast endorses and works systematically to observe and promote. 16 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Building a sustainable performance culture Our responsibility Offering all employees equal opportunities for development as well as a working environment that is engaging and motivating. Progress 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Quantitative target % of female managers (all positions 42% 41% 43% 40% Above 40% at or above Manager level) % of female top managers (Vice 14% 15% 13% 12% 22% by end of Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents 2017 and Executive Management) % of manager positions filled by 57% 64% 47% 67% internal candidates Performance highlights in 2016/17 Our approach  Business leadership programme Striving to be the best medical device company in Through the new Business Leadership the world requires that our leaders and people Programme Coloplast has trained Director-level constantly grow and develop their skills and leaders at Coloplast. The purpose is to develop competencies. Coloplast leaders’ business acumen within a To support our growth ambition, Coloplast has the Coloplast context. The programme’s ambition is target to hire two out of three managers from supporting Coloplast’s Lead 20-strategy and within. The preference for our own people will the objective of strengthening the pipeline for ensure a continuous development of the great top management positions. leadership talent already among us.  Target for female top managers not reached Coloplast believes that personal development Coloplast did not reach the target of increasing should be respectful to individual motivational the share of women in top management to drivers and without the hindrance of culturally 22% by 2017. While the increase has proven to related barriers. be more challenging to facilitate than expected, Leading for sustainable performance Coloplast remains committed to increasing the As a growing company, Coloplast has a promise proportion of women in top management. to users and shareholders to improve the value creation every single year. At the same time,  New ambition for share of women in top Coloplast has a promise to employees to ensure a management working environment that is engaging and Coloplast has set a new ambition of making a motivating. year on year increase in the share of women in top management, and will be launching an Coloplast wants to build a sustainable performance action plan to support the new ambition the culture that solves the challenges and sometimes coming financial year. Read more on the the conflicts that lie in keeping both these promises following page. at the same time. To build a sustainable performance culture, Coloplast has trained management teams in communicating ambition, giving feedback and 17 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect establishing closeness with employees. The employee and manager to focus on performance management team defines locally what works well and development of potential as an ongoing and what may stand in the way of building a dialogue sustainable performance culture. By following the guidelines of the sustainable Gender diversity and inclusion performance culture module, Coloplast believes Coloplast believes that diversity is a pre-requisite for employees will thrive and that Coloplast will create success when competing at a global level. The a platform for excellent and sustainable business People Reviewand People Developmentperformance. processes reflect Coloplast’s commitment and obligation to ensure equal opportunities for employees, irrespective of gender, age, nationality, On-boarding for success etc. Coloplast expects to expand the organisation up to 3,000 new positions before 2020, of which a large number will be in production. It is important for According to the Danish Financial Statements Act, Coloplast to set new employees up for success, section 99b, Coloplast defines other management which is why Coloplast has implemented a Global levels as all positions at or above manager level. On-boarding Programme targeted at sales With 42% female managers at this level, Coloplast representatives and consumer specialists. The maintains an equal distribution between men and programme delivers a blended learning toolbox and women in management. guidelines for local implementation with the objective being to develop knowledge, skills and Going forward, Coloplast has set a new ambition of attitude. More than 1,000 sales people in 21 having a balanced gender representation at all management levels. Balanced is classified as when countries have started their Coloplast career with women and men in a group is at least 40/60 in line the On-boarding Programme. with the Danish Business Authority’s guidance on Removing barriers for personal development gender composition of management. In case of Coloplast wants every employee’s career underrepresentation of any gender, Coloplast will development to be without the hindrance of strive to make year on year improvements. culturally related barriers. Coloplast expects mutual respect among our employees, and Coloplast does Gender representation among top management not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any In 2011, Coloplast set a target to increase the kind. percentage of women in top management from 11 to 22 percent by 2017. At the end of 2017, the Coloplast emphasises fairness and transparency percentage of women in top management was 14% meaning Coloplast did not reach its target. when reviewing employees’ performance and potential. To ensure this, Coloplast annually Coloplast recognises the challenge of conducts a People Review and Development process for all white-collar employees globally, and underrepresentation of women in managerial selected blue-collar employees. positions according to the UN Sustainable Development Goals of achieving gender equality. In During the People Review process, managers take addition, Coloplast wants the best person for the time to reflect on their employees’ past job, and therefore wants all employees to have performance and future potential. Employees are equal opportunities when pursuing a career. On this also asked to provide their reflections of their own basis, Coloplast is not satisfied with the results achievements and development needs that are despite progress in recent years, and Coloplast relevant to their role. The People Review process remains committed to increasing the proportion of women in top management. includes a calibration of performance and potential with functional managers thus ensuring that As part of an internal evaluation involving analysis reflections and insights come from other colleagues and peers. The strong culture of feedback in of people dynamics, and surveying all Coloplast Coloplast is further strengthened by the continuous leaders among others, Coloplast has identified some seeking of feedback from key stakeholders barriers influencing the underrepresentation of associated with the results delivered and how they women in top management. Among these are the were delivered throughout the year. The inputs are external recruitment pipeline and retention of then taken into the discussions between the female leaders. On a positive note, Coloplast 18 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect identified equal pay among female and male Gender representation among Board of Directors leaders, as well as unbiased distribution of gender Coloplast aims for its Board of Directors to consist when promoting from within. of the best qualified individuals. The Board had a target to increase the number of shareholderDuring the coming financial year, Coloplast will elected women to one third of the shareholderlaunch an action plan to support Coloplast’s new elected Board members by 2017. ambition for balanced gender representation among top management. Coloplast has anchored With two out of seven shareholder-elected Board the project with a steering group consisting of members being women at the end of 2017, an middle and senior management. equal gender representation has been achieved in line with the Board’s target and in compliance with the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99b. 19 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Health and safety Our responsibility Offering healthy and safe working conditions. Progress 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Quantitative target Occupational injuries, all employees 4.5 4.1 4.4 4.9 4.5 or less (LTI frequency)1) % of workplaces with ‘very high’ level 1.9% 1.9% 1.7% 1.7% 0% of repetitive work 1) Lost Time Injuries – measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours. Performance highlights in 2016/17 simple things that can make a big difference, e.g. keeping office spaces and production floors tidy.  New target for occupational injuries Coloplast prioritises the safety of employees. Occupational injuries Therefore, Coloplast has set a new reduction In order to track and reduce occupational injuries, target of a 3.0 LTI-rate before 2020 Coloplast measures Lost Time Injuries (LTI) corresponding to a 33% reduction in accidents frequency rates from the production sites, with absence compared to current distribution centres, corporate headquarters and performance. most sales subsidiaries. In total, 98% of employees are included in reporting of LTI frequency rates.  New Coloplast Safe plan focusing on safety culture In addition, special attention is given to all minor and In Coloplast, the primary cause of occupational ‘near-miss accidents’ to help identify and solve injuries is behaviour-based. To further mitigate problems early and minimise potential future risks. occupational injuries, Coloplast will implement a new plan focusing on safety culture among Other initiatives to reduce occupational injuries management and employees at all sites in the include sharing best practices between sites, putting coming financial year. To begin with, Coloplast special focus on specific sites where LTI frequency is has improved and expanded the scope of safety above target, enforcing safety behaviour, and training in the on-boarding of future whiteincreasing focus on safety specifications before new collar employees globally. machine orders are finalised. Repetitive work Coloplast emphasises an ergonomically correct Our approach workplace layout whenever manual labour is required in production. Therefore, Coloplast Providing a safe and healthy work environment for systematically works to reduce repetitive work. employees is a priority for Coloplast. In general, Coloplast has developed a system for measuring operations work in Coloplast is relatively low-risk this type of work, which enables improvements and compared to other industries, and Coloplast has accurate tracking of progress. Since 2008, never had a fatal workplace injury. Coloplast has more than halved the amount of The most common injuries for both whiteand bluestations considered to require ‘high’ and ‘very high’ collar employees are sustained from stumbling and repetitive work. When these stations are falling. Therefore, safety initiatives often focus on unavoidable, Coloplast ensures employees spend a 20 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect limited amount of time on them by rotating them to Standards stations with lower repetitive work levels. Coloplast’s health and safety management system is certified according to Occupational Health and Coloplast® Life Safety management standard, OHSAS 18001. This Through the Coloplast Life programme, Coloplast is a tool to ensure that sites adhere to the same provides different options to make healthy choices rules globally and continuously improve their as easy as possible for employees. For example, this performance. Today, this management system could be local activities such as “Bike to Work” and covers 92% of Coloplast employees in production, running clubs after work. distribution centres and Coloplast Headquarters in DK. Other activities include the eight-week ‘Life in Colours’-campaign to promote physical and mental well-being across the Danish sites with more than 700 participants. In addition, free health checks have been offered to employees at several locations. For example, cancer screening at Coloplast sites in Hungary, where more than 500 employees participated. Coloplast Life also focuses on education (e.g., nutrition classes), as well as preventing stress on a local basis. For example, Coloplast has established a stress policy including professional stresscounselling in Denmark. 21 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect Supply chain responsibility Our responsibility Improving standards with our suppliers or finding alternative suppliers. Progress 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Quantitative target Number of suppliers with improved risk 29 29 27 26 N/A profile because of significant improvements (cumulative) Number of contracts terminated 9 9 9 9 N/A because of non-compliance (cumulative) Performance highlights in 2016/17 For new suppliers, Coloplast explains our expectations and how compliance is checked.  Maintained 100% of raw material suppliers in Standards on human rights, labour rights, supply chain responsibility programme environmental impact, occupational health and For the last three years, Coloplast has safety as well as corruption are included. This maintained 100% of these suppliers registered information is also included in the final contract with in the programme. This financial year, Coloplast the supplier. has performed 5 social audits to follow-up on supplier compliance with Coloplast standards. If an issue is identified, Coloplast and the supplier then agree on any necessary improvements, which forms the basis for an action plan and provides the means for sustained dialogue. Depending on the Our approach level of any non-compliance found, the Decision Board considers whether or not to go ahead and do Coloplast monitors existing raw material suppliers business with the supplier and help to improve the and screens new ones for compliance with human supplier’s standards. Through this process, Coloplast rights, labour rights, environmental, and ensures on-boarding suppliers that are willing to occupational health and safety issues as well as improve local conditions together if necessary. corruption. The Decision Board is made up of senior Through a supply chain programme, Coloplast has representatives from Global Operations, Corporate standardised auditing of potential suppliers Procurement, Corporate Quality, and Global according to Coloplast’s code of conduct. Environment, Health & Safety and Corporate Compliance. This programme includes maintaining sustained dialogue and helping suppliers improve local The Decision Board reviews the audit report conditions when they are willing and is supervised according to local regulations, Coloplast’s code of by a Decision Board made up of senior conduct, the United Nations Global Compact representatives. Principles, and considers factors such as the nature of the relationship with the supplier and history of Screening potential suppliers cooperation. In high-risk countries, external partners audit any potential supplier on human rights, labour rights, Monitoring existing suppliers environmental and occupational health and safety Coloplast monitors existing suppliers for compliance issues as well as corruption. through adverse feedback, i.e. change in ownership or expansion of site, and site visits. 22 Our approach to people and human rights: Acting with respect This process usually takes place with the Coloplast recommendations. However, when necessary, procurement team in the markets where the Coloplast has terminated cooperation. Coloplast supplier operates. If the Coloplast procurement does not provide financial support to help suppliers teams identify a supplier that is in non-compliance implement changes. with Coloplast’s code of conduct or a corrective action plan, the Decision Board reviews whether or From the start of the programme until the end of not to continue to do business with the supplier and the 2016/17 financial year, Coloplast has help to improve the supplier’s standards. reclassified a total of 29 current suppliers to a lower risk category after making Coloplast-requested Improving local conditions improvements. Coloplast has had to terminate In cases where suppliers may be unsure of how to cooperation with a total of 9 suppliers. implement improvements, local Coloplast teams provide advice regarding cost efficient best practices that comply with local regulations. Suppliers usually respond positively and implement 23 Our environmental promise: Minimising our footprint As a medical device manufacturer with global However, Coloplast remains committed to operations, Coloplast has the ability and minimising our environmental footprint while responsibility to do our part in addressing global growing. environmental challenges related to climate change, resource scarcity and the use of hazardous Our largest environmental impact stems from the substances. use of raw materials and energy use. That is why our priority is to minimise impact from energy Over the coming years, Coloplast expects to grow consumption and raw materials through design of 7-9% annually. This means increased production new products and production processes. In addition, output, and consequently, increased impact on the we will continue our focus on optimising energy environment. efficiency, waste and recycling capabilities in existing production processes. Our approach to minimising our footprint Topic Our responsibility How we measure progress Current status Quantitative target Renewable energy  Greenhouse gas emissions per 49 Continuous reduction Minimising the impact from energy and energy product produced relative to (Less than 48 in consumption 2016/172)) efficiency energy use1) (indexed relative to 2008/09) Sustainable Utilising raw materials with lower  Production waste per product 86 Continuous reduction material produced3) (indexed relative to (Less than 82 in environmental impact and 2016/17) consumption 2008/09) improving waste management systems and recycling  % of recycling coverage 31 35% by 2020 1) Scope 1 & 2 according to Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 2) Based on updated greenhouse gas factors for electricity from the International Energy Agency. All greenhouse gas data has been readjusted accordingly. 3) Based on weighted amounts from the production sites, distribution centres and corporate headquarters. 24 Our environmental promise: Minimising our footprint Environment and climate Our responsibility Minimising the overall strain on the environment caused by our activities by focusing on the entire life cycle of our products Progress overview 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Quantitative target Total greenhouse gas emissions scope 42,300 39,300 39,700 39,900 N/A 1+2 (Tonnes CO2e) Indexed greenhouse gas emissions per 49 48 48 52 Continuous product produced relative to energy use reduction (indexed relative to 2008/09) Total amount of production waste 13,015 11,803 11,288 10,752 N/A (Tonnes) Production waste per product produced 86 82 78 80 Continuous (indexed relative to 2008/09) reduction % of recycling rate of production waste 31% 31% 31% 26% 35% by 2020 % of goods transported by air 5.4% 3.9% 2.3% 2.8% 2.3% by 2018 Performance highlights in 2016/17 activities as well as additional tests due to increased production transfers between sites.  All sites certified per ISO 14001  Negative trend in goods transported by air Coloplast has certified the site in Sarlat The negative trend in percentage of goods according to ISO 14001. This means all transported by air is explained by the closure of production sites are now certified according to backorders. Coloplast expects to lower the rate the updated ISO 14001 on their environmental of goods transported by air in the coming management. financial year.  Greenhouse gas emissions per product  New target for recycling rate of production exceeding target waste Coloplast did not meet the target to Coloplast has set a new target to increase the continuously reduce greenhouse gas per recycling rate of production waste to 35% by the product. The performance is attributed to end of 2020. expanded production facilities as well as a technical failure at a production site causing a  100% of electrical consumption to be from leakage of HFC gases used in cooling systems. renewable sources by 2019 As a market leader and role model, Coloplast  Production waste per product above target wants to support the transition to renewable Coloplast did not meet the target to reduce energy sources. Beginning in the upcoming production waste per product produced. The financial year, Coloplast will be purchasing increase can be explained by additional ramp-up renewable energy certificates for electrical consumption. The ambition is that all electrical 25 Our environmental promise: Minimising our footprint consumption at our production sites and in HQ is Coloplast has an ambition to continuously reduce from renewable sources by 2019. greenhouse gas emissions per product produced relative to energy use. Since 2008/09, Coloplast has Our approach reduced emissions per product more than 50%, and it is the ambition to continue that trend as Coloplast grows. The primary method used by Coloplast to address environmental challenges is the incorporation of In addition to reducing energy use, Coloplast will eco-design principles when developing products and begin transitioning to renewable energy sources in processes. This means: the coming financial year. As a market leader and role model, Coloplast wants to support the  Utilising raw materials with lower environmental transition to renewable energy sources in line with impact the UN Sustainable Development Goals no 7 to increase the share of renewable energy in the  Improving waste management systems and global energy mix. Beginning the coming financial recycling year, Coloplast will therefore be purchasing renewable energy certificates for electrical  Minimising the use of energy required in consumption at all production sites. The ambition is production that all electrical consumption at our production sites and in HQ is from renewable sources in 2018/19. Life cycle assessments therefore guide Coloplast’s environmental efforts, covering everything from raw Disposal materials to waste management, energy Because most of Coloplast’s products are usually consumption, disposal, and transportation of goods. contaminated after use, they must be disposed of properly due to risk of infection. This means that Sustainable material consumption Coloplast’s products are incinerated or sent to a The use of raw materials constitutes Coloplast’s landfill after disposal. However, most of our product largest environmental impact. For example, packaging is designed so that it can be recycled. approximately 43% of Coloplast’s total greenhouse gas emissions stem from raw materials. Coloplast’s When chlorinated plastic materials, e.g. PVC and ambition is to continuously improve the overall PVdC, are incinerated their emissions are harmful to utilisation of raw materials and to avoid raw the environment. These plastic materials are materials that are particularly harmful to the commonly used in medical devices due to their environment. unique technical properties. Coloplast recognises this environmental concern and only uses PVC or The amount of waste generated per product has PVdC in new products when their technical decreased by 14% since 2008/09. Coloplast has the properties are strictly necessary for product ambition to continuously reduce the amount of performance. For more information, please see our production waste generated per produced unit. official PVC/PVdC policy on Coloplast.com. In addition to optimising our use of raw material, Coloplast continuously works together with waste Transportation of goods handling companies to identify the optimal way of In total, transportation of goods only accounts for recycling waste. approximately 17% of Coloplast’s greenhouse gas emissions. However, significant reductions in Renewable energy and energy efficiency greenhouse gas emissions are achievable simply by Energy consumption in production accounts for approximately 20% of Coloplast’s total greenhouse substituting air transportation with sea and ground gas emissions. Coloplast therefore works to increase transportation. Shipping goods via air transportation energy efficiency in production. emits up to 200 times more greenhouse gases on a given distance compared to shipping goods by sea. To encourage more environmentally responsible production, Coloplast allows investments that result Coloplast has set up a systematic approach to in a significant environmental improvement to have substitute the air transportation of our portfolio of a return on investment of up to five years – twice as mature products. Coloplast will continue to long as regular investments. For more information substitute air transportation with sea and ground about current projects, please visit Coloplast.com. transportation whenever possible. 26 To facilitate this substitution, Coloplast has set a certification according to LEED standards due to reduction target for how products are transported the costs associated. to a maximum of 2.3% air transportation by 2017/18. While performance this year is far from Environmental management system the set target, Coloplast expects to make Our environmental management system is based improvements the coming financial year. on the internationally acknowledged ISO14001 environmental certification scheme. Today, nine out Water management of nine production sites including our corporate Coloplast uses very limited amounts of water for headquarters have been certified according to the production. Whenever water is used, our focus is to ISO 14001 standard. reduce. Only one of our production sites is placed in a river ecosystem with scarcity issues, our site in Mankato US, where Coloplast is especially attentive to water use. At our other sites, water is primarily used for sanitation purposes and gardening. Expanding production Whenever building new factories, Coloplast adheres to the LEED silver standard for environmental performance. However, Coloplast does not seek 27 Our approach to corporate responsibility Scope of reporting Progress to the UN Global Compact. Find This report constitutes the statutory report cf. information on progress on the following pages: Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and  Human Rights: Page 11-23 99b regarding social responsibility and the  Labour Rights: Page 17-23 underrepresented gender. The report is published  Environment: Page 24-27 annually together with the Coloplast Annual Report,  Anti-corruption: Page 15-16 and covers the financial year 2016/17, from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017. UK Modern slavery act As stated in our Code of Conduct “Coloplast BEST”, In addition, this report also functions as the Coloplast support, respects and protect Communication On Progress (COP) to the UN internationally recognised human rights including Global Compact as well as Coloplast’s statement labour rights as made operational with the United under Section 54 of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act Nations Guiding Principles on Business & Human 2015 and California Transparency in Supply Chain Rights and as framed in the United Nations Global Act. Compact, which Coloplast has been a member of since 2002. The aim of the report is to present complex issues in simple language, while including the data needed Our commitment to human rights, which covers for specialist use. Coloplast follows Global Reporting areas such as forced labour, slavery, child labour, Initiative’s (GRI) G4 to determine content and sex trafficking, workplace abuse and human quality in terms of materiality, but does not apply trafficking, is outlined in our Human Rights Policy, specific GRI-disclosures. available on Coloplast.com. This report is intended for shareholders and Coloplast expects employees to avoid and mitigate analysts. It is a presentation of Coloplast activities in all negative human rights impacts and to inform, the field of corporate responsibility, as well as the through our management system or grievance challenges Coloplast faces. Unless otherwise noted, mechanisms, any breach of this expectation or the data and reporting include the entire Coloplast doubts that our expectations are being met. organisation, i.e. production sites, distribution centres, administration, sales and representative Coloplast expects its business partners and all other offices. Third parties, such as distributors, are not strategic partners to understand and address our included in the reporting, except for the Code of expectations related to human rights, and to inform Conduct and Compliance chapter where Coloplast employees of Coloplast or through Coloplast’s has expanded the programme to distribution grievance mechanism if expectations are not being channels as well. Suppliers are only included in the met. specific reporting on our supply chain responsibility programme. Risk assessment: Due to the nature of Coloplast production and the skills needed to operate, the risk UN Global Compact of forced labour and child labour are not considered In 2002, Coloplast made a formal commitment to material within Coloplast’s direct operations. make the ten principles of the UN Global Compact part of the business strategy and day-to-day Coloplast is aware that this may be different when it operations. These principles cover basic human comes to suppliers. That is why Coloplast works rights, labour, environmental and anti-corruption systematically to only approve suppliers in policies. To continue this tradition, this report compliance with our Code of Conduct. In cases of functions as Coloplast’s annual Communication on Reporting references to §99a Topic Risk Policy Due Dilligence KPIs Employment conditions Page 15, 18 & 20 Page 15 & 18 Page 15 & 18 Page 15 Human rights Page 15 & 22 Page 18 & 22 Page 18 & 22 Page 15 Anti-corruption Page 16 Page 16 Page 16 Page 16 Environment Page 24 Page 24 Page 25 Page 24 28 non-compliance Coloplast seeks dialogue to Quality, Corporate Procurement, Corporate HR, improve conditions. Corporate Communications and Public Affairs. Due diligence processes: As part of our evaluation A Corporate Responsibility Manager within the on prospective suppliers, Coloplast actively conduct Corporate Communications department is due diligence and audits of existing raw materials responsible for coordinating this work and for suppliers and screen new suppliers for compliance communicating with stakeholders. with human rights and labour rights. For other suppliers Coloplast is introducing a human rights Stakeholder engagement and compliance due diligence process for both Coloplast’s main stakeholders include shareholders, selected existing and new suppliers. Read more on users, clinicians, employees, business partners, and page 22 society in general. This selection is based on discussions with internal and external stakeholders. Audits: Coloplast selects a number of existing suppliers throughout the year for site visits or social Coloplast has ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders audits and reviews their compliance. Read more on through different channels, and used these for the page 22. purpose of the latest materiality assessment: Training: Coloplast provides training for new and  Shareholders. An Investor Relations Unit existing employees on our Code of Conduct as well facilitates dialogue with shareholders on a as other polices. Going forward, Coloplast will regular basis. For more information, please visit strengthen training on human trafficking and coloplast.com/investor_relations slavery, particularly with respect to mitigating risks within the supply chain, to employees who have  Users. Coloplast conducts annual satisfaction direct responsibility for supply chain management. surveys, which target users in over ten countries. Furthermore, Coloplast engages with Results: Through Coloplast’s supply chain users through our dialogue programme, responsibility programme, Coloplast has successfully Coloplast Care, which aims to help users by standardised monitoring and compliance for raw providing needed guidance and support. material suppliers. 29 suppliers have made Coloplast® Care is currently active in more than significant improvements as a result of due diligence 20 countries. procedures. In the same period Coloplast has terminated contracts with nine suppliers due to  Clinicians. Coloplast works with clinicians on non-compliance. For other suppliers, the process advisory boards by engaging in semi-annual has resulted in the replacement of suppliers. Read focus group meetings. This year, Coloplast held more on page 22. more than 40 meetings involving around 600 clinicians. At the same time, Coloplast also Governance and organisation of Corporate makes it easy for clinicians to submit complaints Responsibility on the corporate website. Coloplast’s corporate responsibility is anchored within the Executive Management and Board of  Society. Coloplast works with relevant societal Directors. The Board of Directors approves the organisations through the Access to Healthcare content of this report, and Executive Management partnership-programme, and maintains a makes most policy decisions within the field, sustained dialogue through regular updates on typically after consultation with senior management health care progress and challenges in local of key line and staff functions. The Audit Committee communities. Coloplast also engages external is responsible for overseeing compliance with our stakeholders through our public affairs work, Code of Conduct. where Coloplast seeks to maintain high standards of professionalism and transparency. Coloplast prefers that corporate responsibility activities are driven and executed by the relevant business units. The business units with formal  Environment. Issues regarding the environment responsibility for the content in this report are are communicated through multiple channels. Corporate Compliance, Global Operations, Global For example, material for sales reps and on Coloplast.com. The annual Corporate Responsibility Report is one of the most 29 comprehensive sources of information high quality healthcare’. The same applies to the regarding our environmental performance. merging of topics ‘Waste’ and ‘Recycling’ into Coloplast is also a member of the Carbon ‘Sustainable material production’, which also is Disclosure Project. more closely linked to SDG no. 12. Please see fully updated list of topics on the following page.  Employees. Coloplast communicates to The evaluation of the issues’ importance to employees on a daily basis through the Coloplast was done through interviews and Coloplast intranet “Connect”, and holds workshops with relevant personnel from all parts of information meetings four to six times a year the organisation. The importance of the issues to that are broadcasted globally within the external stakeholders was evaluated through company. In 2015 Coloplast surveyed more multiple stakeholder interactions focusing on users’ than 1,500 employees on sustainability, and in opinion by surveying more than 1,400 users addition, Coloplast conducts global globally. For some stakeholders, the data generated engagement surveys bi-annually. for the previous materiality assessment was reused. Materiality The resulting changes are minor with the same top The topics covered by the Corporate Responsibility three topics being of high importance to both Report include issues material to Coloplast as well Coloplast and external stakeholders. Based on user as stakeholders. Coloplast conducts materiality inputs, sustainable material consumption and assessments bi-annually. This year, the materiality employee safety has been rated higher than assessment was updated focusing on our users’ compared to the previous materiality assessment. opinion. More than 1,400 users were surveyed. Coloplast works to incorporate the findings of the The material topics were originally selected based materiality assessment into our decision process on input from employees working with corporate when prioritising activities and use them to guide responsibility issues from Coloplast A/S as well as our communication with our stakeholder groups. Coloplast subsidiaries and validated by key external The decision to purchase renewable energy stakeholders. The selected topics were revisited this certificates is a testament to that (see page 25 for year taking the UN Sustainable Development Goals more). No significant changes were made for this (SDGs) into account. By incorporating the SDGs into year’s reporting based on the updated materiality our materiality assessment, Coloplast is committing assessment. to take these into account when prioritising activities and communication with our stakeholder groups. No material changes were made in the selection of topics. Minor changes were made to better reflect the SDGs in terms of wording as well as simplifying the topics. For example, in the case of updating ‘No discrimination’ to ‘Achieving gender equality’, or merging ‘Access to Healthcare’ and ‘Improving quality of life’ into one topic, ‘Improving access to Materiality assessment 2017 Improving access to high quality healthcare Importance to stakeholders Removing hazardous High chemicals Responsible sourcing Sustainable material Achieving gender Ethical marketing of products consumption equality practices Ethical pre-and Having a safe and healthy clinical trials work place for employees Medium Protecting Renewable energy & Human Rights energy efficiency Transparent tax Water management management Sponsoring Low community charities Low Medium High Importance to Coloplast 30 List of updated topics Data collection 2015 2017 Data is generated by respective business owner and consolidated and controlled by the Corporate Safe work place Safe and healthy work place for employees Responsibility function for this report. In some cases, Gender diversity Achieving gender equality data from earlier financial years has been Human Rights Protecting Human Rights corrected, which can result in updates to figures in Ethical marketing practices Ethical marketing practices previous years’ figures. In case of material changes to previous figures, a note to that effect is provided Product safety Removing hazardous chemicals from products in the text or in the accounting policy. For this Improving quality of life Improving access to high quality report, a materiality level at 5% or above is applied Access to Healthcare healthcare for changes in previous figures. Philantrophy Sponsoring community charities To continue improving our reporting, there may be Tax Transparent tax management times when data has been restructured for a more Supply chain Procuring responsibly precise representation. Whenever data presented Waste Sustainable material includes estimations, Coloplast applies rounding Recycling consumption up/down to improve readability. Energy and CO2 Renewable energy and energy efficiency Coloplast is working together with PwC on Water management Water management assurance of selected data. The selection of data is Animal testing Ethical pre-and clinical trials based on Coloplast’s materiality assessment. Contact Christoffer Quist Weesgaard, Corporate Responsibility Manager Tel. +45 49 11 17 12 Email: dkchrqw@coloplast.com 31 Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on non-financial data for 2016/17 To the stakeholders of Coloplast A/S Our responsibility We have been engaged by Coloplast A/S to obtain Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance limited assurance on the 2016/17 non-financial data conclusion on the non-financial data regarding Energy regarding Energy and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) and GHG Emissions, Anti-corruption and Product Emissions, Anti-corruption and Product Safety as Safety as stated on pages 35-37 based on the stated on pages 35-37 in the Corporate Responsibility procedures we have performed and the evidence we Report 2016/17. have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Management’s responsibility Standards on Assurance Engagements 3000, Management of Coloplast A/S is responsible for Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews preparation of the non-financial data and for stating of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000). data in accordance with the criteria on pages 35-37. Furthermore, with respect to the GHG emissions data The responsibility includes the design, implementation stated on page 35, our responsibility is to express a and maintenance of internal control relevant to the limited assurance conclusion based on the procedures preparation of the non-financial data that is free of we have performed and the evidence we have material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. obtained when conducting our assurance engagement Furthermore, Management is responsible for stating in accordance with Assurance Engagements on GHG emissions data in accordance with the GHG Greenhouse Gas Statements (ISAE 3410). Both Protocol, namely the GHG Protocol Corporate standards are issued by the International Auditing and Standard and the GHG Corporate Value Chain (Scope Assurance Standards Board, and both standards 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. require that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance whether the subject matter is The criteria stated on pages 35-37 define reporting free from material misstatement. A multidisciplinary scope for non-financial data including GHG Emissions team including assurance practitioners and engineers data. Greenhouse Gas quantification is subject to conducted this engagement. inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and A limited assurance engagement undertaken in the values needed to combine emissions of different accordance with ISAE 3000 and 3410 involves gases. assessing the suitability in the circumstances of Coloplast A/S, use of defined criteria as stated on Our Independence and Quality Control pages 35-37 as well as use of the GHG Protocol as the We have complied with the Code of Ethics for basis for the preparation of the GHG emissions. In Professional Accountants issued by the International addition, it involves assessing the risks of material Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which misstatement whether due to fraud or error, includes independence and other requirements responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the founded on fundamental principles of integrity, circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation objectivity, professional competence and due care, of the non-financial data. confidentiality and professional behavior. The procedures we performed were based on our PwC applies International Standard on Quality Control professional judgment and comprised inquiries 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system regarding applied registration systems and of quality control including documented policies and procedures, assessment of non-financial data, procedures regarding compliance with ethical hereunder data used in connection with preparation of requirements, professional standards and applicable the 2016/17 GHG emissions data, and assessment of legal and regulatory requirements. underlying documentation, including assessment of whether the scope of 2016/17 GHG emissions data comply with defined accounting principles and the GHG Protocol. During our work, we have conducted 32 interviews with key individuals at Coloplast A/S Limited assurance conclusion responsible for data registration and data Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention consolidation. causing us not to believe that the 2016/17 nonfinancial data regarding Energy and GHG Emissions, The procedures performed in a limited assurance Anti-corruption and Product Safety as stated on pages engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are 35-37 have been prepared, in all material respects, in less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance accordance with the applied criteria stated on pages engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance 35-37. obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would Furthermore, nothing has come to our attention have been obtained had we performed a reasonable causing us not to believe that the 2016/17 GHG assurance engagement. Accordingly, we express a emissions data stated on pages 35 have been limited assurance conclusion. prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Hellerup, November 2 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab CVR-no. 33 77 12 31 Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen Kim Tromholt State-authorised public accountant State authorised public accountant 33 Environmental performance data Waste Accounting policy Total waste is based on weighted amounts from the production sites, distribution centres and corporate headquarters. Waste recycled covers waste recycled by external waste handling companies. Waste per unit produced is converted to index values (2008/2009=100). Percentage of recycling coverage is relative to total waste generation. Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Waste total Tonnes 13,015 11,803 11,288 10,752 ...of which goes to hazardous waste handling Tonnes 496 533 554 479 ...of which goes to landfills Tonnes 934 816 647 1,306 ...of which goes to incineration Tonnes 7,488 6,749 6,542 6,186 ...of which is recycled Tonnes 4,098 3,706 3,546 2,781 Waste per units produced Index 86 82 78 80 ...recycling coverage % 31 31 31 26 Water Accounting policy Total water use includes production sites, global distribution centres and corporate headquarters. All water use is delivered and treated by local municipalities. Coloplast only receives water from significantly affected water sources at our US operations in Minneapolis and Mankato (Minnesota), which are both located in the Mississippi estuary. Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 3 Water use total m 292,235 298,130 254,535 254,864 Water sources significantly affected Number 1 1 1 1 Spills (significant / insignificant) Number 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 34 Environmental performance data Energy and GHG emissions (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2016/17) Accounting policy Coloplast has adopted the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as the basis for our greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting principles. All emissions stemming from minimum 80% of the economic spend within a single reporting category are accounted for. In cases where we do not cover the full spend (Scope 3), Coloplast has extrapolated data to cover 100%. Scope 1 and 2: Direct emissions, direct and indirect energy consumption Direct and indirect energy consumption is a major source of GHG emissions in Coloplast, whereas VOC emissions are very low due to our efficient air cleaning systems. Data for Scope 1 and 2 emissions covers all Coloplast production facilities (Denmark, Hungary, France, US and China), headquarters (Denmark and US) and global distribution centres (Germany, Hungary and US). New sites are included in the reporting on the date of takeover from the developer (owned sites) or by the first day of occupancy (leased/rented sites). GHG emissions from leased and rented sales offices and small local warehouses (reported as Scope 3 emissions). Data on energy consumption is obtained from invoiced data from our utility providers and/or from readings of meters. Data on VOCs is measured consumption handled in air cleaning systems. Consumption of HFC gasses is obtained from invoices. Emissions from power consumption are based on International Energy Agency country specific GHG emission factors, not including production and transmission losses. Total emissions per EBIT is based on EBIT before special items and converted to indexed values(2008/2009=100) Scope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions Coloplast has limited Scope 3 reporting to include seven categories relevant to our operations: 1. Transportation of goods: Covers all distribution internally in Coloplast, as well as distribution of finished goods from warehouses to customers in Emerging Markets. For air transportation, a radiative forcing index of 2.7 is applied in the calculation of GHG emissions. 2. Business travels: Based on yearly GHG emission reporting from Coloplast's global travel agent for business air travel, which this year accounts for 65% of total business air travel costs. As of 2015/16, the remaining has been extrapolated to ensure completeness of data. In addition, emission reporting from our main car rental supplier have been included from this year and onwards. For air travels, a radiative forcing index of 2.7 is applied in the calculation of GHG emissions. 3. Leased company cars: Covers all leased company cars in Coloplast. 4. Raw materials: Covers all ingoing raw materials registered in Coloplast’s production data management system. Does not include OEM/contract manufactured goods, production equipment and other capital goods, processing aids and other supporting materials. 5. Energy consumption in sales offices, subsidiaries and local/regional warehouses: Covers all sales offices, subsidiaries and regional warehouses, which primarily are leased. 6. Fluorinated hydrocarbons in products: Covers all products produced in the given reporting year in Coloplast's product portfolio containing HFC gases. 7. Custom manufacturing: Covers GHG emissions from outsourced custom manufacturing production (OEM manufacturing), e.g. finished goods produced by external suppliers under the Coloplast brand. For complete definition of the seven categories and what is left out of scope 3, please see the GHG accounting principles in full on Coloplast.com. 35 Environmental performance data Energy and GHG emissions, continued (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2016/17) Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Energy and GHG emissions Scope 1 / direct energy MWh 52,058 46,237 42,858 40,286 Tonnes CO2e 11,500 9,500 9,000 8,200 ...of which natural gas MWh 52,032 46,219 42,735 40,285 Tonnes CO2e 10,400 9,200 8,500 8,100 ...of which coal or fuel distilled from crude oil MWh 25 18 124 0 Tonnes CO2e 7 5 33 0 ...of which VOCs and HFC gasses1) Tonnes CO2e 1,100 210 450 170 Scope 2 / indirect energy MWh 96,814 91,211 88,077 82,698 Tonnes CO2e 30,800 29,800 30,600 31,700 ...of which electricity2) MWh 96,105 90,273 87,139 81,833 Tonnes CO2e 30,800 29,800 30,600 31,700 ...of which district heating and cooling MWh 710 938 938 865 Tonnes CO2e 6 8 8 8 Scope 1 + 2 / total emissions, direct and indirect Tonnes CO2e 42,300 39,300 39,700 39,900 ...per number of units produced Index 49 48 48 52 ...per EBIT3) Index 23 23 24 35 Scope 3 / other relevant indirect emissions Tonnes CO2e 169,600 159,000 136,300 157,200 …of which transportation of goods Tonnes CO2e 33,600 4) 27,600 18,300 14,800 …of which business travels Tonnes CO2e 26,000 24,300 15,100 14,000 ...of which leased company cars Tonnes CO2e 10,200 10,100 10,300 10,100 ...of which OEM Manufacturing Tonnes CO2e 9,100 9,100 8,000 10,600 .. of which sales offices and subsidiaries Tonnes CO2e 3,800 3,700 3,600 3,200 .. of which fluorinated hydrocarbons in products Tonnes CO2e 0 0 1,600 11,500 …of which raw materials in products Tonnes CO2e 86,900 84,100 79,400 93,000 1) HFC gasses has been included in the reporting scope. Please see page 25 for explanation of increase. 2) Based on updated greenhouse gas factors for electricity from the International Energy Agency. All greenhouse gas data has been readjusted accordingly. 3) Emissions per EBIT has been updated and based on EBIT before special items. 4) GHG emissions have been revised in 2015/16 due to updated records received by distribution suppliers. 36 Social performance data Anti-corruption (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2016/17) Accounting policy White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct accounts for the percentage of active white-collar employees at the end of the accounting year, who have either completed an e-learning module or received face-to-face training and completed a test in our Code of Conduct. Only employees that have been with Coloplast for more than a month is in scope for reporting Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour covers legal actions initiated under national or international laws designed primarily for the purpose of regulating anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly practices pending or completed during the reporting period. Cases submitted accounts for cases that have been submitted to whistleblower hotline and evaluated if within scope. The scope of relevant cases for the whistleblower hotline includes violations of all topics covered by our Code of Conduct, Coloplast BEST. O nly cases within scope of topics and subjects reported via the hotline are followed through. This does not mean that the cases are necessarily substantiated. Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct % 95 96 94 93 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 Cases submitted to the whistleblower hotline Number 11 9 9 4 ...of which within scope Number 8 8 6 4 Product safety (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2016/17) Accounting policy Coloplast monitors phthalate consumption based on the estimated average phthalate concentration per produced item times the quantity of sold items relative to 2013/14. Product samples are not included. Number of animals used for testing accounts for all animals used for testing as part of tests performed by contract laboratories on behalf of Coloplast. Coloplast conducts no animal tests internally. ‘Rodents’ are mice, rats and guinea pigs. ‘Other’ animals are rabbits, pigs and dogs. Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Reduction in phthalate consumption % 41 23 0 Animal testing Number 1,576 1,490 295 755 … of which rodents Number 1,380 1,332 250 679 … of which other animals Number 196 158 45 76 37 Social performance data Employees Accounting policy Employee headcount includes all full time and part time contracts European markets include: UK, Germany, France, the Nordics, Benelux, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Spain plus production in Denmark and Hungary. Other developed markets include: USA, Canada, Japan and Australia plus production in USA. Emerging markets include countries not listed in the other categories for all remaining markets in Americas, Asia, Africa, Europe and Oceania plus production in China. Managers include all positions at or above Manager level. Top management includes Executive Management, Senior Vice Presidents, and Vice President positions. Occupational injuries are measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours. Repetitive work is measured as the percentage of workplaces in Coloplast production in Denmark, Hungary, US and China according to the degree of repetitive work. All figures are annual averages based on quarterly figures. No/low – no or low degree of repetitive work. Medium – repetitive work with 0-2 aggregating factors, High – repetitive work with 3-4 aggregating factors. Very high – repetitive work with 5 or more aggregating factors. Coloplast only conducts the employee engagement survey biannually. The sustainable performance index is made up of how leaders communicate, give feedback and their closeness with employees. Calculation of Personal Development Plans (PDP) received is based on white-collars who have a PDP in Success Factors divided by the headcount. Personal development plans for blue-collars are run locally and in local systems. Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Employee headcount Number 10,905 10,275 9,706 9,250 ....blue-collar Number 5,061 4,725 4,466 4,168 ....white-collar Number 5,844 5,550 5,240 5,082 Regions European markets Number 7,256 6,687 6,271 5,952 Other developed markets Number 987 920 860 839 Emerging markets Number 2,662 2,668 2,575 2,459 Gender diversity Female employees total % 63 63 65 64 Female managers % 42 41 43 40 Female top managers % 14 15 13 12 Attraction, recruitment and retention Manager positions filled by internal candidates % 57 64 47 Age distribution total Employees aged < 30 % 21 26 24 24 Employees aged 30-50 % 62 58 61 62 Employees aged > 50 % 17 16 15 14 38 Social performance data Employees, continued Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Occupational injuries and accidents Injuries and accidents, all employees LTI freq. 4.5 4.1 4.4 4.9 Repetitive work ...No/low % 48.1 48.1 42.5 41.2 ...Medium % 33.7 33.1 35.2 32.0 ...High % 16.3 16.8 20.6 25.1 ...Very high % 1.9 1.9 1.7 1.7 Employee engagement ...Response rate Index 93 93 ...Engagement index Index 74 74 ...Values index Index 83 81 ...Well-being index Index 78 78 …Sustainable performance culture Index 77 Personal development Personal Development Plans received Index 93 84 67 Supply chain responsibility Accounting policy Percentage of raw material suppliers fully covered by the Supply Chain Responsibility procedure. The data covers the entire Coloplast organisation. Number of suppliers whose risk profile has been downgraded by the internal decision-making body from 'Consult Decision Board' to high, or high to medium, or medium to low following documented improvements in their social, environmental or business ethical standards as a consequence of Coloplast’s involvement. Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Raw material suppliers covered by supply chain responsibility programme % 100 100 100 100 Suppliers with improved risk profile because of significant improvements Number 0 2 1 3 ... accumulated Number 29 29 27 26 Contracts terminated Number 0 0 0 1 ...accumulated Number 9 9 9 9 39 Social performance data Certifications Accounting policy Coloplast currently has nine production sites including the corporate headquarters (Thisted, Mørdrup, Humlebæk, Tatabanya, Nyírbátor, Zhuhai, Mankato, West River Road/Minneapolis and Sarlat) and nine distribution sites (Hamburg, Marietta, Champlan, Kungsbacka, Bologna, Madrid, Lognes, Peterborough and Tata) within scope of certification to ISO 9001, ISO 13845 and OHSAS 18001. None of the distribution sites will be certified according to ISO14001 due to their low environmental impact. Site visits accounts for the total duration in days of quality or environment, health and safety visits by the authorities worldwide for all Coloplast locations. Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Production and distribution sites (total) Number 18 13 13 13 ISO 9001 / ISO 13485 Number 18 13 13 13 ISO 14001 Number 9 8 8 8 OHSAS 18001 Number 10 10 10 10 Site visits Days 86 74 86 59 Fighting for better care Accounting policy Estimated number of clinicians trained include training activities ranging from one day courses to full master programmes. Unit 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Access to Healthcare projects (accumulated) Number 46 36 30 24 Estimated number of clinicians trained by our Access to Healthcare projects (cumulative) Number 12,000 11,000 9,150 7,000 40 41
