Georgian Business Zone Heathy Food Guarantees Longer Life! 2016 Sustainability Report Statement of executive officer: As an executive officer of Georgian Business Zone, I am happy that our company is a member of UN Global Compact. It is our greatest honor and responsibility to fully comply with the 10 principles, which encompass protection of the human rights labor rights, reduction of harm to the environment and implementation of anti-corrupton policies. We, as a social responsible company, aim to integrate these 10 principles into our main strategy and ensure their effective implementation. At this point, the company strives to fulfil all the requirements of the Global Compact, protecting and Nino Zambakhidze improving the rights of workers and maintaining gender equality. Promotion of anti-corruption Executive officer of Georgian Business policies and reduction of harm to the environment Zone is one of my company’s main objectives throughout the decision-making process and in everyday operations. The Company strives to create a stronger, more effective and accessible complaint mechanism, in accordance with the regulations of UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, so that the GEORGIAN response to these complaints becomes more and more adequate and timely. It also tries to create a better working environment for workers, providing them with fair and equal standards, thereby BUSINESS ZONE following the national laws and international standards (in the field of human rights, occupational health and safety, labour rights, environmental protection and fight against corruption). Gogebashvili #38 The company proactively provides interested stakeholders (partners, clients, communities) with the Tbilisi, Georgia information regarding its activities. The company is also contributing through charity to the well-being of the population. We provide Akhaltsikhe, Georgia children and elderly people living in shelters with food and other necessary materials. Village Tsnisi WWW. GBZ.COM.GE The company has developped a systematic approach, which enables it to always be informed about the new regulations. The company is actively involved in the policy-making process, for example, during the process of implementation of Estonian Model of Profit Tax. The company continually adapts to international standards in order to identify any flaws and to create business model that complies with the modern standards. The company always takes into consideration the risks connected to occupational health, human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and fifight against corruption and tries to pay more attention to those groups, to which the new changes an regulations can have the most impact. In order to facilitate greater involvement of employees in implementation of 10 principles of the Global Contact, the company convened a meeting with its personnel and provided them with the information about their responsibilities, rights and duties, while also listened to their thoughts and ideas regarding the subject.  professional health;  human rights;  working rights;  environmental protection;  fighting against corruption The company is actively analyzing the businesses of its partners and providers to  Principle 1 Businesses should support and help them improve their standards as the respect the protection of internationally time passes. proclaimed human rights  Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses  Principle 3 Businesses should uphold The company openly speaks about how freedom of association & effective it implements the principles laid down recognition of the right to collective bargaining by the Global Contact its current  Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of strategy, approach and challenges. forced and compulsory labour  Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour  Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation  Principle 7 Businesses should support a The company regularly conducts dialogue with interested stakeholders to understand their precautionary approach to environmental demands towards the company. challenges  Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to GBZ acknowledging its social responsibility with regard to improving the social conditions in the regions it operates in, is actively cooperating with the regional self-governments, in order to promote greater environmental collectively deal with the issues that arise in those regions. responsibility  Principle 9 Encourage the development It should be mentioned that number of activities have been implemented by the company in and diffusion of environmentally friendly support of 10 principles however there is still a lot to be done, and at the moment we are oriented technologies on progress and striving to reach the main goal – guaranteeing and effectively realizing human  Principle 10 Businesses should work rights, labour rights, environmental and anti-corruption standards and policies in accordance to against all forms of corruption, including best international practice and universally recognized standards. extortion and bribery For achieving this great goal, we wish success to ourselves and to every other company involved in UN Global Compact initiative! Nino Zambakhidze Introduction: L.T.D. “Georgian Business Zone” was founded in 2008 and since then it has been implementing numerous agricultural projects in Georgia. There are 45 workers at The milk factory of Tsnisi was opened the enterprise who offer services to 350 farmers. The in September, 2009. The factory was enterprise works in accordance with international financed by Millennium Challenge standards and has obtained ISO and HACCP certificates. Georgia Fund,(the project ADA) as well as British Petroleum (BP) and its partners’ initiated public investment programs. The implementation of this Who we are: project was supervised by CARE What have we done: International in the Caucasus. In the milk-processing factory, the We are an agricultural company, based in Tbilisi but methods of sorting and branding of operating in Samtshe-Javakheti Region. Company is The factory is equipped with modern the production were created by mostly involved in milk-processing business, as well as technological equipment and can highly qualified milk professionals animal-husbandry and food-processing. It operates on process 5000 liters of milk daily. The and marketing specialists in 200 hectares of arable land of which some part is factory processes Georgian, Imeretian accordance with the program funded obtained by leasing. and Sulguni Cheese made from by USAID, called “Farmer for natural milk and sells its products in Farmer“. We have ISO and HCCP certified milk and mixed fodder Tbilisi Supermarket with brand name in village Tsnisi and Milk-Gathering centers, founded “Akhaltsikhuri”. Despite many successes, on the road and improved by the funds from BP’s Millennium to improvement, GBZ had to deal Challenge Project and Care and Mercy Corps. in certain with many social, political, economic In 2010 the company obtained ISO: villages of Akhaltsikhe: Tsira, Tskaltbila and Pamaji. and mental challenges, which is why This funding made up the 50% of the financial 14000 and ISO: 2800 certificates and it has become a more socially contribution made by Georgian Business Zone. became the first milk-processing oriented enterprise. Throughout all enterprise in Georgia, which uses these years, we enriched our only natural milk for processing its experience by communicating with goods. The factory has 25 farmers, regional government and all employees. Donor Organizations based on SJ. Our field of business: Milk-processing Factory in Tsnisi We also offer technical support and funding from our own economic activities. Specifically, we give free consulting services in veterinary and feeding issues and try our best to help our beneficiaries(farmers who give us milk) maintain healthy animals. For this reason, we buy important vaccines and medicine to our beneficiaries for free. In 2010, we signed the memorandum of cooperation with Akhaltsikhe and Gori universities, after which 68 students have In 2010, Georgian Chamber of passed trainings in our factories. These activities are in major Commerce and Georgian Ministry of Economics and Sustainable developed accordance with out company’s interests and we hope to get rewarded us with the title “Best agrogood results by improving the mentality of the villagers. firm 2010”. In 2010, Georgian Chamber of Commerce and Georgian Ministry of Economics and Sustainable developed rewarded us • The company owns Apple with the title “Best agro-firm 2010”. Orchards Mixed Fodder Factory in Tsnisi • There are apple orchids on 4 hectares of land: The modern Mixed Fodder factory started functioning in 2010 with mutual cooperation of GBZ and “Farmers and GBZ OWNS 2.5 Markets”, project, which is being implemented by CARE HECTARES OF • 2.5 hectares I phase: Georgian Sinafi, Golden, Banani, Kekhura and International in the Caucasus. ARTIFICIAL LAKE etc. GBZ buys crops for the production of animal food from AND FARM WITH • 1.5 hectares II phase: Granny Smith, around 500 farmers in Samtshe-Javakheti. The factory produces five tons of fodder an hour. In October of 2010, 100 ANIMALS OF Braeburn, Golden Delicious, Reine the factory obtained ISO: 22000 food safety and ISO: 9001 HOLLSTEIN des, Mutsu and etc. quality control certificates. BREED. The company’s cold-storage For the cold-storage, new building was built, and equipped with modern equipement. It is possible to store up to 120 tones of harvest in cold-storage. For the project, the company bought agricultural tractor and the trailer aggregate. Mechanisation Autopark Tractor with 4 trailers, Hay packer 1, Food granulator-mixer 1, 1 Round Press, Distribution Cars. Products we are producing:  Cheese with Brine;  Imeruli Kveli (Cheese from Imereti, New Cheese);  Grilled Cheese “Sulguni”  Salty Cheese, Packed  Smoked Cheese “Sulguni”  Imeruli Kveli(Cheese from Imereti)  Mixed Fodder (Beef and Pork)  Apple Our partners In the last couple of years, GBZ has attracted lot of funding from the donors and formed partnership with such companies as: Regional Development Agency; Georgian Farmers’ Association; Millennium Challenge Georgia Fund; BP; CARE; CNFA;  Mercy Corps; PUM. Our partnership is based on mutual trust, which has been strengthening during last couple of years. We value our partners and share with them our successes and shortcomings. Our Clients: GBZ’s milk-processing factory has its distribution service and milk products with brand name “Akhaltsikhuri” which it sells every day in Tbilisi and Alkhaltsikhe markets. The Current Situation in the Company When it comes to privacy and safety of the regarding Human and Labour Rights: personal documents of the employees, the company works fully in accordance with the There are 45 employees working for Georgian national laws. The company fully Business Zone. The company acknowledges the acknowledges the administrative responsibility, with regard to protection of rights of responsibility in case of violating these laws. those who are employed in the organization. Particularly the company acknowledges the None of the employees at GBZ is forced to do obligation to honor human rights. any activity. The company makes sure its employees work in a Each employee has right to privacy, healthy and safe environment. Its working company respects their rights and rights of environment is comfortable and clean, providing their family members, employees rights to proper temperature, ventilation, lighting and freedom of expression, conscience, religion, appropriate sanitary norms for each gender. and association. In case of need, the company also provides special The company ensures the equality of all safety measures for pregnant women, for persons employees through effective mechanisms. with disabilities and etc. Every employee is equal and has same rights regardless of race, gender, religion, The company guarantees that the working hours language, ethnicity, financial situation, aren’t more than 48 hours a week; that the extra political or any other thoughts. work to be done is not above the limits, is small and seldom. Overtime is adequately compensated and is The company ensures awareness raising not more than 12 hours a week or 36 hours per around above-mentioned universal human rights standards and procedures among Every employee is equal and month. The employees also have time to rest during the day according to the law. managers and employees. It also tries to has same rights regardless of take part in the development of local society race, gender, religion, The company gives its employees the amount of by offering training to the employees in the language, ethnicity, financial salary that is above the minimum wage standard areas of entrepreneurship and foodsituation, political or any and ensures fulfillment of their basic needs(food, processing. For this aim, the employees of other thoughts. clothing and housing). Georgian Business Zone passed the certification of HASP standards. The farmers The company regularly, as indicated by the law and from Samtskhe-Javakheti received contract, pays salary to all of its employees. theoretical and practical trainings about the topics of cold-storage and animalEmployees who work part-time still get husbandry proportionally same amount of salary as the ones . who work full-time. For the development of local society, in accordance with the project “Regional Economic Development”, GBZ has fulfilled the role of a training agent. The aim of the project is to improve the agriculture and defeat the poverty in regions. During the implementation of the project, the support was given to various milk-processing entrepreneurs in Samtskhe-Javakheti which helped the milk-processing sector develop training bases. All these events helped the farmers improve their knowledge and skills in businessadministration, food safety issues, as well processing and distributing the milk products. The company take part in the development of local society by forming partnerships and cooperating with various interested parties, including UN agencies, government, Civic Society and all other relevant subjects. Georgian Business Zone participates in the development of local society by forming partnerships and cooperating with various interested parties Activities aimed at protecting the rights of workers: The company makes sure that every The company follows all the laws enshrined in decision, about hiring, paying a salary, Georgian Labor Code. For all its employees, the promoting and teaching is always based company guarantees a fair working on objective criteria and in never environment and equal rights. discriminatory. The company ensures that its employees receive The company fully complies with the law salary regularly, without delay. It has the on “Elimination of all forms of responsibility not to delay paying wages for any Discrimination”. reason that is not justified by the national law. Every job category has its detailed job To increase the motivation of its employees and description, in which the information to value their work, the company uses a system about qualification, salary and any other of bonuses. Also, for the encouragement of relevant details are clearly provided. demographic development, pregnant women still get the salary and have their working The company strives to create a position reserved until they return back to comfortable environment for employees work. with special needs, so that persons with disabilities(or any kind of health Every employee can use his/her own free time problems) can have a chance to work at during the working day and leave the company’s the company. The company makes territory during a break. The company’s management regularly sure that every decision, The company honors the standards of minimum (once a month) meets with its employees about hiring, paying a age of employment. According to national law, to discuss their concerns and salary, promoting and employing a person of age less than 16 is suggestions. teaching is always based prohibited unless the contract is signed by a legal guardian. While in case of a person less on objective criteria and than 14 years old, the contract can only be never on any kind of formed regarding activities such as sports, arts, discrimination. or advertising. The issues regarding the ownership of the land: The company regularly meets local population to keep them informed on every stage of its activities. Upon acquisition of land through buying or leasing or any other way, the company makes sure that the owners of those lands get full compensation so that they can improve their For the protection of standard of living. The company ensures the compensation system is transparent and fair. the rights of the This is what company did when it bought the land on which now the enterprise is based on. employees, the And the land which is used as a pasture, was purchased by GBZ from government through the company often leasing. convenes informal meetings where all the The company has taken the responsibility to openly contact local inhabitants, regarding the employees can discuss new activities that could endanger or make negative impact on their environment. For this and freely talk about reason, the company regularly meets local population to keep them informed during every any issue they want, stage of its activities. provide their insights, suggestions and etc. For the protection of the rights of the employees, the company often convenes informal meetings where all the employees can discuss and freely talk about any issue they want, provide their insights, suggestions and etc. Protection of rights of Consumers Georgian Business Zone follows all the guidelines and norms regarding the processing and marketing of the goods. It constantly monitors the international principles and standards and processes its goods accordingly. The company takes appropriate measures to extinguish all kinds of problems, connected with the processing of goods, design or any other component or event that could endanger the life or health of the consumers. On every pack and product, the company makes sure all the written information is easy to understand for the consumers. The company GBZ HAS continuously checks the quality of its processed goods and tries to improve IMPLEMENTED it as much as possible. THE HASP AND ISO The company has implemented the standards of HASP and ISO, which means STANDARTS that it protects the rights of consumers by providing them with extremely healthy food. The attitude of the Company in relation to Environmental Protection: Georgian Business Zone fully acknowledges its social responsibility – to protect the environment and prevent its pollution. Despite the fact that the company tries its best to prevent the harm to the environment and shows it with various activities, it does not have a separate document regarding the environmental protection, which is planned to be adopted in near future. Regarding the clever usage of natural resources(water and electricity), the company holds a license, which outlines duties for using these resources, in this case, for the arrangement of boring wells and drainage systems. Taking into consideration the fact that the company mostly processes milk, the only waste that can pollute the environment is whey, which it gives to inhabitants for feeding pigs. With this act, the company not only avoids pollution of the environment, but also helps local inhabitants feed their cattle. The company owns several reservoirs for storing whey. Georgian Business Zone supports development of the technology that does not harm the environment. The company identifies in its own territory the level of water and soil pollution, then evaluates its impact on the environment and conducts activities to minimize it. In addition to this, Food Safety Agency also checks the territory for any traces of pollution in accordance with governmental policy. The company tries to avoid polluting the environment in many ways, by controlling the production process and using the systems of environmental protection. Georgian Business Zone continuously evaluates the used materials, products and production process risks according to the principle of caution. The company supports scientific research which is connected to its production and activities. It takes all possible measures to reduce the energy and water consumption. Fighting against Corruption: In general, the attitude of Georgia towards fighting against corruption changed in 2003 and if in 2003 according to the corruption index of Transparency International Georgia was on 127th place, today it is on 44th. After changing the government’s attitude towards fight against corruption, it was a challenge for many companies to ensure maximum transparency. Georgian Business Zone has a clearly defined policy for fight against corruption. The company’s management clearly states, that in no way it will touch any agreements involving corruption, nor will it support forming any such agreements, on the contrary – it will do its best to keep the company free from corruption and strictly demands from all of its employees and managers to follow this rule. The company acknowledges its responsibility in fighting against corruption, towards its employees, government, for this reason it constantly monitors and prevents the risks of corruption. For prevention purposes and for avoiding corruption, the company explains its anticorruption policy to all of its prospective employees. All employees of the company are familiar with the anti-corruption duties, especially the ones who The company strictly work in the selling and buying departments. The company strictly prohibits informal employment prohibits informal and any type of “black accounting”. employment The company investigates the activities(financial, environmental protection, fiscal, working rights and any type of and etc.) of its potential partners. “black accounting”. All agreements with middle-men and consultants, involving issues of fighting against corruption, is signed by both sides. The company supports sharing the experience with the business-partners and thus promotes cooperation in dealing with corruption. Measurement of outcomes: We, as a company understand that there are many ways, in which we have to improve. We pledge to adopt internal policy documents in the field of environmental protection and fight against corruption by 2018. The company aims to create a working plan in 2017, which encompasses reducing negative impacts connected to its operations as well as improving the operational standards. Regarding the environmental protection, GBZ also plans to create a document in which the following issues will be discussed: How can the company take part in the prevention of air pollution; How can the company secure the reduced and/or safe usage of harmful chemical substances;  The company will continue its due diligence regarding implementation of international principles and industrial standards in the future, for creation and processing of its products in accordance to required standards. The company will also ensure awareness raising regarding the new, international standards inside the company (especially, for the persons working at the corresponding managerial position). for this purpose the company will organize special trainings for employees. For the protection of the rights of the  The company has decided, in accordance with the anti-corruption policy, to add several articles to the agreement, that explains such issues as issuing and getting gifts, sponsorship, financing of political parties, employees, the lobbying and etc. GBZ will start discussions about this issue with lawyer. company often convenes informal  The company will protect gender equality in the future as well and will provide workers with worthy working meetings where all the environment. in order to achieve this goal top management will meet monthly with employees and will discuss employees can discuss how to provide better working environment for them and together and freely talk about any issue they want, In the end, the company “Georgian Business Zone” is pleased to be able to be part of such important initiative as UN Global Compact. We understand that this is a huge challenge(in a positive way) and provide their insights, responsibility for the company of our status. We fully acknowledge the responsibility we have towards our suggestions and etc. employees and shareholders. Georgian Business Zone will continue accommodating its activities with 10 principles of UN Global Compact.
