GRI report 2016 Responsibility management Responsibility highlights in 2016 3 Corporate responsibility in Kesko's strategy 5 We listen to our stakeholders 10 Management model and systems 15 Responsibility programme Responsibility programme 20 Good corporate governance and finance 21 Customers 27 Society 34 Working community 38 Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections 45 Environment 54 Other operating countries 60 Disclosures Economic impacts 65 Environmental impacts 79 Social impacts 100 GRI report profile Reporting principles 126 Materiality assessment 128 GRI and UNGC index 129 Assurance report 141 Contact information 144 Responsibility highlights On our new web pages, we present the ways in which we promote the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the SDGs, in our operations. Visit the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Kesko web pages We completed a human rights assessment and made a human rights commitment. Read more We published the K Code of Conduct for all of our personnel and business partners. Click here to go to the K Code of Conduct website 3 We had solar power plants built on the rooftop of two KCitymarkets and nine K-Supermarkets. Watch the video We published a plastics policy and committed to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. Read more about our actions In 2017, we ranked 25th in the Global 100 list and were the best trading sector company. Click here to go to the list 4 Corporate Responsibility in Kesko's Strategy ”More than before, corporate responsibility coupled with a strong identity and attractive brands is a prerequisite for operation in every line of business.” Matti Kalervo, Vice President of Corporate Responsibility At Kesko, corporate responsibility work is integrated and long-term objectives. The programme has six into day-to-day activities. themes: Good corporate governance and finance, Customers, Society, Working community, Responsible Corporate responsibility work is based on Kesko's purchasing and sustainable selections, and value, vision and mission. Corporate responsibility Environment. work is guided by Kesko’s strategy, general corporate responsibility principles, the K Code of Conduct guidelines and Kesko’s purchasing principles. Kesko’s responsibility programme contains short-term Value Mission The customer and quality – in everything we do We create welfare responsibly for all our stakeholders and the whole society Vision We are the customer’s choice and the quality leader in the European trading sector 5 General operating principles guiding • The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the responsibility UN Convention of the Rights of the Child • The ILO convention on the Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work Kesko’s Group Management Board has approved the Group’s principles of corporate responsibility. These • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Corporations principles define the basic economic, social and • The ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development environmental responsibility promises. and principles against corruption and bribery • The UN Global Compact initiative Kesko’s commitments to international declarations and • The UN Sustainable Development Goals conventions are also included in the principles. The most important principles are: • The purchasing principles of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) Kesko participates in the UN Global Compact initiative and is committed to observing ten generally accepted principles concerning human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption in all of its operating countries. Mikko Helander, President and CEO 6 Kesko’s responsibility path 7  in action: Getting to know SDGs from K Group’s Christmas calendar In December 2016, the doors of the advent calendar on Keskonet, the Kesko intranet, revealed surprises never seen before and made the calendar hugely popular. Kesko personnel counted down to Christmas in a community spirit, familiarising themselves with the UN Sustainable Development Goals: every workday a member of Kesko’s personnel appeared on a video from behind a calendar door to tell us us how Kesko promotes the UN Sustainable Development Goal of the day in its corporate responsibility work. one less working day in December before Christmas Eve than there are UN Sustainable Development Goals, i.e. 17. Why not have an advent calendar on the intranet where one door opens to one SDG each day!” says Matti Kalerv alervo o, Kesko Vice President, Corporate Responsibility. From idea to action It didn’t take long before Sohvi and Minna started to look around K Group for people willing to tell others about the SDGs in an informal Christmas greeting. Our wonderful colleagues immediately said a big ‘yes’ to the idea. We recorded the video greetings with a phone Towards the end of November, Kesko had published the for use on the intranet. Most of them were shot in just UN Sustainable Development Goals and one take and were spontaneous and genuine,” say Sohvi Kesko web pages. Kesko is committed to supporting the and Minna. UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in its operations. The web pages explain how Kesko promotes Advent calendar became hugely popular all of the 17 goals in practice. The first door on the intranet opened on 30 November to a video where Jesse Mether Mether, Sustainability Manager of But how to get time-pressed people to explore the web Kesko's building and technical trade, talked about how pages? This was the problem the Group Corporate Kesko promotes SDG 1, No poverty. Responsibility Unit tried to solve in November when the content was nearly ready. We in K Group create jobs and welfare, both locally and globally,” said Mether in his video. He ended by wishing Then our Corporate Responsibility Specialists Soh Sohvi vi everyone peace and love this Christmas. Vähämaa and Minna Saari had a brilliant idea: there is 8 Day after day, colleagues in the offices stopped me to In the future, we will link our work to these goals. For say how much they liked the advent calendar. This was a example, our Annual Report, which is coming out in magnificent way to make busy people stop and think March, will explain how our responsibility programme is about the actual meaning of the UN Sustainable linked to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. It’s Development Goals,” says Jesse. great that UN has published these global goals to be shared by us all: states, businesses, investors, nonWe stopped at one goal after the other leading up to governmental organisations and all citizens, says Matti Christmas Eve. But the promotion of the UN’s Sustainable Kalervo. Development Goals will continue. 9 We listen to our stakeholders The assessment of Kesko’s operations and corporate responsibility impacts takes account of the key The materiality assessment of Kesko's corporate stakeholders: responsibility guides Kesko's responsibility and stakeholder work. Operations in all areas of • customers responsibility are developed in accordance with the • investors and Kesko’s owners expectations of the key stakeholder groups. • Kesko personnel The stakeholder assessment is included in Kesko’s • retailers and store staff management model and operating plans. Kesko's • suppliers and service providers corporate responsibility vision is based on taking • the media stakeholders’ views into account. Various surveys are • authorities regularly conducted to identify stakeholder expectations. • NGOs and other organisations • trade unions Kesko's stakeholder interaction 10 The corporate responsibility function is headed by the stakeholders on economic, social and environmental Executive Vice President for marketing, responsibility. communications, corporate responsibility and corporate relations, who is a member of Kesko’s Group Staying aware of stakeholder expectations requires Management Board. He reports to the Group regular dialogue. The following table describes Management Board on communication with interaction with the key stakeholder groups: 11 Key Stakeholder Response to stakeholder expectations stakeholders inclusivity and channels of interaction Customers Responsibility is strongly visible to customers in the K Group’s consumer brands and • Daily customer stores. Customers have to be able to trust in the quality and safety of products and the encounters fact that their responsible choices start when they enter a K-store. • Customer service channels • Customer satisfaction surveys • Post-shopping surveys • Interaction via social media channels (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Pinterest, Instagram, blogs) • Survey and service functions on mobile and online services Investors, owners Investors’ and shareholders’ Kesko strives to continue and improve its ratings in significant sustainability indices and and analysts questions concerning lists, as they are important neutral evidence of responsible operations. Transparency of corporate responsibility have reporting and corporate governance principles, as well as ensuring that laws and increased in recent years. responsible operating principles are observed, create a solid basis for Kesko's business Kesko replies annually to the operations. inquiries of several institutions making sustainability assessments. Examples of events: • General Meeting • Investor meetings • Press conferences • Capital Markets Day Personnel and Kesko's working community is developing and international. Common values, principles retailers • Personnel survey and operating practices provide the basis for our work everywhere. Corporate • Performance and responsibility is becoming ever more important in creating the employer image. Companies in which job satisfaction is high and that offer versatile jobs and development reviews opportunities for career progress are most likely to succeed in attracting and retaining • National Works Council the best employees. K-retailers listen to the wishes of their customers and adapt their meetings selections accordingly. Stores implement responsibility in all operations. • Kesko’s intranet: countryspecific pages: Keskonet Finland, Latvia, Sweden, 12 Russia, Estonia, and Keskonet Global for all • Available on Keskonet: feedback channels Direct Line, Mail to the President and CEO, link to SpeakUp reporting channel, discussion column and several blogs • Annual K-Team event for K-retailers, K-store staff, Kesko personnel and business partners • The K Code of Conduct (in the languages of all our operating countries) • Value discussions on the K Code of Conduct guidelines Suppliers and Diverse networking with suppliers and service providers requires that all parties of the service providers • Around 24,600 suppliers supply chain accept the common values, objectives and operating practices. and service providers, We are together responsible for ensuring that our customers can rely on our expertise, see 204-1 Proportion of services and the quality and safety of our products. spending on local suppliers • Cooperation in accordance with fair trading practices • 'Principles and Practice of Socially Responsible Trading' guide • Business partner meetings, such as Kesko grocery trade’s annual partner info event • Audits and training events in high-risk countries Society (the media, Kesko proactively follows changes in society in close cooperation with its stakeholders. authorities, NGOs • Meetings We cooperate and discuss openly with NGOs, authorities and other decision-makers. and other • Media events and organisations, and enquiries trade unions) • Activities in organisations 13 • International activities in the BSCI and BEPI initiatives and in the national BSCI group • Enquiries from NGOs Read our stakeholders' addresses Kesko promotes human rights Long-established cooperation between Caverion and Onninen is based on high-quality operations K Digital Trainee programme offers a path to and competitiveness exciting career opportunities within the K Group 14 Management model and systems Corporate responsibility organisation in communications, corporate responsibility and corporate relations, who is a member of Kesko’s Group Kesko Management Board. Corporate responsibility is one of the target indicators of his performance bonus. Corporate responsibility at Kesko is integrated into dayto-day activities that help customers make good The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit, assisted by choices. steering groups, is responsible for the development, coordination and reporting of responsibility work. Kesko’s Board of Directors and Group Management Board discuss the key principles and reporting. The management of each business division is responsible for practical implementation. The corporate responsibility function is headed by the Executive Vice President for marketing, 15 Corporate responsibility advisory board The Vice President for corporate responsibility (Ch.), Environmental steering group division representatives, Group representatives The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions’ specialist representatives • develops the principles that guide the Group’s corporate responsibility • develops the Group’s environmental management • steers and coordinates practical measures • promotes the sharing of best practices within the Group • sets the objectives for corporate responsibility work and • keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to monitors and, as necessary, supports their achievement environmental responsibility 16 • implementing them according to the specific Steering group for responsible purchasing characteristics and strategies of their respective The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions divisions’ specialist representatives • develops the Group’s responsible purchasing procedures Management board for marketing, communications, corporate responsibility and corporate relations • promotes the sharing of best purchasing practices within the Group The Executive Vice President for marketing, communications, corporate responsibility and corporate • keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to relations (Ch.), responsible persons of the divisions and purchasing and sourcing the Group functions • coordinates the processes and objectives of marketing, Steering group for local responsibility in operating communications, corporate responsibility and corporate countries relations The Vice President for corporate responsibility (Ch.), representatives of local subsidiaries in operating countries (other than Finland) HR Management board The Senior Vice President for HR (Ch.), divisions’ • steers the implementation of the responsibility representatives, Group representatives programme in the other operating countries • develops local additions to the responsibility programme • prepares the Group’s HR strategy and common HR • promotes the sharing of best practices within the Group policy definitions • sets common objectives for the HR function and guides and coordinates the achievement of the objectives and practical implementations of HR operations Division-specific responsibility steering groups • guides the development of HR processes and services are, based on the objectives set by the Group-level and monitors the quality and efficiency of HR processes steering groups, responsible for: and services • determining their own responsibility objectives 17 Certification and audit systems related to production in high-risk countries approved by Kesko Product Certification/audit system Product group Coverage of criteria label BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) All product groups Social, limited environmental part No SA8000 All product groups Social No ETI All product groups Social No Sedex/SMETA All product groups Social, limited environmental part No ICS All product groups Social No Fairtrade Agricultural products incl. cotton Social, environmental Yes Rainforest Alliance Agricultural products Social, environmental Yes Pro Terra Agricultural products Social, environmental Yes MPS-Socially Qualified Agricultural products Social No Soil Association Ethical Trade Agricultural products Social Yes Sustainability Initiative of South Africa SIZA Agricultural products Social, environmental No Sustainably Grown Agricultural products Social, environmental Yes UTZ Certified Coffee, cocoa, tea Social, environmental Yes RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) Products containing palm oil Economic, environmental, social Yes RTRS (Round Table on Responsible Soy) Soy Economic, environmental, social Yes WIETA Wines Social Yes Vinos de Chile Wines Social, environmental Yes MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) Caught fish and shellfish Environmental (sustainable fishing) Yes ASC (Aquaculture Stewardship Council) Farmed fish and shellfish Social, environmental Yes Florverde Sustainable Flowers Flowers Social, environmental Yes FLA (Fair Labor Association) Consumer goods Social No FWF (Fair Wear Foundation) Clothing Social No 18 GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) Textiles, hygiene Social, environmental Yes products (organic) WRAP (Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production) Textiles, shoes Social No IMO Fair for Life All product groups Social, economic Yes FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Wood products and timber Social, environmental Yes PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification) Wood products and timber Social, environmental Yes ICA Social Audit * Consumer goods Social No * Conditional approval. A maximum of two IGS audits are approved after which the supplier must adopt BSCI audit or some other approved audit conducted by an independent party. Environmental systems responsibility concept is a requirement for inclusion in the chain. A K-responsibility concept inspection is carried out every three years at the K-Rauta, Rautia All of Onninen's operations in all operating countries and K-maatalous stores by an independent external are ISO 14001 certified. partner. In 2016, a total of 59 stores were inspected. The operations of Kesko Logistics are ISO 14001 VV-Auto Group Oy fulfils the requirements of the ISO certified. 9001 quality system and VV-Autotalot Oy fulfils the In the food stores and the building and home requirements of the quality and environmental action improvement stores, environmental management is programme of the Finnish Central Organisation for based on the K-responsibility concept. For KMotor Trades and Repairs (AKL). Citymarkets, K-Supermarkets and K-Markets, the K19 Responsibility programme Kesko’s responsibility programme contains both short-term and long-term objectives. The programme has six themes: Good corporate governance and finance, Customers, Society, Working community, Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections, and Environment. In 2016, we updated the objectives of the responsibility programme by specifying the theme titles, adding objectives that underpin our strategy and our stakeholders’ expectations, and removed objectives that have already been achieved or are immaterial. This year, we present the progress of the responsibility programme for the last three years. 20 Good corporate governance and finance We are committed to our operating principles. Together, we generate economic value added. • The K Code of Conduct steers all our operations. • We follow good corporate governance principles. • Together, we improve financial profitability. 21 Pr Progr ogress ess of objectiv objectiveses Pr Progr ogress ess of Topic Objectiv Objectivee 2014 objectiv objectiveses 2015 Pr Progr ogress ess of objectiv objectiveses 2016 KC Code ode of All of our Our Responsible From the beginning of 2015, all We updated Our Responsible Working Principles guidelines in Conduct personnel act in Working of Kesko's Russian business 2016. The new guidelines were named the K Code of Conduct compliance with Principles companies have had their own and were published in the languages of all our operating countries the K Code of guidelines are a anti-corruption policies. We in October 2016. We named 20 K Code of Conduct ambassadors Conduct. material part of decided to update Our as the messengers and contact persons. We will update all new the induction of Responsible Working Principles and renewed employment contracts to include a clause about the new employees. guidelines in 2016. requirement for personnel to familiarise themselves and comply According to a with the K Code of Conduct. We will add a K Code of Conduct personnel survey, contract clause to all agreements signed by Kesko Group 93.3 % companies. As of 2017, we oblige the entire personnel to annually respondents have acknowledge their compliance with the K Code of Conduct explored the guidelines. guidelines. We organise As part of the The online training on As part of the ongoing responsibility training, a training event on regular training ongoing responsibility, which was the K Code of Conduct was organised in Suomen Lähikauppa and on the K Code of responsibility published in 2015 and directed two Russian subsidiaries in 2016. The events focused largely on Conduct. training, four at all Kesko employees, corruption and fraud-related issues. The eLearning training training events describes Our Responsible targeted at all personnel had been attended by 3,159 people at on responsible Working Principles. As part of the end of 2016. We drew an annual plan for 2017 which includes working the ongoing responsibility procedures to increase the personnel's awareness of the K Code principles were training, a training event on of Conduct such as communication and training events for every organised in 2014 Our Responsible Working quarter. for different Principles was organised for divisions in the key employees of Kesko’s Finland, Latvia, company in Belarus in 2015. Lithuania and Estonia. Return on Kesko's objective The comparable The comparable return on The comparable return on capital employed was 11.9%, and the capital is to achieve a return on capital capital employed was 11.7%, comparable return on equity was 9.8%. 14% comparable employed was and the comparable return on return on capital 9.9% and the equity was 8.2%. employed and a comparable 12% return on return on equity equity. was 7.6%. Human We respect We started to We continued to assess human We published our human rights assessment and human rights rights human rights assess human rights related impacts in commitment on our website. We will review and update it every and take them rights related accordance with the UN three years. We will construct our operating models so that into account in impacts in Guiding Principles on Business respect for human rights is observed in all our operations. all our accordance with and Human Rights. During the operations. the UN Guiding extensive report work, we 22 Principles on heard the thoughts of Business and customers and personnel as Human Rights. well as employees in high-risk countries' factories on human rights and how well they are realised in K Group's operations. Management approach Material aspects • Economic performance to bribery and other malpractice is absolutely uncompromising. Responsible working principles are • Indirect economic impacts essential for building trust between Kesko, K-stores, our • Anti-corruption customers and our business partners. • Anti-competitive behaviour Public policy • Compliance • Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Kesko plays an active role in trade and industry organisations in Finland and in the European Union, • Customer privacy contributing its expertise to social development and legislative work. Kesko does not donate funds to We generate economic value added political parties. At Kesko, economic responsibility refers to the good management of finances, the efficient use of resources, Customer privacy as well as generating stable, long-term economic Customers' personal data is, for instance, processed in benefits for the various stakeholders. Kesko's various personal data registers and online stores' operations generate economic benefits for customer registers that are collected for the shareholders, personnel, retailers, suppliers of goods implementation of marketing activities. Furthermore, and services and their employees and customers, as well Kesko manages and maintains the K-Plussa customer as municipalities and states. loyalty system, operated by K-chains and K-Plussa partners. Using the information received from the KThe K Code of Conduct and reputation management Plussa customer loyalty system, we can develop and Different aspects of responsibility, such as the ethicality tailor our operations to better suit our customers' of production and sourcing, the fair and equal treatment needs. Taking care of our customers' privacy is of of employees and environmental protection are utmost importance to us. increasingly important for customers. Kesko's attitude 23 Policies, principles and commitments • Accounting policies • Good trading practices • Kesko Group complies with International Financial • Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro are committed Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved for adoption to good trading practices. by the European Union. • K Code of Conduct • Corporate Governance principles • The K Code of Conduct is used to ensure that • Kesko's decision-making and corporate everyone at Kesko has the same understanding of governance are guided by Kesko's values and the values and principles that guide our daily the K Code of Conduct guidelines. Decisionwork. The principles are the same for every Kesko making and corporate governance comply with employee in all our operating countries. We also the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, expect our business partners to operate regulations concerning publicly quoted responsibly. companies, Kesko's Articles of Association, the charters of Kesko's Board and its Committees and • Data protection policy the rules and guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. The company complies with the Finnish • The data protection policy defines how Kesko Corporate Governance Code for Listed Group strives for compliance with the law in the Companies that entered into force on 1 January processing of personal data and a high level of 2016. data protection in all of its operations and operating countries. • Risk manag management ement principles • The risk management policy confirmed by the Board of Directors guides risk management in Kesko. Monitoring and control systems • Financial reporting and planning laws relating to operations and act in compliance • Kesko's financial reporting and planning are based with them. For Kesko, knowledge of and on the Kesko Group's management system. The compliance with competition laws is of primary Group's financial development and achievement importance. of financial objectives are monitored by financial reporting covering the entire Group. • Pr Prev ention of malpr evention malpractic acticee • Complianc ompliancee • The Kesko Group's Internal Audit monitors and secures the functioning and efficiency of • Kesko runs compliance programmes to ensure management, supervision, risk management and that Kesko employees are familiar with the key corporate governance in the Kesko Group. 24 • Priv Privacy acy pr protection otection Kesko's Internal Audit pays special attention to the efficiency of controls that prevent malpractice and • Personal data collected for various purposes on financial losses. Kesko's Legal Affairs and Internal the grounds defined in the Finnish Personal Data Audit have organised value discussions in Kesko Act form separate person registers. For example, subsidiaries with the focus on anti-bribery work. the customer information of K-Plussa cardholders forms a customer database that is used, with the • Risk manag management ement customer's permission, for managing customer relationships, for customer contacts and the • Kesko has a uniform risk assessment and marketing purposes of the companies that have reporting system. Risk identification is based on joined the K-Plussa system. K-Plussa customers business objectives and opportunities and the can prohibit the connection of product or product defined risk appetite. Risks are prioritised on the group level information to their identified basis of their significance by evaluating their customer relationship. In compliance with the impact in financial terms and probability. When Personal Data Act, the file description is available assessing the impact of materialisation, the in Finnish at www.plussa.com. impacts on reputation, people's wellbeing and the • Data controllers ensure that customer information environment are considered in addition to the is only used for the purposes specified in the file impact in euros. Risk management measures are description. Information on individual customers is assigned persons in charge who are responsible secured by issuing instructions to personnel and for planning, implementing and monitoring the by using technical systems. Customer data is only measures. The measures defined are added in disclosed to third parties if required by law. action plans and monitoring systems. Kesko's Internal Audit annually assesses the functioning and efficiency of Kesko's risk management system. Responsibilities and resources • Kesko's Corporate Governance structure is presented at • Internal Audit Unit Kesko's Corporate Governance principles • Risk Management and Strategy Process Unit • Group Legal Affairs Unit • K-Digital Unit Grievance mechanisms Through Kesko's intranet, employees in all operating SpeakUp is a confidential reporting channel meant for countries can give feedback and ask questions reporting crime and malpractice suspicions when, for concerning operations not only in their own units but one reason or another, the information cannot be also directly to top management. Feedback can be given passed directly to Kesko's persons in charge. openly or anonymously. 25 Boundaries Corporate governance Kesko Finance Kesko 26 Customers We offer sustainable products and multi-channel services • We make people's lives more convenient and easier. • We offer healthy products and services that promote wellbeing. • We develop our multi-channel aspect of our store network based on our customers' expectations. • We encourage our customers to make sustainable choices. 27 Pr Progr ogress ess of objectiv objectiveses Topic Objectiv Objectivee 2014 Pr Progr ogress objectives ess of objectiv es 2015 Pr ess of objectiv ogress Progr objectiveses 2016 Dialogue We consult our In autumn 2014, we As part of Kesko's human rights assessment, we The human rights assessment generated with customers as we studied stakeholders' heard the stakeholders' views on how well they invaluable information for developing customers develop our views on the focal thought human rights were realised, for customer services. We will investigate corporate points of Kesko's value example, in customer service situations. The the possibility of implementing the responsibility creation through an online questionnaire was directed at both suggestions we received. work. interview survey. majority representatives as well as special groups. Kesko was assessed as slightly higher We carried out an extensive study • Dialogue than the average Finnish company in the among grocery trade experts, retailers, with materialisation of a variety of human rights suppliers and K-Plussa customers on the customers in issues. However, the assessment given by expected food trends and phenomena of stores and special groups was, with regards to certain 2017. social medial aspects (e.g. unrestricted access, accessibility, channels personnel diversity), considerably poorer when The significance of social media channels • Customer in customer interaction has grown. In compared to the answers given by majority satisfaction 2017, we will more actively listen to our representatives. and brand customers' opinions and carry out more surveys systematic and focused communication within social media communities. Consultation We offer our The K Consumer The K Consumer service was contacted 19,770 Customer feedback received through the servic services es to customers multiservice was contacted times. Information about good products and new customer feedback system, customers channel more than 20,900 responsible actions was given in stores and launched in summer 2016, increased information on times. Kesko Food is marketing with the help of the K-responsibility significantly. The K Group's customer our products and going through an concept and its slogan ‘Let’s do good. Together.’ magazine Pirkka was revamped. The K services. extensive project to Consumer Service was contacted 19,619 change the package times. • K-ruoka.fi labelling of its own • Pirkka brand products with magazine the aim of providing and Pirkka.fi consumers with more • K Consumer detailed information Service on the nutritional • Customer content, ingredients feedback and potential channels allergens. Welfar elfaree We offer healthy The 5,400 recipes in In 2015, K-ruoka.fi produced the Keveämpi arki In addition to the recipe search function, products and K-ruoka.fi service customer programme consisting of recipes and the K-food mobile app gives the user services that include the nutritional ideas that promote a healthier lifestyle and wellsuggestions about the most popular promote content of the dish, being. Intersport's sports training offered expert recipes made with seasonal wellbeing. which makes it easier tips, inspiring content and exercise ingredients. K-stores launched vege for people to make programmes for people of different fitness shelves.. The product reformulation • Healthy food choices. Intersport levels. policy (less salt, sugar and fat) is to be selection in stores organised updated in 2017. 28 activity days whose Cello indoor and outdoor paints received K-food aim was to promote a the Swan label. Onninen Norway stores healthy lifestyle and to provides welfare technology-related • Fruit encourage people to solutions. Intersport organised sports campaigns be active. training during different seasons. • Recipes in Kruoka.fi and Pirkka magazine • Products promoting healthy living and life in KRauta and Intersport stores Sustainable We help our The K-responsibility The K-responsibility concept theme Let's do The K Group has the most consumption customers make concept theme Let's good. Together was an essential part of the comprehensive neighbourhood store sustainable do good. Together communication and marketing of the grocery network in Finland. We provide an choices. was an essential part trade, as well as our building and home extensive and free charging network for of the communication improvement stores and agricultural stores. Our electric cars. We participated in the • Statements and marketing of the building and home improvement stores offered Kinkkutemppu campaign which used the and policies grocery trade. K-food their customers energy efficient and roasted ham fat to produce renewable • Food waste stores participated in environmentally friendly products and services. diesel. K-food stores participated in the the Food Waste Week K-food stores participated in the Food Waste Food Waste Week campaign organised campaign organised by Week campaign organised by the Consumers by the Consumers Union Of Finland. At the Consumers Union Union Of Finland. the start of 2017, Pirkka ESSI circular Of Finland. economy bags were introduced in K-food VV-Auto participated in the Finnish Transport stores. K-food stores introduced shared Agency's car scrapping reward trial. The range vege shelves for all vegetable protein of electric and hybrid cars available in car products. dealers widened. We published our soy policy and As a new service, we started building new committed to it; by 2020, all soy used in charging points for electric and hybrid cars in the production chain of own-brand the most significant store locations. products will be sustainably produced RTRS or ProTerra certified soy. We published our plastics policy and committed to introducing measures to reduce the consumption of plastic bags. Digital We offer the best Online sales of food Stores' click and collect services became more Almost 100 K-food stores nationwide servic services es digital services to through common. We published a K-food mobile app, offer locally operating online grocery the K Group's ruoka.citymarket.fi which offers personalised benefits and shopstores and click and collect services. All customers in all were extended to specific offers and a smart shopping list. Sotka's K-Rauta stores have an online store divisions. cover the whole online store. which also provides a delivery and click Greater Helsinki. The and collect service. We developed the Kbuilding and home food mobile app further. improvement stores 29 and food stores We developed a joint online store • Accessibility launched click and solution for the business customers of for special collect services. building and home improvement stores groups and Onninen. We launched a new • Online concept online: a used car store, stores' Caara.fi. Asko's online store was centralised launched at Asko.fi. distribution • Online We opened a new K Digital unit and stores' recruited dozens of new digital experts. producer responsibility The five trainees that completed the K and product Digital Trainee programme found responsibility employment in various digital positions within the K Group. Manag ement Each K-store is Management A new test store, KDozens of new ideas and operational models The retailers received a new application by customised to Myllypuro, was opened were tested in K-Myllypuro over a year. The test based on customer data, among other inf ormation meet its local information in Myllypuro, Helsinki, store's customers and customer jury were asked things, that supports store management customer demand for testing new store for feedback on a regular basis. Based on and offers a tool for targeted product by utilizing concepts, easier customer wishes, the test store became a Kranges and marketing. customer data. shopping and solutions Supermarket in August 2016. The experiences for product ranges and gathered from the K-Myllypuro test store were We will revamp the K-food store their customisation. used in the planning of the renewal of the Kchains. We will revamp our entire Market chain. hypermarket concept and all KCitymarkets by the end of 2018. We will revamp the K-Rauta brand in all its countries of operation in stages. Using marketing We launched a Personalised marketing based on purchase We expanded the K Group's targeted based on campaign history means that customers receive benefits marketing using customer data and customer data, management tool, better suited to them. After purchasing, began carrying out programmatic we can offer our which we used to customers receive service messages, customer marketing relying on our own team of customers the produce targeted and questionnaires or personalised offers using their experts. Using our customer data, we best customer unique customer chosen channel. offer our customers more personalised, experience. communication. The interactive and multi-channel services. aim was to launch The revamped K-Plussa loyal customer personalised customer card ensures personalised, targeted marketing in stages in benefits for customers. We developed the wider K Group. the K-food mobile app further. Additional We want to offer There were 252 There were 255 consumer packaging recycling In connection to K-food stores, servic services es in our customers a consumer packaging eco points at K-food stores. 38 eco points there were 396 consumer packaging connection convenient recycling eco points at collected plastic. Many eco points also accepted recycling Rinki eco points, of which 160 to stor stores es shopping K-food stores. Many paper and used clothing. All K-food stores have also collected plastic. Many eco points experience. eco points also reverse vending machines for returning also accepted paper and used clothing. accepted paper and beverage containers. Posti and DHL expanded All K-food stores have reverse vending used clothing. All Ktheir operations into K-food stores. DHL machines for returning beverage food stores have Express and the K Group started cooperation containers. Read more about customer reverse vending which will bring 250-300 DHL service points recycling services. 30 machines for returning nationwide in food stores and building and Core additional services in K-food stores beverage containers. home improvements stores. There were 137 were: Post Office service points in 327 There were 137 SmartPost self-service parcel lockers at Kstores, Matkahuolto parcel points in 568 SmartPost self-service stores. stores, DHL service points in 27 stores, parcel lockers at KPost Office parcel lockers in 144 stores stores. and Osta & Nosta cash points in 1,011 stores. We provide an extensive and free charging network for electric cars. The Liiteri service tested the rental service for K-Rauta's tools. Management approach Material aspects • Customer health • Product safety Policies and commitments The K-responsibility concept is used to tell customers Customers' needs and consumption behaviour change about the store's good deeds and to help them make greatly as new electronic services and, particularly, healthy and sustainable choices easily. The Kmobile services become increasingly widespread. responsibility concept was first introduced in K-food Kesko's key strategic objective is to serve customers in stores in 2013. The concept was taken into use in Kall of its divisions by using the opportunities provided by Rauta stores and its launch in Rautia stores was initiated mobile services, online services and digital marketing. over the course of 2014. It was introduced in Rautia stores and in the K-maatalous chain in 2015. 31 Monitoring and control systems Kesko Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the products and the testing of their cooking properties. safety and quality of groceries and home and speciality The consumer service provides information on Pirkka goods sold by K-food stores and K-citymarket products: customers can give feedback on products and hypermarkets. ask about various aspects of our products, such as product origins, ingredients, their suitability for different In addition to the laboratory, the Product Research Unit kinds of users and instructions for use and preparation. includes a test kitchen and K-Consumer Service. The test kitchen's duties include sensory evaluations of Responsibilities and resources • Kesko's divisions • K-stores • Kesko's Product Research Unit Programmes, projects and initiatives The home economics teachers in Kesko's grocery store and to Kesko. Food store operations utilise the trade's marketing unit develop and test hundreds of new Hymy quality review system. food recipes annually. The recipes in the K-ruoka.fi service include the nutritional content of each dish to The service level, recognition level and images of make it easier for people to make choices. Kesko's chains are regularly monitored in brand surveys targeted at consumers in all product lines. The same In the building and home improvement store operations, practice is applied to the K-Plussa customer loyalty the assessment of a store's operational responsibility programme and the grocery trade's own-brand comprises the store's annual self-assessment, the products. Store-level customer satisfaction is measured criteria defined in the store's quality system and a by customer satisfaction surveys and the mystery responsibility audit performed by an external party on a shopping method in food stores and building and home specified sample. The auditor reports the results to the improvement stores. Grievance mechanisms • Plussa.com • Chain's customer feedback systems • K-Consumer Service 32 Boundaries Customer health and safety Kesko Group Own-brand products and own imports Product and service information Kesko Group Own-brand products and own imports Marketing communications Kesko Group Compliance Kesko Group 33 Society We contribute to creating a better society • We create partnerships and participate in developing local communities. • We develop our business in interaction with our customers. 34 Pr Progr ogress ess of objectives objectiv es Progr Pr ogress ess of objectiv objectives es Topic Objectiv Objectivee 2014 2015 Pr Progr ogress ess of objectiv objectives es 2016 Local We support local K-food stores, K-food stores, K-Citymarket Oy K-food stores, K-Rauta stores and Rautia stores participated pr production oduction producers Anttila and (home goods), K-Rauta stores and in the Blue and White Footprint campaign. We organised Kodin1 Rautia stores participated in the Blue Local Food Dates in six different locations. K-food stores participated in and White Footprint campaign. We sold 12 different Pirkka 'Thank the Producer' products for the Blue and organised Local Food Dates in six which we paid extra directly to the producer. In 2017, we will White Footprint different locations. We created the be the main cooperation partner in the 'MTK 100' campaign. We ‘Thank the Producer’ operating celebrations. organised Local model to highlight the position of Food Dates with producers and increase the the aim of appreciation of Finnish production. increasing the local product offering in K-food stores. Sustainable We promote The K-maatalous The K-maatalous Experimental Farm The K-maatalous Experimental Farm made a Baltic Sea agricultur agriculturee sustainable Experimental cooperated with Nylands Svenska commitment with the Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG). The agriculture Farm searched Lantbrukssällskapet on organic crop Experimental Farm's commitment focuses on developing the for new species. growing conditions of soil and nutrient measuring practices alternatives to and equipment. continue organic studies on grain crops in mainland Finland. Donations,, We participate in We participated We participated in Red Nose Day, Donations We participated in Red Nose Day, the Good Christmas sponsoring projects, which in Red Nose Day, the Good Christmas Spirit Spirit collection and the Salvation Army's Christmas Kettle and charity are connected to the Good collection, the Salvation Army's collection. Finland's K-Rauta and the Women's Bank campaigns improving Christmas Spirit Christmas Kettle collection and the launched cooperation to help Ugandan women in the early families' daily life collection, the Pink Ribbon campaign. K-food phases of entrepreneurships. K-food stores participated in and sustainable Salvation Army's stores participated in the UNICEF's UNICEF's and Pamper's international vaccination campaign development. Christmas Kettle and Pamper's international and raised funds for almost 900,000 tetanus vaccinations. collection and vaccination campaign. K-food We participated in the Pink Ribbon campaign with a more • Red Nose the Pink Ribbon stores' bottle return raffle's proceeds significant contribution than before. K-food stores' bottle Day campaign. Kwere donated to the Eväitä Elämälle return raffle's proceeds were donated to the Eväitä Elämälle • Good food stores aid programme by Save the aid programme by Save the Children. The Finnish Basketball Christmas participated in Children. Together with the Finnish Association and K-food stores cooperated to organise Spirit the UNICEF's and Basketball Association we organised basketball events for over 10,000 children across Finland. • Salvation Pamper's basketball events and Pikkusudet We continued our cooperation with Plan to improve the Army international basketball schools for primary sustainability of Thailand's fishing industry and to improve • Pink Ribbon vaccination school children across Finland. We the status of migrant workers; cooperation has been agreed campaign. started a research project with Plan for the period of 2015-2018. K-Plussa customers can choose to investigate the status of to donate their Plussa money to charity. 35 Cambodian migrant workers in Thailand. Management approach Material aspects • Purchase practices responsible for his or her store's staff and customer satisfaction. Listening to the wishes of local customers and making use of customer data, K-retailers put together a selection of products and services that meet Local presence has an impact on the whole of society customer needs. We develop our business through The retail trade plays a significant role in local interaction with our customers. communities. It serves and employs local people. In Kesko purchases the majority of the products it sells addition to the direct employment impact, the retail from Finland and encourages K-retailers to include trade also employs a significant number of people locally produced products in their selections. The indirectly through suppliers and business partners. impact of Finnish products on employment is Retailers, supported by Kesko's district organisations, significant; for example, Pirkka products are produced represent local activities. A K-retailer entrepreneur is in nearly 120 companies all over Finland. Policies and commitments Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro are committed to the Conduct contract clause to agreements signed by Kesko grocery store chain's good trading practices. Kesko Group companies under which the Group companies requires that its business partners act in compliance purchase products or services from parties outside the with the K Code of Conduct. We add a K Code of Group. Monitoring and control systems Changes in the operating environment and in the K operating principles, monitoring systems and/or Group are taken into account by adjusting objectives, resources. 36 Responsibilities and resources • K-retailers and K-Retailers' Association • Steering group for responsible purchasing and Kesko's • Kesko's district organisations buyers • Division Management Boards Programmes, projects and initiatives K-food stores, K-Citymarket Oy (home goods), K-Rauta to promote the sales of Finnish products and an stores and Rautia stores participated in the Blue and awareness of the positive impacts of buying Finnish. White Footprint campaign in 2016. The campaign aimed Grievance mechanisms • SpeakUp reporting channel Boundaries Economic performance Kesko Indirect economic impacts K Group Purchase practices K Group 37 Working community We carry out and offer high-quality work • We have satisfied employees and competent supervisors. • We offer interesting and diverse work as well as development opportunities. • We are the most attractive workplace in the trading sector. • We offer a safe and healthy working environment. • Our personnel act responsibly. 38 Pr Progr ogress ess of objectiv objectiveses Pr Progr ogress ess of objectiv objectiveses Topic Objectiv Objectivee 2014 2015 Pr Progr ogress ess of objectiv objectiveses 2016 Emplo Employyer We are the best The employee engagement We launched the K-job The employee engagement index was 61%. imag imagee employer in the index was 53%. In the programme, the purpose of which The percentage of employees who would trading sector in Universum Professionals survey, is to provide those aged under 30 recommend the K Group as an employer has terms of job Kesko's ranking was 29. with channels to find a job in the K gone up to 68%, according to the personnel satisfaction. Group. We particularly focused on survey (56% in the previous survey in 2014). guiding ‘Learn and Earn’ trainees, In the Universum Professionals survey, young people in short-term work Kesko's ranking was 38. orientation, and summer employees. In the Universum We continued to employ young people by Professionals survey, Kesko's offering summer jobs to approximately 5,500 ranking was 31. young people. We organised a K Digital Trainee programme, and, through that, employed five graduates in business development jobs. Together with FIBS we conducted a diversity management starting point analysis in Finland and we will utilise its outcomes to develop our operations. We determined our employer promise and, in accordance with it, we will develop, for example, our cooperation with educational establishments and reinforce our recruitment and induction processes. Wellbeing at We improve The focal point of the wellbeing The focal point of the wellbeing at The focal point of the wellbeing at work work work motivation at work programme was to work programme was to support programme was the comprehensive and and satisfaction. develop supervision and employees' health and reduce business-oriented development of OHS management and promote sickness absences, developing (Occupational Health and Safety) operations. occupational health and labour safety at work and strengthening We enforced the monitoring of key figures to protection cooperation. the role of labour protection as well improve proactive work and to support as promoting employee management by information. Furthermore, engagement and implementing the we implemented other proactive measures, people principles. such as new health training. We also launched an occupational safety project whose aim is to further develop our occupational safety culture and shared operating models. We also made labour protection more systematic and developed the ways in which it is organised. We support our employees' leisure time fitness activities in all our operating countries. The Finnish companies, for 39 example, provide vouchers for physical exercise and cultural benefits. Read more about benefits to employees.. Skills We conduct an In the personnel survey, 83% of Performance and development The performance and development reviews manag management ement annual respondents said that they have reviews apply to all employees, and were used in all Kesko Group companies and performance and had a performance and in 2015, they were carried out operating countries. The performance and development development review during the twice: in the spring and in the development reviews were carried out at review with past 12 months. autumn. The realisation of the least twice, in the spring and/or in the every employee. discussions was requested in the autumn. In 2017, we launch, in stages, the personnel survey that was new performance management model and conducted in the beginning of the K Success Factors systems that support 2016. The response rate to the it. In the future, we will record the survey was 85%. A total of 80% of development reviews in the K Success employees that responded to the Factors systems. survey had had their reviews carried out during 2015. We will regularly Core tools for developing The emphasis was on the We continued the K-Way new supervisors train our supervisor work were the Let's implementation of the K Group’s training programmes, K-Way experienced supervisors. Talk About Work training, the operating principles, challenging supervisors training programmes and Let's Performance Management situations faced by supervisors, Talk About Work training programmes. In training, the Employee leading a new team, effective total, 363 supervisors participated in these Engagement training, as well as supervision and how to use the training programmes. the new comprehensive online personnel survey results to develop training modules in different the team. The topic for the new Mindfulness training sectors of supervisory work. The was understanding and training your own online training modules for The first training programme mind as well as efficiency. 17 supervisors from supervisors were taken 2,391 promoting the K Group’s new Finland participated in the training. The times in total. management culture was entitled objective of the new K-Way Middle ‘K-Way new supervisors’ and was Management Leader training programme was piloted towards the end of the year. to strengthen the skills for strategy Supervisory training for Kesko's implementation and business competence. personnel was taken a total of The training programme had a total of 22 nearly 700 times. Online training participants from all operating countries. In modules for supervisors were Russia, we started a new K-Way Leader completed approximately 3,700 training programme that aims to strengthen times. management competence and supervisory skills in the K Group. The training programme was attended by 12 supervisors. In 2017, we will continue to organise the KWay supervisor trainings and start a new development programme for top management. We will continue spreading the coaching and mentoring processes that support supervisory work. 40 Oc Occupational cupational We reduce sick Since the beginning of 2011, We focused on reducing the We focused on reducing sick leave, accidents ability leave, accidents approximately 950 supervisors number of sick leave and at work and premature retirement due to at work and in Finland have been trained premature retirements due to disability. The Let's Talk About Work training premature using the Let's Talk About Work disability by means of occupational for supervisors continued and over the last retirement due operating model. The Let's Talk health service activities, the Let's five years, more than 1,000 supervisors have to disability. About Work model has been Talk About Work training for been trained. used in almost all companies. In supervisors, work revision, Finland, the percentage of sick occupational rehabilitation and the We piloted work induction services. We will leave has been reduced by 11% work done by the Work Ability reduce sick leave in the long term with a since 2009 and the percentage Manager working in the OHS team. project which has a systematic take on labour of premature retirements due to The Work Ability Manager’s protection and safety at work. We developed sickness has reduced by 37% activities support the employee’s a unified accident insurance management since 2010. Sick leave has return to work, while considering model, which we will launch in 2017. reduced by 10% in other various options for continuing at countries since 2009. work. Sick leave has continued to decrease. Management approach Material aspects • Employment in the trading sector. In restructuring situations, Kesko complies with local legislation in all of the countries. • Labour/management relations Read more about minimum notice periods regarding • Occupational health and safety operational changes.. • Training Health and safety at work • Diversity and equal opportunity • Equal remuneration Kesko and K-stores are responsible for providing employees with a safe working environment and • Labour practices grievance mechanisms appropriate training and guidance for their work. Development of personnel Employment and labour and management relations The systematic and business-driven development of personnel and management is critical for future success. We want to be the most attractive workplace in the Major changes in the trading sector and the growth of trading sector, with satisfied employees and competent electronic transactions have created the need for new supervisors. The K Group offers varied career and competencies. personal development opportunities in a variety of jobs 41 important principles which are observed at Kesko Other core areas of competence development have throughout the employment relationship. The most included: suitable person with the most development potential is selected for the job, applicants are judged according to • sales and service competence their competence, skills and accomplishments. • product line specific competitive advantage projects Remuneration • safety and responsibility The objective of remuneration in Kesko is to encourage • leadership employees to exceed the objectives given and to • management. motivate them to do long-term work in order to meet the goals of Kesko Group and its subsidiaries. Remuneration is fair and is based on principles that are Diversity and equal opportunities commonly known. A pluralist organisation that promotes diversity Labour practices and grievance mechanisms guarantees equal opportunities, rights and treatment to all. Equality, justice and non-discrimination are See Grievance mechanisms Policies, principles and commitments HR management is based on Kesko's values and success factors and key development initiatives. Kesko operating practices and the K Code of Conduct is a member of Diversity Charter Finland. The guidelines. Kesko's HR policy defines key operating operations of Diversity Charter Finland are based on a principles in the various areas of HR management. The charter that is signed by all members. HR strategy defines HR management objectives, critical Monitoring and control systems The personnel's ability to work is protected by creating mental health hazards arising from work or the working a safe and supportive working environment. The goal of environment. labour protection is to secure and maintain employees' ability to work and to prevent and avoid occupational injuries, occupational diseases and other physical and Responsibilities and resources • HR Management Board • HR Service Centres • Kesko HR • Every supervisor 42 Programmes, projects and initiatives Wellbeing at work programme In Greater Helsinki, Kesko's Occupational Health Service directs employees to AMI rehabilitation, which In the development of wellbeing at work, the objective promotes mental health. The partial daily allowance can is to increase job satisfaction and motivation, reduce help employees return to work after sick leave. The sick leave, increase the retirement age and decrease support provided by pension insurance companies for premature pensions, and enhance the employer image. occupational rehabilitation has been used to promote From 2015–2018, the wellbeing at work programme return to work. focuses on: Employment of young people • Comprehensive development of OHS operations (Occupational Health and Safety) management by In 2013, Kesko and the K-Retailers’ Association information launched the ‘Youth Guarantee in the K Group’ • Supporting personnel's ability to work and reducing sick programme, which aimed to provide a job, a work trial leave or an apprenticeship in the K Group for 1,000 young people threatened by social exclusion The target group • Developing occupational safety models and also included young immigrants and young people with strengthening the role of labour protection disabilities. By the end of 2015, more than 2,500 young • Promoting Employee Engagement particularly through people had found employment in the form of a work supervisors' work development and ensuring good trial, wage support and apprenticeship training. The management in times of change employment of young people and special groups continues as a permanent model. In 2016, the KRetailers’ Association had a Youth Guarantee Employment of disabled people and people with coordinator, who gives K-retailers and Kesko’s partial work capacity supervisors advice related to the employment and In 2012, the K-Retailers' Association launched a project training of special groups and acts as a liaison to the called 'Many kinds of performers' in cooperation with authorities and associations. By the end of 2016, more the Finnish Association on Intellectual and than 3,200 young people had found employment in the Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). A permanent form of a work trial, through wage support and model was created to provide work for those with apprenticeship training. intellectual disabilities. Most of the intellectually disabled who were employed during the project still work at the K Group. Grievance mechanisms • Discussion with supervisor • SpeakUp reporting channel • Suora Linja feedback channel 43 Boundaries Working community Kesko 44 Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections We purchase and sell responsibly and support our customers in making sustainable choices • We develop our product selections while listening to customers. • We ensure responsibility in the supply chain. • We are accountable for the safety and quality of products. 45 Pr Progr ogress ess Pr Progr ogress ess of of objectiv objectiveses objectiv objectiveses Topic Objectiv Objectivee 2014 2015 Pr Progr ogress ess of objectiv objectives es 2016 Supply chain The social Kesko's suppliers in Kesko's suppliers 210 BSCI full audits and 60 BSCI re-audits were conducted in responsibility of the high-risk countries in high-risk the factories and farms of Kesko’s suppliers in high-risk production of own had 284 factories or countries had countries. At the beginning of 2017, Kesko’s suppliers in direct imports from farms within the 200 factories or high-risk countries had a total of 386 valid social high-risk countries scope of the BSCI farms within the responsibility audits.. has been assured. process. 88 BSCI full scope of the BSCI audits and 74 BSCI process. 107 BSCI The social responsibility of the production of Kesko’s grocery • Assessment re-audits were full audits and 80 trade's own direct imports from high-risk countries was systems conducted in the BSCI re-audits 100% assured. Kesko Onninen Purchasing Office (KOPO) approved by factories and farms were conducted started operations in Shanghai, China. Kesko’s grocery trade Kesko of suppliers in highin the factories and ICA Global Sourcing launched a sourcing cooperation in risk countries. We and farms of the home and speciality trade. started an suppliers in highassessment of risk countries. As part of the human rights assessment, we conducted a human rights The social human rights survey at factories in high-risk countries in impacts. responsibility of cooperation with the Trade Union Solidarity Centre of the production of Finland (SASK). The country-specific reports by SASK Kesko's grocery provided valuable information for the development of our trade's own direct operations. We forwarded the information received to BSCI imports from in order to develop the audit procedure. high-risk countries was 100% assured. We continued our work related to the human rights impact assessment. We published the manufacturing plants of private label and own import clothes, accessories, shoes and bags operating in highrisk countries on our website. We assure the We listened to our Using the risk We continued work in order to assure the responsibility of responsibility of the stakeholders when assessment tool, ingredients in the own-brand grocery products. We ingredients (Tier 2) of developing a new we started the conducted ingredient risk assessments on 160 new Pirkka or 46 private label Pirkka risk assessment tool process of K-Menu food products. Among these, 29 products contained and K-Menu food for assuring the assuring the ingredients which require further investigation in terms of products. responsibility of the responsibility of responsibility. ingredients of ownthe ingredients of brand grocery Pirkka and Kproducts. Menu products. We established the origin of the ingredients of 1,923 own-brand grocery products. Among these, 233 contained ingredients which require further investigation concerning the responsibility of the ingredient manufacturer based on the risk assessment. We will reduce the We identified the We initiated a The water risk assessment is in progress and the aim is to water risk caused by need to determine water risk use the results to plan actions. our operations. the water risks assessment for caused by our our own brand operations. Due to products in order the large to identify the consumption of water basins most imported processed affected by water goods and the scarcity and virtual water contamination footprint associated issues in our with them, almost supply chain. The half (47 %) of the target is to water footprint of conclude the Finnish consumption water risk falls outside of assessment in Finland. Kesko’s 2016. most significant impacts on water consumption are thus caused by imported products for sale, which originate from areas 47 suffering from water scarcity. Policies Fish and shellfish: The Pirkka range The Pirkka range The retail selection of Kesko’s grocery trade included 178 The selections of included 29 MSCincluded 41 MSCMSC-certified fish products, of which 37 were Pirkka Kesko’s grocery trade certified fish certified fish products. Kespro was granted MSC and ASC traceability and K-food stores do products. products. certificates. All stages of Kespro’s fish and shellfish supply not include species on chain have been audited, and Kespro and its certified the red list of the customer restaurants can use the MSC and ASC ecolabelling WWF’s fish guide. in their marketing. Kespro’s HoReCa selections included Kesko’s grocery trade nearly 300 MSCand ASC-certified products, and the and K-food stores number continues to grow. Kespro's Menu range had more promote green list than 25 MSC-certified products and 2 ASC-certified ones. species in their selections. When making decisions concerning selections, we favour sustainable stocks of fish and MSCand ASCcertified suppliers. The K Group's fish and shellfish policy has been in effect since 2008. Palm oil: By 2020, all Approximately 13% Approximately Approximately 34% of the palm oil in our own brand palm oil in our own of the palm oil in the 20% of the palm groceries (Pirkka, K-Menu and Kespro’s Menu) was certified brand groceries will Pirkka oil in the Pirkka sustainable palm oil (CSPO). be responsibly food products was food products produced (CSPO). certified sustainable was certified palm oil (CSPO). sustainable palm oil (CSPO). Soy: By 2020, all the The objective was The objective was We were a founding member in the Finnish soy soy used in the added in 2016. added in 2016. commitment group, which started operations in February production chain of 2016. The members of the Finnish soy commitment group our private label pledge to ensure that by 2020 all the soy used in the products will be production chain of their private label products will be responsibly produced, responsibly produced, and be either RTRS or ProTerra and be either RTRS or certified. The commitment covers both the Finnish ProTerra certified. production chain and sourcing from other countries. We joined the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) and This applies to: thereby committed to promote responsibility in the production chain of soy on a long-term and target-oriented the ingredients of basis. soy origin of the private label foods 48 soy fodder used in the production of private label products of animal origin soy in the animal feed products sold by the agricultural trade. Timber: We will Rautakesko has The PEFC The average PEFC certification percentage was 91.2% for ensure the origin and been granted the certification pine and 84.6% for spruce. We are investigating the traceability of the PEFC certificate, percentage opportunities to expand the timber policy to cover the entire timber and wood which covers spruce is announced Group. products sold by the and pine timber and monthly at building and home processed timber, Kesko's web improvement trade. MDF boards' pages. The products made of wholesale in Finland wood of (percentage-based tropical origin must be method).The either FSC or PEFC certificate is issued certified. on 11 November 2013 and is valid until 11 November 2018. Plastic: We promote The Pirkka reusable More reusable We published our plastics policy in October 2016 and the recycling and bag with the bag alternatives pledged to implement measures aiming at reducing the use reuse of plastic. We Boulevard design by were added to the of plastic bags. Plastic bags have been subject to a charge in create operating Vallila was included grocery store the K Group's grocery stores as well as building and home models which prevent in K-food stores’ selections: a new improvement stores, and, at the beginning of 207, they plastic from ending up selection. Vallila design, a became subject to a charge in the agricultural and machinery in bodies of water and Summer Day bag, stores as well as in furniture stores. By the end of 2017, thin elsewhere in the and a Red Nose small plastic bags will no longer be available at the checkout. natural environment. Day bag. Our selections offer alternatives to plastic bags; reusable We seek alternatives bags, cotton bags, jute bags as well as paper bags and bags to plastic as a made of recycled plastic. The share of paper bags in the packaging material. sales of all different shopping bags was approximately 1.5% By means of and that of reusable bags was approximately 1.5%. In spring consumer 2017, we included the Pirkka ESSI circular economy bags communications, we made by Amerplast Oy in our selections. They are will increase the sales manufactured from plastic packaging waste recycled by share of alternative households through the Rinki eco-points. We will shopping bags (cotton discontinue the use of microplastics in our private label bags, reusable bags cosmetics brand products in 2017. The packaging of our and jute bags) and private label cosmetics does not contain PVC. We will cardboard boxes to discontinue using PVC as the material for Kesko’s gift cards 10% by 2025. We will in 2017. We will work to eliminate PVC from the material of look for solutions to the K-Plussa card in 2017. 49 replace PVC as a material. Own brbrands ands with We offer an extensive The Pirkka range The Pirkka range The Pirkka range included 36 Pirkka Fairtrade products, 118 responsibility labelling selection of ownincluded 44 Pirkka included 40 Pirkka Organic products, 37 Pirkka MSC-certified fish brand products with Fairtrade products, Pirkka Fairtrade products, 32 Pirkka UTZ-certified products and 65 Nordic responsibility labelling 116 Pirkka Organic products, 134 Swan label products. All Pirkka and K-Menu coffees are products, 29 Pirkka Pirkka Organic Fairtrade or UTZ-certified. The Pirkka range includes 15 MSC-certified fish products, 41 Fairtrade or UTZ-certified chocolate and baking chocolate products, and 16 Pirkka MSCproducts. In 2017, all Pirkka range chocolates will be Pirkka UTZ-certified certified fish Fairtrade or UTZ-certified. products. products, and 17 Pirkka UTZKespro’s Menu range included 7 Fairtrade products, 5 certified organic products, 25 MSC-certified products, 2 ASCproducts. certified products, 13 products with the Nordic Swan ecolabel, and 5 UTZ-certified products. All interior and exterior paints in the K-Rauta's Cello range carry the Nordic Swan ecolabel. 62 Cello products carried the M1 label and 105 Cello products had the Allergy Label. 15 products in the PROF range carried the M1 label. Product Pr oduct saf ety safety The product safety of The Product The Product The Product Research laboratory analysed 7,770 product the K Group’s Research laboratory Research samples and conducted 17,176 analyses. The product safety selections has been analysed 8,864 laboratory of 539 suppliers was verified by means of a certified auditing verified. The Product product samples analysed 8,037 procedure. The number of own audits was 13. Research Unit's and conducted product samples laboratory monitors 20,386 analyses. and conducted the product safety Forty audits were 20,396 analyses. and quality of the performed. Seven audits were private labels and own performed. imports in the grocery trade. All of our food product operations have a self-control plan in place. • The stores’ Oiva monitoring results 50 Management approach Material aspects • Compliance of products and services • Human rights • Customer health and safety • Marketing communications • Assessment of suppliers’ working conditions Policies, principles and commitments Responsible purchasing is guided by Kesko's comply with all the requirements of Finnish and EU purchasing principles. legislation, are safe for users and meet quality and other promises. Kesko's product labelling and marketing The principles are based on national labour protection communications comply with legislative requirements legislation and corresponding conventions of the and the recommendations of authorities. International Labour Organization (ILO), which are applied when national legislation does not correspond Kesko and K Group stores want to support customers in to the same level. In its operations, Kesko pays special making sustainable choices and offer a wide selection of attention to human rights issues and working conditions products with responsibility criteria. in its supply chain and, in monitoring these, primarily focuses on suppliers in high-risk countries. In Kesko's policy on chemicals applies to home textiles, accordance with the BSCI (Business Social Compliance clothing, leather goods, shoes and upholstered Initiative), high-risk countries are countries and areas furniture. Based on EU and Finnish legislation, it lists the where there is a risk of human rights and workers' rights chemicals which are prohibited or the quantity of which violations. The classification is based on the World is restricted in the products supplied to Kesko. In Bank's Worldwide Governance Indicators. addition, for substances of very high concern, Kesko sets restrictions that are stricter than those set in Kesko and K Group stores are responsible to the legislation. products' end-users for ensuring that the products 51 Kesko’s plastics policy promotes recycling and the Various product group-specific responsibility policies reuse of plastics. The objective of the operating model and statements, such as the palm oil policy, the fish and is to prevent plastic from ending up in bodies of water shellfish statement, the timber policy, and the stand on and elsewhere in the natural environment. the sandblasting of jeans, have been prepared to support purchasing operations. Monitoring and control systems Certification and audit systems related to production The Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the in high-risk countries approved by Kesko. quality of products sold by K-food stores and KCitymarket hypermarkets. It is a testing laboratory T251 Supplier agreements require that suppliers and service which has been accredited by the FINAS accreditation provides comply with the principles of the K Code of services and approved to comply with the SFS-EN ISO/ Conduct and the BSCI Code of Conduct links. Kesko's IEC 17025 standard. grocery trade requires that the manufacturers and producers of its own-brand products have an The assessment of a store's responsible operations international food safety certification. Kesko’s grocery comprises the store's annual self-assessment, the trade approves the following audit procedures: BRC, criteria defined in the store's quality system and a IFS, ISO/FSSC 22000, SQF1000/2000 and GlobalGAP, responsibility audit performed by an external party on a IP basic certification for vegetables, or IP-Sigill. specified sample. The auditor reports the results to the store and to Kesko. Programmes, projects and initiatives • 'Principles and Practice of Socially Responsible In 2016, Kesko joined the new BSCI Sustainable Wine Trading' guide Programme pilot programme of the Foreign Trade Association (FTA). The programme focuses on Responsible choices are communicated to customers in improving the social responsibility and environmental stores according to the K-responsibility concept withinresponsibility of wine production and its goal is to store communications, such as shelf labelling and increase transparency and traceability in wine product labelling. The selection and marketing policies production. of organic, eco-labelled and Fairtrade certified products In 2016, Kesko became a member of the Centre for are included in K-food stores' chain concepts. The K Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR responsibility concept was first adopted in K-food CSR) based in China. The objective of CCR CSR is to stores in 2013. The concept was taken into use in Kprevent and reduce child labour, improve the status of Rauta stores. In 2015, it was adopted by Rautia stores young workers at factories, and make the daily life of and in the K-maatalous chain. migrant worker parents easier. Kesko participates in the Virtual Working Group of the organisation. 52 Grievance mechanisms • SpeakUp reporting channel • Customer feedback systems of the chains • K Consumer Service Boundaries Compliance Kesko Product safety Kesko private labels and own imports Social responsibility of procurement (1st tier) Kesko 53 Environment We mitigate climate change together and promote the sustainable use of natural resources • We reduce the environmental impact by working together with the entire supply chain. • We promote development towards a low-carbon circular economy. • We help our customers reduce their environmental impact. 54 Progr Pr ogress ess of Progr Pr ogress ess of objectiv objectives es Topic Objectiv Objectivee objectiv objectiveses 2014 2015 Pr Progr ogress ess of objectiv objectives es 2016 Renew enewable able We will purchase 100% The objective was set in The objective was set in 2016 All electricity purchased by Kesko in Finland ener energy gy renewable electricity 2016 is renewable since the beginning of 2017. We in Finland. purchase renewable electricity that has the Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin (REGO) from the Nordic countries. In 2017, electricity purchases will especially focus on Finnish bioenergy. We will increase the The objective was set in The objective was set in 2016 In June 2016, Finland’s largest propertyproduction of solar power 2016 specific solar power plant was completed on for our own use. the roof of K-Citymarket Tammisto. By the end of 2016, solar power plants were built in two other K-Citymarket stores and nine KSupermarket stores. By the summer of 2017, a total of 16 solar power plants will be in operation on the rooftops of K Group stores. The new investments will make the K Group the largest producer and user of solar power in Finland. Ener gy Energy During the agreement Kesko improved its Kesko improved its energy The final results of the agreement will be efficiency period 2008–2016: We will energy consumption by consumption by 64 GWh and published by Motiva in summer 2017. of stor stores es improve our annual energy 59 GWh and achieved achieved 97% of its objective. efficiency by 65 GWh by 90% of its objective. 2016. During the agreement The objective was set in The objective was set in 2016 Kesko signed a retail sector energy period 2017–2025: We will 2016 efficiency agreement for 2017–2025. In the reduce our energy action plan, we commit to reducing our consumption by 7.5% by energy consumption by 7.5%. 2025. Logistics We will reduce the We used nine two-tier Relative emissions have The relative emissions had decreased by 1.9% emissions emissions of Kesko trailers in long-distance decreased by 5.5% from the from the base level. In 2016, emissions Logistics relative to the net transportation between starting level due to new increased by 3.8% compared to 2015. The sales index by 10% by 2020 our main warehouses. solutions in transportation increase in emissions can be attributed to the from the 2011 level. They can transport 30 roll management and fleet increased number of stores caused by the containers, more than the organisation. A pilot study on acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa. At first, • We will reduce regular trailer using an extra long Ecotruck on only Kesko’s own brand Pirkka products were emissions by the combination. All of the main logistics route between delivered to the new stores and as the efficient route Keslog’s more than 500 Vantaa and Oulu. The Ecotruck conversion of the stores to K-Markets planning of contracted drivers have carries twice as many roll advanced, refill loads were delivered to the transport, efficient been trained in containers as an ordinary trailer stores as separate deliveries. reverse logistics, economical driving. combination. two-tier trailers and 55 training in economical driving styles. Science We will set Science Based We are committed to setting emission Based Targets targets approved by the Science Based Targets Targets initiative. The calculation began in December 2016. Food wwaste aste By 2020 we will reduce Many K-food stores also We started a cooperation with By the end of 2016, K-food stores had identified food waste by donated food to charity. Gasum, Myllyn Paras and Wursti reduced identified food waste by 3.5% from 10% from the 2013 level. K-food stores participated to utilise biogas produced from the base level. in the Food Waste Week inedible organic waste collected • We reduce food organised by the from retail stores as energy in Approximately 90% of K-food stores work waste in K-food Consumers' Union of the manufacture of new Pirkka together with local charities. The amount of stores with the help Finland in 2014. products. Many K-food stores food products donated increased by 1.8 of electronic donate food to charity. million kg from the previous year. forecasting and order systems, We continued cooperation with Gasum, efficient logistics, Myllyn Paras and Wursti to utilise biogas employee training, produced from inedible organic waste reducing the prices collected from retail stores as energy in the of products manufacture of new Pirkka products. In 2016, approaching their approximately 3,700 tonnes of organic waste best before dates was transformed into 2,800 MWh of biogas. and optimising packaging CO2 emissions were reduced by 550 tonnes properties. compared to natural gas and by 740 tonnes compared to fuel oil. Waste The goal is to minimise the The waste recovery rate The waste recovery rate in the In Finland, the recovery rate was 99% and in rec ecoovery generation of waste in all of Keslog’s main grocery trade was 99%, in the other operating countries, it was 48%. The operations and to recover warehouses and terminals home improvement and waste recovery rate of retail stores in all waste. was 98% and that of VVspeciality goods trade 99.4%, southern Finland covered by the waste Auto Group nearly 100%. and in the car trade 99.9%. In management agreement was 100%. The recovery rate of the other operating countries, the waste generated in stores waste recovery rate was 46%. was 96% and the The waste recovery rate of retail recycling rate was 67%. stores in southern Finland covered by the waste management agreement was around 98%. 56 Management approach Material aspects • Energy • Wastewater and waste • Water • Biodiversity • Emissions • Suppliers’ environmental assessments Policies, principles and commitments The K Group's environmental and energy policy covers Environmental management is part of the K Group's the operations of the Group and the stores both in management system and is based on the ICC Business Finland and the other operating countries. The K Charter for Sustainable Development, environmental Group's key business partners are also expected to management standards, as well as requirements set by observe corresponding environmental management legislation and the authorities. principles. Monitoring and control systems Kesko Group's Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board subsidiaries specify the main policies of their defines the main policies for environmental work and environmental work into environmental action the target levels for the Group companies, taking into programmes which support their business operations. account the environmental impacts of operations and The action programmes are monitored and updated their significance throughout their whole lifecycle and annually as part of the strategy work. supply chain. The division parent companies and 57 Environmental systems at Kesko also saved in the EnerKey system. The EnerKey programme responds to even minor location-specific Kesko's maintenance partners monitor the energy changes in consumption and sends an alarm to the consumption of properties with the help of the person in charge. Water consumption monitoring is part EnerKey.com system supplied by Enegia Oy. Enegia of consumption monitoring in the properties. remotely reads energy consumption measurement terminals located in properties and records the data in Kesko's goal is to maintain a high level of water the database by the hour. The consumption figures for consumption efficiency in all operations. properties where the data are collected manually are Division of responsibilities and resources • Group's Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board • Store Sites and Real Estate Unit • Group's Environmental Steering Group • Logistics Units Programmes, projects and initiatives Kesko participates in the retail sector energy efficiency The K Group’s fish and shellfish statement directs its agreement for 2017–2025. sourcing of Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro, as well as K-food retailers' sourcing to safeguard the responsible In accordance with the agreement, Kesko is committed fishing and management of fish. to reducing its energy consumption by 7.5% by means of various savings measures. The agreement covers all Kesko’s grocery trade is a member of the RSPO of the K Group’s store chains. Kesko has joined the (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil). The objective is Foreign Trade Association's (FTA) Business that by 2020, all palm oil in own brand grocery products Environmental Performance Initiative (BEPI). BEPI will be responsibly produced (CSPO). aims to help member companies in the management of global supply chains and, consequently, in increasing Kesko is a founding member of the Finnish soy the transparency and risk management of their product commitment group. Kesko has become a member in the supply chains. RTRS (Roundtable on Responsible Soy) and made a commitment that by 2020, all of the soy in the In line with Kesko's building and home improvement production chains of its private label products will be sourcing statement, products made of tropical wood responsibly produced, either RTRS or ProTerra certified must be either FSC or PEFC certified. soy. The commitment covers both the Finnish production chain and sourcing from other countries. Grievance mechanisms • SpeakUp reporting channel 58 Boundaries Energy and water Kesko Biodiversity Kesko Emissions Scope 1 and 2: Kesko; Scope 3: K-stores and supply chain Waste Finland: Kesko’s warehousing operations; other operating countries: stores Suppliers’ environmental Suppliers. This aspect has been identified as essential and reporting is under assessments development. 59 Other operating countries In January 2015, a Steering Group for Local to complement our joint responsibility programme and Responsibility in Operating Countries was set up to take local circumstances into account. The progress of promote responsibility work in operating countries these companies in achieving these objectives in 2016 outside Finland. The Steering Group drew up objectives are presented below. for each of our companies in other operating countries K-Rauta Russia Objectiv Objectivee Pr Progr ogress ess Working community: We perform and In 2016, we implemented the personnel development project “Career development and succession planning”. Project participants included 55 members of store and office personnel. The total number of training days was 314. offer high-quality work Our employees are committed to the Group strategy, sales targets and the development of customer satisfaction. Society: We build a better society In 2016, we continued to support children in children’s homes, the building of a playground in Moscow and the refurbishment of children's cultural centre in Tula. together In 2016, we offered a training job to 12 students. In 2016, some members of the personnel took part in voluntary landscaping of parks in St. Petersburg and Tula. Society values the responsibility work done by K-Rauta Russia. Our employees are committed to the responsibility objectives of K-Rauta Russia. Environment: We jointly mitigate climate In 2016, we set up recycling points for customers' used electric batteries in conjunction with the stores in St. Petersburg. Over 800 kg of batteries were collected. change and promote the sustainable use of natural resources In 2016, a campaign for collecting old, plastic flower pots from customers was organised at the stores. Over 20,000 plastic flower pots were collected for recycling. We reduce the amount of landfill waste. We develop segregation and recycling. 60 K-Rauta Sweden Objectiv Objectivee Pr Progr ogress ess Working community: We perform and Responsibility induction discussions will start in spring 2017. offer high-quality work Digital EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) manual for stores will be adopted in spring 2017. Responsibility induction and eLearning. Mitigation of climate change: We jointly In 2016, we worked on the ISO 14011 environmental system. The objective is to have the system certified in autumn 2017. mitigate climate change and promote the sustainable use of natural resources We increase the recycling of materials in stores. We reduce energy consumption in stores. Byggmakker Norway Objectiv Objectivee Pr Progr ogress ess Responsible purchasing and sustainable The timber in the selections will be PEFC certified by the end of 2017. selections: We purchase and sell responsibly and support customers in The building materials in the selections have BREEAM NOR classification. At the end of 2016, around 65,000 making sustainable choices product articles were included in the NOBB database. The product in our selections meet the applicable environmental criteria. Working community: We perform and Trainings will continue in 2017. offer high-quality work Our personnel are committed, active and enterprising. 61 Konekesko Lithuania Objectiv Objectivee Pr Progr ogress ess Working community: We perform and In 2016, 57% of the personnel completed the responsibility eLearning programme and 78% completed the K Code of Conduct eLearning programme. offer high-quality work 70% of the personnel participated in the cleaning and excercise days arranged by the company. We organise corporate responsibility training for all employees. We include our personnel in our corporate responsibility work. Society: We build a better society Konekesko Lithuania is a member of the following organisations: together • Lietuvos atsakingo verslo asociacija LAVA, a responsibility organisation of Latvian companies. In 2016, Konekesko Lithuania's representative was the Chair of the organisation. • Baltic Institute of Corporate Governance BICG We participate in organisational activities. In 2016, training jobs were offered to three students. We provide training opportunities for In 2016, support was given to youth and adult sports and museum activities. students. We participate in charity projects. Konekesko Latvia Progress Objectiv Objectivee Working community: We perform and Representatives of employees participate in the meetings of the management board four times a year. Strategy communications have been enhanced. offer high-quality work In autumn 2016, training in conducting performance and development discussions was arranged for middle management. In performance and development discussions, personnel's satisfaction with the flow of information rose to 65% (52% in the previous survey in 2014). Monitoring of overtime and unused holidays has been enhanced. Deviations have been taken up. We improve the flow of information between management and employees. We take care of the balance between work and private life. 62 Responsible purchasing and sustainable The development of the telephone service system for maintenance was completed in 2016. The objective is to develop a mobile application for maintenance service in 2017. selections: We purchase and sell responsibly and support customers in making sustainable choices We develop maintenance services.We develop online services. Environment: We jointly mitigate climate Store lights will be replaced by LED lamps in 2017-2018. change and promote the sustainable use of natural resources We reduce the electricity consumption of stores. Konekesko Estonia Objectiv Objectivee Pr Progr ogress ess Working community: We perform and In 2016, the focus continued to be placed on personnel's performance and development discussions and performance appraisals. offer high-quality work The set objectives were achieved. Personnel's training was increased. In 2016, the total number of training days was 241 (100 in 2015). We focus on performance and development discussions. We organise an eLearning programme in corporate responsibility for supervisors. Responsible purchasing and sustainable In 2016, the focuscontinued to be placed on customer guidance and customer events. The customer satisfaction index remained at the previous year's good level (4.1). selections: We purchase and sell responsibly and support customers in making sustainable choices We give our customers guidance on the properties and technical solutions of machinery and equipment. 63 Indoor Estonia Objectiv Objectivee Pr Progr ogress ess Environment: We jointly mitigate climate In 2016, 14,516 kg of cardboard (32%of purchased packaging cardboard) and 1,509 kg of plastic (34% of puchased packaging plastic) were recycled. By 2019, the objective is to raise the recycling rate of both packaging material to change and promote the sustainable use 45%. of natural resources In early 2016, cooperation with a recycling centre was started. Customers' good condition furniture are accepted to be distributed to those in need. In 2017, the operation will be expanded by publishing newspaper advertisementrs about recycling activities. We reduce the amount of landfill waste. We improve segregation and recycling. Responsible purchasing and sustainable The entire personnel (100%) completed the K Code of Conduct eLearning programme. The trainings will be repeated and continued in 2017. selections: We purchase and sell responsibly and support customers in The system development project was continued. The objective is to achieve the Payment Card Industry Data making sustainable choices Security Standard certificate in 2017. The online store will be developed to make it more user friendly in 2017. We harmonise our pricing. We avoid campaigns of excessive length. 64 Economic impacts Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and In April 2016 Kesko acquired Suomen Lähikauppa Oy, in June 2016 Onninen Oy and in December 2016 Oy distributed Autocarrera Ab. Suomen Lähikauppa Oy (currently KMarket Oy) has been consolidated into Kesko Group as Kesko's operations generate economic benefits for the of 12 April 2016, Onninen Group as of 1 June 2016 and different stakeholder groups in Kesko’s operating Oy Autocarrera Ab as of 1 December 2016. countries and market areas. Key stakeholder groups include shareholders, customers, personnel, retailers, In March 2015, Kesko sold the department store chain suppliers of goods and providers of services, and Anttila Oy. Anttila Oy is consolidated into Kesko Group society. Kesko promotes the growth of welfare until 16 March 2015. In 2016 Kesko disposed of the throughout its supply chain, including developing Russian grocery trade and the Russian Intersport countries. business. The Russian grocery trade business is included in the figures until 30 November 2016. Further The following tables show cash flows between Kesko information on the structural changes is available in and its stakeholders, as well as the distribution of note 3 to the financial statements. economic value added between stakeholder groups. The most important cash flows comprise revenue from The consolidated income statement, the consolidated customers and retailers, purchases from suppliers of statement of financial position and the consolidated goods and providers of services, dividends to statement of cash flows can be read in full in the shareholders, salaries and wages paid to personnel, financial statements section. taxes and capital expenditure. Economic benefits from Kesko’s operations to stakeholder groups 65 Economic benefits from Kesko's operations to stakeholder groups € million 2016 2015 2014 Customers1 Revenues 10,879 9,479 9,800 Value added g gener enerated ated 10,8 10,8779 9,47 ,4799 9,800 Distribution of vvalue alue added: Suppliers Goods, materials and services purchased -9,839 -8,593 -8,828 Employees Salaries, fees and social security expenses -723 -545 -614 Payments to providers of capital Net finance income/costs -2 -7 -6 Owners Dividend -1992 -248 -149 Public sector Taxes3 -49 -92 -54 Community investments Donations -2 -1 -1 Development of business operations 67 -7 147 The data is based on audited figures. 1 Incl. net sales and other operating income 2 Proposal to the General Meeting 3 Incl. income taxes, real estate taxes and net worth taxes The division of the economic benefit generated by €199 million be paid for the year 2016, which would Kesko and K-retailers to Finnish regions is presented at represent 201.3% of earnings per share and 99.5% of 203-2. comparable earnings per share. In 2016, Kesko distributed a total of €248 million as dividends for the Dividend policy 2015 profit, which represented 243.8% of earnings per According to its dividend policy, Kesko Corporation share and 146.7% of comparable earnings per share. distributes at least 50% of its comparable earnings per share as dividends, taking into account, however, the Further information on the financial statements' company’s financial position and operating strategy. indicators and Kesko shares and shareholders can be Kesko’s Board of Directors proposes to the General found in the financial statements section. Meeting to be held in April 2017 that a total dividend of 66 Economic benefits from Kesko’s operations by market area in 2016 Salaries and Capital shar share-based e-based Social security € million Pur chases Purchases expendituree expenditur pa payments yments expenses es¹ axes¹ Tax Total Finland 5,661 630 428 99 777 7,595 Other Nordic countries 905 3 53 19 51 1,032 Baltic countries and Poland 453 25 70 7 97 653 Russia and Belarus 265 85 35 10 14 409 Other countries 1,305 1,305 Total 8,588 743 58 5877 136 940 10 10,994 ,994 ¹ Taxes include income taxes, real estate taxes, value-added taxes, excise duties, car taxes, customs duties, net-worth taxes and withholding taxes Store network electronic services coupled with a comprehensive store site network are a key competitive factor for Kesko. Kesko operates in the grocery trade, the building and Read more about the importance of a multi-channel technical trade, and the car trade. Kesko has over 2,000 approach. stores engaged in chain operations in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and At the end of 2016, Kesko had over 1,080 independent Belarus. K-retailer entrepreneurs as partners. Kesko’s sales to retailer entrepreneurs accounted for 45.4% of total The K-food store network is comprehensive and there sales in 2016. are K-food stores in nearly all Finnish municipalities (see the table below). The K-food stores are visited by Kesko and K-retailers form the K Group, whose retail around 1.2 million customers every day. sales totalled around €12.5 billion (VAT 0%) in 2016. The K Group employs around 45,000 people. A multi-channel approach is becoming increasingly important in retailing. The growth of e-commerce and 67 K-food stores in Finnish municipalities (as at 31 Dec. 2016) *#'' /( ,*##**!-.*, /)& &+'&.& -&)  (/)& &+'&.& 25025)   >   >  >        /)& &+'&.& -.*.'   Employee benefit expenses 3(&''&*)    !%/%5-)6%1(*))6    !2'-%/6)'85-7<);3)16)6 3)16-21'2676   62'-%/6)'85-7<);3)16)6   !,%5)&%6)(3%<0)176   *.'   1  *25)-+123)5%7-216%''2817)(*25? 0-//-212*727%/6%/%5-)6%1(*25? 0-//-212*727%/3)16-21'2676%1(27,)5 62'-%/6)'85-7<);3)16)6 1  7,))6.25283)03/2<)(%1%9)5%+)2*    3)23/)2*:,20   :)5)/2'%7)(-1-1/%1( %1(    2876-()2*-1/%1( ,)3)56211)/-1'5)%6):%6(8)727,)%'48-6-7-216'203/)7)((85-1+7,)<)%577,) )1(2*7,)<)%57,)180&)52*3)56211)/%7!820)1=,-.%833%:%6  %711-1)1-7:%6 %1(%7872%55)5%-7 :%6  68 Kesko's community investments 3    21+29)510)17%/)19-5210)17%/%1(27,)525+%1-6%7-216  !32576%(8/76    $287,632576%1(27,)5<287,:25.   !'-)1')5)6)%5',%1()(8'%7-21    8/785)  )%/7,  #)7)5%125+%1-6%7-216%1(1%7-21%/()*)1') 2/-7-'%/3%57-)6%1(25+%1-6%7-216   *.'      1%((-7-21#)-..%86<'2175-&87)(%1)67-0%7)(5)9)18)2*? 0-//-21727,)-1-675<2*(8'%7-21%1(8/785) +)1)5%7)(*5207,)6%/)62*+%0)6&<#)-..%8632-1762*6%/)/2'%7)(%76725)6 ,)'%/'8/%7-21-6&%6)(217,)%9)5%+) &5)%.(2:12*)%',)85263)1721+%0)6-1   ,))67-0%7),%6&))1'%/'8/%7)(&<#)-..%86< ,)-1-675<2* (8'%7-21%1(8/785)(-675-&87)67,)727%/352'))(672-11-6,%5766325766'-)1')%1(<287,:25. More detailed information on donation recipients is available in the responsibility programme. Read more about risk management and control practices. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks Climate change presents physical and regulatory and opportunities for the organisation’s risks and opportunities as well as risks and activities related to climate change opportunities affecting reputational factors Physical impact One of the key objectives of Kesko’s responsibility work is mitigating the progress of climate change. Kesko has • Extreme weather phenomena, such as storms and heavy committed to set emission targets in line with two rains, have consequences for the built environment. degree climate warming and approved by the Science Physical risks are related to both the physical store network and logistics. Unusual weather patterns can Based Targets initiative. The work to calculate the cause interruptions in operations or problems in the targets began in December 2016. availability of products and changes in sales, particularly in the building and technical trade. Kesko’s operations are surveyed regularly by risk • Climate change can affect the procurement sources and assessments, which also cover changes that may be availability of products both within and outside Europe. necessitated by climate change. The Group’s risk map, Due to drought and desertification, water has become the most significant risks and uncertainties, as well as less available in many countries, reducing the productive changes in and management responses to them are potential of local economies. Agricultural production will discussed by the Kesko Board’s Audit Committee when suffer if desertification and rising sea levels reduce the the interim reports and financial statements are arable land area. Drought or floods may destroy handled. 69 agricultural harvests. Intensifying competition for raw 201-3 Coverage of the organisation's defined materials may lead to higher prices. benefit plan obligations • The availability of energy sources and emission limitations may affect energy prices. The Group operates several pension plans in its • Accidents and epidemics resulting from natural different operating countries. In Finland, statutory phenomena can cause damage or business interruptions pension provision for personnel is organised through that cannot be prevented. pension insurance companies and voluntary supplementary pension provision is mainly organised through Kesko Pension Fund’s department A. At the end Regulation of the year, the number of employees eligible to receive supplementary retirement benefits from department A • Climate change may have an impact in terms of risks was 2,717. involved in regulation, such as various permit procedures, or costs arising from emission pricing and taxation. The statutory pension provision organised through a pension insurance company is a defined contribution • The implementation of the EU and Finnish Government plan. The supplementary pension provision organised by climate and energy policy will affect energy solutions Kesko Pension Fund is a defined benefit plan. As at 31 and may increase energy prices, adding to pressures for energy savings and energy self-sufficiency. December 2016, the plan obligation was €300.4 million (€266.1 million in 2015), which is fully covered. Calculated under IFRS, the surplus amount was €164.1 Customers million as at 31 December 2016 (€176.4 million in 2015). Calculated under IFRS (the Pension Fund’s insurance • Customers are paying increasing attention to issues premium is based on a defined benefit plan), the related to climate change. Environmentally friendly Group’s total premium represents 13.6% of the amount products, corporate responsibility communications, of salaries (12.5% in 2015). Read more in the financial retail stores’ K-responsibility concept and package statements section, note 17. labelling can help customers make purchasing decisions that mitigate climate change. Any failures to implement In the other countries, pensions are arranged in responsible practices in this area may weaken Kesko’s compliance with local legislation, and there are no reputation. defined benefit plans, except in Norway. The number of • Kesko contributes to the development of circular employees eligible to receive supplementary retirement economy by providing recycling services in conjunction benefits in Norway is immaterial in proportion to the with stores, and by taking part in circular economy trials, whole Group. such as the Kinkkutemppu campaign and the Liiteri trial. • The K-maatalous Experimental Farm tests the suitability 201-4 Financial assistance received from of crop varieties for the Finnish climate. The aim is to government help customers choose optimal varieties and cultivation methods for Finnish conditions, also as the climate In 2016, the Group received financial assistance of €0.9 changes. million from the public sector. This amount mainly consists of assistance received from Finland (€0.6 million) and from Sweden (€0.3 million). Opportunities and risks related to climate change are also described in the report’s our operating environment / opportunities and risks section. 70 Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Development and impact of 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts, infrastructure investments and services including the extent of impacts supported Kesko is a service sector company which has significant Especially outside growth centres, retail stores can offer indirect impacts related to the production, use and community services which may otherwise be scarcely recyclability of products. available. In 2016, the following were located in connection with K-food stores: Purchases by Kesko and the retailers have economic impacts on the suppliers and service providers, such as • cashback service at more than 1,000 stores an increase in the number of jobs. Furthermore, • over 325 Posti service points purchases from local producers affect regional business activities. The salaries, taxes, employee benefit • over 140 Posti automatic parcel pick-up points expenses and capital expenditure paid by Kesko and • over 560 Matkahuolto parcel pick-up points retailers have impacts on regional economic wellbeing. • over 25 DHL’s automatic parcel lockers Kesko operates in nine countries in which it is engaged For several upcoming years, Kesko’s most significant in both retail and wholesale. It is one of Kesko’s store site project will be the new shopping centre, principles that taxes on operating income and assets are Easton Helsinki, being built in Itäkeskus, Helsinki. The always paid to the respective operating country in capital expenditure of the first phase is valued at €100 compliance with local laws and regulations. million. Its employment impact is about 250 personyears for a period of two years. The first part of Easton Kesko is a significant tax payer. In 2016, the income Helsinki will open to customers in autumn 2017. The taxes paid by Kesko to Finland were €31.2 million and to next part is estimated to be completed in 2019. The other countries €10.1 million. The Group’s effective tax capital expenditure of the whole complex is valued at rate was 21.6%. Kesko paid €3.5 million in real estate over €200 million. taxes and net worth taxes to Finland and €4.2 million to its other operating countries in 2016. In addition to statutory waste recycling obligations, Kstores provide the following recycling services: Kesko collects, reports and remits also indirect taxes, such as value-added taxes and excise duties. Kesko • collection of impregnated wood remits value-added taxes to tax recipients in its capacity • collection of clothing as a company selling goods and services. In 2016, Kesko remitted value-added taxes in Finland to the amount of Waste statistics are presented under 306-2 Waste. €380.3 million, and €110.5 million in other countries. Kesko remits car taxes and excise duties on, for Kesko’s community investments are presented under instance, confectionery, alcohol and soft drinks. In 2016, 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Kesko remitted excise duties in Finland to a total distributed. amount of €66.9 million. Kesko’s measurable indirect impact on society, such as its employment impact, increased municipal tax income, or income in the producer and supply chain, should be evaluated case-by-case, in connection with the establishment of a new store, for example. 71 Taxes payable 2016 Taxes remitted in 2016 Income taxes, Finland € 331.2 1.2 million 63.7% Value-added taxes, Finland € 380 .3 million 42.7% 380.3 Income taxes, other countries € 10 10..1 million Value-added taxes, other countries € 110 110.5 .5 million 20 20..6% 12.4% Real estate taxes, Finland € 3.5 million 7.1% Withholding taxes, Finland € 111.2 million 12.5% Real estate and net-worth taxes, other countries Withholding taxes, other countries € 30 30.7.7 million € 4.2 million 8. 8.6% 6% 3.4% Car taxes, Finland € 17 1777.6 million 19 19.9% .9% Customs duties, Finland € 6.7 million 0.8% Customs duties, other countries € 6.8 million 0.8% Excise duties, Finland € 66.9 million 7.5% 72 Taxes by country in 2016 % 100 75 50 25 0 Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia Belarus Income taxes Real estate taxes Net-worth taxes Car taxes Customs duties Excise duties 73 Economic benefit generated by Kesko and K-retailers to Finnish regions in 2016 Region Kesk eskoo's K-r -retailers etailers'' dir ect direct esko Kesk o's and K K-purchases pur chases pur chases of purchases retailers etailers'' capital Salaries paid Salaries paid bbyy es paid b axes Tax byy K K-€ million of ggoods oods goods expendituree1 expenditur Kesk by K esko o K-r -retailers etailers retailers Total Åland 32.2 0.0 0.1 32.4 Southern Karelia 6.8 13.7 6.2 6.2 11.0 0.6 44.4 Southern Ostrobothnia 237.7 30.8 4.9 6.3 12.8 0.7 293.1 Southern Savo 41.9 13.7 9.3 5.3 11.4 1.1 82.8 Kainuu 5.8 7.3 1.7 1.8 6.2 0.4 23.2 Kanta-Häme 52.3 25.7 3.3 7.4 11.2 1.3 101.2 Central Ostrobothnia 53.4 13.6 5.3 2.2 5.0 0.5 80.0 Central Finland 61.2 25.5 7.8 11.7 18.1 1.2 125.6 Kymenlaakso 43.5 15.7 3.8 7.8 10.8 1.3 82.9 Lapland 20.6 24.5 14.4 8.7 18.7 2.0 88.9 Pirkanmaa 262.2 33.0 32.7 34.7 33.2 2.7 398.5 Ostrobothnia 161.5 11.2 2.8 6.7 9.5 0.7 192.4 Northern Karelia 29.1 26.0 2.2 5.3 11.6 1.6 75.8 Northern Ostrobothnia 139.4 43.8 10.1 19.4 26.4 2.4 241.5 Northern Savo 180.5 34.5 5.7 12.0 19.8 1.5 254.0 Päijät-Häme 147.3 25.9 7.8 11.7 12.1 0.8 205.7 Satakunta 160.5 27.0 4.3 8.1 15.3 1.0 216.2 Uusimaa 3,296.7 162.4 604.72 287.8 120.9 12.5 4,485.1 Varsinais-Suomi 688.5 67.4 11.1 30.2 35.3 4.1 836.7 Total 5, 5,621.2 621.2 601.5 738. 738.0 0 473.8 389 389.4.4 36.4 7,860 ,860.4 .4 1 Incl. increase in lease liabilities of K-retailers' equipment 2 Incl. acquisitions in 2016 (Suomen Lähikauppa, Onninen and AutoCarrera) €445.5 million The figures are for those K-retailers whose accounts and payroll are managed by Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, representing around 85% of K-retailers’ total business volume. 74 Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local purchases. suppliers The purchases of goods by Kesko Group’s Finnish companies totalled €6,928 million. Of these purchases, Kesko assesses the economic benefit it generates by 81.1% were from suppliers operating in Finland and reporting its purchases by operating country and the 18.9% from other countries. It should be noted that company’s country of domicile. Kesko also reports Kbecause some of the suppliers operating in Finland are retailers’ direct purchases of goods in Finland. import companies, reliable statistics cannot be compiled on the origin of goods supplied by them. Most of the economic benefit generated by Kesko’s operations – approximately 84% of Kesko’s net sales – Kesko actively increases the amount of local purchases flows to suppliers of goods, from which purchases were and encourages K-retailers to include products from valued at €8.6 billion in 2016. nearby producers in their selections. In 2016, Kretailers’ direct purchases from Finnish regions totalled In 2016, Kesko had around 24,600 suppliers and service €602 million. providers from whom purchases were valued at a minimum of €1,000 during the year. Of these, around In 2014–2016, Kesko and Ruokatieto ry, an association 11,900 operated in Finland, around 10,200 in Kesko’s that promotes Finnish food culture, organised Local other operating countries, and around 2,500 elsewhere. Food Date (Lähiruokatreffit) events that brought together local food producers and K-retailers. The The ten largest suppliers accounted for 24.3% (24.2% in purpose was networking as well as improving the supply 2015) of the Group’s purchases of goods, and the 100 of local products in the K-food stores in the area and largest suppliers for 54.4% (53.1% in 2015). Seven out of thereby supporting Finnish work. the ten largest suppliers were Finnish food industry companies, one import company operating in Finland The 'Thank the Producer' operating model provides and two German car manufacturers. customers with an easy way to support Finnish food producers. K-food stores sell 12 Pirkka ’Thank the The purchases of all Kesko companies from suppliers Producer’ products for which K Group pays an extra operating in Finland totalled €5,661 million, accounting support directly to producers. for 65.9% (67.2% in 2015) of the Group’s total 75 Kesko's purchases by operating country in 2016 /++'& ,-*#$**!/++'& ,-*#$**!)!,0& -&) )!,0& -&) /, %-#,*(-/++'& ,-*# *.% ,*+ ,.&)$ /, %-#,*(-/++'& ,-*# *+ ,.&)$ */).,2 $**!*/).,& $**!)/( , 3(&''&*)  )/( , 3(&''&*)  -1/%1(           !:)()1          25:%<        6721-%        %79-%        -7,8%1-%        2/%1(          866-%          )/%586       *.'       Kesko's purchases by company's and supplier's country of domicile in 2016 *(+)2*/).,2*# !*(& &' /++'& ,- */).,2*#!*(& &' .% , 3(&''&*) &)')! 1 ! ) *,12 -.*)& .0& &.%/)& *')! /--&  ',/*/).,& *.' -1/%1(       !:)()1        25:%<            6721-%       %79-%        -7,8%1-%       2/%1(           866-%          )/%586          *.'             76 Capital expenditure In addition to Kesko, K-retailers make capital In 2016, Kesko’s capital expenditure totalled €743 expenditures in the fixtures of stores used by the Kmillion (€219 million in 2015), or 7.3% of net sales (2.5% Group. These figures included, the total capital in 2015). Capital expenditure in store sites was €216 expenditure in Finland was around €738 million in 2016. million (€167 million in 2015). Capital expenditure in foreign operations accounted for 15.2% (40.2% in 2015) Kesko’s capital expenditure has a positive financial of the total capital expenditure. Duting the financial impact on the operations of building firms, building year, Kesko Group acquired Onninen Oy, Suomen sector service companies, and suppliers of fixtures, Lähikauppa Oy and Oy Autocarrera Ab. The total equipment and information systems, for example. capital expenditure on the acquisitions was €445.5 million. Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related Kesko has prepared a mandatory eLearning package for its employees to smoothly internalise the K Code of to corruption, Conduct. 205-2 Communication and training about Kesko arranges annual Value Discussions on the K Code of Conduct in its companies. In 2016, a Value Discussion anti-corruption policies and procedures, event was organised in Suomen Lähikauppa and two Russian subsidiaries. They mainly focused on issues 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and related to corruption and malpractice. actions taken In 2016, one of the focus areas in Kesko’s risk management and corporate security function was the Risks related to corruption are discussed as part of prevention of malpractice. During the year, individual Kesko Group's risk management. Key risks, including cases of suspected malpractice came to our knowledge. risks related to corruption, are identified, assessed, The Risk Management and Corporate Security Unit managed, monitored and reported regularly as part of assisted in investigating them. business operations at the Group, division, company and unit levels in all operating countries. Towards the end of 2016, Kesko introduced the Groupwide SpeakUp channel through which employees and Kesko’s anti-corruption principles are included in the K business partners can report any violations of the K Code of Conduct guidelines updated in 2016. The Code of Conduct. In 2016, six incidents were guidelines and website have been published in the reported via the SpeakUp channel. languages of all our operating countries. Kesko employees and business partners have their own In 2016, no corruption related lawsuits against any versions of the K Code of Conduct. Kesko Group company came to our knowledge. 77 Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices In 2016, there were no legal actions, fines or other sanctions relating to anti-competitive laws and regulations. 78 Environmental impacts Energy Kesko participates in mitigating climate change by Finland’s biggest property specific solar power plant purchasing and producing more of its own renewable was completed on the rooftop of K-Citymarket energy. Tammisto, Vantaa. Additionally, a total of 11 KSupermarkets and K-Citymarkets had a solar power Renewable electricity plant installed on their rooftops by the end of 2016. A Kesko has decided to purchase electricity produced total of 210 MWh of electricity was produced with solar with 100% renewable energy from the beginning of power in 2016. 2017. Kesko will purchase approximately 540 GWh of By summer 2017, Kesko will have two more solar power electricity in Finland in 2017. The electricity is used in Kplants installed. After this, Kesko will have 15 solar stores and other Kesko properties. power plants producing approximately 3,559 MWh Kesko purchases renewable electricity with the annually. The new investments will make the Kesko Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin (REGO) from Finland’s biggest producer and consumer of solar the Nordic countries. In 2017, electricity purchases will power. especially focus on Finnish bioenergy. Bioenergy is Watch the video on solar power use at K Group based on, for example, by-products from the forest industry and wood based fuels. Solar power plants at K-stores In 2016, Kesko made significant investments in the construction of solar power plants. In June 2016, 79 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Energy consumption of properties Finland 2016 2015 2014 Electricity1 (MWh) 458,690 694,5442 754,301 District heat (MWh) 308,924 254,2142 292,453 Fuel for self-produced heat (MWh) 5,169 3,406 4,233 Total energy consumption (MWh) 772,783 952,164 1,050,987 Total energy consumption (TJ) 2,782 3,428 3,784 operating Other oper ountries ating ccountries 2016 2015 2014 Electricity (MWh) 100,808 103,038 96,231 District heat (MWh) 18,893 17,8402 17,607 Fuel for self-produced heat (MWh) 29,874 26,8902 29,116 Total energy consumption (MWh) 149,575 147,768 142,954 Total energy consumption (TJ) 538 532 515 operating All oper ountries ating ccountries 2016 2015 2014 Total energy consumption (MWh) 922,358 1,099,932 1,193,941 Total energy consumption (TJ) 3,320 3,960 4,299 1 The reporting boundary has changed in 2016, includes only electricity purchased by Kesko 2 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report Energy consumption in properties in Finland properties used district heat, but in addition 1.6% of the heat energy was self-produced. In 2016, the heat energy At the end of 2016, properties managed by Kesko in produced with natural gas and oil at properties in Finland (owned and leased) included offices, Finland totalled 18.6 TJ (5.2 GWh). warehouses and approximately 1,450 store sites. The total area of the property portfolio increased by 16.5% Beginning in 2016, the electricity consumption of Kesko due to the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa and in Finland includes only electricity purchased by Kesko. Onninen. In previous years, the electricity purchased by retailer entrepreneurs at properties managed by Kesko has The total consumption of heat increased by 22% due been estimated and reported. Heat consumption is to the increased stock of real estate. The majority of reported for properties managed by Kesko. 80 Calculation methods and electricity and • Nuclear power: 5 348 TJ (77%) heating consumption statistics by property type and • Non-renewable: 1 143 TJ (17%) changes in properties in Finland are available in the Energy consumption tracking and Environmental Fuel consumption of logistics in Finland profile reports. The energy consumed by Kesko Logistics' own Energy consumption in properties in other operating transportation or that under its direct control was 503.9 countries TJ in 2016. The fuel used was diesel. In 2016, the total During 2016, Kesko’s stock of real estate outside of distance driven by Kesko Logistics was 32.3 million km Finland changed significantly due to the acquisition of (31.1 million km in 2015). Onninen and the divestment of the K-food stores in Energy consumption was calculated using data on Russia. Onninen operates in Kesko’s previous operating kilometres driven, volumetric efficiencies and the countries and additionally in Poland. transportation fleet. The calculation was made The heating energy was partly self-produced with according to the Lipasto calculation system of the VTT natural gas and oil. In Belarus, a small amount of timber Technical Research Centre of Finland. (950 MWh) and peat (130 MWh) were also used for Fuel consumption of logistics in other operating heating. In 2016, the fuels used for self-produced heat countries totalled 107.5 TJ (29.9 GWh). Most of Kesko’s subsidiaries have outsourced logistics Subsidiaries outside of Finland report their fuel and operations. In 2016, the logistics in Estonia consumed purchased energy consumptions to Kesko and statistics 4.1 TJ of fuel (diesel and gasoline). per country are compiled from this data. The heating energy data is not reported for some properties (5% Total energy consumption excluding Onninen’s properties) because it is included in In 2016, Kesko’s energy consumption in all operating the lease or is not available. countries totalled 3,828 TJ. Primary energy consumption A total of 634.1 TJ of fuels from non-renewable sources The primary energy consumption for purchased energy were used for transportation as well as self-produced in all operating countries in 2016: heat of properties. In addition, 3.4 TJ of renewable fuels were used. • Renewable: 407 TJ (6%) 81 302-3 Energy intensity Specific consumptions of energy, properties managed by Kesko kWh -m2 /br-m Wh/br 2016 2015 2014 Finland Specific consumption of electricity 204 207 205 Specific consumption of district heat 79 76 79 Other oper operating ating ccountries ountries Specific consumption of electricity 88 99 94 Specific consumption of heat 42 431 46 1 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report The cold chain and the need for heated premises in food Energy solutions in K-stores stores and warehouses require greater amounts of energy in comparison with other retail sectors. The calculation methods for the properties in Finland are available in the Energy consumption tracking report. The specific consumptions of properties in the other operating countries are calculated based on the total area of properties (1,152,000 m2 in 2016). 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 1. Lighting The K Group participated in the trading sector energy By February 2016, LED lights are used in all lighting efficiency agreement for 2008-2016. The K Group was solutions of property development projects. Adjustable, committed to improving its annual energy consumption correctly directed LED-lighting can help save up to 50% by 65 GWh by the end of 2016. The final results of the of electricity consumed compared to traditional agreement will be published by Motiva in summer 2017. fluorescent tube and metal halide lighting solutions. The K Group is participating in the next action plan of 2. Lids and doors on refrigeration units the commerce sector Energy Efficiency Agreement for the years 2017–2025. In accordance with the In food stores, the consumption of refrigeration systems agreement, the K Group commits itself to reducing its can account for more than half of the total electricity energy consumption by 7.5% through various energy consumption at small store sites. Lids on freezer chests saving measures. All K Group store chains are included save 40% of the electricity consumed by uncovered in the agreement. equipment. Doors on dairy and juice cabinets also help save electricity. 82 3. Real estate managers additional heat energy is needed only during very low sub-zero temperatures. Kesko has around 40 Real Estate Managers to help Kstores find ways in which to make their energy Increasingly many K-food stores also save energy by consumption more efficient. Regular monitoring, using carbon dioxide recovered from industrial technical supervision and comparison of reports from processes as the refrigerant in their refrigeration separate properties are used to maintain an optimal equipment. Carbon dioxide is an environmentally level of energy consumption. Real Estate Managers also friendly refrigerant. help stores with long-term planning. Renovation programmes contain estimates of the refurbishment CO₂ refrigeration plants enable the efficient use of that should be made within five to six years. condensation energy together with low temperature heating systems. This combination achieves a 4. Remote monitoring considerably higher heat energy recovery efficiency In February 2017, the building automation of 204 Kesko compared to the traditional solutions using facilities was monitored by a remote energy condensation heat from HFC-refrigeration units. management centre. The set points of properties and 6. Solar power equipment running hours can be changed from the management centre as necessary, which also enables Solar power plants are becoming more widely used on rapid response to disturbances. Setting the correct the rooftops of K-stores. The electricity consumption of running times and set points is the easiest and most food stores is greatest during the summer, when the effective way to improve energy efficiency. stores and their refrigeration equipment require a lot of electricity for cooling. On a sunny summer day, solar The remote monitoring of refrigeration systems in power can cover as much as 60% of the food store's stores helped save approximately 3.63 GWh of energy current consumption. The solar panels to be installed on in 2016. Remote monitoring enables refrigeration the K-food store roofs will cover around 10-15% of the equipment to be adjusted for optimum temperatures store’s annual electricity consumption. and defrosting cycles. In addition, deviations can be responded to immediately. Information about energy saving efforts by Kesko Logistics can be found in the section 305-5. 5. Condensation heat recovery Condensation heat from refrigeration equipment is recovered at nearly all K-food stores, which means Water Finland has abundant water resources. However, due to issues in its supply chain. The water risk assessment is in the large consumption of imported processed goods progress and results will be used to plan actions. and the virtual water footprint associated with them, almost half (47%) of the water footprint of Finnish 303-1 Water withdrawal by source consumption falls outside of Finland. Kesko’s most significant impacts from water consumption are thus caused by imported products for sale, which originate Properties managed by Kesko use water from municipal from areas suffering from water scarcity or water supplies in all operating countries. In addition, a contamination. few wells are in use on properties in Estonia, Lithuania and Belarus. The water consumption from these wells Kesko has initiated a water risk assessment for its ownaccounts for a minor part (3%) of total water brand products in order to identify the water basins consumption and is thus reported with the municipal most affected by water scarcity and contamination 83 water consumption. Waste water from Kesko's operations goes to municipal sewer systems. Water consumption by country m3 2016 2015 2014 Finland 933,812 884,0811 935,472 Sweden 7,247 6,3541 5,504 Norway 1,424 1,445 1,407 Estonia 5,922 4,954 4,876 Latvia 9,480 10,128 11,297 Lithuania 40,268 38,472 38,903 Poland 3,100 Russia 84,431 79,755 75,056 Belarus 48,797 43,342 39,741 Total 1, 1,134,481 134,481 1,068,53 1,068,5311 1, 1,112,256 112,256 1 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report Water is mainly used for cleaning purposes in the K The growth in the property portfolio due to the Group's own operations. Maintaining a high level of acquisition of Onninen caused changes in water hygiene is particularly important in food stores and legal consumption also in the operating countries outside requirements for hygiene must be fulfilled. of Finland as well as in the new operating country, Poland. The water consumption data from other Car wash facilities at Neste K service stations in Finland countries is compiled from figures reported by the are big individual consumers of water. companies, which are based on water billing or The consumption of water at properties in Finland consumption data. At some stores located in leased increased significantly in 2016, which was due to the properties, water consumption is included in the lease growth in the number of properties resulting from the and not available for reporting (6% of locations in other acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa and Onninen. Water operating countries, excluding Onninen’s properties). consumption statistics by property type and changes in Additionally, data was not available for 1% of properties. the property portfolio in Finland are available in the Energy consumption tracking report. 84 Biodiversity Kesko participates in the Business & Biodiversity Finland K-maatalous Experimental Farm programme, organised jointly by the Corporate The K-maatalous Experimental Farm in Hauho focuses Responsibility Network FIBS and the Ministry of the on the development of crop varieties and research for Environment. Kesko has identified biodiversity impacts the benefit of sustainable cultivation methods and and opportunities in its operations. The objective is to better domestic food production. The research take part in projects that promote biodiversity in conducted on the Experimental Farm aims to provide Kcooperation with other operators. maatalous retailers and farmers with solutions tested in Finnish conditions for making productive product 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, choices and optimising their harvests. In Finland, around products, and services on biodiversity 80% of K-food stores’ purchases are from domestic suppliers, which is why sustainable and vital Finnish agriculture is important to the K Group. Supply chain Kesko’s greatest impacts on biodiversity occur In June 2016, the K-maatalous Experimental farm made throughout the lifecycle of the products on sale. Raw a Baltic Sea Commitment to the Baltic Sea Action materials critical to biodiversity in Kesko’s supply chain Group (BSAG). The Experimental Farm tested include fish and shellfish, timber, palm oil and soy. Their measuring devices and methods aimed at sustainable sourcing is guided by sourcing policies. providing practical ways to measure and monitor the use of nutrients and to assess the soil condition in rapid In October 2016, the K Group committed itself to succession. measures aimed at reducing the consumption of plastic bags, and published a plastics policy. The objective is to Measuring methods promote sustainable agriculture as reduce plastics ending up in water bodies and elsewhere investments can be optimised according to crop targets in the environment. and use, soil potential and the requirements of plant varieties. Good soil condition and appropriate Read more about the plastics policy fertilisation, as well as transforming nutrients to good crops are important profitability factors for farmers, but Global food production for a growing population is one also reduce the nutrient leakages to the Baltic Sea. of the biggest threats to biodiversity in the world. Food Properly treated soil also sequesters carbon to soil and security can be improved through sustainable and thus combats climate change. efficient agricultural practices and minimising food waste. 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Food waste and climate change Minimising food waste along the entire food supply Kesko builds store sites only in areas planned by chain from agriculture all the way to the end-consumer municipalities for business properties. Surveys of reduces the need for primary production and thereby contaminated land are made annually in connection impacts on biodiversity. When food ends up in waste, all with construction work and real estate transactions. emissions from its production, transportation, selling and preparation have been useless. Minimising food In 2016, one Kesko property was restored in Porvoo, waste also reduces related emissions. from which a total of around 93 tons of contaminated soil material was removed from a site of 3,385 m2. No Climate change also impacts biodiversity, especially as concentrations of hydrocarbons exceeding the guideline areas of drought expand. Read more about Kesko’s level were left in the restored area. The Uusimaa Centre diverse efforts to reduce food waste and greenhouse for Economic Development, Transport and the gas emissions in the responsibility programme. Environment has checked the restoration report and 85 stated that no further soil restoration is needed in the Kesko does not have protected habitats of its own. area. Emissions Kesko reports direct and indirect (Scope 1 and 2) • Scope 2: GHG emissions caused by generation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its operations electricity purchased by Kesko and district heating according to the GHG Protocol standard. consumed in properties managed by Kesko • Scope 1: GHG emissions caused by fuel consumption for producing heat at properties managed by Kesko and for transportation of goods directly controlled by Kesko 305-1 and 305-2 Direct and energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Scope 1 and 2 emissions, all operating Scope 1 and 2 emissions, Finland countries tonnes CO2e Net sales, € million 200,000 400,000 10,500 150,000 38,017T 38,017 Tonnes CO2e CO 300,000 10,000 34,9 34,9777Tonnes C CO O2e 200,000 9,500 100,000 44, 44,005 005 43,30 43,3022 36,478 36,478TTonnes C COO2e 135,891T 135,891Tonnes CO onnes C O2e 100,000 43, 43,00 0022 9,000 121, 121,115T 115Tonnes onnes C COO2e 50,000 157 157,,691 144,266 81,963 56,533T 56,533Tonnes onnes C CO O2e 0 8,500 2014 2015** 2016 0 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 Scope 1 Scope 2* Scope 2* Net sales * The reporting boundary changed in 2016. * The reporting boundary changed in 2016. ** Scope 2 figure adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report. 86 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Tonnes C CO O2e 2016 2015 2014 Direct Dir ect (Sc (Scope ope 1) 43,00 43, 0022 43,30 43,3022 44, 44,005 005 Finland 36,478 34,977 38,017 logistics (Kesko Logistics) 35,079 34,117 36,915 self-produced heat (natural gas and oil) 1,399 860 1,102 Other operating countries 6,524 8,325 5,988 logistics (Belarus and Estonia) 344 1,115 self-produced heat (natural gas, oil, peat and timber1) 6,180 7,210 5,988 Indirect Indir ect (Sc ope 2) (Scope 81,963 144,266 157 157,,691 Finland 56,533 121,115 135,891 purchased electricity (market-based) 0 73,734 81,495 purchased electricity (location-based)2 95,866 153,087 165,946 purchased district heat (location-based) 56,533 47,381 54,396 Other operating countries 25,430 23,151 21,800 purchased electricity (location-based) 20,218 18,475 17,362 purchased district heat (location-based) 5,212 4,6763 4,438 Total 124,965 1877,568 18 201, 201,696 696 Finland, Scope 1 and 2 total 93,011 156,092 173,908 Other operating countries, Scope 1 and 2 total 31,954 31,476 27,788 1 The biogenous CO2 emission figure of the timber used for heating one facility in Belarus is reported in Scope 1, because its proportion of the total fuel quantity is insignificant (about 2%). 2 Following the GHG Protocol standard, the location-based emission figure for electricity consumption in Finland has been reported. The market-based figure is used for the emissions totals. Location-based emissions are calculated with national emission factors and market-based emissions with energy supplier emission factors. 3 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report Scope 1 other operating countries are outsourced and are partially reported in the Scope 3 emissions. In 2016 the Scope 1 emissions of Kesko in Finland increased due to the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa. The transportation of goods for Kesko's grocery trade in The new stores caused an increase in logistics and own Finland is managed by Kesko Logistics and includes its production of heat. own transportation and that under its direct control. Kesko Logistics’ emissions were calculated Emissions from logistics in the other operating countries based on data including kilometres driven, volumetric were reported for Estonia in 2016. The data for Belarus’ efficiencies, and the transportation fleet using the logistics was not available. Most of the logistics in the 87 Lipasto calculation system developed by the VTT 1 September 2016. The supplied electricity was carbonTechnical Research Centre of Finland. The emissions for free. logistics operations in Estonia were calculated based on fuel consumption. The emissions from purchased energy for the other operating countries increased by 10%, which was Scope 2 affected by the acquisition of Onninen. In 2016, the emissions from purchased energy in Finland The calculation principles and more detailed decreased by 53% because of a change in the reporting calculations for Scope 1 and 2 emissions attributed to boundary. Starting from 2016, the emissions caused by properties managed by Kesko can be found in the electricity purchased by Kesko are reported in Scope 2. Environmental profile reports for Finland and the The emissions caused by electricity purchased by other operating countries. retailer entrepreneurs are reported in Scope 3 category 14, franchising (retailer entrepreneurs). Kesko’s electricity was supplied by Helsingin Energia from the beginning of 2016 and by Fortum starting from 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions Tonnes CCO O2e 2016 2015 2014 Upstr Upstream eam Purchased goods and services 6,910,000 5,936,000 5,922,000 Capital goods (buildings) 35,200 18,200 9,900 Indirect emissions of purchased energy (other than Scope 1 and Scope 2) 49,400 69,300 76,100 Transport and distribution of goods 18,400 18,300 18,600 Waste 11,400 9,000 10,100 Business travel 3,000 2,700 2,800 Employee commuting 21,000 6,700 7,800 Do Downstr wnstream eam Customer commuting (shopping trips) 157,400 154,400 166,100 Use of sold products 1,685,800 852,900 1,093,900 End-of-life treatment of sold products 36,500 16,300 28,000 Franchises (retailer entrepreneurs) 114,700 22,800 27,800 The greatest other indirect emissions of Kesko are The Scope 3 calculation principles can be found in the caused in the supply chain of the products for sale Kesko Scope 3 Report. (76%), in the use phase of the products (19%) and by the shopping commutes of customers (2%). 88 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2016), the average number of employees (22,476 in 2016) and the area of properties managed by Kesko The Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions intensity is (4,381,000 m2 in 2016). calculated based on net sales (€10,180 million in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity 2016 2015 2014 Based on net sales (tonnes CO2e / € million) 12.3 21.6 22.2 Based on average number of employees (tonnes CO2e / person) 5.6 9.9 10.1 Based on area of properties managed by Kesko (tonnes CO2e / 1,000 m2) 28.5 The Scope 2 reporting boundary for 2016 has changed 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2016, the relative emissions had decreased by 1.9% from the base level. In 2016, the emissions increased by 3.8% in comparison to 2015. The increase in the number Science Based Targets of stores resulting from the acquisition of Suomen Kesko has committed to set emission targets in line with Lähikauppa affected the increase in emissions. Kesko’s two degree climate warming and approved by the own-brand Pirkka products were delivered to the new Science Based Targets initiative. The work to calculate stores and conversion of the stores to K-Markets the targets began in December 2016. required the delivery of refill loads as separate deliveries. Energy efficiency of properties Kesko has signed the trading sector energy efficiency Kesko Logistics works ambitiously to reduce emissions: agreement and committed to actions to improve its • Efficiency of logistics: centralised distribution, annual energy consumption by 65 GWh during the optimisation of delivery routes and high volumetric period 2008-2016. Motiva will publish the results of the efficiency agreement period in June 2017. • Efficient reverse logistics: collection of purchase loads, By increasing solar power Kesko decreases the carrier trays, pallets, roll containers and recycled bottles emissions caused by property. Read more in the Energy and cans on the return route section. • Economical driving courses: all of Keslog’s more than 500 contract drivers have been trained Logistics • New replacements in the vehicle fleet: nine two-tier The target of Kesko Logistics is to reduce CO2 trailers and one extra-long Ecotruck in use in longemissions relative to the net sales index by 10% during distance transportation between main warehouses 2012–2020 from the base year of 2011. By the end of 89 Efficient logistics fleet Scope 3 emissions reductions rising popularity of vegetables and plant-based products in Finland was one of the biggest food trends Products for sale in 2016. Vegetarian display cabinets were introduced in By far, the greatest indirect emissions of Kesko are K-food stores in 2016. The 'Vege' cabinets gather plantcaused in the supply chain and during the use phase of based products in one place in order to make choosing the products for sale. These emissions can be environmentally friendly products easier for the influenced by offering selections of products and customer. By the end of 2016, already 100 K-food services causing less emissions and by customer stores included a 'Vege' cabinet. Additionally, the Kcommunications. Ruoka media offers diverse recipes and tips for cooking vegetarian meals. Gr Groc ocery ery tr trade ade Read more about the 'Vege' cabinets Customers are becoming increasingly aware of the environmental impacts of their consumption choices. By Kesko encourages customers to reduce food waste reducing the amount of animal-based products and accumulated at home. Kesko and the K-food stores household food waste consumers can reduce the participated in the Food Waste Week organised by the environmental impact of their food consumption. The Consumers' Union of Finland in September 2016 by 90 offering information, tips and recipes in customer of Volkswagen and Audi plug-in hybrids in Finland communications for reducing food waste. increased 204% compared to the previous year. Kesko continued the cooperation started in 2015 with Customer shopping commutes Gasum, Myllyn Paras and Wursti to utilise biogas The emissions caused by customer shopping commutes produced from inedible organic waste collected from Kare a significant source of indirect emissions for Kesko. food stores and the Kesko Logistics central warehouse The majority of shopping commutes are made by car. as energy in the manufacture of new Pirkka products. In 2016, approximately 3,700 tonnes of organic waste was Kesko is building an extensive network of electric transformed into 2,800 MWh of biogas. CO2 emissions vehicle charging points adjacent to K Group stores in were reduced by 550 tonnes compared to natural gas order to progress the electrification of cars. In March (calculated with emission factor 198 g CO2/kWh) and 2017, already 13 K Group stores and 3 Neste K service by 740 tonnes compared to fuel oil (calculated with stations offered electric and hybrid charging points for emission factor 267 g CO2/kWh). customer use. Dozens of new charging stations will be built at Neste K service stations along main highways In 2016, K Group participated in the Kinkkutemppu during 2017. The aim is to build charging stations at all Campaign, in which customers could donate fat from Neste K stations and 10-15 charging stations at Kroasting their Christmas hams to collection points at KCitymarket parking lots annually during the next few food stores. The fat was used to make renewable diesel. years. Customers donated 12,000 kg of ham fat, which was used to produce 10,000 liters of renewable diesel. K Group offers Finland’s most comprehensive network of neighbourhood stores with the best services. The Read more about 'Kinkkutemppu' stores are tailored to each store’s own customer demand. When the nearby neighbourhood store offers Read more about our work to reduce food waste and a selection suited for its customers, shopping commutes advance the circular economy in Effluents and waste. are shortened and they can be travelled more often by Building and technical trtrade ade foot, bicycle or public transportation, especially in cities. The extra services available at K-stores reduce The building and technical trade offers consumers and emissions caused by customer commuting, because business customers diverse product selections and many errands can be run during the same shopping trip. expertise for improving the energy efficiency of building Increasingly, online shopping also reduces customer and renovation projects. The K-Rauta stores and commuting. Onninen offer environmentally friendly solutions for homes and properties from practical energy saving tips Employee commuting and business travel to intelligent energy management systems solutions. In December 2016, a survey on commuting to work was These include heating, cooling, solar and wind energy conducted for the Helsinki area office workers by using solutions. the Helsinki Region Transport (HSL) commuting calculator. According to the survey, the average The sharing economy enables reduction of emissions emissions per employee were 8.8 kg CO2/working day. because less products need to be manufactured when many consumers can use the same product. In 2016, KThe results of the survey will be used as a basis for Rauta participated in a tool rental service pilot project developing the employee commuting for Kesko's new Kcalled Liiteri in the Teurastamo area of Helsinki. kampus main office building. An employee commuting plan will be made in order to encourage commuting to Read more about the Liiteri pilot project the K-kampus which is sustainable and improves the wellbeing of employees. Car tr trade ade At the end of 2016, Kesko had 690 company cars in use In February 2017, the selection of VV-Auto included four in Finland (607 in 2015). The number of company cars plug-in hybrid car models (PHEV) and two electric cars. increased due to the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa In addition, the selection included five car models using natural gas or biogas as fuel. In 2016, the registrations 91 and Onninen, which resulted in an increase in the video meetings between two or more facilities was 1,793 number of employees. hours (3,812 hours in 2015). • 6 ethanol-fueled cars (12 in 2015) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides • 312 petrol-fueled cars (263 in 2015) (SOX), and other significant air emissions • 370 diesel-fueled cars (330 in 2015) • 2 natural gas cars (2 in 2015) The electricity and heating energy consumed in Kesko's company car policy recommends low-emission properties managed by Kesko in Finland in 2016 caused: car models with an emission level below 150 g CO2/km. • 133 tonnes of NOx emissions (212 t in 2015) In 2016, the average emission level was 122 g CO2/km • 117 tonnes of SO2 emissions (179 t in 2015) (127 g CO2/km in 2015) and the emissions from company cars totalled 2,648 CO2 tonnes (2,367 CO2 • 1.2 tonnes of radioactive waste (1.4 t in 2015) tonnes in 2015). This calculation also includes private use of company cars. The changes in comparison to the 2015 figures are due to a change in the reporting boundary. For 2016 the In 2016, the air miles of Kesko employees travelling for electricity purchased by retailers is not included in business totalled 8.2 million (8.0 million in 2015). Kesko’s electricity consumption. The figures for 2015 Encouraging the use of virtual meetings is one of the have been adjusted for improved accuracy since the last ways Kesko endeavours to decrease the amount of air report. The calculation principles and more detailed travel. The amount of virtual meetings held via the calculations are available in the Environmental profile Skype for Business application has increased by 43% report. since the previous year. In 2016, a total of 67,842 hours of Skype meetings were held (47,453 hours in 2015). At Only CO2 emissions data is collected for transportation the end of 2016, the Kesko Group had 30 Videra video of goods. conferencing facilities in use and the total duration of all 92 Effluents and waste Kesko’s objective is to minimise and recover all waste inevitably accumulated organic waste. Read more about from its operations. the objective in Kesko’s responsibility programme. Food waste The goal of Kesko’s grocery trade is to minimise the food waste resulting from its operations and utilize 93 Circular economy way for households to recycle discarded goods and consumer packages. Kesko promotes the circular economy by taking part in innovative circular economy projects and by providing In December 2016, there were 396 Rinki eco take-back customers with diversified recycling services. points intended for recycling consumer packages (fibre, glass, metal) in connection with K-food stores. Plastic Energy from biowaste was collected at 160 eco take-back points (2015: 38). The cooperation with Gasum, Myllyn Paras and Wursti, started in 2015, continued. Biogas made from food waste unfit for human consumption from K-food stores and Kesko Logistics’ central warehouse is used as energy in the manufacture of new Pirkka products. In 2016, around 3,700 tonnes of biowaste was turned into 2,800 MWh of biogas. In 2016, the K Group took part in the ’Kinkkutemppu’ campaign in which customers returned fat arising from roasting their Christmas hams to K-stores’ recycling points for conversion into renewable diesel. As much as 10,000 litres of renewable diesel was manufactured from the total of 12,000 kg of fat returned by customers. In connection with K Group stores, deposit beverage containers returned by customers, batteries and Read more about ’Kinkkutemppu’ accumulators, WEEE, lead accumulators, impregnated timber and discarded clothing were also accepted. Recycling services for customers The recycling services on K-store premises make customers’ daily lives easier and provide an efficient 94 ackag Pack ages es and items rreturned eturned b ecycling byy customers to rrecy cling points at K Gr Group oup stor stores es 2016 2015 2014 Deposit aluminium cans (million 378 311 320 pcs) Deposit recyclable plastic bottles 116 94 96 (million pcs) Deposit recyclable glass bottles 29 26 27 (million pcs) Batteries and accumulators 289 210 193 (tonnes) WEEE (tonnes) 92 95¹ 170 Lead-acid accumulators, K-Rauta 3,5 1,6 4,3 and Rautia (tonnes) Impregnated timber, K-Rauta ja 814 914 1,003 Rautia (tonnes) 95 Used clothing, UFF recycling 3,123 2,915 2,507 points (tonnes) ¹ Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since Kesko Logistics’ centralised collection services the previous report. Cardboard and plastic bales from 236 K-food stores In October 2016, the K Group committed itself to take were centrally directed by Kesko's grocery trade for actions in order to reduce the consumption of plastic industry reuse in 2016. Around 2,806 tonnes of bags and published a plastics policy. Since January cardboard and 70 tonnes of plastic were collected. 2017, Pirkka ESSI circular economy bags have been Kesko Logistics’ reverse logistics transport beverage made from plastic recycled by customers. containers and boxes from stores for reuse and Read more about ESSI circular economy bag and recovery. Kesko’s plastics policy ackaging Pack aging ccollected ollected b byy K Kesk o LLogistics esko ogistics rrev everse erse logistics ffor or rreuse euse and rrec ecoovery 2016 2015 2014 Aluminium cans (1,000 pcs) 82,169 96,479 93,107 Recyclable plastic bottles (1,000 54,648 61,403 54,296 pcs) Recyclable glass bottles(1,000 11,292 9,462 9,667 pcs) Reusable crates (1,000 pcs) 17,893 17,294 16,501 96 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste in all operating countries Tonnes 2016 2015 2014 Non-hazardous Non-hazar dous w aste waste 38,051 27,832 30,699 Recycling/recovery 27,444 18,474 19,675 Landfill 10,607 9,358 11,024 Hazardous Hazar dous w aste waste 774 1,261 164 Recycling/recovery 524 171 Hazardous waste treatment 250 1,090 Total 38,825 29 0933 29,,09 30 30,863 ,863 The figures for 2015 have been adjusted for improved accuracy Waste recovery rates stores participated in the framework agreement. The recovery rate of the waste generated in these stores Kesko’s waste statistics in Finland mainly cover was 100% (98% in 2015) and the recycling rate was warehousing operations, while in the other countries, around 66% (67% in 2015). the majority of waste statistics cover store operations. According to statistics, the recovery rate in Kesko’s Based on good experiences and convincing results, it waste management in Finland was 99% in 2016 and in was decided to expand the centralised waste the other operating countries it was 48%. The recovery management agreement nationwide. In November rate includes all waste except waste to landfill. 2016, an agreement enabling all K Group stores to make recycling more efficient and to adopt the modern Kesko offers K-retailers in the southern Finland area the circular economy was signed. opportunity to participate in a centralised waste management agreement. In 2016, 114 K-food stores, 11 building and home improvement stores and 14 other 97 Waste: Finland, Sweden and Norway Finland Sweden Norw Norwaay Tonnes 20161 2015 2014 2016 20152 2014 2016 2015 2014 Non-hazar Non-hazardous dous wwaste aste 18,366 10,737 11,890 3,479 2,692 2,788 410 633 1,022 Recycling/recovery 18,204 10,621 11,525 3,220 2,470 2,206 410 593 1,019 Landfill 162 116 365 259 222 582 0 40 3 Hazar Hazardous dous w waste aste 273 1,125 43 81 60 29 215 15 55 Recycling/recovery 183 160 3 3 200 Hazardous waste treatment 90 965 78 57 15 15 Total 18, 18,639 639 11,862 11,9 11,933 33 3,560 2,752 2,817 625 648 1, 1,0077 Recovery rate % 99 99 97 93 92 79 100 94 99 1 A small part of the data is based on estimation (0.3% of total waste in Finland) 2 The 2015 figures for Sweden have been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report Waste: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania Estonia Latvia Lithuania Tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Non-hazar Non-hazardous dous wwaste aste 733 680 631 640 612 545 3,946 2,605 3,545 Recycling/recovery 689 608 392 163 156 127 2,271 1,699 2,430 Landfill 44 72 239 477 456 418 1,675 906 1,115 Hazar Hazardous dous w waste aste 27 20 14 5 3 3 152 36 18 Recycling/recovery 1 119 8 Hazardous waste treatment 26 20 5 3 33 28 Total 760 700 645 645 615 548 4, 4,098 098 2, 2,64 6411 3,563 Recovery rate % 94 90 63 26 26 24 59 66 69 98 Waste: Poland, Russia and Belarus Poland Russia Belarus Tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Non-hazar Non-hazardous dous wwaste aste 218 8,594 8,303 8,537 1,665 1,570 1,741 Recycling/recovery 51 2,382 2,279 1,918 55 48 58 Landfill 167 6,212 6,024 6,619 1,610 1,522 1,683 Hazar Hazardous dous w waste aste 15 1 1 1 3 1 1 Recycling/recovery 15 2 0.1 Hazardous waste treatment 1 0.8 0.6 0.9 Total 233 8,595 8,304 8,538 1, 1,668 668 1,57 1,5711 1,7 1,742 42 Recovery rate % 28 28 27 22 3 3 3 99 Social impacts Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee Saele og Holleviks Trading AS and TM Christensen VVS Detajer). turnover In 2016, Kesko had an average of approximately 22,476 In April 2016 Kesko acquired Suomen Lähikauppa Oy, in (2015: 18,955) full-time equivalent employees in nine June 2016 Onninen Oy and in December 2016 Oy countries: Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Autocarrera Ab. Suomen Lähikauppa Oy (currently KLithuania, Poland, Russia and Belarus. 48% of the Market Oy) has been consolidated into Kesko Group as personnel were based in Finland and 52% were in the of 12 April 2016, Onninen Group as of 1 June 2016 and other operating countries. Oy Autocarrera Ab as of 1 December 2016 (excluding Distribution of Kesko personnel by division at 31 Dec. 2016, % Grocery trade 37 37.4% .4% Building and technical trade 56.5% Car trade 3% Common operations 3. 3.1% 1% 100 Changes in the number of Kesko employees 2016 2015 2014 Finland at 31 Dec. 14,845 10,081 12,180 Other operating countries at 31 Dec. 12,811 11,854 11,614 Total at 31 Dec. 27,656 21,935 23,794 Finland, average 10,714 8,300 9,580 Other operating countries, average 11,762 10,655 10,396 Total, aavver erag agee 22,47 22,476 6 18,955 19 19,9 ,9776 Fixed-term and part-time employments at Kesko 2016 2015 2014 Fix Fixed-term ed-term emplo employyees of total personnel at 3311 Dec., % Finland 12. 12.00 11.5 13.9 Companies in other operating countries 6. 6.11 6.1 7.2 Whole Gr Group oup,, total 9.2 8.6 8.6 10 10.7.7 Part-time emplo employyees of total personnel at 3311 Dec., % Finland 43.9 39.4 43.6 Companies in other operating countries 6.7 8.1 7.1 Whole Gr Group oup,, total 26.7 22.5 25.8 101 Kesko’s personnel statistics for 2016 analysed by operating country Finland Sweden Norw Norwaay Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Russia Belarus Total number of personnel at 14,845 1,165 424 714 627 4,170 846 1,981 2,884 31 Dec. Average number of personnel 10,714 1,028 299 632 521 3,442 486 2,992 2,362 in 2016 Number of new employments1 women 3,055 113 14 96 76 1,038 16 1,006 408 men 2,052 184 33 133 203 1,448 55 800 622 Number of terminated 4,696 269 102 187 191 3,330 26 1,585 701 employments1 Terminated by employer, % 5.3 10.4 0.0 2.7 2.6 9.3 69.2 8.5 0.4 Total turnover rate, %2 20.2 23.1 23.3 17.1 22.8 78.0 3.1 80.0 24.3 1 Including summer employees 2 Excluding summer employees When calculating the number of terminated employments, each employee is included only once, whereas one person may have several new employments included in the total number. 102 Recruits, age distribution 2016, % Under 26 years 57 57..1% 26-35 years 23.9% 36-45 years 11% 46-55 years 6.2% Over 55 years 1.9% 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time range of shopping benefits that apply in K Group stores and staff shops. A company phone and car are also employees that are not provided to provided if required for the job. temporary or part-time employees Performance bonuses and share remuneration plan The Kesko Group offers benefits to its personnel in all The performance bonus schemes cover the entire of the countries in which it operates. In Finland, personnel, with the exception of sales assistant jobs and employees on permanent, fixed-term and part-time jobs covered by other types of bonus or commission contracts are offered the following: systems. The indicators of the performance bonus scheme include, for example, the Group’s and the • Occupational health care division’s total profits, the sales and profit of the • Insurance against occupational injuries and occupational employee’s own unit, and customer satisfaction. The job diseases satisfaction of personnel also affects supervisors' • Parental leave performance bonuses. In spring 2016, around €11.5 • Retirement benefits million (€12.4 million in 2015) was paid in Finland in bonuses under the 2015 performance bonus schemes, In all of the operating countries, Kesko supports its accounting for approximately 3.7% (4.0% in 2015) of the employees’ leisure activities in different ways. The total payroll. Finnish companies, for example, provide vouchers for physical exercise and cultural benefits. Some of the In 2016, the total remuneration paid in the form of companies operating in Russia, Estonia, Latvia and performance bonuses, sales commissions and other Lithuania also give financial support to their employees corresponding monetary remuneration was as follows: through different situations in life, such as when a child • In Finland, €14.5 million (€13.1 million in 2015) is born, during a child's first year at school, in the event of the death of a close relative and in other special • In the other operating countries, €8.3 million (€5.0 situations. Employees are also provided with a diverse million in 2015) 103 Kesko Group’s management and key personnel the vesting criteria for the 2015 vesting period of the (approximately 150 individuals) are participants in a share remuneration plan. performance-based bonus scheme. The maximum bonus amounts vary depending on the profit impact of Pensions the person’s role and are equivalent to 3–8 months’ New pensions were granted to 271 (168 in 2015) people salary. Kesko operates the 2014–2016 share in the Kesko Group in Finland. The figure includes remuneration scheme covering approximately 150 employees retiring on part-time pensions, partial members of management personnel and other named disability pensions and rehabilitation benefits in addition key individuals. The share remuneration plan has three to those who retired on old-age pensions and disability vesting periods: the 2014, 2015 and 2016 calendar pensions. Rehabilitation benefit is a form of fixed-term years. The shares awarded as bonuses have a disability pension granted with the aim that the commitment period of three calendar years following employee is rehabilitated and returns to working life. each vesting period. During the commitment period, the Rehabilitation benefits were granted for the purpose of shares cannot be transferred. In February 2016, the retraining or work trials to 87 (50 in 2015) people who Board decided to grant a total of 140,365 Company B were at a clear risk of losing their working capacity shares to 142 members of management personnel and within a few years. The average retirement age of other named key individuals based on the fulfilment of employees in 2016 was 60 (59 in 2015). In the other operating countries, 28 (15 in 2015) employees retired. Labour/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding structure takes effect. For major organisational changes concerning more than 20% of the personnel, the operational changes authorities must also be informed 8–12 weeks prior to the change. In Estonia and Latvia, the minimum notice Kesko complies with local legislation in all of its period in restructuring situations is four weeks. The operating countries. In Finland, the key statutes corresponding notice period in Belarus is eight weeks. governing restructuring situations are included in the There are no collective agreements in these operating Act on Co-operation within Undertakings, which countries. stipulates that the employer must provide reasonable notice of decisions for consideration on the basis of In all its operating countries, Kesko applies the notice negotiations. The collective agreement for the trading periods specified in local labour legislation. In Finland, sector does not specify any minimum notice periods the notice period is from two weeks to six months applying to restructuring situations. depending on the duration of employment. In Sweden, the statutory minimum notice period in the Employees can ask questions, give feedback and event of organisational changes is 8–24 weeks suggest ways to develop matters related to the depending on the nature of the change. The collective operations of Kesko or its subsidiaries anonymously agreement applying to operations in Sweden also does using the Direct Line feedback channel on Keskonet, not specify minimum notice periods for restructuring Kesko's intranet. Responses are published on Keskonet situations. No specific minimum notice period for for all to see. The Mail for the President and CEO organisational changes is defined in Norway, but both feedback channel on Keskonet also enables the legislation and the collective agreement stipulate that personnel to send their greetings, comments and personnel shall be informed of organisational changes suggestions directly to the President and CEO. at the earliest opportunity. Confidential feedback can also be given via the SpeakUp reporting channel. Russian legislation states that personnel must be informed of restructuring 8.5 weeks before the new 104 Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint counselling related to employees’ health and wellbeing at work, analysing health risks related to work and management-worker health and safety preventing illnesses, and providing treatment – even in committees the event of serious illnesses – in collaboration with primary health care practitioners and specialist health Labour protection activities are arranged separately for care providers. In Finland, 15,000 (10,200 in 2015) each company, region or place of business in employees were covered by Kesko’s own occupational compliance with local legislation. Outside the Nordic health services. Kesko's occupational health service countries, labour protection matters are handled by purchases occupational health care from various service OHS (Occupational Health and Safety) committees. providers for employees in Finland outside Greater Kesko's HR functions arrange occupational safety Helsinki. Centralised purchasing and target-oriented training for Kesko employees and K-retailers. Group management enable consistent contents and operating companies also arranged training sessions tailored to methods in occupational health service. In other their specific needs. countries, occupational health care is arranged in compliance with local legislation and practice. A total of 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, € 7.5 million (€3.7 million in 2015) was spent on occupational health care in Finland in 2016. Kela (the occupational diseases, lost days, and Social Insurance Institution) reimbursed Kesko for absenteeism and number of work-related approximately €3.7 million (€2.0 million in 2015) of this fatalities sum. In 2016, Kesko’s occupational health service spent €499 (€359 in 2015) per employee on maintaining Within Kesko Group, the occupational health service's employees’ working capacity and providing medical normal operations include providing advice and care. Kesko’s contribution to occupational health care, Finland 2016 2015 2014 €/person 499 359 412 105 Injuries and occupational diseases in Finland 2016 2015 2014 Fatal injuries 0 0 0 Occupational injuries, excl. commuting injuries 227 93 124 Commuting injuries 81 35 32 Injury rate¹ /million working hours 10 6 6 Average degree of injury severity, days 15.8 16.9 17.6 Suspected occupational diseases 1 4 11 Occupational diseases 2 0 0 Sick days due to occupational injuries, commuting injuries and occupational diseases 5744 2166 2751 Per employee 0.5 0.3 0.3 The calculation method: small injuries, i.e. those leading to absence of less than three days, are not included in the figures. Statistics do not include contractors or the following companies: Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, the Agricultural Foundation of Trade. ¹ Excl. small injuries and commuting injuries, calculated with actual working hours Sickness absences by country in 2016 Finland Sweden Norw Norwaay Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Russia Belarus Total number of sick days 133,211 6,9 6,9331 4,412 4,4 12 4, 4,105 105 5, 5,164 164 33,494 5,258 28,664 28, 664 27 27,890 ,890 Per employee 12.4 6.7 14.8 6.5 9.9 9.7 10.8 9.6 11.8 Per million working hours 6,592 3,831 8,384 3,199 4,907 4,817 5,201 4,838 5,811 The calculation method: sick days per employee have been calculated on the average number of employees during the year. 106 Trend in number of sick days Sick days/million working hours 7k 6,59 6,5922 6,424 5,9 5,9774 6k 5, 5,016 016 4,963 5k 4,585 4k 3k 2k 1k 0 2014 2015 2016 Finland Other operating countries Statistics on injuries in Finland and breakdowns of Group companies in Finland was 4.4% of hours worked sickness absences by country are presented in the (4.4% in 2015). Approximately 74.6% (77.4% in 2015) of tables above. In the other countries, a total of 71 injuries sickness absences were short-term absences (paid sick occurred resulting in sickness absences of more than days). In the other countries, the sickness absence rate three days in 2016. The corresponding figure in Finland was 4.2% (3.7% in 2015). was 227. In 2016, the sickness absence rate in the 107 Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per The updated gamified Master Sales Assistant training course offers store personnel a colourful and interesting employee, way of developing their sales skills. Store personnel were also offered vocational training and the 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee opportunity to obtain vocational qualifications. In skills and transition assistance programmes addition, we trained 91 new workplace instructors for Kstores. Systematic, business-driven development of personnel In-house job rotation provides an extensive selection of is a critical factor for future success. The transformation alternative careers. In Finland, approximately 4,837 of the trading sector and the increase in electronic (1,800 in 2015) internal transfers took place, while the transactions have created needs for new competencies. total figure for the other operating countries was 2,923 The revised supervisor training programmes have (2015 in 2,900). already reached a large proportion of supervisors, and a separate training programme for middle managers was In Finland, the K Group's recruitment is supported by launched in the autumn. Further investments were made the K Trainee and retailer coaching programmes. The in digital thinking as the K Digital Academy training sixth K Trainee programme ended in October 2016, and programme was executed for the third time and the K five K-trainees graduated from the digitally-oriented Digital Trainee programme offered trainee placements programme to take on permanent employments in the K for recent graduates with a digital orientation. In Group. In 2017, a dozen or so talented young people will addition, a mindfulness training course was piloted with be sought for inclusion in the K Trainee programme. good results. Numerous regional social media training Future K-retailers are trained in the retailer coaching courses were held for retailers. Updated and uniform programmes. The coaching involves online studies and electronic tools for induction were adopted. on-the-job training under a mentor retailer, as well as regional and national on-site training periods. Those Other core areas of competence development included: completing the programme are qualified to start a • Immediate supervisory work career as independent K-retailers. Investments were made in the continuous development of existing • Leadership retailers' competences by updating the supplementary • Digitality training for retailers, which includes several targeted • Project management training sessions and the more extensive Success • Interaction and negotiation skills Factors training entity, which forms part of the MBA degree. • Safety and responsibility • Customer experience; sales and service competences 108 Training days and costs in 2016 2016 2015 2014 Training da ys1 days Finland 7,421 6,891 9,083 Other countries2 11,033 14,614 14,285 Training da days employyee1 ys per emplo Finland 0.7 0.8 0.9 Other countries2 0.9 1.4 1.4 Training ccosts osts,, € million Finland 2.9 2.5 2.9 Other countries2 0.9 0.9 0.8 Training ccosts osts per emplo employyee, € Finland 268 299 298 Other countries2 79 87 80 1 2015: Excluding Konsoma JLLC, Belarus and OOO Kesko Real Estate, Russia 2 2014: Excluding Konsoma JLLC, Belarus. 2015: Excluding Konsoma, Belarus and OOO Kesko Real Estate, Russia 109 Distribution by education at 31 Dec. 2016, % Comprehensive school 17% Upper secondary vocational education 55.8% Lower university degree 11.5% Higher university degree 15.7% Byggmakker, Norway and K-Rauta, Sweden not included. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving The objective of performance evaluation is to give feedback on performance in the previous year, support regular performance and career the person's development and encourage enhanced development reviews performance. Uniform evaluation criteria enable equitable evaluation of performance and competence Performance and career development reviews and for all employees. Systematic and effective performance performance assessment of key personnel are carried reviews provide important information and form a out at all Kesko Group companies and operating strong basis for other HR processes. countries. In the performance and career development reviews, the performance of the past period is evaluated Job satisfaction and targets are set for the upcoming period, including a The personnel survey is one of the key tools for discussion on the development of the employee, developing internal operating practices and developing supervisory work and the working community. Every the quality of supervisory work. The personnel survey is member of personnel has a performance and career conducted in Kesko Group and some K-stores in Finland development review, and in 2015, they were carried out at the same time as in other countries. The survey seeks twice: in the spring and the autumn. The to identify the commitment of personnel to the implementation of performance and career organisation, the operating methods that enable good development reviews was surveyed in conjunction with work performance, the implementation of our shared the personnel survey conducted at the beginning of operating principles, the occupational wellbeing of 2016. The response rate to the personnel survey was personnel, and satisfaction with the work of immediate 85%. 79% of the women who responded to the survey supervisors and management. The survey results are and 82% of the men who responded had had a used as the basis for agreeing upon development performance and career development review in 2015. In measures, which are integrated into the annual 2016, they were conducted at least once: in the spring operational and personnel plan and the implementation and/or the autumn. of which is monitored. 110 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and In recent years, the K Group has initiated projects to employ members of special groups: employees • In 2012, the K-Retailers' Association started a project Equal opportunities, justice, non-discrimination and named ‘Many kinds of performers’ in collaboration with equality are important principles that are observed at the Finnish Association on Intellectual and Kesko. Kesko Corporation and its division parent Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). A permanent companies and subsidiaries in Finland draw up statutory operating model was created for employing people with company-specific HR, training, equality and nondevelopmental disabilities. Many of the people with discrimination plans and define objectives for developmental disabilities who were employed as part of improvement. At the beginning of 2017, Kesko the project are still working at the K Group. established the TASY gender equality working group in • In 2013, Kesko and the K-Retailers’ Association accordance with the non-discrimination plan, tasked launched the ‘Youth Guarantee in K Group’ programme, with handling matters related to non-discrimination and which aimed to provide a job, a work trial or an equality within the Group. The working group includes apprenticeship in the K Group by the end of 2014 for 1,000 young people under 30, who were at high risk of representatives of the employer, personnel and labour social exclusion. The target group also included young protection functions. The working group analyses immigrants and young people with disabilities. By the recruitment, career development and training, end of 2015, when the Youth Guarantee in K Group remuneration and the reconciliation of work and family programme ended, more than 2,500 young people had life. found a position with the help of a work trial, pay subsidy or apprenticeship training. • Of Kesko employees in Finland, 60% were women and • The employment of young people and special groups 40% were men. In the other operating countries, the continues as a permanent operating model. In 2016, the figures were 48% and 52% respectively. K-Retailers' Association had a youth guarantee • In Finland, the average age of employees was 41.8 years coordinator who provided K-retailers and Kesko's in 2016. In the other countries, the average age of supervisors with advice on employing and training employees varied from 36 to 46 years. young people and special groups and acted as a liaison • Lengths of employee careers: under 10 years: 67% and to the authorities and associations. By the end of 2016, over 10 years: 33% in Finland and 87% and 13% more than 3,200 young people from the target group respectively in the other countries. Long careers are not had received a position in the K Group with the help of a rare: 1,438 employees have worked at Kesko for over 25 work trial, pay subsidy or apprenticeship training. years. • Two of the seven members of Kesko’s Board of Directors were women. • Two of the nine members of the Group Management Equal opportunity for men and Board were women. women • In the subsidiaries engaging in retailing in Finland, the proportion of women in supervisory duties was significant: 87% of the department managers at K405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Citymarket hypermarkets were women. of women to men • At the end of 2016, 46% of all supervisors in Finland (51% in 2015) were women and 54% (49% in 2015) were The average annual salary of Kesko employees was men. €38,794 in Finland, €40,313 in the other Nordic countries, and €10,113 in the Baltic countries, Russia, Poland and Belarus. As the Kesko Group operates in many lines of business, the average salary is 111 not a good indicator of salary level or structure. The employee is determined by competence, experience, wage groups and tables specified in the collective performance and results. Equality in remuneration is agreement are applied to jobs covered by the considered as part of annual company-specific equality agreement, such as sales assistants and warehouse plans. Gender is not a factor which influences workers. Salaries are also influenced by role-based remuneration, and no significant differences between responsibility bonuses, years of experience and the comparable jobs have been detected. Equality plans cost-of-living category of the locality. Besides the role strive to promote pay equality in jobs where and its requirements, the salary of a senior clerical comparisons can be made. Age distribution of Kesko personnel in Age distribution of Kesko personnel in the Finland in 2016, % other operating countries in 2016, % under 26 years 23.2% under 26 years 18. 18.6% 6% 26–35 years 26.4% 26–35 years 35.2% 36–45 years 22% 36–45 years 24.9% 46–55 years 1919..1% 46–55 years 14.9% over 55 years 9.2% over 55 years 6.4% 112 Years of service in Finland in 2016, % Years of service in the other operating countries in 2016, % under 2 years 25. 25.6% 6% 2–5 years 21. 21.6% 6% under 2 years 42.3% 6–10 years 19 19.3% .3% 2–5 years 29 29.7% .7% 11–15 years 11.7% 6–10 years 15.4% 16–20 years 8% 11–15 years 8. 8.1% 1% 21–25 years 4.4% 16–20 years 3.4% over 25 years 9.4% 21–25 years 0.7% over 25 years 0.5% 113 Percentage of women by employee category, Finland 2016 2015 2014 Top management 24.1 20 15.6 Middle management 20.0 21.1 18.6 Supervisors and specialists 41.9 46.4 48.2 Workers and white-collar employees 64.4 57.8 61.5 Total 60 60..1 55.4 58.8 The figures also include those called to work on demand Percentage of women by employee category, other countries 2016 2015 2014 Top management 0.0 0 0.0 Middle management 49.1 47.7 46.8 Supervisors and specialists 48.4 54.4 54.7 Workers and white-collar employees 47.2 47.8 46.2 Total 47 47.8 .8 50 50.5 .5 51.5 2014 and 2015: Excluding Senukai, Lithuania Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken In 2016, there was one case in the Finnish courts of law in which a Kesko Group company was ordered to pay compensation under the Non-Discrimination Act. 114 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the Out of the total personnel, 50% are covered by collective agreements. right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk So far, no binding industry-wide collective agreements have been drawn up in Russia. In Kesko’s operations in the EU countries (Finland, The control of the association of suppliers’ employees in Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland), high-risk countries and corrective actions are included the freedom of association or the right to collective in social responsibility audits. bargaining is not seen to be at risk. Human rights assessments 412-1 Operations that have been subject to 412-2 Employee training on human rights human rights reviews or impact assessments policies or procedures In September 2016, Kesko published its statement of The K Code of Conduct operating guidelines include a commitment on human rights and impact assessment in section on human rights. The K Code of Conduct compliance with the UN's Guiding Principles on eLearning programme targeted at the entire personnel Business and Human Rights. had been completed by 3,159 people by the end of 2016. A plan for the year 2017 was drawn up with The extensive survey involved listening to the views of actions promoting awareness of the K Code of Conduct, customers, personnel and high-risk country factory such as communications and training events scheduled workers on human rights and on the implementation of for each quarter of the year. human rights in K Group's operations. The survey covered the customers of all of Kesko’s lines of The training events in 2016 focused on human rights business, and personnel in Finland. Surveys in high-risk and their implementation in international purchasing countries were carried out in China, India, Bangladesh chains. Nine events were arranged for people working in and the Philippines. purchasing and sales in different divisions, as well as for the Product Research Unit. The training sessions Read more about Kesko’s commitment and impact discussed the assurance process in purchasing from assessment high-risk countries, the BSCI Code of Conduct Find out more about Kesko's collaboration with SASK principles and the social responsibility assessment systems approved by Kesko. Trainings in responsible purchasing will continue in 2017. 115 Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened countries of import of Kesko’s Finnish companies are presented in the table below. No statistics are available using social criteria, on direct imports from high-risk countries by Kesko's subsidiaries in other countries. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply High-risk countries typically produce clothing and home chain and actions taken textiles, shoes and other leather goods, furniture, carpets, interior decoration items, tools, sports equipment, toys, agricultural products (such as coffee, Purchasing from high-risk countries tea, cocoa, fruit, vegetables, wines) and canned fish, fruit and vegetables. In 2016, direct purchases by Kesko's Finnish companies from suppliers in high-risk areas totalled €85 million Since 2015, Kesko has published on its website a list of (€90 million in 2015) and accounted for 1% (1.2%) of factories that operate in high-risk countries Kesko's total purchases. Direct imports from high-risk manufacturing Kesko’s own-brand clothing and shoes to countries accounted for 11.9% (14.8%) of Kesko's total be directly imported by Kesko. The list is updated once imports into Finland. The most significant high-risk a year, most recently on 21 June 2016. Kesko’s own direct imports from high-risk countries, 10 largest countries in 20161 Country Value of imports imports,, € million China 42.6 India 8.5 Vietnam 7.3 Turkey 6.9 Thailand 6.1 Bangladesh 2.9 Ukraine 1.7 Indonesia 1.6 South Africa 1.0 The Philippines 0.9 1 CIF, direct imports forwarded by Kesko Logistics and Onninen Finland only, excluding imports by VV-Auto 116 Social responsibility audits of our suppliers in high• 22 valid SIZA audits risk countries • 11 valid Fairtrade certifications Kesko recommends the use of BSCI audits and SA8000 • 5 valid ICS audits certification in the assessment of social responsibility of • 2 valid WRAP certifications suppliers in high-risk countries. Kesko also accepts other social responsibility assessment systems, if their • 24 valid ICA Social Audits criteria correspond to those of BSCI auditing and the audit is conducted by an independent party. As part of the sourcing cooperation between Kesko’s grocery As regards Onninen, the figures only include the BSCI trade and ICA Global Sourcing, Kesko also accepts the audits of suppliers to the Kesko Onninen Purchasing ICA Social Audit. In that case, however, suppliers are Office (KOPO) in Shanghai. required to adopt BSCI auditing after a maximum of two ICA audits. The social responsibility auditing systems Kesko’s principle in high-risk countries is to collaborate accepted by Kesko are listed under ‘Management only with suppliers that are already included in the models and systems’. Some of Kesko’s suppliers are scope of social responsibility audits or that start the themselves members of BSCI and thus promote audits process when cooperation begins. Since the beginning in their own supply chains. of 2016, Kesko’s grocery trade requires all of its suppliers in high-risk countries to have been audited. It At the beginning of 2017, Kesko's suppliers in high-risk will not enter into collaboration with new suppliers countries had: unless they have passed an acceptable audit. • 274 (start of 2016: 200) valid BSCI audits The map below shows the number of suppliers’ valid • 13 (start of 2016: 16) valid SA8000 certifications social responsibility audits and certifications in Kesko’s • 24 valid SMETA audits 10 largest high-risk countries of import. • 11 valid ICTI CARE certifications 117 Suppliers’ social responsibility audits in Kesko’s 10 largest high-risk countries of import Direct purchases from suppliers in high-risk countries account for 1% of Kesko’s total purchases BSCI audit results assess every sub-area of the auditing protocol. If a factory receives an audit result of C, D or E, a follow-up In 2016, suppliers' factories or plantations underwent audit within 12 months must be arranged to assess the • 210 (2015: 107) full BSCI audits deficiencies identified in the full audit and the corrective measures implemented to address them. • 60 (2015: 80) BSCI follow-up audits Kesko does not terminate cooperation with a supplier The results of the BSCI audits of Kesko’s suppliers’ that undertakes to resolve the grievances specified in factories in 2016 are shown below. The majority of the the audit report. In 2016, it was decided to terminate deficiencies occurred in management practices, cooperation with one supplier due to ambiguities observance of working time regulations, and matters related to social responsibility. It was not possible to related to occupational health and safety. Corrective reach a consensus with the supplier regarding the actions and monitoring are included in the audit necessary corrective actions. process. In accordance with BSCI's operating model, a full audit is conducted at factories every two years to 118 Kesko's BSCI audit results in 2016, full Kesko's BSCI audit results in 2016, followaudits up audits Outstanding (A) 5% Outstanding (A) 8% Good (B) 6% Good (B) 14% Acceptable (C) 76% Acceptable (C) 68% Insufficient (D) 13% Insufficient (D) 10% Unacceptable (E) 0% Unacceptable (E) 0% 119 W So or ke ci al 0 25 50 75 100 % Th rs M In an e vo ag rig l ve … ht m so en fF t re an e d do … m of As N so o c … D Outstanding (A) isc rim Fa in at i io Acceptable (C) rR em n D u ec ne O en ra cc tW tio Unacceptable (E) up or n at ki io ng na lH H ea ou lth rs an Sp d ec Sa ia N fe lP o ty ro Ch te ild ct La io n bo N o ur o fY o Good (B) Pr ec u ng ar io W us o… Em pl Insufficient (D) N oy Pr o m Bo en ot ec nd t tio ed n La of bo th e ur Et hi E nv ca iro lB nm us in en es t sB eh av io ur Kesko's BSCI audit results, distribution in different areas in 2016, full audits 120 Kesko's BSCI audit results, distribution in different areas in 2016, follow-up audits % 100 75 50 25 0 ag … … rR em at io n … an As O D ec en u ne ra M d so c rim cc up at tW or ki tio n an en io na lH ng H ou al t of in Sp ea lth an d rs ci vem m isc ec ia lP ro N o Ch Sa fe ty So do D te ctio ild La Invo N Fa N o n o fY bo ur l fF o i Pr ec ar o u ng re e io us Em W o… W ht Pr N o pl oy m orke so ot ec tio n of Bo nd ed La en t rs Et th e E bo ur rig hi ca lB us nv iro nm in es en t Th e sB eh av io ur Outstanding (A) Good (B) Acceptable (C) Insufficient (D) Unacceptable (E) Fairtrade products In 2016, the products generating the largest Fairtrade premiums were flowers (€268,358), fruit (€135,764) and Kesko's grocery trade has an extensive collaboration coffee (€169,635). According to Fairtrade Finland’s agreement with Fairtrade Finland. The K-food trade statistics, the sales of own brand – Pirkka and Menu – chain concepts and K-retailers determine the selections Fairtrade coffee alone employed 184 small-scale coffee of Fairtrade products at the store level. farmers in 2016 on Fairtrade's terms. • In 2016, Kesko's grocery trade selections included 367 Risk assessment of ingredients in Pirkka and K(2015: 212, excluding Kespro) Fairtrade products, of Menu food products which 36 (2015: 40) were Pirkka products and 7 were Kespro's Menu products. Kesko aims to identify the entire supply chain of the • In 2016, the products sold by Kesko's grocery trade and products and also verify the sustainability of products' Kespro generated Fairtrade premiums for social ingredients. Work began in 2015 to analyse the origins development projects amounting to €649,459 (2015: of the ingredients in own-brand grocery products, and €481,405). the sustainability of 1,923 ingredients in Pirkka and KMenu food products was assessed. The project 121 continued in 2016, when risk analyses were conducted factories being assessed had continued to improve for the ingredients in 160 new own brand food products. working conditions after the project finished. In eight In 2016, 29 of the studied products contained years, the factories had made tangible improvements to ingredients for which additional sustainability their working environments, the situation of workers investigation will be required. The suppliers will be and their environmental systems. requested to investigate the social responsibility of the suppliers of these ingredients. Find out more about Kesko's collaboration with SASK Studies of the ingredients in own-brand food products Collaboration with Plan will continue in 2017. Based on the results, Kesko Kesko and Plan International Finland, an organisation intends to decide upon ingredient-specific follow-up promoting children’s rights, continue their cooperation measures to promote the sustainability of the supply to improve the responsibility of the Thai fishing industry chains of Pirkka and K-Menu products. and the situation of migrant workers. A collaboration agreement has been made for the period from 2015 to Follow-up study on the impact of a training project 2018. The joint project aims to improve the working for Vietnamese supplier conditions of Cambodian migrant workers, as well as Kesko was involved in a training project conducted by education and protection for their children in Thailand. Union Aid Abroad APHEDA and the Trade Union A further goal is to increase transparency in the supply Solidarity Centre of Finland SASK from 2006 to 2008, chain. with the aim of improving the working conditions in the factories of selected Vietnamese suppliers shipping to As part of the project, two learning centres were Finland and supporting the factories in implementing established for children of migrant workers in the the BSCI operating principles. The project involved 13 Rayong and Trat provinces in spring 2015. The learning Vietnamese suppliers and 18 factories. centres provide children from migrant workers' families with the skills they need to attend public schools in A follow-up study was conducted in autumn 2016 to Thailand and support them in continuing their studies. gauge the long-term impacts at ten of the factories In 2016, 159 children aged between 4 and 17 were involved in the project. The aim of the impact registered at the learning centres, and 99 children were assessment was to evaluate the effects of the project on admitted to school with the help of the project. BSCI factory working conditions eight years later in terms of training for suppliers began in November 2016. 16 occupational health and safety, relations between suppliers from the Thai fishing industry took part in the managers and workers, and environmental management first training event, which was held in Bangkok. The systems. training will continue in spring 2017. Find out more about our collaboration with Plan. The results of the impact assessment show that the project had long-term benefits. Almost all of the Public policy 415-1 Political contributions policy seminars arranged by political parties, on content basis at its discretion and without indicating partiality. In election years, political parties and candidates are Kesko does not make monetary donations to political given equal opportunities to arrange campaign events in parties. In 2016, Kesko did not participate in political the yards and entrance halls of K Group stores. In parties’ seminars subject to a charge and did not publish addition, Kesko may participate in economic and tax commercial advertisements in party newspapers. 122 Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety account at the product development stage. Kesko follows the discussion about reformulation restarted by impacts of product and service categories, the launch of the Roadmap for Action on Food Product Improvement in spring 2016. As the national Finnish 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance targets are likely to be established in 2017, Kesko’s concerning the health and safety impacts of grocery trade will revise its reformulation policy products and services statement. In 2016 and early 2017, a study on the likelihood of food The activities of the Product Research Unit of Kesko’s fraud was conducted and a fraud control plan was grocery trade include assessing the impacts of products prepared (Vulnerability Assessment and Critical Control on health and safety. It requires manufacturers of its Points, VACCP). 77 threats of fraud were identified. Six own-brands to have certification that assures of them were assessed to be critical control points, international product safety. The standards approved by which are analytically monitored by fraud control on a Kesko’s grocery trade include BRC, IFS, FSSC 22000 regular basis, in addition to normal product and supplier and GlobalGAP. In 2016, the total number of certified assurances. suppliers was 538 (532 in 2015). This number also includes old audits conducted according to Kesko’s Product Research is also responsible for product recalls, grocery trade’s own audit guidelines. which numbered 101 in 2016 (124 in 2015). Of these, 26 (27 in 2015) were Kesko’s grocery trade’s own-brands; in A total of 7,770 (8,037 in 2015) product samples were the other cases, Product Research assisted the analysed. Most of them related to the product manufacturers in recalls. There were two public recalls development of own brands. A total of 2,387 (2,158 in involving a potential health hazard resulting from 2015) own control samples were analysed. product flaws or defects in Kesko’s grocery trade’s ownbrand products in 2016 (3 in 2015). When developing own-brand products, Kesko’s grocery trade pays special attention, in line with its strategy, to In 2016, K-Rauta made one product recall in Finland. the health aspects of the products. Onninen made four recalls in 2016: two in Finland, one As proposed in The EC White Paper on Nutrition, in Sweden and one in Poland. Overweight and Obesity-related Health Issues, sugar, saturated fat and salt were reduced in more than 150 In 2016, there were no legal proceedings or fines related Pirkka products during the period 2007–2013. The to product health or safety. health aspects of new Pirkka products are taken into Marketing communications and product information 417-1 Requirements for product and service laying down rules for the indication of origin of certain meats. These regulations lay down the rules for information and labelling providing information on product ingredients, among other things. As for its own-brand products and own imports, Kesko’s grocery trade complies with Regulation (EC) No 1169/ The name and location of the manufacturer are 2011 on the provision of food information to consumers indicated on all Finnish Pirkka products and on all Kand the supplementary Regulation (EC) No 1337/2013 Menu products. Foreign Pirkka products carry the name 123 of the country of manufacture. The country of origin of get a software update and have a “flow rectifier” fitted meat is also indicated in the list of ingredients of Pirkka directly in front of the air mass sensor. products that contain meat as one of the main ingredients, although related national legislation is only Earlier in the spring of 2016, the German authority planned. The country of origin is indicated on all ownconfirmed that the technical measures will not impair brand products of K-Citymarket and Kesko’s building fuel consumption, engine power, CO2 emissions, and technical trade. handling or acoustics. The corrective measures will not have an impact on the cars’ taxation in Finland, because In addition to statutory package labelling, voluntary nitrogen oxide emissions (NOx) are not car tax or labelling can be added to inform the consumer of vehicle tax bases in Finland. After the technical matters related to corporate responsibility. Such measures have been implemented, the cars will fulfil the labelling may include organic labels and ecolabelling, as applicable type approval emission standards. well as labelling indicating social responsibility. In Finland, the importer has sent informative letters to The packages of Kesko’s own-brand chemical products the customers concerned. After receiving the letter, the @ such as detergents and paints @ bear warning customer can book an authorised repairer. The labelling in accordance with CLP regulation EC 1272/ corrective measure will take from 30 minutes to one 2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of hour, most conveniently in connection with a chemicals. maintenance visit or tyre change. The corrective measure can only be made at an authorised repairer and The own brand products of Kesko’s grocery trade bear it is free of charge to the customer. The customer will be material symbols on their packaging. These symbols given a certificate to confirm that the corrective help and guide consumers to recycle packaging measure has been implemented. materials. Chemicals that are hazardous to the environment have warning labelling in accordance with If the customer has not received a recall letter before the CLP regulation. the next vehicle inspection, they can have the car inspected as usual and the corrective measure will be 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance implemented after the inspection. concerning product and service information Due to the great number of different air mass sensors, and labelling the recalls will take place on a schedule agreed with KBA. For that reason, all models and engine/gearbox Engine software adjusting nitrogen oxides versions are not recalled at the same time. In September 2015, the California Air Resources Board By the end of 2016, the corrective solution has been (CARB) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) available for a total of around 50,000 cars and 25% of uncovered engine software that adjusted nitrogen them have been corrected. oxides in Volkswagen Group’s type EA 189 cars with Product recalls resulting from defective product diesel engines. This software is fitted in EA 189 series labelling 1.2 litre, 1.6 litre and 2.0 litre diesel engines. On the product labelling of its own-brand products and As far as the brands represented by VV-Auto are imports, Kesko complies with Finnish law and EU concerned, the number of such cars in legislation. Finland is around 53,000. The case applies to all of the In 2016, there were 24 product recalls resulting from brands imported by VV-Auto (Volkswagen, Audi, SEAT defective product labelling (46 in 2015), of which 7(9 in and Volkswagen commercial vehicles). 2015) were Kesko’s grocery trade’s own-brands. In 2016, the German authority (KBA) approved all technical corrective measures for type EA 189 diesel engines. The 1.2 litre and 2.0 litre diesel engines will get a software update. The 1.6 litre diesel engines will also 124 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance In 2016, there were no advertisements by Kesko or its subsidiaries submitted for consideration by the Council concerning marketing communications of Ethics in Advertising nor were there any incidents of non-compliance with legislation or voluntary principles. Kesko constantly monitors the amendments to legislation and authorities’ recommendations related to In December 2016, the Consumer Ombudsman marketing communications and provides information imposed a prohibition reinforced with a penalty about them to the staff responsible for marketing in payment in the case concerning Indoor Group Ltd’s each unit. discount sale marketing in 2014–2015. Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Oy’s customer register. The case resulted in the Data Protection Ombudsman contacting the company. The breaches of customer privacy and losses of Ombudsman stated that there was no need for an order customer data as referred to in the Personal Data Act because K-Plus Oy had deleted the customer’s personal data from its In 2016, K-Plus Oy did not detect any leaks of systems. information or other personal data breaches. The company received one complaint from a customer regarding the deletion of personal data from K-Plus Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area In 2016, there were no cases of non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area. 125 Reporting principles in accordance with the GRI standards Since 2000, Kesko has annually reported on its Kesko has taken account of the ISO 26000 standard as corporate responsibility actions in accordance with the a source document providing guidelines for corporate Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for responsibility. reporting on sustainable development. The GRI report integrated in Kesko’s Annual Report is prepared in We have divided the report into four sections: accordance with the GRI standards and covers the key responsibility management, responsibility programme, areas of economic, social and environmental disclosures, and GRI and UNGC. The report is available responsibility. For each reported standard, the GRI in Finnish and in English, and it is published online only. content index refers to the year of the version used. This report has been prepared in accordance with the This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Topic-specific Standards 2016 standards. are reported with respect to the material topics for In our operations, we apply the AA1000 AccountAbility Kesko. A comparison of the contents of the report and Principles: stakeholder inclusivity, identification of the GRI standards is given in the GRI and UNGC index. material aspects and responsiveness to stakeholders. Assurance of reporting An independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers The conclusions, observations and recommendations by Oy, has provided assurance for the performance PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy are detailed in the indicators on economic, social and environmental assurance report. The assurance is commissioned by responsibility in the Finnish language GRI report. The the operative management of Kesko Corporation. congruence between responsibility information presented in the Finnish and English versions has been checked. Global Compact reporting The report describes Kesko’s progress on the 10 specific Standards have been used for evaluating principles of the Global Compact initiative. The GRI and performance in fulfilling human rights, labour rights, UNGC index shows which disclosures and Topicenvironment principles and anti-corruption principles. Report stakeholders Various stakeholders use the report as their source of media, authorities, NGOs and other organisations, and information when assessing Kesko’s results in the trade unions). In the report, we also want to take into different areas of responsibility. The most important account Kesko’s other important stakeholders: retailers, target groups of the report include investors, owners, personnel, potential employees, suppliers and service analysts and rating agencies, as well as society (the providers, and customers. 126 Reporting period and contact information This report describes the progress and results of The report for 2017 will be published in the spring of responsibility work in 2016. It includes some information 2018. from January to March 2017. Further information on the topics covered in the report The report for 2015 was published in March 2016. can be obtained from Kesko’s contact persons. 127 Materiality assessment The materiality assessment of Kesko’s corporate The level of concern for stakeholders has been assessed responsibility identifies the key responsibility topics for as a whole, which is why the stakeholder specific Kesko and its stakeholders. The materiality assessment weightings are not reflected in the matrix. guides Kesko’s corporate responsibility work and stakeholder work and defines actions to meet The materiality assessment was last updated in 2012. In stakeholder expectations. 2017, the material topics for reporting were defined in compliance with the requirements of the new GRI Kesko’s material corporate responsibility topics are standards. The identified topics are included in Kesko’s presented in the matrix below, where the vertical axis current materiality assessment, and no need was seen shows the level of concern for stakeholders and the to update the materiality matrix. horizontal axis the current or potential impact on Kesko. Materiality matrix 128 GRI and UNGC Index Code* GRI Location Omissions Further information Global content Compact General Standard Disclosures 10 1022-1 Name of the Kesko in brief organisation 10 1022-2 Activities, Kesko in brief, Finnish Alcohol Act 1143/1994, Section 14: Retail trade brands, Divisions of alcoholic beverages containing a maximum of 4.7 products, and percentage by volume ethyl alcohol, which are prepared services through fermentation, may be carried on, besides by the State Alcohol Monopoly, by whoever the licensing authority has granted a retail licence. The origin and production conditions of products, food products in particular, and their health outcomes are relatively often topics of public discussion in the media and/or on social media. 10 1022-3 Location of Kesko in brief headquarters 10 1022-4 Location of Kesko in brief operations 10 1022-5 Ownership and Kesko in brief legal form 10 1022-6 Markets served Kesko in brief 10 1022-7 Scale of the Kesko in brief organisation 1022-8 10 Information on Social impacts No distribution by There are no independent X employees and Employment gender. Information entrepreneurs among Kesko employees, nor does other workers not available. The suppliers' or hired labour perform a significant part of the aim is to report the work. There are no information in significant seasonal fluctuations in the 2017−2018. number of employees. 10 1022-9 Supply chain Our operating environment, 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers, Responsibility programme/ Responsible purchases and sustainable selections 129 10 1022-10 Significant Review by the changes to the President and organisation CEO, Kesko in and its supply brief, Divisions, chain Stock exchange releases on 12 April 2016, 1 June 2016, 30 November 2016, 1 December 2016 10 1022-11 Precautionary Our operating Principle or environment approach 10 1022-12 External Corporate initiatives responsibility in Kesko's strategy 10 1022-13 Membership of Activities in associations organisations 10 1022-14 Statement from Review by the senior decisionPresident and maker CEO 10 1022-15 Key impacts, Our operating risks, and environment, opportunities How we create value, Stakeholders, Responsibility programme 10 1022-16 Values, Policies and X principles, principles, standards, and Responsibility norms of programme: behaviour good corporate governance and finance 10 1022-17 Mechanisms for Notification of X advice and concerns and concerns about non-compliances ethics 10 1022-18 Governance Corporate structure Governance Statement 2016 10 1022-19 Delegating Management authority model and systems 10 1022-20 Executive-level EVP, CFO; Both are members of the Group Management Board. responsibility EVP for Reporting model for economic, marketing, environmental communications, and social corporate topics responsibility 130 and corporate relations 10 1022-21 Consulting Stakeholders, stakeholders on Corporate economic, Governance environmental, Statement 2016 and social topics 10 1022-22 Composition of Board of the highest Directors, governance Corporate body and its Governance committees Statement 2016 10 1022-23 Chair of the Board of highest Directors, governance Corporate body Governance Statement 2016 10 1022-24 Nominating and Corporate selecting the Governance highest Statement 2016 governance body 10 1022-25 Conflicts of Corporate Kesko complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance interest Governance Code for Listed Companies Statement 2016, K Code of Conduct 10 1022-26 Role of highest Corporate governance Governance body in setting Statement 2016, purpose, values, Management and strategy model and systems 10 1022-28 Evaluating the Corporate Only the Board's highest Governance self-assessment governance Statement 2016 has been reported. body's performance 10 1022-29 Identifying and Corporate managing Governance economic, Statement 2016 environmental, and social impacts 10 1022-30 Effectiveness of Corporate risk Governance management Statement 2016 processes 10 1022-31 Review of Corporate economic, Governance environmental, Statement 2016 131 and social topics 10 1022-32 Highest Corporate governance governance body's role in principles sustainability reporting 10 1022-33 Communicating Stakeholders, critical concerns Corporate Governance Statement 2016 10 1022-35 Remuneration Corporate policies Governance Statement 2016,, Remuneration Statement 2016, Management model and systems 10 1022-40 List of Stakeholders stakeholder groups 10 1022-41 Collective Social impacts/ X bargaining Freedom of agreements association and collective bargaining 10 1022-42 Identifying and Stakeholders selecting stakeholders 10 1022-43 Approach to Stakeholders stakeholder engagement 10 1022-44 Key topics and Stakeholders concerns raised 10 1022-45 Entities Note 37 to the included in the consolidated consolidated financial financial statements statements 10 1022-46 Defining report Materiality content and assessment, topic reporting Boundaries principles 10 1022-47 List of material Materiality topics assessment 10 1022-48 Restatements of Changes information reported in connection with topic specific information. 132 10 1022-49 Changes in No significant reporting changes. 10 1022-50 Reporting Reporting period principles 10 1022-5 -511 Date of most Reporting recent report principles 10 1022-52 Reporting cycle Reporting principles 10 1022-53 Contact point Contact for questions information regarding the report 10 1022-54 Claims of Reporting reporting in principles accordance with the GRI Standards 10 1022-55 GRI content GRI and UNGC index table 10 1022-56 External Reporting assurance principles Management approach 10 1033-1 Explanation of Boundaries of the material responsibility topic and its programme Boundary themes 10 1033-2 The Responsibility management programme approach and its components 10 1033-3 Evaluation of Responsibility the programme management approach Topic specific content Topic specific content is reported regarding aspects identified as material. Economic impacts 201 Economic perf performanc ormancee 201201-11 Direct Economic economic value impacts/ generated and Economic distributed performance 133 201201-22 Financial Economic Monetary X implications and impacts/ evaluations or other risks and Economic realisations have opportunities performance not been reported. due to climate change 201201-33 Defined benefit Economic plan obligations impacts/ and other Economic retirement plans performance 201201-44 Financial Economic assistance impacts/ received from Economic government performance 20 2033 ect ec Indirect Indir economic onomic impacts 20 2033-1 Infrastructure Economic investments and impacts/Indirect services economic supported impacts 20 2033-2 Significant Economic indirect impacts/Indirect economic economic impacts impacts 204 Pr Procur ement pr ocurement practic actices es 204 204--1 Proportion of Economic spending on impacts/ local suppliers Procurement practices 205 Anti-c Anti-corruption orruption 205 205--1 Operations Economic Risks related to corruption are discussed as part of X assessed for impacts/AntiThe number and Kesko's risk management. Key risks are identified and risks related to corruption percentage of assessed regularly corruption assessments have throughout the year. not been reported. Risks related to corruption have not been specified in detail. 205 205--2 Communication Economic Percentages have X and training impacts/Antinot been reported. about anticorruption Information not corruption available. policies and procedures 205 205--3 Confirmed Economic X incidents of impacts/Anticorruption and corruption actions taken 206 Anti-c Anti-competitiv ompetitivee beha behaviour viour 134 206206-11 Legal actions Economic for antiimpacts/Anticompetitive competitive behaviour, antibehaviour trust, and monopoly practices Environmental impacts 301 Materials 301301-33 Materials used Environmental Percentage by weight or impacts/ calculation model in volume Effluents and accordance with the waste GRI standard is no applicable to Kesko's operations. 30 3022 Ener Energygy 30 3022-1 Energy Environmental X consumption impacts/Energy within the organisation 30 3022-2 Energy Environmental Only limited X consumption impacts/ information on outside the Emissions energy consumption organisation outside the organisation is compiled for Scope 3 review (305-3). 30 3022-3 Energy intensity Environmental X impacts/Energy 30 3022-4 Reduction of Environmental X energy impacts/Energy consumption 30 3033 Water 30 3033-1 Water Environmental X withdrawal by impacts/Water source 304 Biodiv Biodiversity ersity 304 304--2 Significant Environmental X impacts of impacts/ activities, Biodiversity products, and services on biodiversity 304 304--3 Habitats Environmental X protected or impacts/ restored Biodiversity 135 305 Emissions 305 305--1 Direct (Scope 1) Environmental X GHG emissions impacts/ Emissions 305 305--2 Energy indirect Environmental Emissions from X (Scope 2) GHG impacts/ district heat in emissions Emissions Finland and emissions in the other operating countries have not been reported according to the marketbased method, because the Information was not collected. 305 305--3 Other indirect Environmental X (Scope 3) GHG impacts/ emissions Emissions 305 305--4 GHG emissions Environmental X intensity impacts/ Emissions 305 305-5 -5 Reduction of Environmental Review has not been X GHG emissions impacts/ made in CO2e Emissions tonnes. 305 305--7 Nitrogen oxides Environmental X (NOx), sulphur impacts/ oxides (SOx), Emissions and other significant air emissions Effluents and 306 waste 306306-22 Waste by type Environmental X and disposal impacts/ method Effluents and waste Social impacts 401 Emplo Employment yment 401401-11 New employee Social impacts/ New employee hires X hires and Employment have not been employee reported by age turnover group. Turnover rate has not been reported by age group and gender. Information is not available. The aim is to report the 136 information in 2017–2018. 401401-22 Benefits Social impacts/ Benefits exceeding provided to fullEmployment the statutory level time employees have not been that are not reported in detail. provided to Practices vary in temporary or different operating part-time countries. employees 40 4022 /Management Labour/Manag Labour ement rrelations elations 40 4022-1 Minimum notice Social impacts/ X periods Labour/ regarding Management operational relations changes 40 4033 cupational health and saf Occupational Oc safety ety 40 4033-1 Workers' Social impacts/ Percentage of representation Occupational employees has not in in formal joint health and been reported. management – safety Information not worker health available. and safety committees 40 4033-2 Types of injury Social impacts/ Not reported by and rates of Occupational gender. Information injury, health and not occupational safety available. The aim is diseases, lost to report the days, and information in absenteeism, 2017-2018. and number of Reporting does not work-related cover suppliers and fatalities service providers. 404 Training and education 404 404--1 Average hours Social impacts/ Not reported by X of training per Training and gender and year per education employee category. employee Information not available. 404 404--2 Programmes for Social impacts/ upgrading Training and employee skills education and transition assistance programmes 404 404--3 Percentage of Social impacts/ Not reported by X employees Training and gender and receiving education employee category. regular 137 performance Information not and career available. developmetn reviews 405 Div Diversity ersity and equal opportunity 405 405--1 Diversity of Social impacts/ Not reported by X governance Diversity and gender and bodies and equal employee category. employees opportunities Information not available. The aim is to report age group information in 2017–2018. 405 405--2 Ratio of basic Social impacts/ The ratio of basic X salary and Diversity and salary of men and remuneration of equal women has not been women to men opportunities reported. Information not available. The aim is to report the information in 2017–2018. 406 Non-discrimination 406406-11 Incidents of Social impacts/ X discrimination Nonand corrective discrimination actions taken 40 4077 Freedom of association and ccollectiv ollectivee bar barggaining 40 4077-1 Operations and Social impacts/ X suppliers in Freedom of which the right association and to freedom of collective association and bargaining collective bargaining may be at risk 412 Human rights assessment 412 12--1 Operations that Social impacts/ X have been Human rights subject to assessment human rights reviews or impact assessments 412 12--2 Negative social Social impacts/ X impacts in the Supplier social supply chain assessment and actions taken 138 414 Supplier social assessment 414 14--1 New suppliers Social impacts/ The percentage of that were Supplier social suppliers screened screened using assessment has not been social criteria separately reported out of new suppliers but out of all suppliers in high-risk countries. 414 14--2 Negative social Social impacts/ impacts in the Supplier social supply chain assessment and actions taken 415 Public policy 415 15--1 Political Social impacts/ X contributions Public policy 416 Customer health and saf safety ety 41616-11 Assessment of Social impacts/ Percentage the health and Customer health calculation model in safety impacts and safety accordance with the of product and GRI standard is no service applicable to Kesko's categories operations. 41616-22 Incidents of Social impacts/ non-compliance Customer health concerning the and safety health and safety impacts of products and services 417 Mark Marketing eting and labelling 417 17--1 Requirements Social impacts/ for product and Marketing and service labelling information and labelling 417 17--2 Incidents of Social impacts/ non-compliance Marketing and concerning labelling product and service information and labelling 417 17--3 Incidents of Social impacts/ non-compliance Marketing and concerning labelling marketing communications 139 418 Customer priv privacy acy 41818-11 Substantiated Social impacts/ complaints Customer concerning privacy breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 419 Socioec Socioeconomic onomic ccomplianc ompliancee 41919-11 NonSocial impacts/ compliance with Socioeconomic laws and compliance regulations in the social and economic area * All standards: version 2016. 140 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report (Translation from the Finnish original) AccountAbility’s AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008. Practitioner’s responsibility TO THE MANAGEMENT OF KESKO CORPORATION Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance We have been engaged by the Management of Kesko conclusion on the CR Information and on the Corporation (hereinafter also the Company) to perform Company’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility a limited assurance engagement on the economic, social Principles based on the procedures we have performed and environmental performance indicators for the and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our reporting period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 work in accordance with the International Standard on disclosed on Kesko Corporation’s website in the “GRI Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) report” section of “Kesko’s Annual report 2016” “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews (hereinafter CR Information). of Historical Financial Information”. That Standard In terms of the Company’s GRI Standards reporting and requires that we plan and perform the engagement to GRI content index, the scope of the assurance has obtain limited assurance about whether the CR covered economic, social and environmental disclosures Information is free from material misstatement. listed within the Topic-specific Standards as well as In addition, we have conducted our work in accordance Disclosures 102-8, 102-41 and 102-54 of the Universal with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. For Standards. conducting a Type 2 assurance engagement as agreed Furthermore, the assurance engagement has covered with the Company, this Standard requires planning and Kesko Corporation’s adherence to the AA1000 performing of the assurance engagement to obtain AccountAbility Principles with moderate (limited) level moderate (limited) assurance on whether any matters of assurance. come to our attention that cause us to believe that Kesko Corporation does not adhere, in all material respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and Management’s responsibility that the CR Information is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the Reporting criteria. The Management of Kesko Corporation is responsible for preparing the CR Information in accordance with the In a limited assurance engagement the evidenceReporting criteria as set out in the Company’s reporting gathering procedures are more limited than for a instructions and the GRI Standards of the Global reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less Reporting Initiative. The Management of Kesko assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance Corporation is also responsible for such internal control engagement. An assurance engagement involves as the management determines is necessary to enable performing procedures to obtain evidence about the the preparation of the CR Information that is free from amounts and other disclosures in the CR Information, material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. and about the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. The procedures selected The Management of Kesko Corporation is also depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including an responsible for the Company’s adherence to the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of inclusivity, CR Information and an assessment of the risks of the materiality and responsiveness as set out in 141 Company’s material nonadherence to the AA1000 When reading our assurance report, the inherent AccountAbility Principles. limitations to the accuracy and completeness of corporate responsibility information should be taken Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following into consideration. procedures: Our assurance report has been prepared in accordance • Interviewing senior management of the Company. with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept, • Interviewing employees from various organisational or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Kesko levels of the Company with regards to materiality, Corporation for our work, for this report, or for the stakeholder expectations, meeting of those conclusions that we have reached. expectations, as well as stakeholder engagement. • Assessing stakeholder inclusivity and responsiveness Observations and recommendations based on the Company’s documentation and internal communication. Based on the procedures we have performed and the • Assessing the Company’s defined material corporate evidence we have obtained, we provide the following responsibility aspects as well as assessing the CR Information based on these aspects. observations and recommendations in relation to Kesko Corporation’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility • Analysing references to the Company from the Principles. These observations and recommendations reporting period in online media. do not affect the conclusions presented earlier. • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as one site in Russia. • Inclusivity: The Company has processes in place for • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and stakeholder inclusivity, collection of feedback and reporting the CR Information at the Group level and at stakeholder engagement. During the past reporting the site where our visit took place. period, the Company has developed the collection of feedback in various channels and systemized the • Assessing how Group employees apply the reporting analysis of feedback received. We recommend that the instructions and procedures of the Company. Company continues to develop its activities related to • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the stakeholder inclusivity. information from original documents and systems on a • Materiality: The Company has a process in place to sample basis. evaluate and determine the materiality of corporate • Testing the consolidation of information and performing responsibility aspects. During 2016 the Company recalculations on a sample basis. carried out corporate acquisitions that widened the operations both geographically and division wise. We recommend that the Company assesses the need to update its materiality assessment taking into consideration the possible new aspects and needs for Limited assurance conclusion changes deriving from the acquisitions. • Responsiv esponsiveness: eness: The Company takes its stakeholders’ Based on the procedures we have performed and the expectations into account in its operations and responds evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our to them through the continuous development of its attention that causes us to believe that Kesko activities. During 2016, the Company has increasingly Corporation does not adhere, in all material respects, to identified the further growing expectations regarding the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. corporate responsibility matters from the investor community. We recommend that the Company further Furthermore nothing has come to our attention that develops and widens the utilisation as well as offering of causes us to believe that Kesko Corporation’s CR corporate responsibility information to investors. Information for the reporting period ended 31 December 2016 is not properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria, or that the CR Information is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the Reporting criteria. 142 Practitioner’s independence, qualifications and experience within financial and non-financial assurance, corporate responsibility strategy and and quality control management, social and environmental issues, as well as the relevant industry knowledge, to undertake this We have complied with the independence and other assurance engagement. ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly founded on fundamental principles of integrity, maintains a comprehensive system of quality control objectivity, professional competence and due care, including documented policies and procedures confidentiality and professional behaviour. regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate responsibility regulatory requirements. and assurance specialists possesses the requisite skills Helsinki, 6 March 2017 Pric Pricew ewaterhouseC aterhouseCoopers oopers Oy Enel Sintonen Sirpa Juutinen Partner, Authorised Public Accountant Partner Assurance Services Sustainability & Climate Change 143 Contact persons This list gives contact information of the people who primarily provide additional information on different areas of the report. This list does not include all Kesko employees who have participated in editing the report. Email addresses: firstname.lastname@kesko.fi Name Role Business unit DEVELOPMENT DEVEL OPMENT,, CCOORDINA OORDINATION RESPONSIBILITY TION AND RESP ONSIBILITY FFOR OR REP REPOR ORTT EDITING: Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Group Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Controlling Riikka Toivonen Head of Financial Communications Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Lena Leeve Financial Communications Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Matti Kalervo Vice President, Corporate Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Responsibility Pirjo Nieminen Corporate Responsibility Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Communications Specialist FINANCIAL RESP RESPONSIBILITY: ONSIBILITY: Jukka Erlund Senior Vice President, CFO Kesko Corporation, Accounting, Finance and IT Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Group Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Controlling Tiina Nyrhi Corporate Financial Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Controlling Erika Välkkynen Financial Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Controlling Riikka Toivonen Head of Financial Communications Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Lena Leeve Financial Communications Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Esko Mansikka Managing Director Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy HUMAN RESOUR RESOURCES CES RESP RESPONSIBILITY: ONSIBILITY: Matti Mettälä Executive Vice President, Human Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR resources Kati Matela Specialist, HRIS Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR / Common Services Katriina Ahtee Director, OHS & Wellbeing Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR / Common Services Mikko Myyryläinen Director, HR Services Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR / Common Services RESP RESPONSIBLE ONSIBLE PUR PURCHASING: CHASING: 144 Sohvi Vähämaa Corporate Responsibility Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Tuuli Luoma Product Group Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Mia Haavisto Quality Manager Kespro Ltd Johanna Teinilä-Kurvinen Project Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Leena Takaveräjä Purchasing Manager Kesko's building and technical trade, commerce PR PRODUCT ODUCT SAFETY: Matti Kalervo Vice President, Corporate Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Responsibility and Product Safety Heta Rautpalo Product Research Manager Kesko's grocery trade, Product Research ENVIR ENVIRONMENT ONMENTAL AL RESP RESPONSIBILITY: ONSIBILITY: Minna Saari Environmental Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Timo Jäske Sustainability Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Jari Suuronen Technical Building Services Manager Kesko's grocery trade, store sites and retailer operations Jesse Mether Sustainability Manager Kesko's building and technical trade, commerce Harri Jyränkö Development Manager VV-Autotalot Oy Hannu Pekuri Group Development and Quality Onninen Oy (hannu.pekuri@onninen.com) Manager ORPORA CORP ORATETE GO GOVERNANCE, VERNANCE, RISK MANA GEMENT AND C MANAGEMENT CORP ORPORA ORATETE SE SECURITY: CURITY: Anne Leppälä-Nilsson Executive Vice President, Group Kesko Corporation, Legal Affairs Counsel Pasi Mäkinen Chief Audit Executive Kesko Corporation, Internal Audit Ismo Riitala Vice President, Risk Management and Kesko Corporation, Accounting, Finance and IT Strategy Process PRIVA PRIV ACY PR PROOTE CTION/CUSTOMER TECTION/CUST OMER LLOOYAL ALTY TY SY SYSTEM: STEM: Tapio Näveri Director, Plussa concept and customer Kesko Corporation, K Digital service Kaija Kuusimaa Corporate Counsel, Privacy Officer Kesko Corporation, Legal Affairs 145
