th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com STATEMENT OF CONTINED SUPPORT “I am pleased to confirm that The GenSight Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-­‐Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely, Michael Menard President The GenSight Group June 21, 2017 th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Policy and Goals GenSight supports the protection of global human rights by encouraging behaviors and practices which are consistent with the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. We actively support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As far as we are aware, we do not carry out business with any countries or organizations where human rights fail to be respected and unacceptable methods are used e.g. exploitation, torture, politically motivated disappearances, slavery and child labor. GenSight promotes respect and integrity towards all employees and zero-­‐tolerance for discrimination in any form. Implementation GenSight promotes: • Safe and healthy working conditions • Outlawing of discrimination • Freedom of association for employees • Ensuring that employees, and their families, have access to basic health, education and housing Measurements People working for GenSight can expect: • To be briefed on and understand the overall aims and values of the organization • To be considered a vital part of the business • A safe and pleasant working environment • Appropriate remuneration and benefit structures • The information, knowledge and tools to do their job • Relevant skills training th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com • Opportunities for career development • One-­‐to-­‐one reviews aimed at improving performance and increasing job satisfaction • An atmosphere of civility, courtesy and mutual respect • Two-­‐way communication and consultation with management • Senior management who are approachable and accessible • Policies founded on sound business practice and legislative requirements • Fair and reasonable problem-­‐solving procedures We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, including: • right to life, the right to a nationality, treating employees fairly and consistently and the right to movement and residence. • GenSight strives to ensure equality to all employees and is committed to zero tolerance of victimization , bullying or harassment. • GenSight's main operations are located in the United Kingdom and in the United States and the Company complies with the protection offered to employees by regulators in these two countries. • GenSight has never been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No other issues have been identified. Recent Company Actions The GenSight Group supports the protection of global human rights by encouraging behaviors and practices which are consistent with the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. We promote respect and integrity towards all employees and zero-­‐tolerance for discrimination in any form. The company continues to ensure employees are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities and has policies in place to provide protection to its employees from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats . We have established procedures to evaluate and select suppliers and contractors, based on The GenSight Group’s human rights and social policies and to monitor their performance where appropriate. th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com LABOR PRINCIPLES Policy and Goals It is The GenSight Group's policy to provide employment, training, promotion, pay, benefits and other conditions of employment without regard to race, color, ethnic origin, nationality, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation , marital status, age and/or disability unrelated to an individual's ability to perform essential job functions. It is also the Company’s policy to conform to all employment standards required by law. All employees of the GenSight Group are issued with a contract of employment, which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates, holiday and sickness entitlement, equal opportunities, flexible working, parental leave, grievance process and work life benefits. GenSight complies with all relevant Labor legislation, and provides various forms of training to employees to perform their job role in a safe and effective manner. All new employees are taken through a robust induction program, which introduces them to the ethos and policies of GenSight. Senior Management operate an open door policy. Members of staff are actively encouraged to share ideas and discuss issues -­‐ regardless of where they are based. Home based workers are encouraged to take a 'walk down the virtual corridor' and pick up the phone to discuss any issues or concerns. 1.Discrimination GenSight is committed to providing a working environment free from harassment or bullying. Every employee is responsible for their own behavior and is expected to ensure that their conduct does not cause offence to colleagues or customers. All staff can be assured that any complaints made about inappropriate behavior will be investigated thoroughly and without delay. 2.Health and safety GenSight is committed to ensuring the safety of its employees, customers and anyone else affected by the business activities. • To provide and maintain safe working equipment • To provide information, instruction and supervision for employees th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com • To ensure all employees are competent to do their tasks, and give them adequate training • To prevent accidents and cases of work-­‐related ill health • To maintain safe and healthy working conditions • To review and revise this policy as necessary at regular intervals 3.Child labor The GenSight Group will never make use of child, forced or bonded labor. Measurements Annual appraisals are completed for GenSight employees to identify personal development needs and training requirements. We ensure our employees are well informed on the progress of the business and we encourage involvement in the processes and development wherever we can. As well as individual appraisals, GenSight also has a company review with employees for the Managing Director or President to provide an update of the past business year – giving staff merit for achievements, where the business is going and thanking them for their individual contribution. As a result of GenSight's two way communication with management and staff, our employees are motivated and are passionate about GenSight and the work they do. Employee satisfaction is our company goal. We aim for 90% (or higher), resulting in a ‘family’ type of atmosphere within the team. The Company has an extremely high staff retention rate (95%) The GenSight Group has not been involved in any Health & Safety notices, investigations, legal cases or other events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles. • A named staff member is responsible for investigating accidents and recording these in the accident book. • A named staff member is responsible for investigating work-­‐related causes of sickness absences. • A named staff member is responsible for ensuring the fire risk assessment is undertaken and implemented. • Escape routes, fire extinguishers and alarm are checked by a named staff member or suitably qualified contractor on a regular basis. th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com • Hours of work are detailed are agreed in each employee’s contract of employment. • GenSight has a grievance procedure to deal with any complaint or query relating to employment or management of the company and is freely available to all members of staff. Recent Company Actions GenSight continually monitors all areas concerning Labor Principles and aims to continually improve processes and policies. We have established procedures to evaluate and select suppliers and contractors, based on The GenSight Group’s human rights and labor principles and monitor their performance where appropriate. Senior Management operate an open door policy. Members of staff are actively encouraged to share ideas and discuss issues -­‐ regardless of where they are based. Home based workers are encouraged to take a 'walk down the virtual corridor' and pick up the phone to discuss any issues or concerns. th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Policy and Goals The GenSight Group recognizes that in the pursuit of our business goals we have a responsibility to ensure that our practices minimize any adverse environmental impact. GenSight promotes the use of environmentally sound resources, discourages wasteful or damaging practices, and continues with initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. GenSight is a progressive and proactive company with a dynamic way of understanding the environment around them. Perhaps our biggest contribution for the environment is inspiring others around us to raise their environmental awareness. Although the Company's direct impact on the environment is relatively small, The GenSight Group is keen to ensure continued commitment to its internal practices and controls. The environmental impact of technology services is mostly indirect, via clients, businesses and suppliers. Being socially responsible means being both a software company and a catalyst for both global companies as well as the local community. GenSight's goal is to create conditions for and support a productive business climate and to educate our clients. GenSight strives to effectively manage and reduce any potential impact on the environment during its business practice. “The GenSight Group has an environmentally friendly technology which helps customers align the Business with Sustainability Goals. GenSight's Sustainability Portfolio Management tool is transforming the way corporations around the World make decisions to optimize value to shareholders, society and the environment. Through our cutting-­‐edge technology, GenSight has been able to influence environmental awareness and affect attitudes and knowledge within our customer base. Using new technology we have been helping customers select sustainability projects across their entire corporate portfolio with the greatest positive impact on business, society and the environment.” Implementation In the coming year GenSight will continue to: • Aim to reduce environmental impacts, including resource consumption, water consumption, recycling and waste processing. th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com • GenSight's continues to work towards its goal to become a ‘paperless’ environment wherever possible. As we strive to reach this goal, we will ensure that there are paper recycling bins close to desks or printers, and separate recycling bins for glass, paper and plastics. • Mugs and glasses are used instead of plastic or paper disposable cups, spoons. • GenSight safely recycles computer equipment and other business hardware. • GenSight is committed to reducing its energy usage: • The Company uses low energy lightbulbs throughout its offices. • Wherever it's safe to do so, GenSight turn off (and unplug) electrical equipment overnight or when it's not being used, including unused lights, all items on Standby mode, computer monitors and other equipment. • The GenSight offices are fitted with the most up-­‐to-­‐date energy savings specifications. • All key equipment purchased is at a AAA star rating wherever possible. • GenSight is a family friendly company and working from home is encouraged and widely used to reduce travel to work. • GenSight participates in the Cycle to Work scheme in the UK to encourage employees to cycle rather than driving to work. Details of joining the scheme are shared with employees via the Staff Handbook. • 60% of staff in GenSight's UK office travel by public transport or ride by bicycle. • GenSight is a proactive adopter of legislative requirements. We are committed to comply with all other requirements with the day-­‐to-­‐day running of the business. • GenSight's recycling schemes are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Measurements Awareness campaigns to give comprehensive feedback to all staff highlighting our impact on the environment and reinforce our aims to become more environmentally friendly. th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com GenSight has not had any reports of environmental incidents within the last year or been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. • The CFO monitors new equipment purchases to adhere with GenSight's drive to increase efficiency. • New product developed to undertake to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Encouragement of customers and users of the GenSight technology solution to incorporate sustainability and environmental friendly decisions in to their decision making processes. Recent Company Actions During the last year, The GenSight Group has increased its percentage of recyclable waste. Energy usage has dropped significantly in the past 6-­‐12 months. Where possible, GenSight encourages using virtual meeting technology, teleconferencing and video conferencing instead of travelling to meetings. By adopting this environmental approach, the Company has actively reduced its carbon emissions through the use of virtual meetings. Company brochures are now produced electronically to reduce waste. Where there is a need to print copies, The GenSight Group now only uses recycled paper which is 100% Green e-­‐certified. th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com ANTI-­‐CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Policy and Goals GenSight is compliant with the relevant bribery legislation such as the UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. We are committed to work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Transparency, integrity and fairness The GenSight Group aims to act with transparency, integrity and fairness in all we do. We do not take part in any form of bribery or corruption, and we do not associate with any group which supports violence, terrorism or discrimination. If any instances of suspected corruption are identified by any GenSight employee the instances must be reported immediately. Implementation The GenSight software is developed in-­‐house. If we do use third parties suppliers we will ensure they are ethically trading and not involved in any unethical practices. Our financial records are audited on a monthly basis by our UK Managing Director and our President in the U.S. and are controlled by our Chief Financial Officer. Our accounts are audited independently on an annual basis. Measurements Our recruitment procedure is routinely checked and audited by external bodies such as our large corporate clients and includes such safeguards as background checks, criminal record checks and proof of citizenship, which can all reduce our exposure to risk of corruption. The GenSight Group submits audited accounts each year to the relevant bodies in the United States and United Kingdom. These are verified by external auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. The measurement for corruption remains the responsibility of the UK Managing Director and President in the U.S. and is based on perception according to the information provided to them by the Chief Financial Officer. The GenSight Group has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com Recent Company Actions The GenSight Group continues with eduction to assist our staff in this area to ensure the company’s integrity as an international business, and to ensure its compliance with the ethical code of practice. The GenSight Group maintains committed to the UN Global Compact Principles for Anti-­‐Corruption. th 780 5 Avenue South Naples, FL 34102 T: 239 261 9936 E: info@gensight.com
