Communication on Progress Basic data: Hrvatska poštanska banka d.d. (Croatian Postal Bank plc) Address: Jurišićeva 4, HR-10000 Zagreb, Croatia Contact: Office of Corporate Communications Phone: +385 (1) 4805 057, +385 (1) 4804 920 Fax: +385 (1) 4810 773 E-mail: pr@hpb.hr Web: www.hpb.hr Statement of Continued Support HPB Communication on Progress 1 I have pleasure in presenting you our ninth Communication on Progress, prepared in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact Initiative and outlining our activities taken in 2016 in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The principles of social responsibility have been integrated into our business strategy for all 25 years of our corporate history. Each year we are seeking to improve our practice in the area of socially responsible operation, based on employee-development efforts, transparency of operation and availability Award “Poslodavac to our customers, professional relationship with our partners, provision of Partner” support to the community and caring for the environment. We are proud of the prestigious award Certificate Employer Partner awarded to us for the first time in 2016 as a company with high quality human In 2016, we consistently implemented the ten principles of the Global Comresource management processes. We have demonstrated quality in all five pact Initiative. In the 2016 Communication on Progress we give the sumevaluated areas: recruitment and selection, performance, motivation and mary of our activities and achievements in the areas of human rights, labour, remuneration, training and development and employee relations. We are environment and anti-corruption in the light of the objectives we set out to aware that everything we do in the field of human resource management meet, as well as the outline of further plans for 2017. has significant influence on the improvement of the quality of our services and our customer satisfaction, and this is what we are seeking – to be the best bank in Croatia, recognizable for quality, competitive and fast services, Lidija Martinović always available to its customers. Director of Office of Corporate Communications Brief description of the fundamental HPB Communication on Progress 2 business operation Hrvatska poštanska banka was founded in October of 1991 as a universal Hrvatska poštanska banka is the core of the HPB Group which also includes – banking organization to provide all banking services at home and abroad. Until HPB-Invest Ltd., HPB-Rea dodjela l Estate Ltd. and HPB-Home Savings plc. 2001, the majority owner of Hrvatska poštanska banka was Croatian Post which through the good business practice of postal banks in Europe, conOne of the major pillars of the business strategy of HPB is its accessibility and tinued to accomplish, through a newly established bank, the mission of the availability. The cooperation with the Croatian Post and the use of the post oftraditional postal savings banks which were founded in Croatia in 1883. fices as its distribution channels enabled HPB to be the most accessible bank in Croatia. Along with its accessibility, HPB is especially committed to creating Since the beginning of 2001, the Republic of Croatia is the majority owner of innovative and competitive products and services responsive to the needs of Hrvatska poštanska banka via funds or companies owned by it. its customers. The ownership structure of Hrvatska poštanska banka: Hrvatska poštanska banka is the largest and one of the few Croatia owned banks. HPB is the fourth bank in Croatia based on the number of customers, Republic of Croatia 42,4293% the seventh based on the assets value, the second based on the number of Croatian Post plc 11,9336% cash transactions, and according to the researches, the first one based on the recommendations; it is also among the leading banks based on the customers’ State Agency for Deposit Insurance and Bank Resolution 8,9803% trust. Croatian Pension Insurance Institute 8,7577% As the largest Croatia owned bank, HPB accepts responsibility and takes full Hrvatska poštanska banka plc – own treasury shares 0,0393% account of not only economic but also of social processes in Croatia, and conMinority shareholders (285) 27,8597% tributes through its actions to their further development. Business environment and business HPB Communication on Progress 3 challenges In 2016 Hrvatska poštanska banka was confronted with substantial challenges of announced and current regulatory changes and market competition amid general decline in interest rates. The Bank adjusted to such circumstances by quality sales management, pricing policy and improved processes. Furthermore 2016 was the year when a lot of initiatives and strategic projects were implemented (Super Smart HPB, CRM, NPL sale, SEPA Credit Transfer, etc.) which required engagement of both, human and financial resources. In 2016 HPB achieved the best results in its corporate history. Together with demanding operating activities, the Bank increased its net profit by 46.2% to HRK 180.2 million, while its operating profit reached the figure of HRK 385.4 million which was HRK 57.7 million or 19.8% more than in 2015 due to higher non-interest income and 4.1% lower expenses amid efficient management. HPB and HP In 2016, 33 thousand new current accounts of individuals were opened; among 25 thousand new clients 82% have been employed. The majority of new clients are aged between 36 and 50 accounting for faster change in the profile of HPB’s customers who are younger and have higher salaries. Expansion of digital services (mHPB, SuperSmart HPB account, on-line loan application) is a key driver to attracting new customers. In corporate banking, the Bank introduces new credit lines and expands its cooperation with certain industries and businesses, for example agriculture, craftsmen, lawyers, etc. In cooperation with EBRD the financing for small businesses, women – entrepreneurs and energy efficiency projects has been arranged. Amid deposits inflow the Bank’s assets were up by 9.3% to HRK19.4 billion HPB and EBRD HPB Communication on Progress 4 which is the highest growth in the last five years. The Bank achieved the highest market shares in all lending and deposit segments. Despite lending reduction in the market, HPB continued to record the growth of loan portfolio and the total net loans grew by HRK 1.2 billion or by 11.6%. The loans to individuals grew by 12.3% and every second kuna lent to individuals in 2016 referred to the housing loans which jumped by record 51.2%. Corporate loans grew by 11.5% and reached the figure of HRK 6.8 billion. Total deposits were up by 11.4% to HRK16.2 million with change in structure. The highest jump was recorded in corporate deposits by 54%, while retail savings were up by 4.8%. To keep the quality of its services at the highest level, the Bank increased availability to customers and improved its network, opening new and moving certain branches to better locations. The Bank also continued to develop and improve channels of distribution and to offer more functionalities and products. At the end of 2016 the Bank had 60 business units, and with more than 1000 post offices providing also the services of the Bank, HPB provided its customers with the largest banking network spread throughout Croatia. Also, one part of the “Bank in Post Office” project has been implemented, introducing so called Financial Corners in 131 post offices where all basic banking services may be arranged, including also non-purpose loans. In cooperation with the Croatian Post, HPB wants to offer their customers the level of service provided in its own branches. I HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proPrinciple 2 businesses claimed human rights should make sure they within their spheres are not complicit in huof influence man rights abuses Practical activities HPB Communication on Progress 6 In connection with the principles of responsible business operation referring to the respect for and observance of human rights, Hrvatska poštanska banka Education and care for employees continued in 2016 to undertake the activities not only in the sphere of information security in business, but also in the sphere of protection, education and Hrvatska poštanska banka is continuously taking care of and providing for the care of all employees of the Bank. expertise and education of its employees in terms of the ever present foundation of the Bank’s competitive power on the market. Besides, the Bank’s employees are obliged to maintain their professional skills and comply with the Information security professional and applicable regulatory requirements. HPB is supporting and promoting lifelong learning whereby it is directly affecting the creation of the During 2016 too, the Bank strongly focused on the protection from fraud added value of the company and is providing the opportunity to every employattacks against its information system, as well as on a recently growing numee to acquire knowledge necessary for his or her respective area of work. The ber of malware-based attacks against financial institutions. employees have been actively trained both inside and outside the workplace, through professional counselling, workshops, seminars, conferences, special• Anti-Malware and Anti-Fraud tools were implemented and the group for ized training courses and language and computer courses. The E-Classroom fraud prevention was established within the Corporate Security Office. system has been further used and made permanently available to all employ• The educational and information activities for the Bank’s employees and ees irrespective of the time of use and location of a place of work. customers were added. Using the system of instruction provided with the help from internal trainers • The Bank’s information system security management was additionally new and existing employees are continually educated for specific workplaces improved and upgraded. and provided with all necessary educational contents in order to train and pre• The cooperation and information exchange amongst the banks in Croatia pare them sufficiently to perform their daily professional activities. in the area of information security were both improved. We continued to organize and implement on regular basis all relevant educa• The Bank is keeping pace with the global trends in the protection of tional programs specifically designed for new employees – interns with the information and against new security threats to the information system. aim of introducing them directly and properly into the Bank’s business, both • The awareness of the need for more investments in the information sein individual areas and in general, and to prepare them in the best possible curity systems has risen. manner for their future work. After the completion of such programs all interns HPB Communication on Progress 7 must take internship exam based on which their future employment status is educated also sales network of the Croatian Post about the products of the determined and they are steered in the direction of business areas where they Bank. can achieve the best possible results. Via the E-Classroom system, the following topics were studied: HPB-Invest agent license test, education and exam in the work with Western Union, list The educational programs include: of indicators for recognizing suspicious transactions and persons who are • Internal education reasonably suspicious of engaging in money laundering or financing of ter• External education rorism, conflict of interest and personal transactions of relevant persons and • Education via E-Learning platform In case of the internal education, in 2016 the Bank focused mostly on the education of new and existing employees concerning the anti-money laundering and terrorism financing prevention, SEPA and CRM. The internal courses were organized in order to introduce new employees into their work. The internal trainers attended for several days the course to develop the knowledge of advanced selling skills and the comprehensive Train the Trainer course, while those employees who do not conduct trainings but give various lectures were educated in skills of presentation and methods of teaching. A significant number of employees attended internal courses in soft skills, namely team work, communication skills, conflict resolution, provision of feedback, assertiveness, etc. In case of the education of the existing employees, the sales coaching through mentoring system was implemented in branch offices. Also, in 2016 the Bank continued to provide the courses focused on the sale of insurance products of the insurance company “Croatia osiguranje”. These educational programs were implemented by the internal trainers. The same employees HPB Communication on Progress 8 training in occupational safety and health. Some of these topics were obligEmployees’ data atory for a certain number of the Bank’s employees (for example for those from the sales network), while on the other hand all the employees had to On 31 December 2016 the Bank had the total of 1067 employees. attend the course in occupational safety and health. Using E-Classroom employees could also gain access to the topics of their choice, for example how Structure of employees on 31 December 2016 to use MS Office tools. In 2016, in the external education programs the employees were acquiring 1) Based on type of employment their professional knowledge participating in different workshops, seminars, conferences and programs of education. In addition to that, for employTemporary employment Permanent employment Total ees occupying the positions requiring them under the law to pass certain state-level exams the Bank organized both, the required courses and the 55 1012 1067 exams. Also, the Bank organized the employee training on compliance with regulatory framework and changes. The most important were the workshops where each organisational unit learned how to set KPIs and the education on “Making Performance Conversations” attended by all managers. Also, the 1.Temporary employment 55 course in English and training for trainers were the most popular. Finally, it is worth to mention that E-Learning platform provides access to the materials given to those employees attending certain seminars/workshops/ 2. Permanent employment 1012 conferences so that such materials are available also to other employees of the Bank and that the Bank may encourage knowledge sharing. 3. Total 1067 HPB Communication on Progress 9 2) Based on age and gender structure 3) Based on gender structure of managers and other senior officers: Age Total Women Men men (67), women (65). 19-24 5 3 2 25-29 80 53 27 30-34 226 156 70 67 35-39 260 172 88 40-44 206 148 58 45-49 122 92 30 50-54 79 57 22 55-59 78 59 19 60-64 65 i više 11 0 9 0 2 0 65 Total: 1067 749 318 Employees’ average age on 31 December 2016 in the Bank was 40. HPB Communication on Progress 10 Additional care for employees • For humanitarian purposes: o Children’s Hospital Klaićeva – assistance to purchase new IT equipment 1. The employees have been ensured additional and supplementary health o Organization “MoSt” – Split – humanitarian action “A DI SI TI!?” insurance in cooperation with a Croatian insurance company o Organization “Debra” – support to the organisation’s operation 2. Benefits in terms of discounts on theatre tickets and different recreational o Organization “Parkinson and We” – humanitarian action “Parkinson and and wellness programmes We” 3. Lower rates of interest on loans o Cancer Patients Society “Sv. Juraj” – assistance to organize The Terry Fox 4. Discounted electricity rates (discount in case of HEPI tariff) Run 5. Various extraordinary monetary aids • Education: 6. Newsletter o Organization Melius Croatia – assistance to the Croatian delegation of 7. Internal web portal secondary school students who went to the international conference NHSMUN held at the United Nations Headquarters in New York o Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Osijek – assistance to students who Contribution towards community went to the international competition “Elektrijada” in Rimini • Sport: Hrvatska poštanska banka is a socially responsible institution, aware of its o Croatian Football Club “Gorica” environmental impact, and understands that activities and business operation o Mountain Cycling Club “Zemlja – Zrak” – TransDinara Marathon 2016 in a society imply also a constant care and respect for it. One of the activities o Futsal Club “Marina” – “Hileja Trekk&Trail Marina 2016” whereby the Bank exercises social responsibility is supporting the community • Culture and social events: through grants and sponsorships. o 301st “Tournament of Alka” in Sinj – the Alka Knights Tournament Society We support the projects at the local and national level which encourage the o 49th “Šokačko sijelo” manifestation in Županja creation of new values, seeking to promote knowledge and excellence and to o 3rd Youth Salon – Croatian Association of Artists preserve cultural heritage of our country. Special care is taken also of humano 12th Cash & Carry Day – Academy of Fine Arts – University of Zagreb itarian organizations and actions. • Conferences and economic events: o Croatian Money Market – “Tržište novca d.d.” HPB Communication on Progress 11 Improving financial literacy among population In the last three years, HPB carried out and presented to the public different surveys on the importance of people’s timely and inclusive awareness of finance, their understanding of financial risks and sound personal finance management. HPB sees itself as an institution which can participate in and contribute to the process of enhancing financial literacy, especially in case of pupils and students. In 2016, the Bank carried out a series of activities within the financial education project, and as a socially responsible institution promoted through different programs the importance of the financial responsibility and literacy for young people. Seeking to enhance the awareness of the importance of the o Day of Croatian Financial Institutions – Croatian Chamber of Economy proper ways in which the Bank manages not only its customers’ finances, o Corporate Governance in Croatia – “Lider media d.o.o.” but also those of other people, businessmen, public sector stakeholders and o 2nd International Transport and Insurance Law Conference – Intranslaw those involved in political life, stronger cooperation with schools, faculties and o “Let’s Buy Croatian” Campaign in 2016 Croatian Chamber of Economy student associations through joint researches, competitions and promotion of Zagreb the importance of knowledge has been given priority. o “Urbanovo 2016” Wine and Grape Growers Association of Međimurje “Hortus Croatiae” o 26th International Meeting of Wine and Grape Growers “Sabatina 2016” – Cooperative Alliance of Dalmatia Not only through sponsorships and grants, but also through its products and services and their availability through the cooperation with the Croatian Post, the Bank remained close and accessible to individuals and business partners throughout Croatia, as well as to special groups of individuals, such as young people, students and pensioners. Future goals HPB Communication on Progress 12 • We plan to introduce in 2017 a comprehensive career management process which will start with talent assessment and identification. • At the end of 2016 we started to develop the application software to help planning and recording employees’ educations; we plan to finish it in 2017 and also to test it and deploy it. • The Bank will continue to run internal and external education programs for its employees for the purpose of introducing the internal training system and internal trainer database. • The educational activities will be especially focused on the education of managers in the area of enhanced knowledge of HR processes application, strengthening of leadership skills (Leadership Academy). • Further enhanced activities through E-Classroom system will include more training courses for HPB Group’s employees, and they will be aimed at preventing discrimination, mobbing and violations of dignity in the workplace environment in general. • The Bank will continue to support the community and society where it operates through sponsorships and grants to those who need them most. • The Bank will further develop internal communication through existing channels (newsletter and intranet). • Further activities and projects fostering financial literacy in retail customers and entrepreneurs. II WORK CONDITIONS Principle 3 businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recPrinciple 5 the effecognition of the right to tive abolition of child collective bargaining labour Principle 4 the elimPrinciple 6 the elimiination of all forms of nation of discrimination forced and compulsory in respect of employlabour ment and occupation Practical activities HPB Communication on Progress 14 • The internal occupational safety and health rules have been updated. • The Bank’s employees have been educated on occupational health and safety measures on an on-going basis. • Preventive measures and legal obligations related to occupational safety and health and fire protection were implemented and fulfilled. • All tests prescribed by law, playing a role in the prevention and the control of employees’ health, have been made. • The employees have been ensured additional and supplementary health insurance in cooperation with a Croatian insurance company. • Continuous improvement of workplace quality through ergonomics and occupational safety and health measures (replacement of old IT equipment and defective chairs in the workplaces). Future goals • Adjustments to the amendments to the Occupational Health and Safety Act. • On-going education relating to occupational health and safety via E-Classroom. • Control of the Bank’s locations in terms of improved secure work conditions. • Carrying out emergency evacuation and rescue drills in the Bank’s premises. III ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 business Principle 9 business should support a preshould encourage the cautionary approach to development and diffuenvironmental chalsion of environmentally lenges friendly technologies Principle 8 business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Practical activities HPB Communication on Progress 16 • HPB has been the first bank in Croatia to introduce fully digital account • E-waste has been disposed in accordance with the legislation and conopening. HPB’s SuperSmart account is opened fully on-line, with no patracts with suppliers, and the price of disposal has been incorporated into per-based documentation or need to go to a branch. This is only one the sale price of electronic equipment. prominent example of HPB’s broader business process digitalization initiative and its focus on electronic channels (Internet Banking, Mobile Banking …); such initiative is effective in facilitating bank/customer interaction and also in reducing the consumption of paper, energy and waste, thus having a positive influence on environmental sustainability. • HPB continued rationalization and integration of technology platforms. Preparing the infrastructure to move to new data centres, new disk subsystems for storage consolidation were purchased and old and energy inefficient systems replaced. Also, new servers were purchased as the base for virtualization platform because by virtual server consolidation older and energy inefficient servers were taken out of service. The ratio of 20 virtual servers operating on one physical host reduces the energy consumption for power and cooling. • The print management project was completed and the printer fleet consolidated. The control of print quotas is centralized now, and predefined print settings include monochrome mode and duplex printing, as well as the optimized number of printed pages. Following the implementation of this project, print jobs were cut down and toner, paper and electricity consumption reduced. • Using the integrated unified communication system (Skype for Business) the number of travels to physical locations of meetings is reduced, and also the environmental impact of transport. HPB Communication on Progress 17 tion of environment. Green Office • Waste paper was continuously collected in cooperation with the licensed company which was supplying the boxes for waste paper. All waste paper Since 2012 Hrvatska poštanska banka has been carrying out through the was transported for recycling. The licensed company did not cover the enGreen Office Initiative the activities which should be also carried out by all tire area of Croatia and individual branch offices of HPB took the initiative employees of HPB Group in their daily tasks in order to minimize in the ofand joined independently the waste paper collection scheme in cooperafice operation negative environmental impacts and enhance efficient use of tion with other institutions. resources. Since the launch of this Initiative, a significant saving of energy • A record of the quantity of collected waste paper was kept by means of has been achieved, and the greatest progress has been marked in the paper accompanying lists. In 2016, totally 10.6 tons of paper was collected, 9 consumption. tons less than in 2015; however, this drop is reasonable as the quotas of printed pages have been constantly decreased. In 2016 the trend in reducing energy consumption mostly continued at all • All e-waste (obsolete computers, printers, fax machines) was properly dislocations where measurements were made, and special savings in paper conposed of at the companies licensed for e-waste disposal. sumption were recorded. • In all its units and Bank’s operational locations, throughout Croatia, the Bank introduced boxes for the purpose of gathering waste toners; they are In 2016 the following actions were taken: then transported and disposed of in the correct manner at the company • Through the informative and educational Intranet Site – Green Message responsible for that. Board, the Bank continued to educate and advise employees on an on• The Bank offers its customers the option of receiving bank account and going basis on the Green Office measures in terms of reduced paper credit card statements and upconsumption, optimum heat regulation in the premises, rational water and dates via electronic mail. lighting consumption, gathering old paper and toners in the special boxes, • Reports on expenditure were regetc. ularly sent via emails to the users • In the newsletter “Moja HPBanka”, in its column “HPB thinks green” curof corporate mobile phones for rent environmental issues were discussed in details and the employees the purpose of achieving more were advised on the manners in which they could contribute to the protecrational use of such phones. Future goals HPB Communication on Progress 18 • To relocate primary and secondary data centre to specialized premises intended for data centres that are more energy efficient and eco-friendly. To generate energy savings free-cooling systems will be used as they reduce refrigeration energy consumption. Another environmental benefit will be the use of environmentally friendly gases in the automatic fire suppression systems (Novec). • Further virtualization and rationalization of the IT infrastructure elements which will significantly minimise energy and ecological footprint of the Bank’s information system. • Further digitalization of the internal business processes and communication with customers will minimise paper and printing materials consumption, as well as the amount of waste produced. • In 2017, the Bank will continue to implement the Green Office activities and will reduce office supplies and energy consumption even more. IV ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Practical activities HPB Communication on Progress 20 resulted in bigger confidence, safer business process and service quality. It Implementation of Anti-Corruption also, includes intern and extern frauds that demands special attention and management reporting. Also, the customer relationship and communication Programme has been further improved through the operation of the Service Quality Management Office which is responsible to manage the quality of the services In furtherance of the Anti-Corruption Strategy of Hrvatska poštanska banka provided to the Bank’s customers through on-going customer satisfaction surfor the Period 2015 – 2020, the Bank performs the activities referring to the veys and measurements and giving recommendations to competent persons promotion of business integrity and transparency, through: for the purpose of improving the service quality. This office also manages the • improvement of corporate management, process of resolving complaints, objections and other requests of the custom• improvement of customer relationship and communication by strengtheners, in cooperation with other organisational units of the Bank. ing customer satisfaction and loyalty and intensifying customer relationship on behalf of the Bank, • alignment of business operation with laws, regulations and norms, Prevention of money laundering • improvement of internal control system and operation of control functions, and terrorist financing • promotion of ethical conduct and behaviour. Being under obligation to undertake measures and actions set in the AnAt the beginning of 2015, a special instruction was issued on how to deal ti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Law, the Bank undertook in with complaints/objections/reports submitted to the Bank’s ethics officer and 2016 in the sphere of money laundering and terrorist financing prevention irregularity officer and a significant progress was made in resolving complaints the following: of irregularities in the Bank’s operations and breaches of the Bank’s Code of • The Bank was undertaking in a consistent manner the measures and Ethics. In 2016, no complains on irregularities in the Bank’s operations was actions prescribed by law and regulations passed in accordance with the reported. In the last quarter of 2016 Bank issued a Politics for Prevention of Law, Fraud which defines directions and principles for managing prevention of fraud • The Bank was systematically developing and improving software in the model. That system determines risk protection for all clients and Bank which area of money laundering and terrorist financing detection and prevenHPB Communication on Progress 21 tion, by insiders was reported or noted. The Bank continued to control reporting • The Bank also organized a series of training courses for 555 employees of performed personal transactions of relevant persons and employees of the of the Bank and 13 employees of the Croatian Post (internal trainers). Bank to the Register of personal transactions of relevant persons and employees of the Bank, kept under the Ordinance on personal transactions of releSince while providing payment services in the name and for the account of vant persons and personal transactions of employees of the Bank. In 2016 the the Bank, the Croatian Post as “the third party” takes measures and carries Bank also performed the activities under Article 18 of the Regulation (EU) No out activities prescribed under the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Fi596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 nancing Law, and in order to ensure that the standards used by the Bank for on market abuse (market abuse regulation) and repealing Directive 2003/6/ detecting and preventing money laundering are also applied by the Croatian EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives Post, the Bank: 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC. Those activities include, • provides for the education of the internal trainers of the Croatian Post, among other things, drawing up a list of all persons who have access to inside • checks whether the bylaws of the Croatian Post governing the detection information, updating the insider list, providing the insider list to competent auand prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing are in complithority upon its request and ensuring that persons on the insider list acknowlance with the standards used by the Bank, edge the legal and regulatory duties under the Market Abuse Regulation, and • supervises efficient implementation of measures, actions and procedures are aware of the sanctions applicable to insider dealing and unlawful disclosure to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, preof inside information. scribed under the bylaws of the Bank and the Post. Prevention of market abuse and manipulation In 2016, no conflict of interest was recorded and no use of inside information Future goals HPB Communication on Progress 22 • Further enhance efficiency, integrity, ethics and transparency in business. • Further improve anti money laundering and terrorist financing system and internal control system in risk assessment processes related to money laundering and terrorist financing. • Educate and train employees in the sphere of the application of individual regulations in order to ensure compliance and application of laws, regulations and guidelines of the legislator. • Further enhance also a culture of money laundering and terrorist financing risk management seeking to raise the awareness and understanding of money laundering and terrorist financing risks. • Continue to introduce new software for detection and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in order to facilitate and accelerate detection of suspicious transactions and persons, simplify analytical work and improve communication of responsible persons in the Bank. • Continue to actively implement and improve the practices that enhance the transparency of procedures and business operation, including also reassessment and improvement of public disclosure.
