DGB FINANCIAL GROUP 2016-2017 Integrated Sustainability Report DGB NEW START for The Next Half Century 2016-2017 Integrated Sustainability Report ABOUT THIS REPORT DGB Financial Group Contents DGB ● DGB FINANCIAL GROUP PROFILE Financial 02 04 _ _ CEO Message Overview Group 07 _ 2016 Highlights 08 _ Stakeholder Engagement 2016-2017 Integrated Sustainability Report 14 _ Business Model SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT FOCUS 18 _ Focus Issue #1 DGB Daegu Bank's 50th Anniversary 20 _ Focus Issue #2 DGB Capital's Overseas Corporation in Laos 22 _ Focus Issue #3 DGB Daegu Bank's 2nd Headquarters CSR STRATEGY www.dgbfg.co.kr 28 _ 1. Future-Oriented Strategic Management 32 _ 2. Customer Satisfaction Management 39 _ 3. Enhancement of Organizational Competence 44 _ 4. Risk Management 49 _ 5. Creating Shared Value CSR PERFORMANCE 54 _ Sustainable Management System 56 _ Major Achievement of Sustainable Management 70 _ Materiality Analysis Process and Results 72 _ BOARD OF DIRECTORS A four-leaf clover is the symbol of DGB Financial Group’s sustainability report, with each leaf symbolizing one of our four core values: ethics FINANCIAL SECTION and corporate culture, sustainable finance, social contribution, and environmental management. This represents DGB Financial Group’s 76 _ Management’s Discussion & Analysis goal of creating a happier and healthier future through balanced _ Independent Auditors’ Report growth in all four areas. 81 82 _ Consolidated Statements of Financial Position A blue bird means ethical corporate culture that dreams toward 83 _ Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income the sky. Through the balance of life and work, DGB Financial 84 _ Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Group will create a great work place where both employees and _ stakeholders get happiness. 85 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 87 _ Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements A seed means sustainable finance that develops with the locality. We will make our best efforts to provide warm and good finance with the heart of sowing for the local economy. APPENDIX 160 _ DGB Financial Group Awards A flower in a red leaf reveals our full-hearted commitment to social contribution. DGB Financial Group promotes the develop161 _ Third-party Assurance Statement ment of local culture, the arts, education, and sports as a means 163 _ GHG emissions Verification Statement of enriching the lives of local residents. 164 _ GRI G4/ISO26000 Contents Index A fledgling bud in a green leaf signifies the emphasis we place 168 _ UN Global Compact / SDGs Index on nature and environmental management. Caring for our planet will ensure future generations can enjoy a cleaner and greener environment. OVERVIEW OF THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT DGB Financial Group Since the publication of the 1st sustainability report in 2006, DGB Financial Group will DGB Financial Group has been reporting its material sustainability issues which affect the stakeholders as well as relevant continue to create sustainable performances on economy, society and environment in a transvalues and will leap forward parent and truthful manner. This is the eleventh sustainability report written by DGB Financial Group, which was prepared by into the future together with connecting the group’s sustainable management strategies with the report’s contents to assist the stakeholders to comprehend 2016-2017 Integrated Sustainability Report stakeholders. our action plans, performance indices and future plans in detail, reflecting DGB Financial Group’s commitment to strengthen our operations. * The first four reports were published by Daegu Bank from 2006 to 2009. PERIOD, SCOPE & BOUNDARY This report covers DGB Financial Group’s performances from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016, and some contents include the data for the first half of 2017. This report contains activities and performances of DGB Financial Group Inc., and its seven subsidiaries, that is, DGB Daegu Bank, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, DGB Asset Management**, DGB U-Pay, DGB Data System and DGB Credit Information. The reporting boundary of each material issue is separately presented on page 71. **Newly enlisted in 2016 GUIDELINE This report was mainly written according to the Comprehensive Option of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guideline. It also adopted the GRI Financial Service Sector Supplement, ISO26000, UNGC’s 10 principles and SDGs 17 goals. ASSURANCE This report’s objectivity and reliability were verified by an independent institution based on the AA1000AS (2008). The results are contained on page 161-162. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 integrated sustainability report is available in both Korean and English versions, and is published on both PC and mobile web sites to enhance information accessibility for stakeholders. DGB Financial Group DGB Economic Research Institute 111, Oksan-ro, Buk-gu, Daegu Tel. +82-53-740-7971 | Fax. +82-53-740-7997 Email. sustainability@dgbfn.com DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group Profile 02 03 2016-2017 CEO Message INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CEO Message It is my great pleasure to convey my sincere gratitude to all stakeholders for the support and encouragement you have given Index and Korea Index for seven and eight consecutive years, respectively. In addition, DGB Financial Group was selected for us. I am delighted to say that you are at the heart of 2016 CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Korea Awards in the DGB Financial Group’s enduring prosperity, even in the midst category of climate change subsequent to the previous year’s of numerous obstacles. selection. The sustainability that DGB Financial Group has demonstrated over the years has indeed significantly raised the DGB Financial Group aspires to share dreams and prosperity group’s standings in the market, and all DGB members are through three core values, such as respect, passion and integrity. proud to have taken part in such accomplishments. With this management philosophy, DGB Financial Group has been driving its corporate sustainable management. The continuing The year 2017 marks the fiftieth anniversary of DGB Daegu Bank, fruits of such efforts have been published in our group’s the main affiliate. With aspirations to make an even greater leap Integrated Sustainability Report, and I hope this report will forward into the future, DGB Financial Group has set the new function as a meaningful communication channel. managerial objective of the ‘DGB New Start For Another 50 Years Forward’. Based on the achievements of the past half-century, The financial future that DGB Financial Group envisions is DGB Financial Group is ready to strive even harder to create new not mere affluence achieved by an expanding profit. It is a future social·environmental values through our financial activities. where we grow together with all of our stakeholders by means of the balanced integration of financial profitability, environmental In light of this new objective, DGB Financial Group aims to soundness and corporate social responsibility. This is why strengthen our core business areas by innovating the products DGB Financial Group is pressing on to become a world-leading and services provided by our affiliates, to improve the financial group, which stands firmly on our sustainable core service quality, and to build up its capacity for asset and risk competencies such as: customer satisfaction, maintenance of management. Moreover, our pursuit of growth and opportunities ethical standards, a sound corporate culture, and in future industries will never stop. DGB will pioneer the future transparent business practices. by the enhancement of FinTech and big data-based marketing, the expansion of our business network and the continuous The year 2016 has been another rewarding year for diversification of our non-banking business portfolio. DGB Financial Group in its various service sectors. In addition, DGB Financial Group will align its corporate interests As for the group as a whole, its seventh subsidiary ‘DGB Asset with those of its stakeholders, and is always open to cooperation Management’ was established, together with its first and eager to share with the community. DGB will create unique overseas subsidiary ‘DGB Lao Leasing Company’, which marks values by providing innovative services to customers and clients, a turning point in the group’s history as well as a leap forward and such DGB values will be handed back to the company. to becoming a global financial group. Also, DGB Financial Group To create shared values with the local community according to became the first local financial holding company to join the the current era demanding responsible financial corporations, other stakeholders of the Internet-only ‘K-Bank’, which further DGB Financial Group will also continue to carry out DGB social substantiates the group’s capabilities as a leader in the digital initiatives over diverse areas including: supports of various local finance services. DGB Daegu Bank has expanded its business drives, specialized education programs and a wide range of network into Korea’s capital region; while DGB Life has raised activities in culture, the arts, and sports. its profitability and reinforced its brand awareness. Additionally, ‘DGB Capital’, ‘DGB Asset Management’, ‘DGB U-Pay’, ‘DGB Data Overall, DGB Financial Group will become a creator of sustainable System‘ and ‘DGB Credit Information’ have further contributed to values, and together with all of our stakeholders we will leap the group’s synergy in leaps and bounds with their steady forward into the future. I am looking forward to increasing the business performances. newly found hopes and the happiness within our society. These achievements and efforts were recognized from outside Thank you. DGB Financial Group, with awards that were received Park, In-gyu on several occasions from esteemed institutions. In particular, CEO of DGB Financial Group in Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 2016, DGB Financial Group was concurrently included in the listings for Asia/Pacific DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group Profile 04 05 2016-2017 Overview INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Overview Introduction ● DGB Financial Group was launched in 2011 for better financial service and in an attempt to secure the Business Status foothold for another takeoff. Based on Daegu Bank, which is the first local bank in Korea, four affiliates, * As of the end of Dec. 2016 that is, DGB U-Pay, DGB Data System and DGB Credit Information, joined the group for the enhancement of the group’s capability. Afterwards, the group acquired a credit finance corporation, a life insurance Number of Number of Total Asset (Hundred Net Income (Hundred Branches Employees Millions (KRW)) Millions (KRW)) company and an asset management firm, which became DGB Capital, DGB Life Insurance and DGB Asset Management, respectively, making a total of seven subsidiaries. Now, DGB Financial Group is making DGB Daegu Bank* 259 3,121 459,452 2,650 another leap forward to emerge as a premium financial group based on diversifying the sources DGB Life Insurance 49 280 55,751 149 of profits, creating synergy among the affiliates and expanding global network. DGB Capital* 12*** 161 18,511 141 DGB Asset Management** 1 32 185 18 DGB Financial Group’s Subsidiaries and Shares * As of the end of Dec. 2016 DGB U-Pay 1 31 352 -9 DGB Data System 1 96 96 9 DGB DGB DGB DGB Asset DGB Credit Information 1 25 47 -1 Daegu Bank Life Insurance Capital Management DGB Financial Group 100 % 99.52 % 100 % 100 % * For DGB Daegu Bank and DGB Capital, the total asset is based on the consolidated financial statement, and the net income is for controlling shareholders. ** For DGB Asset Management, the accounting period is from Apr. 1, 2016 to Dec. 31, 2016. *** 11 domestic, 1 overseas (Laos Corporation) DGB DGB DGB Credit U-Pay Data System Information 100 % 100 % 100 % Number of Branches Number of Employees DGB Daegu Bank 259 DGB Daegu Bank 3,121 Based on the management philosophy of Share dreams DGB Life is a trustworthy life partner with 30 years of DGB Life Insurance 49 DGB Life Insurance 280 and prosperity with the local community, DGB Daegu Bank history and tradition for life insurance, and took another DGB Capital 12 DGB Capital 161 has been providing the best financial service to local leap forward by being incorporated into DGB Financial residents for the past 49 years, and has laid the foundaGroup in January 2015. DGB Asset Management 1 DGB Asset Management 32 tion for further development of the region. DGB U-Pay 1 DGB U-Pay 31 DGB Data System 1 DGB Data System 96 DGB Credit Information 1 DGB Credit Information 25 Joining DGB Financial Group in October 2016, DGB Asset DGB Capital is a credit finance corporation that joined Management began to take a new leap forward as an DGB Financial Group in January 2012. All employees are premium asset management company with the pouring their best efforts to establish a 'premium management philosophy of creating greater value capital company' with the management philosophy of 'subbased on reliability and trust. stantial leap forward'. DGB Data System is an information technology company Total Asset (Hundred Millions (KRW) Net Income (Hundred Millions (KRW) DGB U-Pay has established an electronic payment that was established to provide customers with highsystem for our daily lives, which provides safe and conquality IT services, such as the development of venient services in various fields, such as small payment, information system, the integration and operation of DGB Daegu Bank 459,452 DGB Daegu Bank 2,650 access control and security, based on transportation information system, IT consulting and IT-related education. DGB Life Insurance 55,751 DGB Life Insurance 149 infrastructure including bus, subway and taxi. dation for further development of the region. DGB Capital 18,511 DGB Capital 141 DGB Asset Management 185 DGB Asset Management 18 DGB U-Pay 352 DGB U-Pay -9 DGB Data System 96 DGB Data System 9 DGB Credit Information is a credit information company that has been established for the local development and quick DGB Credit Information 47 DGB Credit Information -1 settlement of a credit society. It provides diverse asset management services, including credit investigation, credit collection and civil affairs agency service. DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group Profile 06 07 2016-2017 2016 CSR HIGHLIGHTS INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Vision & Strategy 2016 CSR HIGHLIGHTS ● With the management philosophy of “Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with the Local Community”, DGB Financial Group will achieve our corporate vision of being “best partner building the future together”, based on the management policies: field-centric management which visits customers; precision management which is trusted by customers; and future management for another leap forward. DGB Future Oriented Customer Enhancement of Risk Creating Shared 5 Major strategic Satisfaction Organizational Management Value StrateManagement Management Competence Philosophy & Policy gies 2016 · Acquired an asset · Developed · E xtended selective · Entered into an · Provided clientPhilosophy management firm products targeting training courses agreement centered financial Highlights for senior for each position, for establishing education · Established DGB Capital’s LLaotian customers and reformed the and operating local · Developed financial branch (DLLC) cyber training green finance products and system preferential fund supported for the · Pioneered the Internet bank for the restoration of first time among Seomun Market from local banks fire damage Vision Best Partner Building the Future Together Major · Net Income · FSS Financial · DGB Daegu Bank ·C  DP KOREA · The financial economic Consumer Protection employees' financial superior company education volunteer PerforKRW 287.7billion* Assessment*: certification in climate change corps provided 430 mance Best Bank for 10 acquisition rate response for financial education for Field-Centric Precision Future * Group (Consolidated consecutive years 2 consecutive years 24,000 people Net Income 88.5% Management Management Management to Controlling 10 Years 2 Years 24,000 people Shareholders’ Equity) Policy Customer Value as Focusing on Basic Diversification Business Top Priority / Empathy & Principles / Fulfilling Social Portfolio / · Selected as 5 ‘World * 2006~2014 Complaint ·G  HG emission Class 300’ companies Communication / Responsibility / Expansion Business Assessment: 1st Grade, reduction Field-Centric Company Preservation Customer Network / Financial Consumer among management Culture Value Brand Value up Protection Evaluation: All Items “Good” 402.14tCO e 2 consulting providers 5 companies · Reinforcement of · Increase in demands · Reinforcement · E nhancement of · Trust from Key for strengthening IT 2017 Goal & Strategy Issue Fin-Tech of stakeholder trust between DGB stakeholders · Expansion of financial security & preventing communication and stakeholders · Reinforcement of infrastructure & financial accidents · Loyalty & motivation ·R  einforcement of stakeholder assets to provide · Establishment for improving capacities related to communication Goal financial service of infrastructure for performance ethical management, financial service · E nhancement of · Enhancement of (Leadership, risk management & reputation & brand trust between DGB · Protection for management and governance value and stakeholders customer information cooperation) · Increase in · Reinforcement of · Enhancement of customer focus on capacities related to reputation & brand environment, society ethical management, value & health Risk Management (Innovation of competitiveness) risk management & · Increase in customer · E nhancement in 1 Enhancing Asset Management Competitiveness / Enhancing Customer Value / Enhancing Non-Banking Competitiveness governance focus on environment, society & health utilization of natural resources · Environmental impact ·O  peration of ecoassessment for goods friendly system & services · E nvironmental impact Response to Future (New Growth Engine) 2 · Development of assessment for 3 Major Strategies Establishing Digital Finance / Expanding Global & Metropolitan Bases / environment-related goods & services Diversifying Group Business financial products DGB Be One (Integration of the group, synergy) SDGs 3 Integrating the Group / Increasing Synergy / Reducing Synergy Cost DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group Profile 08 09 2016-2017 Stakeholder ENGAGEMENT INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stakeholder Engagement Selection & Classification of Stakeholders Communication Channel Stakeholder Opinion & DGB's Response DGB Financial Group has selected stakeholders in accordance with the criteria provided by the ISO26000(International StanStakeholder Opinion Employee (Including Labor Union) dard for Social Responsibility) and based on legal, financial and · Intranet (Please Help, Please Change/ operational responsibilities and their influence, we have conEmployees’ Wish Letters) (Standing) Customer · Provision of and enhancement of accessibility to ducted the mapping and grouping of stakeholders. Then we have · Employee Satisfaction Survey (Standing) information on goods and services Stakeholder Communication Channel · Improvement of safety and quality of goods and services classified them into three major groups, which is, core, strategic · Labor-Management Meeting and Conference (Standing) · Improvement of satisfaction for customer and other stakeholders, and have defined employee, shareholdcommunication er and investor, customer, local community, business partner, Employee · Diversification of education programs to enhance the government and related organization as core and strategic Customer competence of global financial experts stakeholder groups. · Creation of work environment with the sound · Website (Standing) balance of work and life Sincere communication with stakeholders and their participaon) · ‘DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel’ (Standing) Uni · Activation of communication / expansion of tion are the key to DGB Financial Group’s sustainable manageor · Customer Satisfaction Survey (Standing) communication channels / open communication Lab c tive Qu Cu · Financial Service Customer Protection ment practice. DGB Financial Group is recognizing the needs of ing e·A alit st each stakeholder group, and is actively addressing the needs, n c lud Cu ltur viron ya Cus Go d Sa n om er Education (Standing) Shareholder/ · Stable revenue generation, discovery of new growth (i nal g E n tom ods fet · Customer Protection Report, ‘Caring Investor engine, higher dividend thereby establishing sound and reliable relationships with the ee atio kin ts / / C er In and Ma y ga niz / Wor enefi orceom fo Se nag Companion’ (Standing) · Enhancement of transparency in management, f stakeholders. Employntal Orication lfare Bd Reiny / Faird Complaint rmati rvice emen · CEO Forums (Daegu, Gumi, Pohang, expansion of information disclosure izo un ·We t an nc ar mu Man on P s / t of Gimcheon) (Standing) Hor Comm ment pmen mpete d Rew Cus nicat agem rotec · Honorary Branch Manager Meeting Local · Increase in Investment to local community and support elo f Co t an tom ion w ent tion Government & Related Organization Mapping of Stakeholders Dev ent o smen ers ith / (Standing) Community for the financially-underprivileged Profit Improvement.Distribution Policy / m ses al Ext · Superior Small & Medium Business CEO · Expansion of social contribution activities required by As ern ern Stakeholder & Investor Meeting (Standing) local community Int al · Investigation to boost the local economy, Compliance with Laws and Sustainable Growth·Risk Parties for which DGB Financial Group is legally, · Business Consulting Service (Standing) financially or operationally responsible including the creation of jobs Regulations / Tax PayManagement / Securement of ● External External Business · Expansion of the cooperation with business partners ment·Policy Cooperation / Major Issues Shareholder & Investor Partner for the growth and improvement of capacity Transparency in Management · Reinforcement of two-way communication channels Public-Private Cooperative · DGB Financial Group Website (DGB IR) for business partners (Standing) Government, Business Partnership (Expansion of Disclosure) / · General Shareholders' Meeting (Standing) Government / · Fulfillment of social responsibility as Related Partner, Ext al ern rn · Board Meeting (Standing) Local Governa financial company xte Sound Governance Organization Labor Union Employee, Exp al E · IR Activities (Standing) ment / Related · Compliance with financial laws and regulations Shareholder, ans Organization Investor Cre Co atio ntr of ion wth n i S Win l Gro NGO·Interested Customer, Non-Regular Workers Con in of J butio ocia a Win ·Mutu de tinu Inve obs n / l a tion ir Tr Groups, Media, Competitors Local Non-Profit Organizations (NPOs) (Peer Group) Community Other Financial Institutions ous stm and ra Business Partner Com ent Boo / st oope / Fa ● ● Communi munica C · Website (Online Civil Petition, Financial Stakeholder Opinion s tion er Accident & Irrationality Report) (Standing) Parties which Parties affected tie · Business Partners' Win-Win Meeting affect DGB Financial Group’s by DGB Financial Group’s operation s Suppli (Standing) Customer · DGB Chamsori Advisory Panel performance · One CS manager per branch · Opening on weekends and holidays Grouping of Stakeholders Local Community Employee · DGB Youth Frontier · Live talk with the president of bank · Website (DGB Social Contribution to Local · Smart Leisure-Tech Campaign Community) (Standing) Core Stakeholders · DGB Daegu Bank Social Contribution Activity Shareholder/ · Opening up of a global market (DGB Capital's overseas Report (Standing) Investor corporation in Laos) Stakeholder Strategic Stakeholders · DGB Volunteer Corps (Standing) · Disclosure of transparent management / presentation other Stakeholders · Love Your Hometown Campaign, of performances and provision of IR data '1 Corporation 1 Village' (Standing) · DGB University Student Ambassador, Local · DGB Accompanying Volunteer Corps 'With-U Volunteer Corps'/Green Press Community · Bluebird Senior’s Happy Workplace Program Corps (Standing) · NIE Energy Diary Contest Stakeholder Communication Channel · Dream Tree Education Project DGB Financial Group always listens to stakeholder opinions Business · Business partners’ win-win meeting through diverse communication channels to establish a consenGovernment & Related Organization Partner · Provision of management consulting service to sus on sustainable management activities and issues that we · Website (Standing) business partners are promoting in earnest. Their opinions are reviewed by each · Government-Funded Research Project Government / · Compliance with the Codes of Conduct responsible department first, and critical issues are reported to (Standing) Local Govern· Education on the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act the Board of Directors and CEO to proactively take proper ac· Hearing & Conference (Standing) ment / Related · Survey (Standing) Organization tions to management activities and strategies, and are disclosed in a transparent manner. DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group Profile 10 11 2016-2017 Stakeholder ENGAGEMENT INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stakeholder Survey Target of the Survey Stakeholder Interviews Overview With regards to the sustainable management, DGB Financial DGB Financial Group conducted Group has been conducting annual stakeholder surveys since interviews with individual / 2006 to identify issues of interest among the major stakeholder corporate customers, business groups and to check their priority. The questionnaire consists of Total partners, employees and local questions in three different categories; Trend, Impact, and Internal Competency (5-point scale). The categories are designed to 971 community by inviting their identify the importance of the sustainable management-related representatives. issues that DGB Financial Group should primarily address in order to fulfill its social responsibilities and grow into a sustainable business. Survey Results ● Employee (including non-regular worker/internship) 763 78.6% Analysis by Trend, Impact and Internal Competency ● Customer (corporate/individual) 92 9.5% The survey results showed that the most critical ‘Trend’ issue, ● Local Community 56 5.8% which significantly affects the group’s sustainable management ● Central / Local Government 51 5.3% practice, was the 'Provision of Secure Financial Transaction ● Shareholder / Business Partner / Media 9 0.8% Service.' As for the ‘Impact’ issue which indicates the influence of the group’s sustainable management activities on the society, the ‘Protection of Personal Information of Customers’ was ranked first. Lastly, in the ‘Internal Competency’ category where the group-wise efforts are highly required to set it apart from SURVEY RESULTS (Material Issues) other competitors, ‘Loyalty and motivation to improve performance’ was selected as the most important issue. All Stakeholder | · Providing secure financial service · Growing demands for stronger Trend · IT security and stricter rules to Analysis by Stakeholder Group prevent accidents in financial transaction By stakeholder group, all stakeholder groups chose ‘Providing secure financial service’ and ‘Growing demands for stronger Business | · Reflecting CSR performance in Partner subcontractor bidding IT security and stricter rules to prevent accidents in financial · Rising youth unemployment and transaction’ as the most important issues in ‘Trend’. The businon-regular worker ratio ness partners of the group selected ‘Reflecting CSR performance in subcontractor bidding’ and ‘Rising youth unemployment and non-regular worker ratio’ as the important issues, All Stakeholder | · Protection of customers’ personal information although those two are not included in the top 10 issues of the Impact stakeholders. As for the ‘Impact’ issues, all stakeholders selectEmployee | · Higher employee satisfaction ed ‘Protection of customers’ personal information’ as the most Customer, Local | · Corruption Community, important issue. By group, the employee group selected ‘Higher Central / Local employee satisfaction’, the customers, local communities, and Government government/related organizations groups chose ‘Corruption’, Business | · Better access to the financial and the business partners group gave the highest scores for Partner services for the underprivileged ‘Better access to the financial services for the underprivileged.’ With regards to the ‘Internal Competency’ issues, the customCustomer, Local | · Ethical management, risk ers, government/local governments, local communities, and Community, management, and governancebusiness partner groups all selected ‘Ethical management, risk COMPETENCY Central / Local associated competencies Government · Enhanced communication with management, and governance-associated competencies’ as Business Partner stakeholders well as ‘Enhanced communication with stakeholders’ as importEmployee | · Loyalty and motivation to ant issues, whereas the employees group chose ‘Loyalty and improve performance motivation to improve performance ’ DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group Profile 12 13 2016-2017 Stakeholder ENGAGEMENT INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT * ESG: Non-financial performance related to Expert Meeting Communication with Stakeholders environment, society and Performance Monitoring & Report Kwon Jung | governance ● ● DGB Financial Group carries out stakeholder sur** UN SGDs: Sustainable Yeong-Jae Ryu | development goals which is Yeong-Jae Ryu | veys on large-sized sample groups annually, and also DGB Financial Group held an I wish the communication with stakeholddesignated by the UN From the investors’ standpoint, ESG performance conducts a materiality analysis utilizing the survey Expert Meeting for the publication ers is not conducted just for this inteis an important indicator to assess the manageresults. Meanwhile, the group can utilize the survey of the 2017 DGB Financial grated sustainability report, but to serve ment efficiency of a company. A company should results in a more useful way if they develop a more Group Integrated Sustainability as a genuine starting point towards the be able to show its investors positive progress and quantifiable performance assessment model using sustainable management. To this end, it improvement in performance on a regular basis. In the survey results, thereby reflecting those in its Report, with prominent experts is important to fully understand what the this context, DGB Financial Group should report to its management fields in a more comprehensive way. from economic, social and stakeholders are thinking, and holding a customers and investors how the ESG affects the environmental fields. At the meeting with them on a regular basis, at formation as to what the company is doing management activities of the group in terms of profDirections of Sustainable Growth Going meeting, the participants verified least every quarter, will be a great opporto prevent such negative elements from itability and growth. Forward the validity of the materiality tunity to have meaningful conversation being realized delivers a sense of trust to ● analysis results, provided with them. The more times they meet, the the stakeholders. It would be even more Joo-Hyun Kang | Ji-Seok Kim | feedback on the previous issue greater the understanding and expertise ideal if the reporting range is expanded to It was very impressive and meaningful that DGB FiIn order for DGB Financial Group to continue to be a susthe stakeholders have of DGB Financial its business partners, covering the group’s nancial Group compiled its achievements in the past of the report, and shared with Group. Continued monitoring will help DGB tainable business in the future, it is important to conplans to support sustainable management 10 years in the previous sustainability report. To prosider the roles that financial companies can play in the one another diverse opinions Financial Group to have more helpful and activities in the partner companies. vide its stakeholders with even more meaningful inenvironmental sector. In the case of Norway, the nationon the directions of sustainable meaningful communication with its stakeformation, it would be a good idea to describe how the al pension service defined the coal industry as harmful, management policy that the holders. Ran-hee Park | ESG performances of the group are creating shared and this movement became a good precedent and many group should follow. A corporate report should contain, if any, values in its management activities in a sustainability followed suit. I hope that DGB Financial Group will also Kwon Jung | negative aspects of the company along report. With the growing importance of the UN SDGs become a leading company in the market by setting a Stakeholders, such as customers, expect with positive performances. Regarding and constantly changing business trends in global good precedent through bold and exemplary actions sincerity from a company, and the most the negative part, the report should promarket, it would be worth trying to connect the masuch as proactive investment in the solar energy sector efficient channel to deliver the sincerity vide detailed description as to how those teriality issues in DGB Financial Group and the SDGs. and preferential lending for the environmental industry. is a message from senior management of negative elements are created and how Time Feb 3, 2017, 2 p.m. the company. Like the CEO’s message prothey can be prevented in a transparent Ran-hee Park | Ran-hee Park | vided in the introduction of the integrated manner. For example, if there is a huge difMany global businesses are presenting excellence Location DGB Life Insurance Since DGB Financial Group started as a local bank, it Headquarters (Seoul) sustainability report, there is strong emference observed between this year’s reachievements in sustainable management about the has promoted numerous social contribution projects phasis on its willingness to pursue the port and the last year’s report as to a percompany are delivered through their sustainability and activities for the local community. I hope that the sustainable management. I hope it will formance-related index such as a return report. This is because the ESG performances are new corporate branding project will serve as another deliver DGB Financial Group’s sincerity rate from the maternity leave, then this reported in connection with the management activigreat opportunity to integrate various CSR (corpoand commitment towards the sustainable year’s report should explain to its staketies of the company in the report as integrated goals rate social responsibility) activities conducted by the management to its stakeholders. holders why the difference has occurred. and numerical figures. If DGB Financial Group can ingroup in different regions to create one unified and tegrate its ESG targets, figures, and corrective plans symbolic movement. I also hope that the DGB’s CSR Joo-Hyun Kang | in its sustainability report, it would also be possible to activities are not only assessed by quantitative criteIt is important to specify proper corrective have a fairly accurate glance at the group by reading ria, such as the number of activities and the amount action plans against the negative aspects the report. of monetary support provided, but also by qualitative of the company via communication with measures taking into account long-term influences stakeholders. The sincere and detailed inand outcomes that can be carried out going forward. Joo-hyun Kangㅣ Ji-Seok Kimㅣ Yeong-Jae Ryuㅣ Ran-hee Parkㅣ Kwon Jungㅣ CEO, Global Competitiveness Empowerment Forum Energy Innovation Manager, British Embassy Seoul CEO, Sustinvest Editor in chief, 'Better Future,' Chosun Ilbo Professor, KDI School of Public Policy and Management DGB Financial Group DGB Financial Group Profile 14 15 2016-2017 Business Model INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Business Model The business model of DGB Financial Group is linked to the Impact Value Chain, which can create added value throughout the entire management process. Each activity is a series of strategies that are related and linked to each other rather than independent activities, providing direct and indirect value to stakeholders of DGB Financial Group. Inputs Financial Capital Manufactured Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Natural Capital Social & Relationship Capital Total Asset KRW 53462.4 billion Branches 324 Employees 3,746 Investment in FinTech (IT)* KRW 2,174 million Water Use 168,753 ton Social Contribution Expense/Net Income* 7.7% Sales KRW 3655 billion Business Districts 3 Per Capita Education Expense KRW 600 thousand Online Customers 219 million Green Purchase KRW 7,048 million Volunteer Workers 19,294 Net Profit* KRW 287.7 billion Customers 3.29 million Turnover Rate 4.1% Patent Registrations 8(Application 10, Issue 8) GHG Emission 17,730 tCO2e Customer Satisfaction 94.9 * Consolidated Net Income to Controlling *2 nd development of smart & iM Bank, Establishment * Net income basis: Net income after deducting DGB Shareholders’ Equity of non-face-to-face business (O2O) system Daegu Bank's bad debt reserve Establishment of FIDO bio certification system Renewal of website OUR BUSINESS & VALUE CHAIN Deposit, Loan and Foreign Exchange / Sale of DGB Daegu Bank Financial Products (Fund, Bancassurance, etc.) Planning and Strategy Establishment Financial Product Development Marketing Activities · Stable performance management · Development of financial products to · Customer-oriented service management Sale of Insurance Products (Term, Savings, Pension · Expansion of sales network revitalize the local economy · Promotion of financial consumer and Variable Insurance) / Insurance Policy Loan / protection activities DGB Life Insurance Asset Management Service Insurance Policy Loan / · Improvement of responsiveness towards and industry market changes · Collection of customer requirements · Efforts to improve access to financial Asset Management Service services DGB Capital Personal and Corporate Loans / New Technology Business Finance DGB Asset Management Fund Management / Asset Management Issuance and Management of Prepaid Electronic DGB U-Pay Payment Instruments / Electronic Payments Agency Information System Development, Operation, Contribution to Local Community Risk Management Sale of Financial Service and products Maintenance and System Integration (SI) / Sale, · Creation of jobs for senior citizens · Efficient use of resources (Paper, · Sale of financial products for DGB Data System Rental and Maintenance of IT Equipment and · Provision of childcare and mentoring water, etc.) local residents and low-income groups Software / IT Consultation and Relevant Education / services to the underprivileged · Voluntary pledge of green purchases · Support of eco-friendly companies E-commerce, Internet-Related Business · Support of educational, cultural, and art · Continuous promotion of activities · Support of SMBs with promising activities at local community level responding to climate change technologies Debt Collection / Credit Investigation / lease DGB Credit Information Investigation / Petition Service OUTPUTS Financial Capital ● Manufactured Capital ● Human Capital ● Intellectual Capital ● Natural Capital ● Social & Relationship Capital ● With the launch of DGB Asset Management, total The number of branches for providing financial Due to the reinforcement of support for strengWe invested KRW 2.174 billion in finance services The greenhouse gas emission has been reOver 19,000 employees have participated in volassets increased by KRW 318 billion compared services is 324 increased by 16 compared to the thening the capacity of employees, the expansion using IT technology such as FinTech. The number duced by 402.14tCO2e after constructing unteer service each year, and we have continuto the previous year, and sales and net income previous year, and the number of overseas busiof selective training courses for each position of online customers has increased by 3.7% to the eco-friendly 2nd headquarters and each ously achieved a high level of customer satisfacalso increased by 1%. ness districts increased by 1 with the launch of and the reformation of the cyber training system, 2.19 million relative to the previous year. branch’s water use was reduced by 1.25 tons. tion that reaches approximately 95 point. DGB Lao Leasing Company. the number of certificates has increased by 292 relative to the previous year. Market Shares in Daegu & Gyeongbuk Area Branches New Certifications Online Customers Water Use Per Branch Customer Satisfaction Level 3.7%↑ 36.8% 1%↑ (relative to the previous year) 324 16↑ (relative to the previous year) 1,340 28%↑(relative to the previous year) 2.19 million (relative to the previous year) 8.24ton 1.25%↓(relative to the previous year) 94.9 % 0.4%↓(relative to the previous year) DGB Financial Group Sustainable Management Focus DGB Financial Group will leap forward to become a superb comprehensive financial group through the diversification of our revenue sources, the creation of synergies among our affiliates and the expansion of our global network. DGB Financial Group SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT FOCUS 18 19 2016-2017 Focus Issue #1 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Focus Issue #1 ● ● DGB Daegu Bank was established in 1967, New Start for Another 50 Years Forward as the first local bank in Korea, seeking to be a DGB Daegu Bank's 50th Anniversary pioneer of regional development in Daegu. DeCommemorating the 50th anniversary of its opening, DGB Daegu Bank held the ‘2017 DGB ● spite many grueling challenges, including the oil Daegu Bank Deputy Branch Chief Meeting’ where crisis, the Asian financial crisis, and economic all employees gathered together to reaffirm downturn, DGB Daegu Bank has made contintheir commitment to achieving new manageuous efforts for the last 50 years to fulfill the ment goals for 2017. Under the slogan of ‘DGB dreams of local residents, by making robust New Start for Another 50 Years Forward’, the business innovation, establishing more admanagement strategies centering on ‘field’ to vanced management infrastructure, and prepreemptively respond to the emergence of new emptively responding to the new finance envicompetitors and to overcome limitations through ronment in the future. innovation were announced in this meeting. By Powerful challenge for Launched in 1967 and aiming to provide the realizing sustainable and practical management a centennial bank best financial services to its customers, DGB where customer values are handled as top priDaegu Bank is a major affiliate of DGB FinanTrusted and Honest Finance ority, DGB Daegu Bank seeks to grow and develWith local cial Group. With about 70% of the residents in As its top priority, DGB Daegu Bank strives to meet op hand-in-hand with local community for better community, Daegu and Gyeongbuk using DGB Daegu Bank, DGB Daegu Bank has been the most beloved the financial needs of local people and businesses, and more prosperous future for all. DGB and trusted financial partner to its customers and is committed to job creation and economic development in the region. The group listens to History Daegu Bank in the region, boasting the soundest financial ratios among the banks in Korea. Pursuing ‘Pasthe voices of both high-flying local companies and SMBs, and is eager to create effective support> 1960’s 1990’s 1967. 10 l Established as the first local-based bank in sionate Finance’, ‘Reliable Finance’, and ‘Caring ive measures for them. The group is recognized Korea Finance’ as its crowning management policies, 1975. 01 l Launched the Daegu city safe deposit agency for taking the initiative in revitalizing small loan DGB Daegu Bank and based on its vision and passion to be a cenfinances and providing financial support for the DGB Daegu Bank's 50th service 1983. 02 l Started the online business operation which is creating a tennial bank, DGB Daegu Bank strives to write a underprivileged. Anniversary Emblem integrates all branch offices new history as new history by becoming a prominent local bank Our emblem is designed with 1985. 06 l Started the credit card operation a regional bank representing Korea’s financial industry. the motif of the Bluebird, 1991. 09 l Launched the comprehensive online service representing Passionate Financial Service the mascot of our company, 1995. 01 l Launched the Bluebird phone-banking service expressing the feeling that the for the first time among domestic banks Korea, with vision From the First to the Best Starting with establishing the next-generation bluebird is now leaping to the 1996. 11 l Launched the cyber banking system and a passion for a financial system for the first time among lohigher mountains with strong Dedicated to providing fair and sound finance wings as it has grown with > 2000’s 'Centennial Bank', cal-based banks, DGB Daegu Bank has been at services to local residents to help them realize the Daegu-Gyeongbuk area for a bank that last the forefront in responding to the future-centric the last half a century. 2000. 05 l Started the Internet banking service their dreams, DGB Daegu Bank has been reborn 2001. 06 l Implemented the Corporate Credit Rating 100 years. finance environment by establishing the new and with various new features in commemoration of Management System (CRMS) independent DGB smart banking system, opening 2001. 08 l Opened the cyber 'Dokdo' branch its 50th anniversary. With Head Office renova‘Fium’ (fin-tech center) for the first time among lo2001. 09 l Started the 'Plus Firm Banking' service tion and corporate brand renewal, DGB Daegu (Internet banking service for corporate clients) cal banks, and launching the DGB portable system. Bank is now preparing for the future to become 2003. 09 l Launched the insurance agency business As a result, DGB Daegu Bank has been named in 2006. 07 l Joined the UNGC a ‘centennial bank’, building on the dreams and the Asia & Pacific Index of the Dow Jones Sustain2006. 09 l Joined the UNEP FI, and held the proclamation prosperity that it shared with customers for ceremony on sustainable management ability Index for 7 consecutive years, received the the last 50 years. The 2nd Head Office of DGB 2007. 05 l Published the first 'Sustainable Management presidential certificate, and has been selected as Report' Financial Group opened in Chilseong-dong, Bukthe Best Bank for Financial Consumer Protection 2008. 06 l Opened the Shanghai office in China gu, Daegu in return for the love of local people, 2009. 10 l Joined the DJSI Korea for 10 consecutive years for the first time in the Brand CI Renewal which has become a landmark in the city as a financial industry. All of these achievements were √ Cubic Effect The logo type cultural complex accompanied by a beautiful lit> 2010’s made possible because of DGB Daegu Bank’s efand balance were improved tle park nestling at the heart of the downtown 2010. 05 l Opened the DGB Cyber Green Branch which forts to put customers as the top priority. √ Visibility The font of 'DGB' area. In addition, the group plans to maximize is the first environment-specific store in Korea in the symbol was improved 2010. 06 l Entered into a MOU with Golomt Bank in the synergies among its affiliates by establishCaring Financial Service √ Blue Up The modern and Mongolia ing a unique and comprehensive brand identity sophisticated identity 2010. 10 l Joined the DJSI Asia&Pacfic through brand renewal to integrate and symbolIn its efforts to become a ‘caring’ bank for the lo2011. 03 l Joined the 'FTSE 4Good Index' for the first time ize the value of DGB Financial Group. In celebracal people, all employees at DGB Daegu Bank join in Korea 2011. 05 l Established DGB Financial Group Ltd. tion of the brand renewal and 50th anniversary in sharing warmth with the community, wherever 2012. 11 l Opened the cyber innovation city branch of the group, DGB Daegu Bank has also renoloving and caring hands are needed. DGB Daegu 2012. 12 l Opened the Shanghai branch in China (for the vated its website to secure design unity of the Bank believes in future where finance industry first time as regional bank in Korea) 2014. 12 l Opened the Ho Chi Minh Office in Vietnam brand and to better embrace fin-tech finance fulfills their corporate social responsibilities and 2016. 10 l Opened DGB Daegu Bank's 2nd Headquarters environment. coexists with the community in harmony. in Chilseong-dong, Daegu DGB Financial Group SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT FOCUS 20 21 2016-2017 Focus Issue #2 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT March 2016 Focus Issue #2 Conclusion of Strategic business risks that may arise when entering DGB Capital's Overseas Corporation MOU with the Laos new markets is an essential part for successin Laos KOLAS Group ful and profitable business execution. in Laos ● With this in mind, DGB Financial Group has Automobile Installment signed a MOU in March 2016 with the Kolao Finance Group, a Korean business operating in Laos known for its wide-ranging and successful Laos GDP business areas and excellent and sustainable DGB Lao Leasing Grand Opening Ceremony With another leap forward to the future Cumulative Increase in Number of Approx. $13.8 billion USD 30 million growth. DGB Financial Group hopes that the Kolao Group will be a reliable partner for its Registered Vehicles per annum (estimate) market, advancement into the Laotian market. was not a choice but a prerequisite for a capThe business alliance with the Kolao Group, DGB secured Approx. the largest private company in Laos, is aimed ital company to secure corporate sustainability. In line with an effort to tap into the future new growth 14% per annum December 2016 at establishing a comprehensive support system to promote business partnerships in the growth industry, Laos, an attractive emerging engine in Establishment of DGB Capital's Indo-China Peninsula and ASEAN region. DGB market among the countries in the Indochina Peninsula thanks to the continued increase in Financial Group has pledged to diversify its demands in financial industry, was selected Laotian Branch, ASEAN business portfolio as a global financial as the beachhead for the Group’s advanceDLLC company and to share its accumulated knowment into the Asian financial markets. how and infrastructure with the Kolao Group. Accordingly, Kolao Group will support DGB’s As the demand for automobile installment fifinancial product development and overseas nance is expected to increase steadily amid network expansion so that DGB Financial the steady growth of the automobile business Group's overseas entry strategy will be sucin Laos with the increase rate for cumulative cessful. In addition to regular human resource registered cars of an annual average of ap● ● The world economy has stepped into a long of automobiles in the Laotian market is among the proximately 14%, DGB Lao Leasing Company exchanges and the introduction of a global and boring stage of sluggish growth since the highest in emerging countries in the Indo-China (DLLC), a subsidiary of DGB Capital in Laos, human resource development program, the global financial crisis in 2008. Worse yet, the adpeninsula, thanks to its high GDP growth of annual was officially launched in Vientiane in Dec Kolao Group also pledged to join in efforts to vent of the 4th Industrial Revolution, accompanied average 7%. Thanks to the positive perception to2016 after a thorough preliminary review of create local jobs in Laos. by the Brexit and Trumpnomics, is amplifying the wards wealth spreading among the public, coupled the overall business. DLLC is expected to caruncertainties of the already-fragile business enwith the government sanction on used car import ry out the auto lease financing business worth Securing a beachhead in Laos to open vironment. Amidst this fast-changing and volatile that in turn increases the popularity of new cars, 30 million USD per annum in Vientiane. up the Asian market business environment, it is crucial to develop and the robust growth rate of the Laotian auto market secure new growth engines for a company to is expected to continue at least for the time being. The growth of the domestic capital industry Building on DLLC’s successful launch, DGB sharpen its competitive edges. By doing so, it can has slowed down and competition has been Financial Group plans to expand into other In Vientiane, the capital of Laos having promising intensifying due to easier access to the indusfinancial markets including the banking secbe better prepared to respond to the changing potential of continued growth and profitability, try by banks, card companies, and insurance tor in the ASEAN region, thereby seeking to market conditions for sustainable growth. DGB Financial Group’s second overseas branch businesses. In order to create new revenue be one of the most prominent global finance Against this backdrop, DGB Financial Group is seeks to take another leap forward as a fullsources, advancement into overseas market businesses in the world. seeking to find new growth engines in global marfledged global financial business in Laos. kets, with ‘Your Best Partner for the Future’ as its principal slogan. Following the opening of the Tapping into the global markets by Shanghai branch of DGB Daegu Bank in China forging solid partnership and the Ho Chi Minh office in Vietnam, DGB CapBusiness expansion into new markets is an opital established a local corporate office in Laos portunity for companies in terms of securing new in Dec, 2016, advancing earnestly into the auto growth engines, but it can also be a concern for lease-purchase financing market in the country. the business due to the risks that may arise from differences in language, culture, institutions, and Fascinating financial market in Indochina laws. Especially in emerging economies such as Peninsula, Laos Laos, uncertainty can be even more amplified in Let’s look more closely on the automobile market various aspects of business, including economic in Laos where DGB Financial Group has advanced situation, exchange rate, oil prices, and other arinto recently. The demands and penetration rate eas. Therefore, preventing and minimizing such DGB Financial Group SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT FOCUS 22 23 2016-2017 Focus Issue #3 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Focus Issue #3 ●● 'DGB Culture Platform Project', which aimed to build an ‘open financial & cultural comEco-Friendly Financial & Cultural Complex _ plex’ in the city of Daegu, was completed after DGB Daegu Bank's 2nd Headquarters four years of a long journey in Oct. 2016. Now, ● it started a new challenge to become the most prominent cultural space for Daegu citizens as well as an eco-friendly landmark in Daegu. DGB Daegu Bank's 2nd Headquarters consist of four independent buildings supporting one Open space for large structure above. When illuminated at LEED for NC: GOLD the communication with night, the upper floors of the building seem to neighbors and colleagues float like a full moon rising in the middle of the in nature city. In the lower part of the building, there is a culDGB tural complex where a gym, banks, galleries, Culture Platform book cafe, auditorium and cultural centers are located, enriching the lives of local residents. in The upper floors are office areas and there is also a rooftop garden on the 10th floor where Green Building Certification: the users and visitors can take a rest. BEST, Efficiency Grade Certificate: Green space where architectural Class 1 structure and nature coexist in harmony Picture by Wan-Soon Park As a company pursuing a philosophy of sustainable management, DGB Culture Platform project began with a slogan of Realizing 'DGB Culture Platform Project', world-class green buildings”, and from planhas been completed after ning and design to actual construction stage, 4 years of a long preparatory environmental protection and energy saving stage in Oct 2016. strategies served as a foundation for the enNow, it started a new journey 2016 Korea Green Architecture tire project. In order to realize the goal of 'True to become the most Competition: Grand Prize eco-revolution' beyond just acquiring eco cerprominent cultural space tificates, 'Integrated green design process' for local residents where all the stakeholders gathered from the beginning of the project to discuss directions as an eco-friendly landmark of design and decision making was adopted. in Daegu. One of the features adopted to realize ecofriendly structure resembling nature is an atrium design. The atrium structure is an effective and eco-friendly design; it allows the Gold Medal at the 25th Daegu residents to feel the nature inside the building Architectural Award by maximizing the effects of natural ventilation and lighting, while contributing greatly to energy-saving. Another unique design feature employed in the Complex is Okatech application, which breaks away from general perception of a glass building. In line with an effort to suggest a new prototype of future bank buildings, Okatech, known for its excellent thermal performance and sun careening function, was used in the exterior of DGB Culture Platform. Thanks to DGB Financial Group SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT FOCUS 24 25 2016-2017 Focus Issue #3 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT this bold attempt, the Platform could reduce its energy use by almost 50%. The last, but not least, feature of DGB Culture Platform is a small park designed to realize DGB Culture Platform the ‘Healthy Construction’ and the ‘Sustainhas a book café, gallery, able Communication with Nature’. This park is auditorium and gym, decked by beautiful tree lawn, pine trees, and and there are plenty of hidden a reflective pool, all of which can be enjoyed areas where you can breathe by strolling down a small footpath. The part and relax with nature. serves as a little peaceful shelter lurking in I hope that DGB Culture the hustle and bustle of the city. Platform will be an open Cultural place which enhances cultural space that enriches communication within local community the lives of Daegu citizens and an eco-friendly The lower floor of the building, designed with landmark in Daegu. the keywords of ‘Communication’ and ‘Transparency’, has four structures featuring indePark, In-gyu pendent functions divided by ‘Communication CEO of DGB Daegu Bank Road’. The four masses represent an open space for local residents and a community that has been the cornerstone of DGB’s growth. The DGB lounge is a central space of the lower floor and is designed to make visitors experience various senses at the same time. With a grand piano lying in one corner, the Lounge gives an illusion to the visitors as if the space is filled with a beautiful melody. Across the public space, there is an open gallery where citizens and residents can always come in to enjoy the works of various artists, as well as a city gallery for citizens. The book cafe, which is linked to the outside ecological park, is a contemplative space created by merging an open library and cafeteria where In addition, there is an indoor gymnasium on The high-level floors are a work space; it inthe visitors can read books, drink coffee, and floor B1 for the local residents and employtroduces a design that emphasizes efficient relax. In the lawn plaza behind the book café, ees. There is also a rooftop garden called team work and mutual exchange of opinions by there are events for local communities such ‘Aulmadang’ which is linked to the second floor implementing Void Office, which enables comas small concerts and ad hoc cultural events. of the auditorium above the gymnasium. On munication and exchange between employees, the fourth floor there is a Multi-hall and DGB teams, and departments. In order to emphaLocated in the center of the building, the Audicultural space for multi-purpose events and size the communication function of the space torium (grand auditorium), looking as if floatmeetings. facing the courtyard, the space is divided by ing above the DGB lounge, boasts a magnifimovable walls so that small meetings can be cent curvature that embodies the sound box House for work; Office for held. of stringed instruments. It is a multifunctional Communication performance hall where local residents can The meeting room is designed to be hanged While the lower level of DGB Culture Platform enjoy various performances and can also hold from each floor and protruded towards the is about communication with the local resilarge forums. The Auditorium is a key space courtyard so that it can be used for a largedents, the design concept of 'Exchange and that shows DGB's corporate philosophy of scale meeting. Communication' has been consistently applied ‘Communicating with the community through to the inner courtyard and the office space. On the 10th Floor of DGB Culture Platform, culture’. It is also a place where the outside Jungjeong (courtyard), a space created by the there is a Rooftop Garden, named Sky Garden, scenery extends to the inside of the perforeco-friendly atrium, is an inner yard where you where busy employees can take a break, enjoy a mance hall; visitors can vividly feel the efforts can feel the outside and see the sky thanks to walk, and interact with colleagues. Sky Garden made to create a space where the inside and the open ceiling. It also is a space for communiis an eco-friendly green shelter in harmony with outside of the building communicate with each cation and relaxation for employees. nature, allowing employees to rest and relax. other. DGB Financial Group CSR STRATEGY DGB Financial Group will leap forward to become a superb comprehensive financial group and will do its best to become your best partner for the better future. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 01 Future-Oriented Strategic CSR STRATEGY Future-Oriented 28 29 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management Strategic Management Enhancement of Business and communication channels for future fiSustainable Competencies nances. A total of seven departments includDGB affiliates Impact Story. #1 ing DGB Daegu Bank, DGB Life Insurance, DGB in overseas markets Performance In October 2016, DGB Financial Group acquired Capital, DGB U-Pay, DGB Data system and DGB DGB Asset Management, making a grand enFinancial as well as DGB Financial Group are Smart finance service available without try into the asset management industry. This participating in this FFRC TFT. Moreover, DGB visiting actual branches In recognition that it can is DGB Financial Group's efforts to respond Daegu Bank has newly established an IT New create sustainable 1 to the accelerated movement of financial asBusiness Division and changed its Smart Cusperformance through sets towards the non-banking sectors due to tomer Center to Digital Financial Center to DGB Lao Leasing 1 We heard stories of office workers offering diverse services to the prolonged low interest rates as well as to cope with changes in both domestic and interCompany who could not find time to visit the bank changes in demand by customers who are national digital financial markets. during work hours, owner-operators its customers and reaching seeking moderate risks and moderate profits. who could not leave their stores even more customers, DGB ‘iM Bank’ launched by DGB Daegu Bank at the for a while to make ends meet, and As a result, in 2011 DGB Financial Group end of 2015 is a personalized mobile banking housewives who were too busy to visit Financial Group is striving 2 banks due to endless house chores launched itself as a full-fledged merchant service that aims to be a 'bank within the bank', to strengthen its business offering differentiated services via a number and child rearing time. bank, with seven subsidiaries, including DGB Transition of DGB competencies. Daegu Bank, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, of 'mobile branches'. In particular, it is proDaegu Bank DGB U-Pay, DGB Data System, DGB Credit Inviding even more conveniences to the users Vietnam Office into formation and DGB Asset Management. DGB by directly linking its services with a popular a Branch 2 DGB started to think of financial services that can be used at your work, Financial Group plans to expand its external fin-tech start-up service, ‘TOSS’, through at your stores, and at your home any 3 The Smart Finance Department operations by leveraging synergies among partnership. As a result, iM Bank surpassed 3 time anywhere, without having to decided to develop a general-purpose its affiliates and to strengthen its marketing the number of new Internet banking receipts visit a branch and pick up a number ticket platform in which a multi-purpose app prowess via bank window marketing. Going accumulated for the past 15 years in just six Planning advanceand wait. can be used for various functions. further, it will diversify and reinforce its portmonths after its launch. In 2016, it saved about ment of DGB Group Thanks to its efforts, the Department folio by discovering new sources of profits, 1.1 billion won by boosting business efficiency into Cambodia and invested KRW 560 million to build through non-face-to-face services. Myanmar markets 'iM Bank', a smart phone app in which thereby creating sustainable achievements on a user can handle the same tasks as a continuous basis. visiting a bank branch on the go. The platform of 'iM Bank' was developed by In November 2016, DGB Capital established a DGB Daegu Bank, for which it filed a patent. subsidiary in Laos (DGB LAO Leasing Co., Ltd.), Commemorating its 1st anniversary, the platKRW 560 million making it the first non-bank group affiliate to form was expanded in 2016 to enable the in4 DGB Daegu Bank applied for enter the overseas market. DGB Daegu Bank troduction of more fin-tech services. Going a patent for its ‘Mobile Branch,’ a new has established a Global Operation Team to forward, the platform will continue to be develand innovative service technology in which multiple branches can be promote diverse projects to enhance its global oped to accommodate more fin-tech technolopened on one application. This new competitiveness. In addition to that, DGB Daeogies such as biometrics recognition (fingerdevelopment is equipped with various gu Bank is also planning to convert its office print and iris recognition), speech recognition, fin-techs such as biometrics, mobile in Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam into a local branch. By Dutch treat, congratulatory/condolences wallet, transportation card, mobile ATM tapping into overseas networks in countries money, and mobile home mortgage. withdrawal function, etc. such as Cambodia and Myanmar, DGB Financial Group plans to secure new growth enIn addition, DGB Daegu Bank has agreed to gines for the future. promote the block chain technology* and demonstration projects with IBM Korea. The iM Bank Non-face-totwo parties will cooperate with each other face product sales Response to Changing Markets for the development of business application revenue using block chain technology, and will pursue 1.35 billion The domestic financial sector is experiencing various business through continuous informawon Business difficulties due to stagnant growth, deteriotion-sharing and mutual mentoring. Efficiency rating profit base, and ever-intensifying com5 Thanks to the iM Bank service, DGB 1.1 billion petition. Against this backdrop, DGB Financial DGB Daegu Bank has established a Future Daegu Bank achieved KRW 1.13 billion won in cost Group is preemptively responding to the market Strategy TFT in 2016 to analyze the interin non-face-to-face sales and KRW 1.1 reduction changes in order to find new growth engines nal and external environment and perform billion in cost savings from business DGB efficiency. Daegu in areas such as mobile banking and fin-tech benchmarking both at home and abroad. By Bank Block Chain Technology: A trading system * sectors to create sustainable achievements. analyzing the key success factors in other in which the transaction information businesses, the TFT is expected to contribute is not stored in a central server of the third DGB Financial Group has been operating the to the sustainable growth of the company in party institution, is jointly recorded and Future Financial Response Council (FFRC) the long run. managed by all trading participants with the dispersal network database technology. TFT since 2015 in order to unify the response DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 01 Future-Oriented Strategic CSR STRATEGY Future-Oriented 30 31 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management Strategic Management Governance Structure of Independent directors shall be more than Key Resolutions by Board of Directors Independent Director Ratio Sound Governance half of all directors on the Board, as a rule. DGB Financial Group strives to protect invesSelected as being recommended by the Number of tor rights through sound governance and to Group Executive Candidate Recommendation Independent implement rational and transparent manageDirectors 2016 DGB Financial Group formed Committee, Independent directors are comParticipated ment systems. posed of experts who can help DGB Financial No Date Contents of the Resolution (Total) 71.4% the Board of Directors Group's management performance and cor1 2016.01.18 Submission of the final bidding proposal of the Phnom Penh 5(5) The Board of Directors consists of one CEO, 2014 equipped with ample porate competitiveness, providing them equal Commercial Bank of Cambodia one vice-president, and five Independent di2 2016.02.04 5th period’s (FY 2015) financial statement, operating report, 5(5) 71.4% experience and knowledge in rectors, and the CEO is also the chairman opportunities regardless of gender, race and financial statement supplementary schedules, consolidated 2015 finance. Through independent of the Board. To maintain the independence nationality. The Group Executive Candidate financial statement (proposal) and 17 others Recommendation Committee consists most3 2016.02.26 Resolution for the holding of the 5th annual general 5(5) 83.3% committee composition and and transparency of the Board, the number shareholders’ meeting and 7 others 4 2016.03.25 Appointment of the chairman of the Board of Directors and 5(5) fair Independent director 5 others selection process, the Group 5 2016.03.25 2015 subsidiary company management performance evaluation and compensation(proposal) and 1 other 5(5) Composition of Board of Directors Number of Board Meetings seeks to strengthen the 6 2016.05.04 Addition of capital adequacy disclosure items and 6 others 5(5) (number of meetings convened) expertise of the Board and 7 2016.06.30 Establishment and incorporation of the affiliated company 5(5) 8 2016.07.12 Conclusion of MOU 5(5) to ensure transparent and General 9 2016.07.12 Report on the resolution of the audit committee 5(5) 2016 14 sound operation of it. •R emuneration Committee Shareholders' Meeting 10 2016.08.09 KRW corporate bond issuance plan (proposal) and 10 others 5(5) 2015 9 Report Group 11 2016.10.27 Approval for partial amendment of major management5(5) •R isk Management Appointment related regulations (proposal) and 8 others 2014 14 Executive Committee Candidate 12 2016.11.29 Approval for the conclusion of the stock exchange agreement 5(5) •A udit Committee Recombetween DGB Financial Group and DGBLife Insurance Report Board Meeting Recommendation •G roup Executive Candidate mendation 13 2016.12.22 Approval for the 2017 DGB Financial Group work plan and 9 4(5) Recommendation Committee others Report Advice Committee and Supervision 14 2016.12.27 Appointment of the chief executive officer and 1 other 4(5) Administration Audit Report ly of independent directors, appointed after BOD based on performance evaluation and deliberation in accordance with relevant laws compensation guidelines, while long-term and regulations such as the Act on the Govincentives are paid in a fixed amount based DGB Financial Group Board of Directors Information ernance of Financial Companies, Commercial on long-term performance evaluation and di* As of Mar, 2017 Law, and the Articles of Incorporation. rectors’ service terms. Remuneration of the concurrent position (chairman) is first paid Division Name Obligation Note DGB Financial Group holds both regular and by his/her original company and it is calculatExecutive Park, In-gyu Chairman of the Board CEO of DGB Financial Group ad hoc BOD meetings, and the determination ed later in accordance with the percentage Director Chair of Independent Director CEO of DGB Daegu Bank of the Board can be adopted if a majority of of duty performances. In 2016, the highest Nomination Committee all directors agree with it. In addition, four remuneration amount was 2.02 times of the Roh, Seong-seok Member of Risk Management Vice-President of DGB Financial Committee Group internal committees (Remuneration Commitaverage employee payment. Annual remuIndependent Cho, Hae-nyoung Lead Independent Director Former President of the Community tee, Risk Management Committee, Audit Comneration increased 3.35% relative to the preDirector Chairman of Risk Management Chest of Daegu mittee, Group Executive Candidate RecomCommittee Former Mayor of Daegu City (30th) vious year. The average term of the board is Member of Auditor Nomination mendation Committee) consisting of experts 2.84 years. Committee in management, finance, accounting, and Jon, Kyong-tae Member of Audit Committee Former Honorary Professor of Member of Auditor Nomination Keimyung University various other fields are run in an independent Committee Former Dean of Economics and and transparent manner. Ownership Commerce Ha, Jong-hwa Chairman of Remuneration Committee President of Tax Firm Doori As of the end of 2016, the issued shares Member of Audit Committee Former Director of Daegu Local Tax Member of Auditor Nomination Office Evaluation & Compensation for the of DGB Financial Group are 169,053,154 Committee Board of Directors shares. The largest shareholder is the NaLee, Jae-dong Member of Remuneration Committee Lawyer at Law Firm Daegu tional Pension Service, which owns 8.87% of Member of Audit Committee Former President of Daegu Bar Member of Auditor Nomination Association Compensation to directors is made in the form the shares. The foreign largest shareholder Committee of a basic salary and performance-based is The Oakmark International Small Cap Fund, Gu, Bon-sung Member of Remuneration Committee Senior Researcher, Korea Institute pay (short-term incentives, long-term inwhich holds 4.52% of the shares. Member of Risk Management of Finance Committee Former Anderson Consulting centives coupled with cash compensation). Member of Auditor Nomination (Accenture) Director Short-term incentives are determined by the Committee DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 02 Customer Satisfaction CSR STRATEGY Customer 32 33 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management Satisfaction Management Financial Consumer Protection all 10 evaluation items of a factual survey on Education for Financial Consumer Protection Creating Customer financial consumer protection conducted by DGB Financial Group is working hard to prothe Financial Supervisory Service in 2015. In Value tect financial consumers. DGB Financial addition to that, CS Education Courses Description CS Education in 2016 Group is working hard to protect its financial consumers. DGB Daegu Bank's Consumer DGB Daegu Bank was selected as the ‘Best On-site Branch 1: 1 coaching at branch offices, satisfaction On-site Education in 74 branches Education enhancement through analysis of poor items by DGB Financial Group Protection Report, ‘Your Caring Partner’, pubBank’ for Financial Consumer Protection secbranch Received Citation of 'Outstanding tor for 10 consecutive years for the first time Financial Company' in Financial is striving to strengthen lished since 2013, provides various consumHeadquarters Mindset and telephone correspondence Head Office Education in 7 Consumer Projection er protection information in 'DGB', which is in the financial industry. In December 2016, Departmental training for improved internal customer satisfaction departments financial consumer it was also awarded ‘Citation of Excellent FiEducation 3 training courses for employees at published every other month since 2016. The the headquarters protection, improve main contents include financial crime cases nancial Company’ in financial consumerr proNew Employee CS standard manual, Role-playing, Workplace manner, 15 times customer satisfaction, and and preventive methods, financial tips from tection sector by the Financial Supervisory Training Situation-specific response drills enhance accessibility in order DGB, financial regulation changes, and other Service. Integrated CS manager training, Refresh training by position, 10 times Training Security guard training, etc matters that consumers should pay attention to provide comprehensive to in financial transactions, and the informaGoing forward, DGB Daegu Bank plans to Security Guard CS training for new security guards 104 branches financial services that continue its efforts to protect consumers Training Refresh training for the existing security guards tion is delivered to customers through DGB One-day Cooking Class by managing relevant complaints in a flexible create more value for our website and branches. In addition, in order to and organic manner using the integrated ficustomers. act more proactively to protect consumers, nancial consumer protection system estabDGB Daegu Bank operates consumer prolished in October 2015. tection centers at all branches and provides various financial education programs to conDGB Financial Group has also collected opinDGB Financial Group puts various campaigns sumers. Through education, DGB Daegu Bank Customer Satisfaction Activity ions from customer panels when taking the and systems in place to improve the level of is helping diverse consumer groups such as promotional video clip featuring famous actor internal customer satisfaction about its seryouth, college students, and the general pubDGB Financial Group listens to customers' Seo-Jin Lee. In addition to that, a new system vices. One of the campaigns is ‘DGB Attitude’, lic so that they are equipped with the right fiopinions, offers a variety of services for bethas been set where the representatives of designed to improve the quality of service nancial knowledge to avoid potential financial ter customer experiences, and implements each division directly listen to the opinions of DGB employees with proper standards for damages in the future. customer satisfaction management through the site workers at the panel meeting, and appearance and dress codes coupled with various CS programs and activities. opinions of the advisory groups can immeditraining programs on customer reception DGB Daegu Bank established a consumer ately be reflected in the work process. Going skills. In order to improve internal employees' protection system for each financial product DGB Daegu Bank operates the 'DGB Chamforward, DGB Financial Group continues to customer service skills, DGB Financial Group and each stage in order to protect its finansori Advisory Panel’ to improve its operational operate the channels through which it can is actively carrying out CS education, such as cial consumers. The Group established prodprocesses by listening to customers' opindirectly listen to the voice of our customers. customized training and a one-on-one coachuct development rules and sales practices ions. The 'DGB Good Opinion Advisory Panel’, ing program based on the weaknesses found for financial product development and sales which started in 2014, has played a variety of DGB Life Insurance provides a variety of cusout through branch-specific analysis. stages, respectively, to protect its customers roles, including providing opinions to the bank, tomer satisfaction services. In April 2016, from financial fraud or damage. formulating new service ideas, branch moniDGB Life Insurance began ‘DGB Total Care’ In addition, DGB Daegu Bank finds and motoring, etc., in order to find out old practices service where DGB employees are visiting tivates young CS talent by holding the “CS As a result of its efforts to implement finanand systems that would seem unreasonable customers to provide detailed explanation Young Star” program for new employees cial consumer protection systems, DGB Daeor inconvenient from the viewpoint of finanof the insurance policy and financial planning with less than two years of experience in gu Bank received 'Good', the highest rating, in cial consumers. services. When you subscribe to the ‘DGB ToDGB Daegu Bank. In line with such efforts, tal Care’ service, a FC (Financial Consultant) each branch selects a dedicated CS managvisits their client to help them understand the er to promote and spread proper CS culture coverage details of their policies and receive across the Group. Organizations for Financial Consumer Protection insurance money if applicable. Moreover, the FCs can also help the customers with As a result of its diverse efforts to satisfy customer information renewal, life savings customers, DGB Daegu Bank ranked first planning for retirement, and other financial among the regional banks in Korea in the KSSI Customer (Sales Service Satisfaction Survey) in 2016. Financial Consumer Protection Council consulting services, playing an important Branches and Head Office role in enhancing customer satisfaction. DGB DGB Financial Group will continue to operate (in charge of customer protection) Supreme Decision-Making Body of the Financial Life Insurance is doing its best in customer Consumer Protection satisfaction management by holding diverse Financial Consumer Protection Department Chairman: General Manager of the Financial Consumer Protection customer-centric events such as a ‘One Day Executive Vice President (CCO) Cooking Class’ and ‘How to make our kids go (CCO : Chief Consumer Officer) President to a prestigious university (lecture)’ for its premium customers. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 02 Customer Satisfaction CSR STRATEGY Customer 34 35 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management Satisfaction Management its channels to listen to and communicate financial services as the weekdays from 1:00 with customers while providing diverse serpm to 6:00 pm on Saturdays. The Seongseo Impact Story. #2 vices and strengthening internal competenbranch near the Seongseo Industrial Comcies to create greater customer values and plex, resided by many foreign workers who satisfaction. are hard to visit banks on weekdays in genFostering and Supporting Local Small Hidden eral, provides money exchange and money Champions ‘DGB Smart & transfer services every Sunday from 10:00 Secure Midrange Enhanced Accessibility am to 4:00 pm. 1 Company A is professional local Interest Rate business manufacturing self-car washAs part of its efforts to create more customThe Daegu Shinsegae Branch, opened in Dec Credit Rating 7+ ing equipment located in Seongseo Loan’ er values, DGB Financial Group is striving to 2016 in Daegu Shinsegae Department Store, Industrial Complex in Dalseo-gu, Daegu. It Meaning a loan serving as enhance customer accessibility to its service employs flexible business hours from 10:30 is one of the representative businesses ‘Secure’ support for ‘Smart’ areas. First, DGB Daegu Bank is enhancing am to 8:00 pm. The branch provides financial in Daegu, exporting its quality products financial Consumers, ‘DGB Smart customers’ access to financial services by to various countries including the US, services to the customers both on weekends Germany, and Japan. & Secure Mid-range Interest increasing the benefits of Internet banking, and holidays except for one closing day per Rate Loan’ is a loan where the mobile banking, iM bank, and other non-faceborrower can take out a loan up month according to the department store’s to-face channel products and enhancing the closing schedule. 2 Company A wanted to take out to KRW 20 million within his/her annual income range for up to 60 conveniences of such programs. In February a loan of KRW 2.47 billion to build new months (extended by 12 month 2016, the Group expanded the limits of the Providing comprehensive financial services facilities for its new product with a intervals, annual interest e-loan service for workers; In March, it also that customers can easily reach and find is 3 DGB Daegu Bank, however, decided patent pending. Yet, the application was rate: 6 to 11%) improved customer accessibility to its seran important value for DGB Financial Group, to help them in cooperation with Korea rejected due to its poor financial history which employs customer satisfaction as its Technology Finance Corporation. A and relatively low credit rating. * Launched in June, 2016 vices by mitigating loan restrictions on nontechnology assessment was carried out face-to-face products. The Group launched best sales strategy. It will continue to work on the Company’s technology portfolio, two new products, ‘DGB Smart & Secure hard to provide more convenient and comand the results showed that Company Mid-range Interest Rate Loan’ and ‘New Hope fortable financial services to the customers. A held a promising, market-friendly & Seed Loan’ in June and July, 2016, respectechnology with which it already signed Technology Rating tively. It is also in the process of introducing an export deal with overseas businesses. T4 (Good) a scraping solution to simplify the processes to improve convenience of customers for non-face-to-face lending. Based on these ef4 DGB Daegu Bank decided to actively forts, the Group achieved more than 2.5-fold support Company A for its high New Hope & Seed year-on-year increases in loan product sales technology grade. The Bank provided Loan through the non-face-to-face channels. Company A the requested loan in the A dedicated loan product for full amount, and an additional KRW 100 those who are using loans on DGB Daegu Bank started to open on weekmillion of working capital to prevent relatively high interest rates ends to improve customer accessibility, even possible disruption in production due to due to low income and low credit off-line. DGB Daegu Bank Seongseo Homethe new facility construction. rating (annual interest rates: plus Branch has started Saturday operations 5.63 to 8.83%). KRW 2.47 billion + KRW 100 million since January 9, 2016, providing the same * Launched in July, 2016 Technology Rating T4 → T2 5 With the financial support of DGB Daegu Bank, Company A started to grow Credit Rating 7+ → 6+ both qualitatively and quantitatively. It has spurred its R&D sector for new technologies, and has applied for 2 domestic patents, 7 domestic/overseas patents, 6 utility model patents, and 4 design patents thus far. The sales amounted to Change in Sales (Unit: KRW in billion) KRW 660 million prior to DGB’s financial Before After support, and have increased to 2.2 billion Financial Support Financial Support in 2014, and 3.1 billion in 2015. Along with its steady growth, the company’s 6.6 2015 31 technology rating and credit rating have 2014 22 also risen significantly. Scraping Solution: It is a system that helps streamline the complicated process that a customer should take when applying * for a loan by automatically collecting and submitting various evidential documents for identification, etc., for convenience of customers. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 02 Customer Satisfaction CSR STRATEGY Customer 36 37 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management Satisfaction Management Inclusive Finance DGB Daegu Bank was selected by the MinisIn line with such efforts, DGB Daegu Bank by the customers so that they can receive Sustainable Finance try of Trade, Industry and Energy in March provides interest support for companies income deduction benefit. This in turn will enDGB Financial Group is pursuing sustainable 2016 as the first 'Professional financial inwith excellent environmental performance courage donation culture through financial finance with mutual benefit and growth by stitution for technology commercialization' on the basis of the agreement signed with products among customers. In addition, DGB fulfilling its social responsibilities providing which provides consulting services for techthe Korea Environmental Industry and TechDaegu Bank offered various public-interest DGB Financial Group necessary support and benefits to the comnology matching and technology transfer to nology Institute. By utilizing the enVinance type products such as DGB primary account is pursuing mutual growth mon people as demonstrated in its managevarious businesses. Mirae Asset Love (Green Management Enterprise Financial preferential deposits, sponsorship deposits, with local communities ment philosophy, Sharing Dreams andProsSharing ETFs Support System) operated by the Ministry of Daegu City Hope Center bank accounts and perity with Local Community . For the first In addition to the direct financial benefits through public interest coming from consulting services, DGB DaeEnvironment, the Group will identify and prolifetime savings (dream-tree type) to make a time in the financial sector, DGB Daegu Bank Mirae Asset Love Sharing vide benefits to environmentally conscious donation for a total of 60.76 million won to products, technology-based has launched 'New Hope and Seed Loan', a figu Bank was able to improve its non-price ETF is a financial product where companies equipped with eco-friendly systhe disadvantaged. products for supporting nancial product for common people, through competitiveness thanks to its expertise in a 0.5% of front-end fee is tems such as pollutant reduction programs technology. As a result, the Bank’s perforexempted and collected as public DGB Daegu Bank is committed to fulfilling its companies with technological non-face-to-face channel. The Bank allocatand environmental accident prevention sysfunds through the Love ed as much as 370 billion to major loan prodmance in the tech-financial sector in 2016 tems. social responsibilities through financial asprowess, and supportive ucts designed to support the low income increased by approximately KRW 903 billion Sharing Account, a dedicated sistance where it is needed most. In order account for donation so that products for the financially class, such as 'New Hope and Seed Loan' compared to that of 2015. customers can donate money in DGB Daegu Bank provides premium interest to support the companies devastated by the underprivileged. and 'Dream Change Loan.' DGB Daegu Bank their name. rates (1-2%) to 10 eligible green companies shutdown of the Gaesong Industrial Complex received the Best Financial Institution for Fiwithin the limit of 300 million won, by supin 2016, the Bank reduced interest rates for nancial Support for Common People award Green Finance porting 2.4 billion in total. Not being complathe companies and their partner companies, from the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) DGB Financial Group provides financial sercent with its previous endeavors, DGB Finanand allowed the existing loan to be suspendin 2016 in recognition of its active engagevices and products taking into consideration cial Group will never halt its efforts to raise ed or extended. ment in supporting the low income class with its environmental impact. In January 2017, awareness of the environment by continuously promoting environmentally conscious The Bank also helped to mitigate damage financial products. In addition, DGB Daegu DGB Daegu Bank signed a business agreecompanies with various financial supports. through financial support for partner compaBank was awarded the Presidential Citation ment with Daegu Metropolitan City to pronies and couriers devastated by Hanjin Shipat the 21st SME Financing Award ceremony mote the use of electric vehicles. Through ping's corporate rehabilitation proceeding. In in recognition of its efforts to support corthis agreement, DGB Daegu Bank will provide porate loans focused on local SMEs and to Financing for Social Responsibilities particular, it has provided restoration funds low interest rate loans (3%) to electric veGo to DGB Cyber revitalize lending to the ordinary people. hicle purchasers, install charging stations DGB Financial Group has been offering varifor the damage caused by the recent earthGreen branch quake in Gyeongju in 2016 and the fire damat certain branches, and purchase electric ous financial products dedicated to fulfilling age in the Paldal New Market and the Seomun DGB Daegu Bank has operated vehicles for the Group’s business vehicles. its social responsibility by sharing dreams Market in order to help them get back to norTechnology-oriented Finance 'DGB Cyber Green branch' an and wealth with local communities and mal operation as early as possible. environment-themed branch of In particular, DGB Daegu Bank has been operstrengthening financial companies’ awareUtilizing its own technology evaluation, DGB DGB Group. ating 'DGB Cyber Green Branch', an environness towards CSR. In line with that, the Group Furthermore, DGB Daegu Bank is committed Daegu Bank supports SMEs through techniment-specific branch since 2010. The 'DGB has launched a wide range of financial prodto solving social problems and promoting the cal financial products where the SMEs havCyber Green Branch' is designed to enhance ucts related to social responsibility designed development of local communities through ing outstanding technology can use low-incustomers' awareness of the environment to promote public interests, shared growth various financial support such as a special terest rate loans. We provide the 'DGB Tech by handling various environment-oriented with local communities, growth of SMEs, and guarantee loan scheme for social enterprisBiz Loan' which reduces the loan limit and indeposits and loan products such as Green the welfare of the underprivileged. es and companies contributing to job-creterest rate to SMEs with excellent technoloDeposits, Green Health Installment Savings, ation as well as financial support for entergy in order to revitalize the financial industry DGB Green Loan, and DGB Green Card. Tak‘Woori Frontier Sustainable Business SRI Eqprises creating jobs and small businesses and the regional economy. In addition, there ing it one step further, DGB Daegu Bank plans uity Fund’ reserves 10% of its sales profits run by young entrepreneurs. are '1+1 Loan for Excellent Technology and to expand the green card (providing eco and operating profits for the public interEnterprise Agreement Loan with Intellectual mileage) and green savings program (with est funds while ‘Mirae Asset Love Sharing DGB Financial Group will continue to develop Property (IP)' to help smooth financing for preferential interest rates as a reward of ETFs’ accumulates 0.5% front-end fees in and sell financial products and services that high-tech companies and to increase profiteco-friendly activities) while supporting local the public funds. In particular, Mirae Asset take into account the social and environmenable assets through finding new customers. environmental conservation activities by raisLove Sharing ETF is DGB's patented finantal realm to build shared value-creating modDGB Financial Group is making diligent efing funds with a portion of the profits genercial product where a 0.5% of front-end fee els that will not only contribute to corporate forts to improve its competitiveness through ated from those products. is exempted and collected as public funds performance but also fulfill corporate social constant improvement and renewal of its through the Love Sharing Account, a dedresponsibilities. products. DGB Financial Group offers a variety of beneicated account for donation so that cusfits to environmentally conscious companies tomers can donate money in their name. to encourage local companies to practice The total amount of donation made through environmentally sustainable management. the Love Sharing account was 0.511 billion won in 2016; the donation can be managed DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 02 Customer Satisfaction CSR STRATEGY Enhancement of 03 Enhancement 38 39 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management Organizational Competence of Organizational Competence Strengthening Employee customers; think creatively and proactively Impact Story. #3 Human Resource Competencies rise to a challenge; and show their honesty along with responsibility and credibility. Development and DGB Financial Group is committed to Green Finance Preferential Fund to Save Business and DGB Daegu Bank employs all new workers as Local Environment Support strengthening its employees' competencies regular employees in its efforts to improve through education and support. For instance, DGB Daegu Bank is strengthening its on-site employment stability, while continuing the training programs and the mentorship systransition of the existing non-regular employDGB Financial Group ees to full-time employees. Going forward, 1 In 1980, the Daegu Dyeing Industrial tem for new employees in addition to the Complex was established to minimize the is making every effort to Career Development Program (CDP). In the DGB Daegu Bank plans to resolve job instabilenvironmental impact by collecting dyeing provide global financial past, the Korea Banking Institute provided edity issues and strive to improve the affection factories scattered throughout the city to services to revitalize the ucation for DGB employees with a theory-oriand pride of the workers to their jobs. dispose of waste water in one place. ented class. That system has changed into a local economy and foster DGB Financial Group pursues employment program where practical training is carried free of gender discrimination in response to local industries while out in each relevant department. Through gender imbalance in financial institutions and 2 However, due to the long-term use of continuing to develop and field-oriented practical training, the Group other relevant issues while striving to concollective chemicals, harmful substances caused the odor and air pollution. As provide financial products aims to improve competencies of the employduct fair and performance-based appraisal. a result, the residents of the complex that ensure sustainable ees and establish a foundation for continued The Group conducts strategic performance experienced various diseases, such as growth. evaluations in conjunction with MBO (Manrespiratory diseases, migraine and asthgrowth. DGB Daegu Bank is also making efforts to agement by Objective) and KPI (Key Performa, 3.8% to 30% more than other local mance Indicator), which reflects the charresidents. 3 DGB Daegu Bank sought ways to solve improve the accessibility of its employees to these local environmental problems and education. It is expanding the selective coursacteristics of each department and branch. to revitalize the economy. In July 2016, es for position-specific education programs The Group also provides feedback on the we entered into the green financial strengths and weaknesses of each individual agreement with the Ministry of Environto meet individual needs. In 2016, the Bank revised the “Cyber Training Support System” employee based on the results of evaluation ment and the Korea Environment Industry Green Finance KRW10 and Technology Institute to provide exbased on employee demand surveys. Thanks to ensure long-term self-improvement and Agreement billion cellent local environmental management to the revamped system, DGB employees can achievement in the organization. In addition, SMEs with a loan having a preferential now learn not only the financial courses but the Group is making efforts to diversify apinterest rate by 1.0~2.0% point. also IT and foreign language courses (TOEIC, praisal channels through a multi-faceted HSK, JPT, etc.) at all times. assessment to ensure the fairness and objectivity of HR management. It also reflects 4 As a result of this agreement, from the assessment results on promotion, salary, August 2016, 10 billion won of the green Right Talent for DGB Financial Group performance-based pay and job placement in finance preferential fund was created. a comprehensive manner. To redress a local issue, preferential DGB Financial Group seeks those who reinterest benefits were firstly applied spect people and serve their community and to excellent SMEs that entered into the Dague dyeing industrial complex. 1.0~2.0%p Right Talent for DGB Financial Group 5 DGB Daegu Bank provides financial 1 Core-value Respect Passion Integrity benefits to SMEs in Daegu and GyeoCustomer-centered/ Passion/Ownership Business ethics ngbuk Province, which have excellent Respect for employees/ mind/Change and environmental performance, such as the Communication/Social innovation responsibility reduction of the environmental pollutants emission and the establishment of an environmental accident prevention system, so that SMEs actively participate in 2 Competency Service mind/ Professionalism/Sense of Pride/Insight/ Creativity (Open mind) Understanding of principles/Integrity and duty/Teamwork/Strong trust/Sense of vocation environmental management and financial will to achieve goals institutions make an investment in conHuman resources Human resources Human resources who sideration of environmental factors 3 DGB Ideal who respect people and contribute to local who have creativity, positive thinking, and have a strong sense of responsibility and communities and customers a challenging spirit are integral and reliable 4 Statement “Human resources who can create new value based on respect and integrity DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 03 Enhancement CSR STRATEGY Enhancement of 40 41 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Organizational Organizational Competence Competence Stronger Synergies Among ullim Program to encourage communication Impact Story. #4 Employee Satisfaction Employees and sense of unity among different departments and branches. Management DGB Financial Group is providing various proWe Root for 'Smarter' DGB people. grams for employees to maximize synergies DGB Financial Group will continue to emphaamong affiliates so as to achieve more effisize positive changes through communicaDGB Financial Group has cient communication and a stronger sense tion and empathy, actively gather opinions 1 Upon the inauguration of CEO Park, In-kyu 2 DGB Financial Group has provided from employees, strengthen synergy within in 2014, DGB Financial Group has striven diverse lectures for those who want to take created various programs of unity. the Group, and further expand “happiness to create a pleasant work environment for refresher courses or to acquire financeto create a pleasant and In line with such endeavors, executives of management” for employees. employees, keeping in mind that human related certificate/qualifications, along with resource management is a long term and tuition fees/test fees support. energetic work place for all DGB Daegu Bank, DGB Life Insurance, DGB far-sighted project, therefore should be of its employees. U-Pay, and other DGB affiliates have gathon the top priority of the Group. ered together twice a year to form a sense of Employee Satisfaction Improvement 3 In order to foster key financial solidarity and organization. In 2016, they visIn recognition that internal employee satisperformers, the Group also offered various ited diverse cultural sites in Andong, including faction is highly associated with work effiMonetary support for cost of obtaining license training programs, including the Longthe new Gyeongbuk Provincial Government ciency and is a prerequisite for sustainable 157,831,000 won term Dispatch Program at Korea Banking building, and learned about the spirit of SeonInstitute, the Global Regional Expert management of a company, DGB Financial bi, Korean traditional scholars who followed Group strives to continuously change its Dispatch Program (overseas), and the FMBA Program at KAIST. Confucianism. They also experienced boat corporate culture, bring innovations, and imraces from athletes of the DGIST (Daegu prove employee welfare. Gyeongbuk Institute of Science and Technology), cultivating the sense of cooperation and By operating “Change and Innovation Departunity. ment” within Management Planning Division Number of certificates (licenses) at the Head Office, DGB Daegu Bank is enacquired in 2016 DGB Financial Group runs the 'Field Synergaged in various programs to enhance the gy Council' for communication and boosting 1,340 synergies among employees. This Council is positive mindset of employees and implement * Increased by 292 compared to 2015 Pre-CEO Course: 6 creative innovation to its operation. a regular meeting for communication where Korea Banking Institute’s Longemployees from various affiliated companies For a sound corporate culture, DGB Daegu 4 Thanks to DGB’s employees’ passion for term Dispatch: 16 gather to communicate and enjoy the opporBank is promoting the Sound 'Day' Culture self-development, coupled with robust supports from the Group, the acquisition tunities to know each other. Started in earproject. 'Creating Sound Culture Day' is derate of mandatory certificates for the KAIST Financial MBA Dispatch: 1 ly 2016, the Field Synergy Council is a great signed to reduce the burden on employees banking sector has reached 88.5% in venue where positive synergies are encourby not giving gifts to each other on 'special' Expert Overseas Dispatch: 2 2016, which is a 10% increase from 2014. (China 1, Vietnam 1) aged. Exceptional synergy cases discussed days such as Pepero day, Valentine day, and The overall self-worth and occupational in the Council are shared among affiliates of White day. In addition to that, the Group sets satisfaction among the employees has the Group. the limits for congratulatory and condolence also increased dramatically. money to 50,000won, and discourages empty Although I had only one qualification when I first Commemorating its 5th anniversary, DGB formalities such as printed wedding invitaentered DGB Daegu Bank, now I have earned various DGB Fellow Day Financial Group designated May 7 (Sat) as tions and thank you notes (for congratulatory financial certificates and qualifications, including “DGB Fellow’s Day” for encouraging unity Certified Foreign Exchange Specialist (CFES), Certified and condolence money), thereby promoting 10%↑ among employees across all affiliates of the real changes in corporate cultures. Credit Analyst (CCA), Certified Loan Officer (CRO), Certified Derivatives Investment Advisor Group, along with the “DGB Fellow Week” des(CDIA), Certified Securities Investment Advisor (CSIA) ignated from May 9 (Mon) to May 23 (Mon). DGB Daegu Bank has provided long-term along with three major certificates in insurance and The Group will mark the DGB Fellow’s Day service workers of 20 years or more with fund investment, respectively. I feel that I have on May 7 every year, and encourage employa domestic or foreign training program for finally become a ‘Banking Specialist. ees to unite and reinforce synergy by desigapproximately two weeks, whose cost limit Live Talk with CEO Certificate Acquisition Rate (Unit: %) DGB Employee A (7 years in DGB Daegu Bank) nating May as a time for unity and solidarity. is KRW 4 million. Due to the increased employee satisfaction, the loyalty of employees In addition, DGB Financial Group has various 2016 88.5 programs for communication and sense of has been raised so as to lower their turnover rate, and the long-term services have en2014 78.5 unity, such as Live Talk with CEO for easihanced the continuity of work. * Fund Investment Solicitor License (Fund General, Derivatives Fund, Real Estate er communication among employees and the Fund), Insurance agency certificate (Life Insurance Agency, Property CEO, and DGB Be One Middle Group Sharing Insurance Agency, Third Insurance Agency) Meeting , which is the time for communication in the middle group that plays a pivotal role in the organization, and 'DGB Be One EoDGB Financial Group 2016-2017 03 Enhancement CSR STRATEGY Enhancement of 42 43 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Organizational Organizational Competence Competence In order to make real changes to unreasona 'Smart Relaxation Campaign' along with able procedures and contradictory situations “Family Day”, which allows the employees to Impact Story. #5 which have been accepted as usual business leave early from work every Wednesday to until now, DGB Daegu Bank is actively promotspend time with their families. This Campaign ing ‘Discernible Innovation’, where employees adopts Three ‘No’s (‘No reason’ for day-off, A small yet meaningful movement for weary DGB people working provide comments on the areas that need to ‘No rejection’ to day off applications, and enPositive DGB for change and innovation College Tour be changed and, after going through rigorous joy the day off with ‘No conditions attached’) Live Talk with the CEO review and screening process, provide intento create more flexible day-off culture and (Sep, 2016) 1 Since the 1990s, the DGB has initiated sive support to the areas. encourage the employees to spend more DGB Be One Eoullim various campaigns to break through quality time with their family. (Standing, 2016) New Start with Unity Movement difficulties such as 'Great Leap Forward DGB Daegu Bank is continuing its efforts to 3000 Movement', 'New Start with Unity create an efficient and energetic workplace DGB Daegu Bank also operates the 'DGB FamMovement', and 'Transformation 99 through the 'DGB Youth Frontier'. The DGB ily Happiness Center' as part of its employee Movement' whenever there was a crisis that jeopardized the company. Youth Frontier is an opinion group where support program, ‘Employee Assistance ProDGB Youth Frontier young employees in their 20s and 30s presgram (EAP)’. The Bank selects excellent ement their ideas for organizational change and ployees with professional qualifications and innovation, driving change through practical operates a professional counseling program Confident DGB “Mingling with colleagues 2 Before long, however, the employees suggestions for improving corporate culture. to consult on job coaching, job-related diffiEducational Forum with in my branch isn’t always easy. got tired of the constant infusion of sense Celebrities (Oct, 2016) Building a relationship with culties, health, law, tax, and investment techof crisis and request for changes from In recognition of his efforts in management The largest working-level forum the management, and got used to the those working in other branches niques. It is also helping its employees to lead is just too much a burden for innovation of DGB Financial Group, CEO Park a happy life at home and at work by running a in Korea for expertise and sense of urgency as it became a part of leadership (monthly) our hectic daily life.” In-kyu received the Innovation Grand Prize specialized program to consult various probtheir routine. and the '2017 Korea CEO Leadership Grand lems in family life such as couples’ clinic, child Prize', for the company's innovative procare, parental support, etc. “It is too exhausting to grams that led to positive changes among its 3 In order to resolve this issue, DGB attend the training courses employees and resulted in inevitable employDGB Daegu Bank provided various events and Change and Innovation Department has provided on Friday night ee communication with the CEO. activities that its employees can do with their opened a communication channel through after work.” families for a happy family life. In 2016, the Smart DGB which the DGB employees can voice their DGB Daegu Bank provides 'DGB Health-Care', Bank offered college tours, job shadowing, opinions. This idea was successful; in one a personalized health care service for employDGB Be One TED (2016. 6~7) “Although we get the and farming experiences in which the emshort year, a total of 73 opinions were opportunity to talk with the ees' healthy life, as well as stress diagnosis for Branch operation manual collected from the employees. ployees can enjoy with their children. Morepresident, the time we the employees on a regular basis. In particuover, it also provided employees opportuni(2016 Standing) E-document have is too short to have a lar, it is helping its employees to work healthy streamlining (Since March, meaningful conversation.” ties for family travel, family musicals, and filial 2016) with a health promotion program where the tours for some quality time with family. employees can set certain health-related goals and donate certain amounts of money Despite the ever-fluctuating financial envi73 opinions “I am always asked to share when they reach their goals. ronment, DGB Financial Group will strive to some typical cases regarding enhance employee satisfaction, customer knowledge management, but DGB Financial Group is raising the level of happiness, and sustainable growth by maxiI am not sure if I can share my satisfaction among its employees through story with others. There is 4 After thinking long and hard, the mizing synergy among the affiliates always someone who has better various welfare programs for not only the Department decided to promote several ideas and cases than mine.” projects with ‘Positivity’, ‘Confidence,’ employees but also for their families. In line with this effort, DGB Daegu Bank designated and ‘Smart’ as keywords. Health Care Programs Positive Category Beneficiary Content DGB Confident Metabolic Employees with high blood pressure, Body Fat Management, Dietary therapy 5 Thanks to the concerted efforts made DGB syndrome high blood sugar and triglyceride levels by the Group and its employees, the Group won the Minister Prize from the Ministry Enhancement of Employees whose leukocyte count is Immunity Enhancement Program immunity below the reference level of Trade, Industry, and Energy in the 22nd Smart Business Innovation Awards. DGB DGB Health-Care Branches requested for the Blood pressure, blood sugar, and body Serv service and target branches for each composition measurement service month Sympathetic and parasympathetic (serotonin) test Health consulting for DGB employees and their family DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 04 Risk Management CSR STRATEGY Risk Management 44 45 Risk Management and results of the meetings are regularly reMajor activities of the risk Management committee in 2016 Crisis and Change ported to the Board of Directors. DGB Financial Group is exposed to various en01 Submission of the Final Bidding Proposal for the 07 Approval for the Conclusion of the Stock Purchase Management vironmental changes and risks arising from Under the Risk Management Committee, the Phnom Penh Commercial Bank of Cambodia (Proposal) Agreement political, economic and social issues. ThereRisk Management Council is in charge of de02 Report on the Risk Management Council Review and 08 Revision of the Risk Management Regulations Resolution According to the Act on the Governance of Financial fore, it is necessary to identify and actively liberating and deciding risk-related details. Companies (Proposal) DGB Financial Group manage potential risks that can adverseThe Council consists of executives who de03 Report on the Resolution Implementation Results 09 Setting of 2016 Lios Country Exposure Limit (Proposal) Violation of Ethical recognizes the importance ly affect corporate management activities cide on risk management issues; managers 04 Report on the Subsidiary Company’s Risk Management 10 Setting of 2017 Group Risk Tolerance Limit (Proposal) Managementthrough systematic risk management and who deal with agreed-upon issues; and workCommittee Meeting Results of a preemptive response to ing-level staff in charge of subsidiaries to enrelated laws and strengthened change management capa05 Appointment of the Chairman of the Risk Management 11 Report on the Integrated Crisis Analysis Results financial and non-financial bilities. To that end, DGB Financial Group acsure that the Group's and subsidiaries' risk Committee regulations risks such as political, 0 tively identify financial and non-financial risks policies and strategies maintain consistency. 06 Establishment and Incorporation of the Affiliated 12 Report on the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Company economic and social issues lurking in its business activities and manages DGB Financial Group has established the 'Risk them in a systematic and strategic manner. * According to the Act on the Governance of Financial Companies, the name was changed into the Risk surrounding the corporate Management Emergency Action Plan' to run Management Committee (Oct. 27, 2016) environment. Therefore, the DGB Financial Group divides management apart from routine risk management activirisks into two categories for proper manageties such as information protection and cyber Group conducts systematic security. It is a contingency plan for emergenment; major risks (credit, market, operation, Organization Task Process risk management and credit concentration, interest rate and insurcy scenarios designed to respond to the risks change management to ance) and other risks (liquidity, strategy, repefficiently with proper actions and proceSubsidiary Company’s Crisis Response Team Index Monitoring • Capital promote sustainable utation, and tax). DGB Financial Group's risk dures by identifying indicators and situations Adequacy Risk Management management activities. management ensures that the supervisory that increase or might increase the risk level. Risk Subsidiary Company’s Risk Management Council Impact Analysis Committee function of the Group is balanced against the DGB Financial Group’s Emergency Action Plan • Credit Risk Operations risk management function of its subsidiaries. establishes responding procedures for cap• Liquidity For checks and balances within the Group, ital adequacy, credit and liquidity risks with three steps based on the severity of the risk. Risk Group’s Risk Management Council Determining Crisis Phase 7 DGB Financial Group has established Risk As such, DGB Financial Group is making vigorChairman Taking Action Management Committee in the Board to deous efforts to maintain its operation as stably velop and oversee risk management policies. as possible by putting systemic contingency As the highest decision-making body related plans in place. to risk management, the Risk Management Ethical Management Committee is convened at least once a quarDGB Daegu Bank Codes of Conduct ter to set limits on various risks and periodiDGB Financial Group recognizes that ethically review the status of risks. The Commitcal and honest management activities are Fundamental principle tee also conducts resolution on basic risk essential to the Group's credibility and can □ Do our best all the time to deliver management principles and policies, along have a significant impact on the reputation satisfaction to our customers with strict monitoring activities. The contents of the Group, customer attraction and reby providing unmatched goods and tention, talent hunt, and the performance of services and caring for them the invested companies. Based on this un□ Offer long-term stable profits to derstanding, DGB Financial Group is practicour shareholders by maximizing our Risk Management Principles corporate value through rational ing ethical and righteous management that is faithful to the basic principles by adhering to investment and sound management. its Codes of Conduct, Guidelines for Employee □ Make efforts to enhance employees’ Practice, and Ethics Practice Program. living quality by conducting fair HR 01 02 03 policies and giving them more chances Risk Board of Directors Management Credit Risk Market Risk Operaion DGB Daegu Bank has various education proin consideration of dignity and value of Risk grams to establish an organizational culture each employee. Risk Management centering on ethical management. Each □ Contribute to the advancement of the Committee branch provides training programs for all local and national economy 04 05 06 employees at least once a month about law by respecting the right and just Credit Interest Rate Insurance Risk Management observance and Codes of Conduct, as well as social values, observing diverse rules Concentration Risk Risk Council training on compliance and ethics manageand laws and establishing fair Risk ment through various job training and comfinancial order. pulsory training courses. In addition, the Bank marks Ethics Compliance Day once a month to establish ethical decision-making and judgDGB Financial Group 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 04 Risk Management CSR STRATEGY Risk Management 46 47 ment criteria, and to make the employees acthe Group provided employee training, broadMinimizing Environmental Footprint DGB Financial Group encourages the purquire all the relevant laws and regulations so casting education, and self-tests, while colchase of eco-friendly goods. In accordance Ethical Practice Programs that they can handle their work in a fair and lecting and spreading cases of exemplary Enhancement DGB Financial Group is actively engaged in with the Green Purchasing Guidelines, it is Enactment of the Codes legitimate manner. ethical practices in order to establish ethical of Environmental various activities to minimize the environmental impact caused by its management acexpanding green procurement and encouraging employee participation through green of Conduct and integrity pact (the beginning of each year In addition to various education programs, business practices. Management tivities and is continuously striving to provide procurement training. DGB Daegu Bank is strengthening its credDGB Financial Group participated in the Fair sustainable environment to future generations through thorough and organized busiIn addition to activities and programs to minEthical Practice Day (monthly) ibility and transparency in financial affairs Play Anti-Corruption Declaration ceremoimize its environmental impact, DGB Financial ness practices. by establishing a systematic and regular inny hosted by the UN Global Compact Korea Group has also established an efficient manSelf-inspection on compliance ternal control system as well as conducting and sponsored by the Ministry of Trade, InIn recognition that In September 2012, DGB Financial Group inagement system for continuously monitoring with laws (first business thorough audits (daily audits, general audits, dustry and Energy, the Ministry of Land, Introduced the 'Green Touch Program' to the and improvement of its environmental footprint. day of every month) systematic environmental entire group. The 'Green Touch Program' is special audits and regular audits). Morefrastructure, and Transport, the Ministry of DGB Daegu Bank received certificate of the over, it also encourages ethical management Oceans and Fisheries, the Anti-Corruption management is linked to software that helps users to save power on Environmental Management System (ISO Various employee education financial performance, their computers by reducing the stand-by programs through checks and balances among employ& Civil Rights Commission, and the Financial power of computers which are not in use, 14001) in 2011. Since receiving the Green ees by operating an internal whistle-blower Services Commission. At this event, DGB FiDGB Financial Group is thereby minimizing CO2 emissions. In 2016, Management System (GMS: KS | 7001/7002) system. It has various reporting channels nancial Group announced its commitment this program was resulted in a total of 25,183 certification for the first time in the financial (at least once a month) making every effort to sector, DGB Daegu Bank has maintained an such as mail, dedicated phone number and to expand exchanges and communication kwh of power savings, and 10,677 kg of care-mails, computerized system, website, DGB with seven domestic industry associations, minimize its environmental bon dioxide reduction. effective environmental management system Operation of the Internal that complies with international regulations by Control Law Compliance Council mobile office, etc., and the confidentiality 70 anti-corruption companies and governfootprint and properly DGB Daegu Bank is transitioning to e-bills in conducting regular post reviews and re-certifi(quarterly) of the report and whistle-blower is strictly mental organizations in terms of compliance respond to climate change order to reduce the amount of paper use. In cation reviews. The 2015 March Post-Screenguaranteed. and ethics management through close pubby promoting effective addition to that, various paper-saving activiing To Maintain Certification Of Environmental Pledge for integrity (when lic-private partnership. With this in mind, DGB ties are being implemented such as the use Management System and Green Management signing a contract) Financial Group will continue to play a leading management of resources of reusable paper or double-sided printing. System suggested 11 recommendations on Whistle-blower Reporting Channel role in strengthening compliance and ethical and by conducting education DGB Daegu Bank's second Head Office re5 environmental and 6 green issues, while no management by promoting anti-corruption campaigns on environmental ceived a Gold rating in LEED (Leadership in Ennon-conformity issue was found, so as to pass □ Mail capabilities to combat corruption. ergy and Environmental Design), a US environthe investigation. □ Dedicated Contact Number and protection. ment-friendly building certification system. It DGB Daegu Bank has operated an inventory E-mail Ethical management is directly linked to the reduced energy costs by 45% compared to system for energy consumption and green□ C  omputerized System reliability of a business; it not only affects ordinary buildings reduced carbon emissions house gas emissions for efficient and sys□ W  histle-blower Reporting Center growth but also survival of the group. Thereby more than 30%, and water consumption tematic management. The Bank secures ob(DGB website and etc.) fore, it will do its utmost to establish ethical was also reduced by more than 40%. jectivity and credibility for the energy-saving 2016 Fair Play and Anti-Corruption corporate cultures and to create a proper □ DGB Mobile Office Pledging Ceremony business environment where various ethical practice promoting programs can play their Environmental Management Policy parts in order to realize sustainable growth In addition to the daily ethical management of DGB Financial Group. As part of the efDGB Financial Group and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) shall give priority to the environmental managesystem, DGB Daegu Bank implements the forts, the Group provided employee training, ment in the course of all management activities. To fulfill our social responsibilities and contribute to the preservation of the global environment by continuously making improvements to minimize the impacts righteous management in response to changbroadcasting education, and self-tests, while on the environment, resources, energy, greenhouse gas and environment-related social responsibilies in laws and systems at home and abroad collecting and spreading cases of exemplary ties, the Group shall perform the following. and is making vigorous efforts to raise ethical ethical practice in order to establish ethical 1 The Group shall identify how environmental management relates to its business, and shall continuawareness among its employees. business practices. ously develop products and services taking environmental management into account. In 2016, education and campaigns on the Im2 The Group shall use resources and energy in an efficient manner, shall minimize the emissions of greenhouse gas and pollutants, and shall recognize and fulfill its social responsibilities. proper Solicitation and Graft Act were start3 The Group shall comply with the legal requirements applicable to the Group, and shall actively fulfill all ed in DGB Financial Group. Through the guidethe promises that the Group has made to comply. lines and training on revised Banking Act and 4 The Group shall recognize the importance of environmental management through education and subordinate laws and regulations, the Group training that encourage all Group employees to change their perspective on environmental manageraised awareness on compliance among emment and to actively participate in environmental management. ployees and promoted sound business prac5 The Group shall establish and implement goals and detailed targets of environmental management tices. As part of the efforts, to achieve the environmental management policy, and shall continuously improve its environmental management performance through periodic inspections. All Group employees shall fully comprehend this environmental policy, and shall strive to achieve goals of environmental management and to improve environmental management performance. * DGB Financial Group's green management regulations and guidelines can be found in the web report (http://www.dgbfg.co.kr) DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 04 Risk Management CSR STRATEGY Creating Shared Value 05 Creating Shared 48 49 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Value GHG Inventory Control System Shared Development with Partners DGB Financial Group conducts partner satWin-Win Partnerships isfaction surveys to actively collect opinions DGB Financial Group is working with various from its partner companies and improve Head in charge of climate change responses partners to comply with legal obligations in (Chairman of Sustainable Management Committee: CEO) business relations. The items of the survey various areas such as procurement, IT seconsisted of General Matters, Contract CriDGB Financial Group curity, credit evaluation, and auditing, and to teria and Procedures (written contract, deDGB Green Press Head in charge of operation(Director Working Level (Green strives to provide ensure highly professional services through livery payment means, and delivery payment of Green Finance Corps) Finance Corps) Corps comprehensive financial outsourcing. DGB Financial Group supports date), Reward System, and the Will and Senservices at a global level to stable operation of and coexistence with timent of DGB Financial Group for Shared DGB Green Press Corps is partner companies through fair and transfoster local economies Growth. In the 2016 survey, the satisfaction promoting the activities Activity data collection Activity data gathering Emission calculation Inventory parent transactions and listens to their opinof DGB Financial Group to the (General affairs (General affairs (DGB Financial Group management (IT level by sector was 95 point for General local community and raising department of the department DGB Economic Operation department and local industries while ions through regular meetings. In addition, it Matters, 100 point for Contract Criteria and Bank, affiliates) of the Bank) Research Institute) of the Bank) the awareness of the local continuing to strengthen its is carrying out various activities to strengthProcedures, 98 point for Reward System, people about climate change en the competencies of its partners by proand 98 point for the Will and Sentiment for and environmental issues. efforts to develop and viding them training courses on sustainable GHG Inventory Control System Shared Growth. provide financial products management in line with its efforts to enthat ensure sustainable courage sustainable management within the Business Partner Satisfaction for Environmental As a declaration that expresses the will of all employees and the principles regarding growth. value chain. the environmental management performance of the Group's overall management Each Part (Unit: Point) Management Policy activities, it defines the basic framework for the establishment of goals. Environmental It consists of 5 chapters, 19 articles and supplementary provisions that provide DGB Financial Group's Basic General Affairs planning, implementation & operation, inspection & corrective action, etc. to Management Regulation minimize environmental impact from the Group's overall operation. Principles for Shared Growth with 2016 95 Partners 2015 95 Based on the environmental management policy and regulation, it devides NIE Energy Journal Contest Environmental the necessary procedure for environmental management activities into 15 tasks, 2014 94 Management Guideline and provides respective guidelines. 1 Stronger Win-Win Partnership 2 Transparent Transactions Standard & Procedure for Contracts 3 Fair price compensation 2016 100 and emission reporting through third party DGB Green Press Corps was in operation in 4 Zero Unfair Practice in Trade 2015 100 verification which is conducted annually. 2016; they provided environmental education 2014 100 5 Stronger Eco-friendly Activities In line with those efforts, DGB Financial Group to about 600 students in a total of 8 elementaalso plans to expand its reach of environry, middle, and high schools in the region. Compensation System mental impact management from DGB Daegu DGB Financial Group holds the NIE Energy 2016 98 Bank to other affiliates to further mitigate the Journal Contest for elementary, middle, and 2015 98 environmental impacts and maintain a sushigh school students in Korea every year with The Group convenes meetings with key part2014 100 tainable environment. an aim to promote eco-friendly practices by ner companies every year to listen to their keeping ‘Green’ journals. The Contest, The Conopinions and suggestions. In the “DGB FinanWill & Sentiment for Win-Win Growth test, which has been annually held since 2009, cial Group & Partners Meeting for Shared 2016 98 Raising Environmental Awareness was attended by approximately 2,000 stuGrowth” held in 2016, major issues and 2015 98 DGB Financial Group is providing various prodents in 2016, and 60 students won awards at changes related to partners were shared, 2014 94 grams and education courses to raise enthe contest. DGB Financial Group is expanding and proper actions were taken based on vironmental awareness among the general its education courses on green management the opinions of the partner businesses. The public. In particular, in recognition that the and green financing for its employees. It also partners made diverse suggestions about provides training courses on the GHG invenIn 2016, education on ‘Recent CSR Trends awareness of climate change and environfair compensation and payment, and DGB and Major Issues Related to Partners’ was mental issues should be further emphasized tory system and green management system for the system users and internal auditors. In Financial Group made a promise for transprovided for the partner companies to raise in order to provide a sustainable environment parent disclosure on relevant budgeting and their awareness on sustainable managefor future generations, the Group has been addition to these efforts, DGB employees are actively participating in local environmental payment standards. ment and to foster relevant competencies. vigilant to spread and raise environmental awareness among our employees, partners, protection activities. In 2016, a total of 2,385 employees participated in environmental proGoing forward, DGB Financial Group will conand local communities. tinue to strengthen communication with its tection activities, such as Spring Tree Planting, Since 2010, DGB Financial Group has operAlley Tending and Restoration of Hanson Lily partners as well as to promote sustainable ated ‘DGB Green Press Corps’ consisting of Garden at Dokdo Island. co-prosperity with them through efforts to university students in the region. DGB Green encourage awareness of sustainable manPress Corps is actively promoting the environAs described above, DGB Financial Group will continue its efforts to raise awareness of agement within the value chain. mentally-friendly activities of DGB Financial Group to the local community and raising the the environment while expanding awareness awareness of local residents about climate of green finance and environment-friendly change and environmental issues. The 7th financing related to the business area of the Group. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 05 Creating Shared CSR STRATEGY Creating Shared Value 50 51 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Value Support for Local Communities manities, society and arts at 7 pm on the 2nd The 'Bluebird Dream Community Children’s Educational Projects Community and 4th Wednesdays of each month. In 2016, Center', operated by the DGB Social ContribuDGB Financial Group recognizes that the susthe Group invited former Samsung Lions tion Foundation, is the first child welfare facilDGB Financial Group is carrying out various Engagement and tainable growth of Daegu and Gyeongbuk rebaseball player Yang Jun-hyuk, Yoon Jong-rok, ity established by a financial institution. It is a educational programs in the region to share gions is closely linked to the growth of DGB Fiits dreams and abundance with the commuDevelopment nancial Group. Thus, it is making every effort Director of the National IT Industry Promotion Agency (former Vice Minister of the Ministry professional child welfare facility designed to prevent children from low income households nity. The Dream Tree Educational Foundation, to contribute to the economic development of of Science, ICT and Future Planning.), and Lee DGB Financial Education from being left unattended after school and which supports children and young people Daegu and Gyeongbuk regions in the form of Si-hyung, the Director of Serotonin Cultural supports the healthy development of those to grow up healthy with dreams and hopes DGB Financial Group is higher productivity and employment rate, and for the future, supports children and youth Center for a special lecture session. There children. In particular, the Center provides carrying out various social to grow into a company that develops with the is a dedicated cultural space in DGB Daegu self-directed learning opportunities to the through various programs such as career contribution activities to region through strenuous support for the loBank's 2nd Headquarters. Serving as a small children in need of care for the healthy deeducation, experiential learning and counselbe reborn as a company cal community. gallery (1F), this is a place where local artists velopment and growth, while making vigorous ing. In addition, 'Dream Career Job Experience can display their work and communicate with efforts to provide them a place for a healthy Hall' is a program that helps young people in that grows with the local In line with these efforts, DGB Financial Group the region find their talents and make career has supported SMEs that have contributed the local residents. In addition, DGB Financial playing field and entertainment so that they community. Group is sponsoring local professional soccer DGB Wednesday Lecture can grow into healthy and upstanding memchoices on their own. This program provides greatly to the vitalization of the local economy. the students opportunities to search for and For example, it provides financial consulting teams and sports events such as the DGB bers of society. 'With-U DGB Total Care ProjLove Home Run Zone, and is actively supportect for Foster Family' is a welfare program experience multiple jobs, including bankers, to the SMEs so that they could secure solbaristas, patissier, announcers, and flight atid ground for business, while making every ing various local events such as the Colorful where the employees of DGB Financial Group Daegu Festival and Sharing Festival. and children and teenagers belong to Daegu tendants. effort to aid them with easier and more accessible financial supports. 'Corporate BusiFoster Care Center and Social Welfare CenDGB Financial Group conducts various edDGB Financial Group is encouraging sustainters in Daegu are linked as apprentices and ness Consulting Center' at DGB Daegu Bank able growth in the community through scholucational activities related to the financial provides consulting services on corporate mentors, providing total care services to the sector and shares its expertise in finance arship and support programs for students, beneficiaries until they grow into adulthood. management including marketing stragegy, who hold the future of our community. DGB and economy with the community to provide human resources management and enviStarting in 2013, the 5th Learning Mentoring sound economic opportunity to the public. Daegu Bank's Scholarship Foundation proVolunteer Corps carried out various activities ronmental management. In 2016, the Center vides scholarships to high school and firstIn line with such efforts, the 'DGB Financial provided consulting services to a total of 94 in 2016, including learning mentoring and culand Economic Education Center' educates year university students in order to cultivate tural experience programs. The Corps also companies. local talent. In addition, it offers local schools children and young people, who will become provided allowance to the apprentices so that future financial consumers of the country, In addition to SMEs, DGB Financial Group is with development funds to help each school they can build sound financial knowledge. create more opportunities for seminars, conabout financial knowledge and healthy conactively promoting local economies by supsumption habits. Through ‘One Branch One porting traditional markets and micro enferences, and cultural events for its students. For the first time as a financial institution, DGB Financial Group established 'Bluebird School’ financial education program, each terprises. In 2016, the DGB Volunteer Corps In recognition of its vigorous efforts for debranch DGB Daegu Bank establishes an allifrom DGB Financial Group visited traditional Senior Happy Workplace', a career center velopment of local communities, DGB Daegu creating jobs and promoting welfare for the ance with a school located in adjacent area, markets in Daegu and Gyeongbuk provinces Bank received a ‘Gold’ medal in ‘2016 Gyeoand provides the students with the basics as before the Chuseok holiday for grocery shopelderly, which are the two most serious isngbuk Good Business Award’. The Bank also sues in the aging society. The jobs provided to to financial transaction and sound financial ping event to promote traditional markets won the presidential citation by ‘The 21st habits and attitudes. In addition, the Group is and local economy. Apart from these promothe seniors include sterilizing, cleaning, and SME Financial Support Reward Ceremony’ for disinfecting toys for children’s facilities such also dedicated to educating college students tional events, DGB Financial Group employees its efforts to support local SMEs. and the general public about financial techvoluntarily purchased Onnuri gift certificates as kindergartens and daycare centers in the area (the service is free of charge for the faniques to share financial know-how that DGB worth KRW 500 million, contributing to revitalGoing forward, DGB Financial Group will not cilities). In this way, jobs for the elderly can be Financial Group has accumulated over the ization of local traditional markets. Furtherbe complacent and will do everything within created and clean and healthy environments years. more, it also dispatched DGB volunteers to its reach to be the company that promotes help victims in Seomun Market which expedevelopment of and shares its prosperity can be enjoyed by children. In 2016 alone, a In the years to come, DGB Financial Group will rienced a devastating fire in Nov 2016; and with the region through various support prototal of 15 jobs were created and 118 instiseek to grow hand-in-hand with future genthey promoted the financial support of 50 bilgrams for the local community. tutions were benefited from free toy cleaning eration by sharing its knowledge in finance lion won and donations of 300 million won for services. with them. the distressed merchants. Supporting the financially-underprivileged Supports for the FinanciallyDGB Financial Group has implemented various is a part of corporate social responsibilities, disadvantaged closely linked to healthy financial activities programs to provide more opportunities for cultural experiences in the local community DGB Financial Group continues to support the and economic revitalization. Keeping in mind, and to help local residents enjoy the culture. financially-underprivileged such as children DGB Financial Group will continue to support DGB Daegu Bank's second Head Office locatfrom single-parent families, beneficiaries of the economically disadvantaged who are left ed in Buk-gu, Daegu invites famous people national basic livelihood scheme, and the elneglected in our society. from diverse fields such as management, huderly neglected in our ever-aging society. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 05 Creating Shared INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Value Impact Story. #6 DGB Striving to Address Aging Population Issues CSR 1 With the retirement of baby-boomers, Daegu: 25.4% Performance the aging population is increasing rapidly. In particular, Daegu and Gyeongbuk areas are one of the fastest ‘aging’ regions in Korea. In 2030, the proportion of the population aged 65 or older is expected to increase to 25.4% in Daegu and 31.1% in Gyeongbuk. It seems that Korea is now pacing towards the super aging society. Gyeongbuk: 31.1% 2 In response to problems derived from aging population such as elderly, poverty, depression and other economic and social issues due to the decrease in working age population, DGB Financial Group has started an ambitious project to create jobs for the senior citizens. 3 The DGB Social Contribution Foundation, together with the Dalseo Senior Club, established 'Bluebird Work Center for Happy Seniors' in 2012. Thanks to the Center’s program, seniors who have been educated on how to clean toys now visit various welfare institutions such as kindergartens, 4 This program has been successful for daycare centers, unmarried mothers' the past five years, and 15 elderly citizens shelters, and multicultural centers to were provided with jobs in 2016 alone. clean toys for children. Thanks to their endeavors, a total of 118 institutions received professional toy cleaning service so that they can create 150 cleaner and safer environments for the children to play. 118 114 103 15 95 12 13 9 7 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of Jobs Recipient Institutions DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Sustainable Management CSR PERFORMANCE Sustainable 54 55 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT System Management System DGB Financial Group Sustainable Management Strategy DGB Financial Group Sustainable Management Committee ● ● In order to realize the management philosophy of “Sharing Dreams and Prosperity with the Local Community” and the vision of being DGB Financial Group is operating Sustainable Management Committee chaired by the CEO of DGB Group. The Sustainable Management “The Best partner for the Future”, DGB Financial Group set up five strategic directions and 10 strategic initiatives that are linked to the Committee is responsible for the Group's major sustainable management decisions. It is working to develop and improve the sustaingroup-wide direction and the sustainable management strategy. In an effort to carry out the initiatives, the Group has drawn up specific able management of the Group through monitoring the impacts and performance of the Group's economic, environmental, and social sub-plans to be implemented and is managing the status of implementation with the universal achievement indicators from the stage activities. of setting objectives. DGB Financial Group established the Sustainability Working Council led by Vice President of DGB Financial Group (Director of DGB Economic Research Institute) under the Sustainable Management Committee. The Sustainability Working Council holds more than two Strategic Direction of DGB Financial Group Sustainable Management meetings each year, exploring the impacts, opportunities, and risks associated with the economic, social and environmental issues of DGB Financial Group, with four of the sub-councils planning and promoting detailed sustainability strategies and actions plans. Any maManagement terial issues over sustainable management discussed at the four sub-councils are reviewed by, the Chair of the Council, before being Philosophy submitted to the Sustainable Management Committee, the highest governance body for final review and approval. Sustainable Management Framework Vision Best Partner Building the Future Together Sustainable DGB Daegu Bank Management Working Field-Centric Precision Future Sustainable Council DGB Life Insurance Management Management Management Management Committee Chair: Director of DGB Economic Management Chair: Research Institute(Senior DGB Capital Customer Value as Focusing on Basic Diversification Business Executive Vice President of Policy Top Priority / Empathy & Principles / Fulfilling Social Portfolio / Group Chairman Holding Company) Communication / Responsibility / Expansion Business DGB Asset Management Working Group: Green Field-Centered OrganizaPreserving Customer Network / Finance Group tional Culture Value Brand Value Up DGB U-Pay DGB Data System Sustainable Finance Council / DGB Credit Information Ethical Corporate Culture Council / Sustainable Future-Oriented Strategic Management Risk Management Social Contribution Council / Management 1 Sustainable Performance 7 Crisis and Change Management Environmental Management Council Strategies Business network expansion into DaeguEstablishment of integrated risk management Gyeongbuk and other regions system R&D enhancement to respond to market changes Compliance with the Codes of Conduct and 2 Sound Governance enhancement of ethical management Commitment to External Voluntary Agreements Independence and transparency of the BOD 8 Enhancement of Environmental Management Enhancement of the Sustainable Management Efficient resource use and response to Committee activities climate change Expansion of eco-friendly culture and awareness of environment Customer Satisfaction Management UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate UNEP Financial Initiative Carbon Disclosure Climate Disclosure Chairman of DGB Financial Reported on water Participated in regular UNEP FI Project Standard Board 3 Creating Customer Value Creating Shared Value Group is a director of the resource management Korean Group meetings Annual signatory since Member of the CDSB Improvement of stakeholders’ accessibility UNGC Korea practices, 2007 Progress Korean Working Group Prevention of financial incidents through IT 9 Win-Win Partnerships Acted as a member of the Submitted the including rainwater Green Economy Initiative in 2012 security enhancement Laying the foundation for shared growth Communication On recycling Education program operation for sustainable with partners Progress consumption Supports for partners’ CSR education 4 Sustainable Finance and competence enhancement Sustainable development and sale of socially 10 Community Engagement and Development responsible products Community-tailored social contribution activities Financial initiatives Social contribution programs that reflect the characteristics of financial business Enhancement of Organizational Competence 5 Human Resource Development and Support DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Selected as an Excellent FTSE4Good Indexes Reinforcement of talent cultivation system Indexes) performer in addressing Qualified for the FTSE4Good Fair performance evaluation and Qualified for the DJSI Asia Pacific for climate change by CDP Index for 6 consecutive compensation system 7 consecutive years Korea years 6 Employee Satisfaction Management Qualified for the DJSI Korea for Named an ‘Excellent Performer’ E stablishment of human rights management system 8 consecutive years for 6 consecutive years Pursuit of work-life balance DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Major Achievement CSR PERFORMANCE Major Achievement 56 57 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Sustainable Management of Sustainable Management Future-Oriented Strategic | Disclosure on Management Approach Management Sustainable Performance Total asset (Unit: KRW 100 million) *Trust assets excluded, As of end of Dec, 2016 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Sustainable Performance DGB Daegu Bank 400,712 445,230 459,452 500,000 DGB Life Insurance 53,347 55,751 59,430 Significance How to Manage DGB Capital 9,583 12,583 18,511 24,780 DGB Asset Management 185 220 Preparing for and responding to changes amidst key internal DGB Financial Group focuses on quality growth by actively DGB U-Pay 400 368 352 350 and external market changes and financial crises is critical for and dramatically responding to the changing financial DGB Data System 75 83 96 100 securing sustainable performance of DGB Financial Group. environment by expanding domestic and overseas business networks, providing comprehensive financial services, DGB Credit Information 48 47 47 50 and innovating internal organizations. Total 410,097 511,444 534,624 585,400 Key Performance Index (2006~2016) Key Economic Performance (Unit: %, KRW 100 million) * As of the end of Dec. 2016 Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Market Share in Daegu Gyeongbuk 25.5 25.9 26.0 28.5 29.0 29.4 29.2 29.0 29.1 27.6 26.9 ROA 0.58 0.61 0.55 0.60 Market Share (Loan, %) ROE 8.16 8.85 7.95 8.80 Market Share in Daegu Gyeongbuk 34.0 34.3 33.7 33.8 34.3 34.8 35.2 36.2 36.3 35.8 36.8 Market Share (Deposit, %) BIS Ratio 12.92 12.89 12.93 12.90 ROE, BIS (%) 11.32 11.25 13.12 15.40 14.76 15.33 15.57 15.06 12.92 12.89 12.90 Sub-standard loan ratio 1.15 1.29 1.20 1.10 ROA/ROE(%) 1.20 1.16 1.01 0.61 0.75 0.97 0.83 0.65 0.58 0.61 0.55 Delinquency rate 0.73 0.85 0.76 0.70 /19.71 /19.20 /17.37 /10.06 /11.77 /13.95 /11.35 /8.63 /8.16 /8.85 /7.95 Net Income in Controlling Interest 2,297 2,941 2,877 3,200 Economic performance distribution for stakeholders (Unit: KRW 1 million) * As of the end of Dec, 2016 Next Step 2014 2015 2016 Note DGB Financial Group will strengthen its sales activities using the business network in Daegu-Gyeongbuk region, while also laying the Shareholders and Investors 46,919 47,334 50,716 Dividend foundations for growth in the Southeastern part of the country, metropolitan areas, and overseas markets, and raising its brand value Employees 366,126 385,879 398,816 All salaries, retirement allowthrough an integrated branding for all of its affiliates. In addition, we will make efforts to become a comprehensive financial group that ance & welfare benefits leads the future financial market by rapidly responding to next-generation financial services, such as FinTech and Internet Banking. Customers 689,443 616,240 536,883 Interest expense Community∙ 8,481 8,529 6,307 All donations Government 73,434 35,092 85,929 All corporate taxes Sound Governance Sound Governance Significance How to Manage BOD Operation Performance Governance can be the most effective means of understanding DGB Financial Group intends to strengthen the BOD's 2014 2015 2016 a company because it represents the decision-making expertise, establish independent committees and select board structure of the enterprise. The transparent and independent members in a fair way to operate BOD as transparent and No. of Meetings 14 9 14 organization and operation of BOD can be a key factor in sound as possible. Independent Directors Ratio (%) 71.4 83.3 71.4 the company's overall competitiveness. BOD Attendance Rate (%) 100.0 98.4 97.9 Remuneration of Directors (Unit: KRW 1 million) Key Performance Index (2006~2016) 2014 2015 2016 Note Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Registered Director 462 560 354 Including the concurrent BOD Attendance rate (%) 100.0 100.0 100.0 87.4 91.2 98.4 95.0 100.0 100.0 98.4 97.9 Independent Director (Except Audit Committee Member) 72 80 82 Percentage of Independent directors (%) 83.0 83.0 83.0 71.0 63.0 83.0 83.3 71.4 71.4 83.3 71.4 Independent Director (Audit Committee Member) 121 120 122 No. of agendas voted by the 1 2 2 3 2 3 4 4 5 5 5 Total 655 760 558 Committee Share (Unit: %) **As of the end of Dec, 2016 Next Step 2014 2015 2016 Ownership of foreign shareholders 73.80 68.01 59.86 DGB Financial Group will continue to make efforts to improve the efficiency and transparency of the BOD by faithfully implementing the exemplary financial institution governance structure standard. It will also continue to strengthen the activities of the Largest shareholders Saudi Arabia Central Bank 5.48 Saudi Arabia Central Bank 4.68 The Oakmark International Small Cap Fund 4.52 Sustainable Management Committee and Sustainability Working Council. Ownership of domestic shareholders 26.20 31.99 40.14 Largest shareholders Samsung Life Insurance 7.25 Samsung Life Insurance 6.95 National Pension Service 8.87 DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Major Achievement CSR PERFORMANCE Major Achievement 58 59 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Sustainable Management of Sustainable Management Customer Satisfaction | Disclosure on Management Approach Management Creating Customer Value No. of VOC Handling (Unit: cases) Creating Customer Value 2014 2015 2016 Complaint 84 159 47 Significance How to Manage Current Issues 260 169 378 DGB Financial Group is committed to providing better value to DGB Financial Group is pursuing customer satisfaction as Praiseworthy 523 565 789 our customers. Customer satisfaction management has a its best business strategy and looking for ways to get closer to Other 578 779 703 direct impact on corporate performance. With this in mind, DGB our customers. To that end, the Group is continuously Other 1,445 1,672 1,917 Financial Group is doing its best to promote reasonable and providing improved services and better financial accessibility fair financial transaction activities for our customers by providing to its customers. The Group is also striving to enhance the level them sufficient and accurate data so that they can make of customer satisfaction by protecting consumers' interests, Customer Satisfaction Survey Result informed decisions in their financial lives. improving improper practices, and minimizing consumer complaints and damage. 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Key Performance Index (2006~2016) Customer satisfaction (points) 94.23 95.32 94.85 95.00 Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Civil Complaint Evaluation Level (Re1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 placed by the Financial Consumer ProSustainable Finance tection Activity Assessment in 2015) Financial Consumer Protection 'Good' in all Activity Assessment Lending to SMEs Leak of personal information 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) No. of VOC handlings 98 21 142 144 153 197 83 135 84 159 47 Amount of loans to SMEs (KRW 1 trillion) 17.8 19.3 21.0 22.8 Customer satisfaction (points) 85.0 85.0 89.0 89.0 91.0 92.0 92.7 93.9 94.2 95.3 94.9 Percentage of loans to SMEs (%) 63.5 63.8 64.9 65.0 Next Step As security risks increase and the importance of information protection becomes more important, DGB Financial Group will continue to Major Products for Inclusive Finance *As of the end of December 2016 strengthen its consumer protection programs and IT security for safe financial transactions for our customers. In addition, DGB Financial Group will continue to develop differentiated services that meet customer needs by enhancing accessibility and convenience for financial services. 2014 2015 2016 Through this, we will strive to increase our customer satisfaction rating of 94.9 point to 97 or more until 2020. Total Accounts Total Accounts Total Accounts Total Accounts Total Accounts Total Accounts Amount (KRW in Amount (KRW in Amount (KRW in hundred million) hundred million) hundred million) DGB Seed for Hope Loans 25,028 2,063 4,083 2,595 20,695 1,335 Sustainable Finance DGB Conversion Loans 1,496 151 2,018 208 1,108 68 Special Guarantee Loans for SMEs 470 111 2,032 340 1,786 192 Significance How to Manage Sunshine Loans for University Students 459 17 60 6 DGB Financial Group seeks to provide stakeholders better DGB Financial Group develops and sells public finance products for DGB Hopeful Days Loans 704 74 714 75 80 6 benefits through product development that takes into account co-prosperity with local communities, small loan products for stable DGB Stepping Stone Loans for SOHO 559 28 564 28 103 1 the economic, social and environmental dimensions for business operation of small and medium-sized merchants and Special Guarantee Loans for Small Alley 1,376 235 779 36 sustainable growth and generating profits. those who have low credit rating, and green financial products for outstanding eco-friendly management. In addition, DGB Financial DGB Dream Loans for Young People 54 29 58 31 32 18 Group is pursuing a variety of activities, including socially responsible investment (SRI) and financial and economic education programs. Key Performance Index (2006~2016) Major Products for Tech Loans (Amount) *As of the end of December 2016, balance (Unit: KRW in millions) Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 SRI products sales balance 28,997 26,360 17,060 8,806 9,620 11,807 7,790 8,117 5,281 1,645 DGB Tech Biz Loans 43,133 723,502 1,023,922 (deposit, KRW in million) Preferential Loans for Manufacturing 523,375 461,619 274,520 Amount of small loans / tech 7,449 3,821 7,479 3,709 1,979 2,774 3,592 5,242 BOK’s aggregate credit ceiling system for 48,610 58,645 73,714 loans(Loan, KRW in hundred million) /6,256 /10,577 /27,185 technology-driven business start-ups Sales of green financial products 2,328 2,292 853 3,227 2,181 2,944 5,322 8,183 (deposit, KRW in hundred million) DGB CyberGreen Branch Sales Performance Next Step 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) DGB Financial Group intends to expand the shared-value financial products by strengthening the development and sales of socially No. of Accounts Sold 2,564 3,047 2,905 3,000 responsible financial products and reflecting them in its performance evaluation. In addition, we will increase the support for Inclusive Finance from KRW 542.5 billion to 1 trillion, and will increase the loan for SMEs from KRW 21 trillion to 30 trillion to achieve Amount (KRW in millions) 2,094 2,450 2,258 2,500 mutual growth with the local community, including local residents and businesses. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Major Achievement CSR PERFORMANCE Major Achievement 60 61 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Sustainable Management of Sustainable Management Enhancement of Organizational | Disclosure on Management Approach Competence Application of Environmental Impact Evaluation 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) No. of companies subject to environ15,894 19,244 18,021 19,000 mental impact evaluation Human Resource Development and Support No. of companies excluded from envi729 872 358 380 ronmental impact evaluation Significance How to Manage Percentage of applicable companies 95.61 95.67 98.05 98.03 The future of DGB Financial Group depends on excellent human DGB Financial Group is strengthening the competencies of resources and their competencies. Therefore, securing its employees and developing various educational programs excellent talent through fair recruitment procedures, employee reflecting changes and needs of the environment. Green Financial product Sales capacity-building through systematic education programs, 2015 2016 and striking work and life for employees are key elements in sustainable management of DGB Financial Group. No. of Accounts Amount (KRW in millions) No. of Accounts Amount (KRW in millions) Installment Eco-friendly Green 2,685 11,100 66 97 Savings Green Health 726 4,115 627 4,041 Key Performance Index (2006~2016) e-Convenient Installment 5,640 32,886 2,015 21,130 Savings (sales ended Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 in Jul 22, 2015) Average education expenses per 1,100 1,100 1,100 987 1,060 600 Dokdo Savings 11,107 12,920 8,929 9,340 capita (KRW in thousands) In My Hands 1,577 1,721 15,555 44,607 Female managers to all managers (%) 4.0 8.2 9.0 10.2 12.9 13.6 15.7 13.6 19.7 21.5 e-U Savings 1,985 2,769 8,617 26,724 Expenses for re-employment of 3 3 Financial Eco-friendly Green 3,967 68,557 96 1,855 retired employees (KRW in millions) Technique e-Convenient Time 2,862 43,312 347 4,987 Deposits Savings (sales ended in Jul 22, 2015) Next Step Dokdo Deposits 16,100 286,929 16,392 303,870 DGB Financial Group plans to accurately monitor the perceptions of its employees and reflect them in its management. In My Hands 1,771 28,032 14,459 282,745 By properly managing those opinions, the Group will lay the foundations for strengthened competitiveness so as to revitalize the e-U Deposits 2,569 36,435 7,292 118,986 corporate culture of DGB Financial Group. Public Service Fund Products * As of the end of Dec, 2016 (KRW in million) 2014 2015 2016 Employee Satisfaction Management Balance Balance Balance Midas Responsible Investment Equity 303 182 94 Significance How to Manage Investment Trust It is the DGB employees who provide the best value and service DGB Financial Group is striving to maximize employee Mirae Asset Love Sharing ETF Equality 4,233 1,879 1,551 Investment Trust to our external stakeholders. The happy working environment satisfaction by improving the quality of life based on the work for the employees is the basis for improving the productivity and life balance of its employees and pursuing a happy Allianz Active SRI Equity Investment 80 Trust and efficiency of the work, and the happiness of employees is corporate culture for employees. translated into development of DGB Financial Group. Contributions to the SRI Public Service Fund (Unit: KRW in thousand) Key Performance Index (2006~2016) 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Service Amount 22,000 5,400 1,750 4,000 Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Employee satisfaction (points) 63.3 64.1 80.0 86.0 88.0 89.0 91.0 90.0 90.0 90.0 90.0 Maternity leave & return to Work (%) 92.5 88.2 45.2 66.3 47.8 54.0 Next Step DGB Financial Group will strive to provide a higher level of financial services to the customers by establishing a fair compensation system for our employees and nurturing professionalism. For the satisfaction of employees, we will strive to increase our employee satisfaction rating of 90 point to 95 or more until 2020. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Major Achievement CSR PERFORMANCE Major Achievement 62 63 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Sustainable Management of Sustainable Management Human Resource Development and Support OHS 2014 2015 2016 Employee Status at DGB Daegu Bank Rate of occupational accidents (%) 0 0 0 Rate of Absenteeism (Day, %) 2,288 (0.3%) 1,936 (0.3%) 2,578 (0.3%) 2014 2015 2016 Total No. of employees 3,118 3,100 3,138 New employees 184 180 178 Unemployed and retired employees 136 197 127 Employee Satisfaction Management Turnover and retirement rate (%) 4.3 6.3 4.1 Employment type Regular employees 2,846 2,946 3,006 Operation of the DGB Children’s Dream Nursery (Unit: person) Contract employees 272 154 132 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Position Staff 1,676 1,689 1,755 No. of children registered at the DGB 113 127 115 121 Manager (Class 4 or more) 1,402 1,371 1,340 Children’s Dream Nursery Executives 40 40 43 Age Under 20s 33 27 6 20s 597 611 549 Maternity Leave & Return to Work Rate 30s 1,021 1,019 954 2014 2015 2016 40s 1,043 1,045 1,097 No. of employees on maternity leave 104 134 215 50s and above 424 398 532 (persons) Gender (%) Male 55 54 53 No. of employees who have returned 69 64 116 Female 45 46 47 from maternity leave (persons) Others Foreigners 13 15 17 Rate of return to work (%) 66.3 47.8 54.0 No. of employees who retired after 4 6 12 maternity leave (persons) Female Employees (Unit: %) 2014 2015 2016 Employee Satisfaction (Unit: points) Position Female employees to all employees 74.4 74.0 73.6 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) High-Rank Administrator (Female)* 2.7 2.9 4.3 Employee Satisfaction 90 90 90 91 Low-Rank Administrator (Female)** 20 23 25 Employment type Regular female employees to all 45.3 46.7 47.8 * All target employees enrolled in the defined benefit(DB) retirement pension plan in accordance with the agreement between the labor and management of DGB Daegu regular employees Bank (employees with less than 1 year experience in DGB, Independent Directors, part-time employees excluded) Contract female employees to all 38.8 33.1 34.9 contract employees Retirement Pension Memberships * High-Rank Administrator : Director or higher ** Low-Rank Administrator : From Manager to lower than Director 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Defined Benefit Pension Plans (persons) 3,308 3,348 3,387 3,389 Total employees (persons) 3,308 3,348 3,387 3,389 Change of contract positions to regular positions (Unit: person) No. of employees enrolled (persons) 2,932 2,980 3,004 3,036 2014 2015 2016 Enrollment rate (%) 88.6 89.0 88.7 89.6 No. of employees reemployed as regular 12 16 18 Employee Grievance Handling Employee Education 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) No. of grievances received (cases) 20 21 19 22 2014 2015 2016 Rate of grievance resolution (%) 100 100 100 100 Average education hours per capita (hours) 41.5 43 70* Average education expenses per capita 987 1,060 600** (KRW in thousands) DGB Daegu Bank Labor Union Membership * Increasing training time by diversifying educational programs ** Reducing paid training curriculum by changing education standards for required certifications 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Total No. of employees (persons) 2,852 3,348 3,387 3,389 Education on Human rights No. of employees eligible for union 2,131 2,145 2,208 2,171 (Unit: times) membership (persons)* 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Labor union members to total 74.7 64.1 65.2 64.1 employees (%) Average education sessions per capita (times) 52 52 52 60 Labor union members to those 100 100 100 100 eligible (%) * Employees eligible for union membership: All employees who are level 4 position and below (excluding staff working at security office and HR department) DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Major Achievement CSR PERFORMANCE Major Achievement 64 65 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Sustainable Management of Sustainable Management Risk Management | Disclosure on Management Approach Crisis and Change Management No. of Risk Management Committee meetings Crisis and Change Management 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) No. of Risk Management Committee 6 7 7 7 Significance How to Manage Identifying and responding to factors that may pose risks to the DGB Financial Group is taking preventive measures against risks Business Ethics Education Operation management activities of DGB Financial Group is important, through thorough and systematic risk management. In order to not only for the growth of the company, but also for the survival establish a corporate culture that places ethical management as 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) of it. Ethical management, product liability and law compliance the top priority of its value, the Group is actively promoting ethical Average education sessions on 69 66 68 69 also have a significant impact on the reliability of DGB Financial codes of conduct for employees, establishing standards for business ethics per capita (times) Group. job-specific ethical behavior, implementing compliance monitoring systems, and righteous management programs. Key Performance Index (2006~2016) Internal Control System Operation (Unit: cases) Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 No. of corruptions and violation of 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Routine Audit 1,487 1,551 1,471 law (cases) General Audit 258 242 240 Education sessions for business 16 17 18 19 60 65 69 66 68 Special Audit 22 20 14 ethics per capita (times) Ordinary Audit 852,551 517,392 331,231 Internal Control System Operation 148,113 356,182 915,380 855,309 519,205 332,956 Status (times) (Routine, General, Special, Ordinary) Violations of Ethical Management related laws (Unit: cases) Next Step 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) DGB Financial Group will continue to strive to preemptively respond to financial and non-financial risks arising from political, economic No. of law violations 0 0 0 0 and social issues surrounding the corporate environment, and will continue systematic risk and change management to promote sustainable management activities throughout the Group. Environmental Management System Corrective and Preventive Measures * As of the end of Dec, 2016 Non-conformance Action Taken Progress (%) Remark Enhancement of Environmental Management 2014 Internal Audit 0 0 100 Review of possibilities of setting unit costbased goals for green Compliance Evaluation management practices Significance How to Manage and 3 other cases Climate change due to global warming is becoming a serious Under the recognition that environmental awareness 2015 Internal Audit 0 0 100 11 recommendations issue, so environmental awareness and change of behaviors of and change in behavior of the current and future generations for environmental current and future generations should be given top priority should be the top priority for dealing with climate change, education enhancement in Compliance Evaluation the internal training in order to properly deal with climate change. Furthermore, DGB Financial Group has sought various action plans to programs (periodical). DGB Financial Group will have to look for new opportunities strengthen green management activities by adopting green to generate financial performance by minimizing the management policies and guidelines. In addition, it is expanding 2016 Internal Audit 0 0 100 11 recommendations for environmental environmental impacts. the scope of its green management activities by taking into education enhancement consideration its subsidiaries and supply chains. Compliance Evaluation in the internal training programs (periodical). Key Performance Index (2006~2016) Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 GHG Emissions (tCO2e) 31,461 32,759 34,326 18,400 17,991 18,167 18,132 17,730 Enhancement of Environmental Management Green Purchasing Rate (%) 84.5 81.5 83.3 83.3 83.0 83.5 83.7 No. of Environment Protection 106 106 106 120 60 61 73 92 91 95 97 Green product purchasing Activity (cases) (Unit: KRW in millions) 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Next Step Total Purchasing 8,885 8,815 8,425 8,525 Green Product Purchasing 7,374 7,364 7,048 7,161 To strengthen environmental management, DGB Financial Group will expand the development and sales of eco-friendly products and introduce more sophisticated evaluation systems for eco-friendly companies. Furthermore, it will continue to strengthen Green Purchasing Rate (%) 82.99 83.54 83.66 84.00 its activities to raise the sustainability awareness in local communities through financial business. We will further strengthen our environmental management as a member of the local community with the goal of achieving the green purchasing rate of 85%, reducing the greenhouse gas emission by 10% and accomplishing 120 environmental protection activities until 2020. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Major Achievement CSR PERFORMANCE Major Achievement 66 67 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Sustainable Management of Sustainable Management Paper Use (Unit: ton) Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ) 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Paper Use 126.0 134.1 139.7 135 Direct 48.20 40.66 39.43 38 Indirect 116.58 118.61 116.17 115 Total Energy Use 164.78 159.27 155.60 153 Electronic Bills 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) No. of total bills sent 6,797,831 6,714,903 7,094,699 7,203,533 GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2e) No. of electronic bills 1,964,321 2,167,446 2,336,020 2,476,020 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Rate of electronic bills (%) 28.90% 32.30% 32.93% 34.37% Scope 1 3,069 2,770 2,684 2,600 Scope 2 15,098 15,362 15,046 15,000 Total emissions (Scope 1+2) 18,167 18,132 17,730 17,600 DGB Daegu Bank Waste Discharge Scope 3 1,620 2,382 2,334 2,300 Papers Electronics, Ribbons Print Toners Amount Recycling rate Amount Recycling rate Amount Recycling rate Generated (ton) (%) Generated (kg) (%) Generated (ton) (%) Indirect Emissions of GHG in Detail (Unit: tCO2e) 2014 126.0 100% 745 16.10% 2.8 13% 2015 134.1 100% 758 15.60% 3.0 14% 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) 2016 139.7 100% 705 15.87% 3.1 14% Branches 8,215 7,922 7,603 7,500 ATM 2,729 2,710 2,552 7,400 DGB Daegu Bank's Headquarters 4,026 4,619 4,773 4,500 Water Use (Unit: ton) (including DGB Financial Group and DGB Data System) 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) DGB Credit Information 42 43 44 40 Total Use 166,938 167,584 168,753 165,000 DGB U-Pay 66 69 75 70 Amount used per branch 695.6 659.8 651.56 637 Scope of water use data collection Head Office and 240 Head Office and 254 Headquarter, 2nd HeadHeadquarter, 2nd Headbranches branches quarter and 259 branches quarter and 259 branches Green Touch program Benefits Saved Electricity (kWh) Saved Hours of Electricity Amount of CO2 Equivalent to Planting Trees GHG Emissions Reporting Scope 2014 62,719 572,953 26,593 9,600 Remark 2015 51,488 509,138 21,831 7,881 Head Office Main building, detached building (IT center), and training center of DGB Financial Group 2016 25,183 249,002 10,677 3,855 Branches All branch offices Vehicles Company-owned and leased vehicles DGB in-house Daycare Center In-house Daycare Center at Daegu Bank Implementation of Environmental Education DGB Credit Information Affiliate of DGB Financial Group 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) DGB U-Pay Affiliate of DGB Financial Group Annual training hours on green 402 450 450 480 DGB Data System Affiliate of DGB Financial Group GHG Emissions control Environmental Preservation Activities Emission Sources Fuels (Substance) 2014 2015 2016 Direct emissions Stationary Facilities within the scope of DGB Daegu Bank’s Kerosene, diesel, LNG, and propane gas No. of activities 91 95 97 (Scope 1) combustion administration that uses fossil fuels: boilers, restaurants, No. of participants 2,585 2,120 2,385 emissions emergency power generators, etc. Investment in environmental preserva39 9 35 Mobile combustion Company-owned vehicles and leaded (long-term lease) Diesel, gasoline, and LPG tion (KRW in millions) emissions vehicles Fugitive emissions Air-conditioning facilities within business premises R-410a, R407c Indirect emisPurchased Electricity facilities Electricity sions (Scope 2) electricity Other indirect Mobile (business Transportation for business trips out of town and overseas Railway (out-of-town business trips), airway emissions trips, commuting) (business trips to Jeju Island and overseas), (Scope 3) cars/buses/subway (commuting) DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Major Achievement CSR PERFORMANCE Major Achievement 68 69 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of Sustainable Management of Sustainable Management Creating Shared Value | Disclosure on Management Approach Win-Win Partnerships No. of meeting with business partners 2014 2015 2016 Win-Win Partnerships Suggestions by business partners 2 1 1 Expanding educations for Reflecting inflation rate in budget Applying consistent criteria for Significance How to Manage business partners (safety, ethics, allocation selecting suppliers and calculating sustainability, etc.) costs DGB Financial Group has relationships with a variety of partners DGB Financial Group holds conferences and meetings every year Providing reasonable compensation for weekend and work after hours for legal compliance and expert outsourcing. For this reason, for mutual growth with partner companies, and reflects the Proposals by DGB Financial Group 1 1 1 it is necessary to establish fair and transparent trade relations concerns and interests of them in its management. The Group Reviewing the improvement Collecting business partners’ -C  onsistent efforts for with partner companies, and to seek ways to enjoy co-prosperity also carefully listens to and responds to the difficulties of its of business partner management suggestions and enhancing co-prosperity with business with them through coexistence and win-win. partners. system management channels partners Actions Taken Execution of one suggestion Execution of one suggestion Execution of one suggestion Key Performance Index (2006~2016) DGB Financial Group's Business Consulting Service Operation Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Partner Satisfaction Survey 90 92 95 94 95 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) Result (points) No. of firms received DGB Financial Group's Business 74 77 94 100 Meetings with Business 1 1 1 1 1 1 Consulting Service Partners (times) Handling of business partners’ 100 100 100 100 100 grievances (%) * As the issues, such as the win-win growth of business partners and the support for supply chain and corporate sustainable management, became significant, it Community Engagement and Development was selected as a key performance indicator in 2011 DGB Social Contribution Foundation’s Major Activities Next Step Through our fair and transparent transactions, DGB Financial Group will continue to support the stable operation and co-prosperity with 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) its partners, while actively listening to their opinions through regular meetings to maintain a sound foundation for mutual growth. Future Generation EducaJob creation (persons) 6 8 8 10 tion Project Group Proceeds (KRW in million) 119 109 145 150 Bluebird Senior Happy Job creation (persons) 13 14 15 15 Workplace Community Engagement and Development Proceeds (KRW in million) 34 47 50 52 Significance How to Manage DGB Daegu Bank labor union’s Social contribution Expenses (Unit: KRW in millions) DGB Financial Group is a company that grows with the local DGB Financial Group is promoting social contribution activities that 2014 2015 2016 2017(estimate) community. Therefore, the Group should strive to promote econompromote economic and social value creation, such as creating jobs Sponsoring low-income family children, Providing heating 200 206 223 225 ic development and self-sustenance in the Daegu-Gyeongbuk and promoting local self-sustainability. Through various localcosts for low income families, Supporting local talent area and contribute to regional development by re-investing in centric campaigns and specialized activities in education, culture, and returning its achievements to the local community. arts and sports, the Group will provide a better environment for residents to live in. It is also promoting diverse activities to grow DGB’s Scholarship cultural Foundation together with local communities through various co-prosperity programs for the Group and the local communities. 2014 2015 2016 Key Performance Index (2006~2016) High Schools No. of beneficiaries 114 107 101 Amount of scholarships (KRW in millions) 174 167 159 Performance Index 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 University No. of beneficiaries 96 93 92 Social Contribution Expenses/ 4.0 3.5 5.1 8.9 8.3 7.8 8.7 9.7 11.3 14.6 7.7** Amount of scholarships (KRW in millions) 243 236 229 Net Income* (%) Participants in voluntary activities 19,627 17,560 18,574 19,608 21,966 22,198 21,723 22,208 22,182 19,791 19,294 (persons) Daegu Bank’s Major Social Contribution Activities No. of firms that received 33 55 60 91 85 82 63 67 74 77 94 management consulting services 2014 2015 2016 from DGB Financial Group Supporting Volunteers Supporting Volunteers Supporting Volunteers No. of jobs created by DGB Social 14 16 19 26 27 Amount (KRW in Amount (KRW in Amount (KRW in Contribution Foundation (persons) million) million) million) * Net Income: DGB Daegu Bank’s net income after deducting a bad debt reserve Local communities and public welfare 16,176 13,440 13,569 12,280 12,278 12,057 ** Deducting the social contribution expenditure and bad debt reserve due to special domestic circumstances Culture, art, and sports 4,377 2,099 5,736 1,860 5,140 1,648 Education and scholarship 2,650 211 2,163 296 1,393 230 Next Step Micro-credit, dormant deposit, Youth 2,670 0 1,450 0 462 DGB Financial Group will strive to create shared value by reflecting the characteristics of the financial industry and continuously Startup Foundation, and Credit developing social contribution programs that utilize financial infrastructure. In addition, by measuring the performance of its social Environment and global 39 6,432 91 5,355 238 5,359 contribution projects, the Group will pursue meaningful solutions to social problems and establish a solid foundation for mutual growth with the local community. In addition, we are planning to increase the number of management consulting service providers by 30% Total 25,912 22,182 23,009 19,791 19,511 19,294 or more until 2020 to support stable growth of local SMEs. DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Materiality Analysis Process CSR PERFORMANCE Materiality Analysis Process 70 71 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and Results and Results DGB Financial Group identified material issues with respect to sustainable management in accordance with maMateriality Analysis Results teriality test procedures recommended by the ISO26000 and GRI G4. The report content was structured based ● on selected material issues, with a particular focus on issues of high concern to our stakeholders and those with a high impact on the Group’s management strategies and goals. DGB Financial Group selected 15 issues from three categories such as society, environment and governance, five for each group with high importance, for the balanced Materiality Report. Issues that the Group employees and stakeholders were most interested in 2016/17 were 'Stakeholder Confidence', 'Stakeholder Communication', and 'FinTech' related issues. Materiality Analysis Process ● Meterial Issues Matrix DGB Financial Group conducted analysis on internal and external environment and materiality of issues based on Significance for Stakeholders the four principles: Sustainability Context, Materiality, Completeness and Stakeholder Inclusiveness. ◀ High Low 1 Confidence with Stakeholders 2 Stronger Communication with Stakeholders Step 1. Identification Step 2. Prioritization Step 3. Validation 3 Fin-Tech 4 Ethical Management, Risk Management, Governance-related competencies Sustainability Context Materiality Completeness 5 Building infrastructures for financial services Media research analysis / Materiality Assessment / Scope / Boundary / Period / 6 Stronger IT security, increased request for preventive measures for In-depth stakeholder Relevance Assessment / Suitability accidents in financial transaction interview / Analysis of Significance Assessment 7 Loyalty and motivation to improve performance (leadership, management, previous issues 11 Increase in consumers who value environmentcooperation) protection, society, and health 8 Protection of customer privacy 12 Utilizing natural resources 9 Financial capital for providing financial services 13 Eco-friendly management system operation Internal Stakeholders : Employees 10 Reputation and Brand 14 Environmental Impact of Products and Services 917 in total External Stakeholders : Individual Customers, Corporate 15 Development of eco-friendly financial products (Internal: 680 / Report Customers, Shareholders and Investors, External: 237) Government and local government bodies, Local residents, Business partners, NonLow High ▶ regular workers/Interns, Media Step 4. Review Significance for DGB Financial Group Sustainability Context / Category Strategy Material Issues Page Boundary Stakeholder Engagement Sustainable DGB Daegu Bank’s 50th • Confidence with stakeholders • reputation and brand 18 Internal Management anniversary Focus Overseas Corporation • Financial capital for providing financial services 20 Internal in Laos • reputation and brand Step 1 Identification of sustainable management issues through internal and external environmental analysis DGB Daegu Bank's 2nd • Stronger Communication with Stakeholders • Increase in consumers who 22 Internal Headquarters value environment-protection, society, and health • Eco-friendly system • Media Analysis | Analyzed 7,330 valid articles released in last three years (from 2014 through 2016) in order to figure out the operation public recognition of the Group to identify relevant issues Future-Oriented Sustainable • Fin-Tech • Building infrastructures for financial services 28 Internal • In-depth stakeholder interview | Carried out in-depth interviews with 7 stakeholders representing each stakeholder group in Strategic Performance order to identify detailed sustainability issues Management Sound Governance • Confidence with Stakeholders • Ethical Management, Risk Management, 30 Internal • Benchmarking | Checked material issues that domestic and foreign peer groups had reported Governance-related competencies • Compliance with ISO26000 | Conducted diagnosis of the compliance with ISO26000 to draw issues which showed Customer Creating Customer • Stronger Communication with Stakeholders • Stronger IT security, 32 External unsatisfactory status Satisfaction Value Increased request for preventive measures for accidents in financial Management transaction • Building infrastructures for financial services • Financial capital for providing financial services • Protection of customer privacy Step 2 Prioritization of material issues through materiality analysis Sustainable Finance • Reputation and Brand • Increase in consumers who value environment35 External protection, society, and health • Environmental Impact of Products and • Relevance Assessment | Drew a total of 71 issues by evaluating the relevance of sustainability issues identified through internal Services • Development of eco-friendly financial products and external environment analysis and in-depth stakeholder interviews • Significance Assessment | Implemented an online survey of 971 stakeholders for 12 days from Jan 9 to 20, 2017 and selected Enhancement of Human Resource • Stronger Communication with Stakeholders 39 External Organizational Development and Support 15 material issues by prioritization process Competence Employee Satisfaction • Confidence with Stakeholders • Loyalty and motivation to improve 41 External Management performance Step 3 Verification of the effectiveness Risk Management Crisis and Change • Confidence with Stakeholders • Ethical Management, Risk Management, 44 External Management Governance-related competencies • Holding a TFT meeting and Expert workshop to verify the significance of the selected 15 material issues • Determined the reporting level of core issues in terms of scope, boundary, and period, and established a reporting plan Enhancement • Increase in consumers who value environment-protection, society, and 47 External of Environmental health • Utilizing natural resources • Eco-friendly system operation Management • Environmental Impact of Products and Services Step 4 Review Creating Shared Win-Win Partnerships • Confidence with Stakeholders • Stronger Communication with 49 External Value Stakeholders • Reputation and Brand • Collected stakeholder feedbacks on the previous year’s sustainability report and external institutions’ recommendation based on Community • Confidence with Stakeholders • Stronger Communication with 50 External the ESG evaluation to reflect them in this year's report Engagement and Stakeholders • Reputation and Brand Development DGB Financial Group Board of Directors 72 73 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DGB Financial Group DGB Daegu Bank Board of Directors Board of Directors 1 1 1 Park, In-gyu CEO & Chairman of the Board 2 (DGB Financial Group and DGB Daegu Bank) 1 Park, In-gyu CEO & Chairman of the Board 2 Kim, Jin-tak Independent Director 2 2 Cho, Hae-nyoung Independent Director 3 3 4 3 Suh, In-duk Independent Director 3 Jon, Kyong-tae Independent Director 4 Suh, Kyun-suk Independent Director 4 5 5 6 7 4 Ha, Jong-hwa Independent Director 5 Lee, Jae-dong Independent Director 6 7 5 Koo, Wook-seo Independent Director 8 9 6 Kim, Yong-sin Independent Director 7 Park, Nam-kyoo Executive Auditor 8 Lim, Hawon-ou Executive Director 6 Gu, Bon-sung Independent Director Vice President 7 Roh, Seong-seok Executive Director 9 Sung, Moo-yong Executive Director Vice President Vice President DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CEOs of DGB Financial Group Subsidiaries Financial Section 1 2 1 Oh, Ik-whan CEO, DGB Life 2 Lee, Jae-yung CEO, DGB Capital 3 3 Lee, Yun-kyu CEO, DGB Asset Management 4 4 Park, Dong-gowan CEO, DGB U-Pay 5 6 5 Lee, Seoung-yong CEO, DGB Data System 6 Jung, Chan-woo CEO, DGB Credit Information DGB Financial Group Financial Section 76 77 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management’s Discussion & Analysis DGB Financial Group DGB Daegu Bank DGB Financial Group is a financial holding company headquartered in Suseong-gu, Daegu with capital stock of KRW 670.3 billion as of May 17, 2011, through I. Operating Results a business combination involving the exchange of the Company’s common stock with the former shareholders of Daegu Bank, Kardnet, and Daegu Credit Information. The Group was listed on the Korea Exchange on June 7, 2011. Since then, the Company has incorporated DGB Capital in Jan, 2012 and DGB Net Interest Income & Net Interest Margin (NIM) Data System in Apr, 2012. In Mar, 2013, Kardnet was withdrawn from the Group and U-Payment was incorporated into the Group. The Group also incorpo(in billions of KRW) (in billions of KRW) rated DGB Life Insurance in Jan, 2015 and DGB Asset Management in Oct, 2016. As of the end of Dec, 2016, DGB Financial Group has grown into a financial holding company with total assets of KRW 62 trillion, with seven subsidiaries. Along with this quantitative growth, DGB Financial Group is making qualitative YoY Change YoY Change advancements based on its management vision of growing into a global standard bank practicing sustainable management and promoting development, 2016 2015 Amount (%) 2016 2015 Amount (%) profitability, and shared growth. Interest revenue 1,503.2 1,561.8 141.4 9.1% Net Interest Spread in Won 2.46% 2.49% -0.03% (in billions of KRW) Cash & due from banks 4.8 3.4 1.4 41.2% Average Lending Rate 3.72% 4.08% -0.36% Securities 48.3 22.8 25.5 111.8% Average Deposit Rate 1.26% 1.59% -0.33% DGB Asset DGB Date Daegu DGB Group Daegu Bank DGB Life DGB Capital M.g.t DGB U-Pay System Credit Info Other(*) Loans 1,311.2 1,196.0 115.2 9.6% Net interest-bearing assets 41,114.5 38,719.0 2,395.5 6.2% Gross Operating Income 1,221.8 1,069.0 72.8 53.9 2.3 3.6 1.9 0.9 17.4 Others 138.9 139.6 -0.7 -0.5% Interest Income 1,202.1 1,015.5 163.7 53.9 0.1 0.1 (31.2) Interest expenses 487.7 577.8 -90.1 -15.6% Daegu Bank's Interest revenue increased by 9.1% to KRW 1,503 billion, and Non-Interest Income 19.7 53.5 (90.0) 2.3 3.5 1.9 0.8 48.6 Deposits 372.8 454.9 -82.1 -18.0% net interest income increased by 3.2% to KRW 1,015 billion. However, net Administrative Expenses 639.0 551.0 60.3 17.2 1.7 3.8 0.8 0.8 3.4 Borrowings 42.3 47.4 -5.1 -10.8% interest margin declined by 0.07% year-on-year due to the low interest Bonds 68.7 67.2 1.5 2.2% rate trend, which has been maintained at 2.15%. Net interest-bearing asProvisions 195.9 178.3 1.1 18.4 0.1 (2.0) Others 3.9 8.3 -4.4 -53.0% sets increased by 6.2% to KRW 41 trillion, but Net Interest Spread in Won Operating Income 386.9 339.7 11.4 18.3 0.6 (0.2) 1.1 16.0 decreased by 0.03% year-on-year. Net Income 301.9 265.0 14.9 14.1 0.5 (0.9) 0.9 (0.1) 7.5 Net interest income 1,015.4 984.0 31.4 3.2% Total Assets 62,014.7 54,497.4 5,575.0 1,851.1 18.5 35.3 9.6 4.7 23.1 Net interest margin (%) 2.15% 2.22% -0.07% Net interest spread in won (%) 2.46% 2.49% -0.03% Despite many challenges due to sluggish economic growth and prolonged Daegu Bank 87.88% NIM for 5 years low interest rate in 2016, DGB Financial Group has steadily expanded its 87.80% growth base for the future. DGB Life Daegu Bank's net interest margin in 2016 was 2.15%, which is down 0.07% 8.99% Since the end of 2016, DGB Financial Group's total assets increased by from 2.22% in the previous year. The net interest margin has been on a 2.95% 8.7% year-on-year to KRW 62 trillion, and operating profit and net profit downward trend since 2012 due to the ongoing recession and global low DGB Capital 2.98% interest rate policies. reached KRW 386 billion and KRW 301 billion, respectively. Daegu Bank's 2.78% 4.73% total assets and operating profits are KRW 54 trillion and KRW 339 billion, taking up 87.88% and 87.80%, respectively, of DGB Financial Group's total DGB Asset M.g.t 0.03% 2.54% 2.54% 2.22% assets and operating profit. DGB Life Insurance's total assets and operat0.16% ing profit stood at KRW 5,575 billion and KRW 11 billion, respectively, while DGB U-Pay 0.06% 2.15% DGB Capital's total assets and operating profit have grown to KRW 181 -0.05% billion and KRW 18 billion, respectively. DGB Date System 0.02% 0.28% Daegu Credit Info 0.01% Indicator Account (%) 0.00% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Profitability ROA 0.55 Total Assets ■ Operating Income ■ ROE 7.95 CIR 52.33 In 2016, ROE and ROE of DGB Financial Group were 0.55% and 7.95%, reNet-interest Income Asset Quality NPL Ratio 1.20 spectively, which was slightly down from the previous year. However, the (in billions of KRW) Delinquency rate 0.76 NPL Ratio improved to 1.20% due to preemptive and aggressive risk management of DGB Financial Group, even in the midst of the ongoing recession YoY Change In 2016, non-interest income grew to 9.9% to KRW 53.5 billion. gain (loss) Capital Adequacy Capital adequacy ratio 14.33 on disposition of loans and gain on foreign currency transaction & derivaand restructuring of the shipbuilding and shipping industries. The credit 2016 2015 Amount (%) Tier I CAR 12.14 tives products increased by KRW 22.1 billion and KRW 9.8 billion, respecratings are also maintained at AAA from Korea's credit rating agencies Non-interest Income 53.5 48.7 4.8 9.9% Dividend Payout Denomination Dividend Rate 6.0 and A2 from Moody's., showing stable conditions. The BIS capital adequacy tively. However, gain on securities, other operating expenses and commisDividend Payout Ratio 17.60 Commission income 72.5 75.9 -3.4 -4.5% sion income decreased by KRW19.3 billion, KRW 4.4 billion, and KRW 3.4 ratio is also higher than the industry average. The dividend payout ratio in Credit Ratings Nice Investor Service, Korea Ratings AAA 2016 is 17.6%, which is within the recent dividend payout ratio range of Gain on securities 43.5 62.8 -19.3 -30.7% billion, respectively, partially offsetting the increase in non-interest income. Moody’s A2 15% to 18%. Gain on foreign currency 13.4 3.6 9.8 272.2% transaction & derivatives * International credit ratings are given only to DGB Daegu Bank products Gain(Loss) on disposition of 29.3 7.2 22.1 306.9% loans Other operating expenses -105.2 -100.8 -4.4 4.4% DGB Financial Group Financial Section 78 79 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT General & Administrative Expenses Loans (in billions of KRW) In 2016, general and administrative expenses increased by 1.1% to KRW (in billions of KRW) public and others YoY Change 551 billion. The cost-income ratio decreased from 52.8% in the previous YoY Change 1.9% year to 51.5% in the current year. This decrease can be regarded as an households 2016 2015 Amount (%) increase in management efficiency of the company. As a result of this 2016 2015 Amount (%) 27.2% General and administrative 551.0 545.1 5.9 1.1% improvement in profitability, operating profit has grown by 16% from the Total loans 32,983.8 32,758.0 225.8 0.7% expenses previous year. Specifically, other G&A expenses, and salaries and employee Loans in KRW 32,410.5 31,013.6 1,396.9 4.5% Salaries and employee benefits 280.0 273.7 6.3 2.3% benefits increased by 13.4% and 6.3%, respectively. Yet, taxes and dues Loans to enterprises 22,968.8 21,833.3 1,135.5 5.2% Taxes and dues 65.6 74.2 -8.6 -11.6% and retirement allowances decreased by 8.6% and 5.2%, respectively yearLoans to households 8,820.2 8,581.0 239.2 2.8% enterprises on-year. Daegu Bank is striving to strengthen its network and revitalize its 70.9% Retirement allowances 39.3 44.5 -5.2 -11.7% Loans to public and others 621.5 599.3 22.2 3.7% Other G&A expenses 166.1 152.7 13.4 8.8% operating organization to improve work efficiency and productivity. Cost-income ratio (%) 51.5% 52.8% -1.3% Due to the effect of loans to enterprises, which grew 5.2% from the previous year, Daegu Bank's total loans amounted to KRW 32,983 billion in 2016, up KRW 225.8 billion from the previous year. In line with its management philosophy of pursuing mutual growth with the local community, the increase in loans to enterprises to KRW 22,968 billion has contributed to stable export for local businesses and the development of local economy. The loans to enterprises account for majority of the total loans at 70.9%. In addition, loans to households, which accounts for 27.2% of total loans, recently increased by KRW 239.2 Provisioning billion to KRW 8,820 billion due to the increase in domestic mortgage loans. Also, loans to the public sector, which have relatively low credit risk, increased by (in billions of KRW) 3.7% year-on-year to KRW 621 billion. YoY Change 2015 487.6 2016 2015 Amount (%) 292.8 Pre-provisioning operating 518.0 487.6 30.4 6.2% income Funding Structure Operating income 339.7 292.8 46.9 16.0% (in billions of KRW) Others 2016 518.0 Total provision 178.3 194.8 -16.5 -8.5% 10.4% 339.7 YoY Change Provision for loan losses 179.3 195.7 -16.4 -8.4% Debentures 2016 2015 Amount (%) 5.9% Others -1.0 -0.9 -0.1 11.1% Pre-provisioning operating income ■ Operating Income ■ Total liabilities 42,325.1 41,047.4 1,277.7 3.1% Deposits 35,435.4 33,533.0 1,902.4 5.7% DGB Daegu Bank's pre-provision operating income in 2016 was KRW 518 billion, an increase of 6.2% from the previous year's KRW 487.6 billion due to the Deposits growth of non-interest income and the increase in net interest income driven by enhanced branch operation efficiency. The provision for loan losses deDebentures 2,488.4 2,146.2 342.2 15.9% 83.7% creased by KRW 1.64 billion while the operating income in 2016 increased by KRW 46.9 billion to KRW 339.7 billion. Others 4,401.3 5,368.2 -966.9 -18.0% Daegu Bank's total liabilities were KRW 41,047 billion in 2015 and increased by KRW 1,277 billion or 3.1% to KRW 42,325 billion in 2016. Low-cost deposits increased by 5.7% year-on-year to KRW 35,435 billion, while high-cost debentures increased by15.9% year-on-year to KRW 2,488 billion. As for the funding structure of Daegu Bank, the low-cost deposits have increased from 82% to 83.7% in 2016. II. Financial Position (in billions of KRW) Assets YoY Change (in billions of KRW) 2016 2015 Amount (%) YoY Change Core deposits (A) 13,452.0 11,904.7 1,547.3 13.0% 2016 2015 Amount (%) Total deposits (in KRW) (B) 33,168.6 31,345.6 1,823.0 5.8% Assets 45,945.2 44,523.0 1,422.2 3.2% % of core deposits (A/B) 40.6% 38.0% 2.6% Cash and due from banks 2,231.0 1,795.3 435.7 24.3% (*) Total deposits (C) 40,263.9 37,592.4 2,671.5 7.1% Securities 7,830.0 7,738.8 91.2 1.2% % of core deposits (A/C) 33.4% 31.7% 1.7% Loans 32,983.8 32,758.0 225.8 0.7% * Total deposits = won-denominated deposits + CD + RP + notes receivable + financial bonds + money trusts Fixed assets 404.2 354.7 49.5 14.0% Other assets 2,496.2 1,876.2 620.0 33.0% Core deposits grew by 13.0% year-on-year from KRW 11,904 billion in 2015 to KRW 13,452 billion in 2016 due to aggressive marketing and increased customer confidence in Daegu Bank. The contribution rate of core deposits to total deposits reached 33.4%, an increase of 1.7% from the previous year, showing In 2016, Daegu Bank's assets increased by KRW 1,422 billion from KRW 44,523 billion in the previous year to KRW 46,945 billion. Despite the prolonged ecoa steady upward trend after reaching 30.5% in 2014 and 31.7% in 2015. nomic downturn and growing uncertainty in domestic and overseas financial markets, Daegu Bank has achieved asset growth for three consecutive years thanks to its strong local sales network and aggressive marketing success with customer value as its top priority. DGB Financial Group Financial Section 80 81 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Independent Auditors’ Report Based on a report originally issued in Korean Asset Quality (in billions of KRW) YoY Change 2016 2015 Amount (%) KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. 152, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Total credit 34,064.9 32,419.0 1,645.9 5.1% (Gangnam Finance Center 27th Fl., Yeoksam-dong) Normal 33,324.2 31,682.5 1,641.7 5.2% Seoul 135 – 984, Republic of Korea Precautionary 335.3 336.7 -1.4 -0.4% Tel 82-2-2112-0100 / Fax 82-2-2112-0101 Substandard 314.9 317.5 -2.6 -0.8% www.kr.kpmg.com Doubtful 31.3 43.6 -12.3 -28.2% Estimated loss 59.2 38.7 20.5 53.05 NPL ratio (%) 1.19 1.23 -0.04 The Board of Directors and Shareholders DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd.: Loan loss coverage ratio (%) 127.8 129.6 -1.8 We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), which comprise Delinquency rate (%) 0.68 0.78 -0.10 the consolidated statements of financial position as at December 31, 2016 and 2015, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the years then ended, and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Daegu Bank's loans which are substandard or below amounted to KRW 405.4 billion in 2016, up by KRW 5.6 billion since 2015. However, the NPL ratio is 1.19%, down by 0.04% from 1.23% of the previous year. Daegu Bank maintains the NPL ratio below the appropriate level with preventive risk control through ongoing Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements write-offs and disposal of bad debts. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. NPL ratio for 5 years Auditors’ Responsibility The increase in household debt, the ongoing economic downturn, and the Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with broad-scale restructuring in shipbuilding and shipping industry have had a Korean Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable negative impact on domestic banking systems in general. However, Daegu assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. 1.23% Bank has successfully reduced its NPL ratio from 1.23% to 1.19% year-on1.19% year through preemptive risk asset management and robust crisis manAn audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The proce1.16% agement strategies. dures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the 1.04% 1.03% consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2016 and 2015 and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. Capital Adequacy (in billions of KRW) YoY Change Other Matter 2016 2015 Amount (%) The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such consolidated financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Total capital 3,914.5 3,720.6 193.9 5.2% Tier I capital 3,316.5 3,102.0 214.5 6.9% Tier II capital 598.0 618.6 -20.6 -3.3% Risk-weighted assets 27,322.5 27,469.7 -147.2 -0.5% Capital adequacy ratio (%) 14.33% 13.54% 0.79% Tier I CAR (%) 12.14% 11.29% 0.85% Tier II CAR (%) 2.19% 2.25% -0.06% KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. Seoul, Korea The total capital of Daegu Bank increased by KRW 193.9 billion from KRW 3,720 billion to KRW 3,914 billion in 2016. Despite a decrease in Tier II capital of KRW March 15, 2017 20.6 billion, Tier I capital increased by KRW 213.5 billion to KRW 3,316 billion, driving an increase in total capital. Daegu Bank's Tier I capital has increased due to the expansion of sales prowess and improvement of profitability made possible by enhanced management efficiency. As a result, the capital adequacy ratio of Tier I capital has increased by 0.85% from 11.29% in the previous year to 12.14% in 2016. This increase means an improvement in capital adequacy, which also means that the Bank has enough capital to manage a crisis. In 2016, the BIS ratio also increased by 0.85% year-on-year from 13.54% to 14.33%, well above the 8% stipulated in the Bank of International Settlement (BIS) guidelines. This report is effective as of March 15, 2017, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. DGB Financial Group Financial Section 82 83 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income As of December 31, 2016 and 2015 For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 (In millions of won) (In millions of won, except earnings per share) Note 2016 2015 Note 2016 2015 Assets Interest income 4,31 ￦ 1,738,969 1,776,731 Cash and due from banks 5,27,45,49,50 2,547,299 2,092,477 Interest expense 4,31,48 536,883 616,240 Financial assets held for trading 6,16,49 402,482 294,159 Net interest income 4 1,202,086 1,160,491 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 7,49 82,255 258,861 Fee and commission income 32 137,751 141,086 Available-for-sale financial assets 8,16,27,49 4,199,694 4,065,489 Commission expense 32 68,104 63,015 Held-to-maturity financial assets 9,10,27,49,50 7,890,515 7,618,459 Net fee and commission income 4 69,647 78,071 Loans and receivables 12,13,14,15,27,48,49,50 37,454,619 36,052,597 Insurance income 33 894,558 960,315 Derivative assets hedging 16,49 95 50 Insurance expenses 33 949,472 988,244 Investment in associates 11 403 453 Net Insurance loss 4 (54,914) (27,929) Property and equipment, net 17 428,987 376,672 Net gain on financial assets held for trading 34 13,168 5,954 Investment property, net 19 99,615 106,635 Net gain on financial assets 35 1,552 3,352 Intangible assets, net 18 133,097 102,221 designated at fair value through profit or loss Deferred income tax assets 43 25,991 19,520 Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets 36 74,691 75,600 Other assets 20,49 197,349 156,853 Net gain (loss) on hedging derivative instruments (9,240) 650 Total assets ￦ 53,462,401 51,144,446 Impairment losses on financial assets 4,37 (202,443) (228,742) Liabilities Net gain (loss) on foreign exchange 27 4,174 (362) Depository liabilities 21,27,48,49,50 35,385,469 33,493,377 General and administrative expenses 38,39 (638,998) (627,205) Financial liabilities held for trading 16,49 125,975 33,520 Other operating loss, net 40 (72,794) (96,902) Derivative liabilities hedging 16,49 12,518 3,149 Operating income 41 386,929 342,978 Borrowings 22,27,49,50 3,174,782 3,329,394 Non-operating income, net 42 855 432 Debentures 16,22,27,49,50 4,107,517 3,145,917 Profit before income tax expenses 387,784 343,410 Defined benefit obligations 24 8,773 18,075 Income tax expenses 43 (85,929) (35,092) Provisions 23,47 28,861 36,765 Profit for the year 44 301,855 308,318 Insurance contract liabilities 25 5,121,200 4,940,470 Net unrealized change in fair value of available-for-sale financial ￦ (35,181) 7,091 Other liabilities 26,27,48,49,50 1,524,973 2,366,627 assets, net of tax Total liabilities 49,490,068 47,367,294 Gain on translation of foreign operations, net of tax 1,163 1,654 Equity Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss (34,018) 8,745 Capital stock 1,28 845,266 845,266 Remeasurement of defined benefit plan, net of tax (11,349) (7,907) Capital surplus 28 1,560,455 1,560,455 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss (11,349) (7,907) Capital adjustment 28 (997) Total other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax 30 ￦ (45,367) 838 Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax 30 (27,385) 17,869 Total comprehensive income for the year ￦ 256,488 309,156 Retained earnings 29 1,303,374 1,063,046 Profit attributable to: Equity attributable to owners of the Group 3,680,713 3,486,636 Owners of the Group ￦ 287,677 294,098 Non-controlling interests 28 291,620 290,516 Non-controlling interest 14,178 14,220 Total equity 3,972,333 3,777,152 Profit for the year ￦ 301,855 308,318 Total liabilities and equity ￦ 53,462,401 51,144,446 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Group ￦ 242,361 294,857 Non-controlling interest 14,127 14,299 Total comprehensive income for the year ￦ 256,488 309,156 Earnings per share (in won) 44 ￦ 1,702 1,759 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 84 85 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 (In millions of won, except earnings per share) (In millions of won, except earnings per share) Accumulated Equity Note 2016 2015 other attributable to Capital Capital Capital comprehensive Retained owners of the Noncontrolling Total Cash flows from operating activities stock surplus adjustment income (loss) earnings Company interest equity Profit for the year ￦ 301,855 308,318 Balance at January 1, 2015 ￦ 670,266 1,423,484 (720) 17,110 811,845 2,921,985 289,565 3,211,550 Adjustments for: Hybrid bonds dividends (14,061) (14,061) Income tax expenses 85,929 35,092 Profit for the period 294,098 294,098 14,220 308,318 Interest expense 536,883 616,240 Paid-in capital increase 175,000 138,356 313,356 313,356 Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 2,176 3,077 Year-end dividends (42,897) (42,897) (42,897) Loss on valuation of trading derivatives instrument 124,068 32,706 Net unrealized change in fair value of 7,013 7,013 79 7,092 Reserve for credit risk adjustment of trading derivative instrument 739 available-for-sale financial assets, net of tax Loss on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 456 4,920 Gain on translation of foreign operations, net of tax 1,653 1,653 1,653 Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 5,259 11,062 Remeasurement of defined benefit plan, net of tax (7,907) (7,907) (7,907) Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 4,622 5,554 Changes in scope of consolidation 806 806 Loss on valuation of hedged items 151 206 Others (1,385) 720 (665) (93) (758) Loss on valuation of hedging derivative instrument 10,482 66 Balance at December 31, 2015 ￦ 845,266 1,560,455 17,869 1,063,046 3,486,636 290,516 3,777,152 Transaction loss of hedging derivative instrument 105 2,211 Bad debt expenses 197,821 223,188 Balance at January 1, 2016 ￦ 845,266 1,560,455 17,869 1,063,046 3,486,636 290,516 3,777,152 Depreciation and amortization 59,899 69,801 Hybrid bonds dividends (14,061) (14,061) Loss on disposal of property and equipment 501 289 Profit for the period 287,677 287,677 14,178 301,855 Loss on disposal of intangible assets 750 12 Year-end dividends (47,335) (47,335) (47,335) Impairment loss on intangible assets 252 2,548 Net unrealized change in fair value of (35,068) (35,068) (113) (35,181) Provision for others 1,936 5,175 available-for-sale financial assets, net of tax Retirement benefit 29,995 28,874 Gain on translation of foreign operations, net of tax 1,163 1,163 60 1,223 Loss on foreign currency transactions 200,805 123,001 Remeasurement of defined benefit plan, net of tax (11,349) (11,349) 1 (11,348) Loss on valuation of financial debentures 1,104 2,458 Changes in scope of consolidation 1,889 1,889 Other operating expense 3,311 3,681 Purchase of investments in associates (997) (997) (850) (1,847) Loss from equity method investment securities 50 3 Others (14) (14) (14) Amortization expenses on deferred acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts 18,190 5,671 Balance at December 31, 2016 ￦ 845,266 1,560,455 (997) (27,385) 1,303,374 3,680,713 291,620 3,972,333 Contribution to insurance reserve 182,782 251,120 Interest income (1,738,969) (1,776,731) Dividend income (39,821) (18,132) Gain on valuation of financial assets held for trading (603) (857) Gain on valuation of trading derivative instrument (118,676) (40,020) Reversal of reserve for credit risk adjustment of trading derivative instrument (12) (117) Gain on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss (1,128) (1,576) Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets (49,351) (75,427) Gain on valuation of hedged items (5) (58) Gain on valuation of hedging derivative instrument (1,347) (2,788) Reversal of reserve for credit risk adjustment of hedging derivative instrument (139) Gain on disposal of property and equipment (47) (75) Gain on disposal of intangible assets (1) (82) Reversal of negative goodwill (1,602) Reversal of provisions (4,629) (5,076) Gain on disposal of intangible assets (1) (82) Reversal of negative goodwill (1,602) Reversal of provisions (4,629) (5,076) Gain on foreign currency transactions ￦ (204,979) (122,639) Other operating income (416) (201) Other non-operating income (81) (51) (691,799) (618,616) Changes in assets and liabilities: Decrease (increase) in restricted due from banks (431,902) 289,250 Decrease (increase) in trading securities (23,805) 6,176 Decrease in trading derivative assets 38,409 34,770 Decrease in financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 177,461 (47,120) DGB Financial Group Financial Section 86 87 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 As of December 31, 2016 (In millions of won, except earnings per share) 1. Reporting Entity Note 2016 2015 Changes in assets and liabilities: (a) Controlling company Increase in loans and receivables (1,422,445) (4,645,188) DGB Financial Group Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) was incorporated on May 17, 2011 through a business combination involving the exchange of the Company’s Increase in deferred loan origination costs (36,365) (49,350) common stock with the former shareholders of Daegu Bank, Kardnet Inc. and Daegu Credit Information Co., Ltd. The Company’s principal business includes Increase in deferred loan origination fees 8,525 6,141 ownership and management of subsidiaries and associated companies that are engaged in financial services or activities and fund-lending to its operating Collection of loans written-off 45,438 37,870 subsidiaries. The Company’s shares were listed on the Korea Exchange on June 7, 2011 and its outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2016 is Increase in other assets 124 (19,206) ￦845,266 million. Increase in unamortized deferred acquisition costs of new or (50,519) (35,355) renewal insurance contracts Increase in separate account assets (18,823) (14,538) The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”). Increase in depository liabilities 1,817,977 2,772,229 Decrease in trading derivative liabilities (30,924) (34,031) (b) Subsidiaries Decrease in defined benefit obligations (7,765) (4,316) Consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: (In millions of won, except share information) Contributions to defined benefit plan assets (46,532) (39,806) Increase (decrease) in other liabilities (779,519) 959,930 Classification Number of shares Ownership Net asset value Revenue Profit for the year Location Reporting date Increase in separate account liabilities 19,933 14,302 Daegu Bank 136,125,000 100% ￦ 3,620,109 2,473,209 264,977 Daegu 31-Dec (740,732) (768,242) DGB Life Insurance 34,573,773 99.52% 276,637 1,106,600 14,888 Busan 31-Dec Interest paid (531,180) (578,949) DGB Capital 100% 24,200,000 237,759 97,042 14,051 Seoul 31-Dec Interest received 1,716,140 1,821,286 DGB Asset Management 2,000,000 100% 17,238 2,681 458 Seoul 31-Dec Dividends received 39,821 18,132 DGB U-pay 2,511,415 100% 10,901 13,683 (908) Daegu 31-Dec Income taxes paid (61,471) (81,284) DGB Credit Information 600,000 100% 4,480 1,528 (56) Daegu 31-Dec Net cash provided by operating activities 32,634 100,645 DGB Data System 1,200,000 100% 8,571 8,612 934 Daegu 31-Dec Cash flows from investing activities ￦ 4,175,695 3,703,355 294,344 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (7,027,947) (7,367,691) Proceeds from disposition of available-for-sale financial assets 6,507,986 6,756,757 Acquisition of held-to-maturity financial assets (1,042,660) (2,014,080) Daegu Bank’s consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: (In millions of won) Proceeds from disposition of held-to-maturity financial assets 1,172,191 1,865,336 Acquisition of property and equipment (92,637) (65,465) Classification Ownership Net asset value Revenue Profit for the year Location Reporting date Proceeds from disposition of property and equipment 16,282 376 Principal guaranteed trusts / Principal and ￦ 8,709 8,714 422 Daegu 31-Dec Acquisition of investment property (1,065) (1,729) interest guaranteed trusts Acquisition of stocks of subsidiaries (33,999) (63,000) DGB long-lived corporation focus security 52.75% 18,908 2 (48) Seoul 31-Dec Acquisition of intangible assets (41,429) (41,103) investment trust Proceeds from disposition of intangible assets 1,086 747 Increase in guarantee deposits, net (3,119) (537) Decrease in hedging derivative assets, net 14,605 Daegu Bank’s consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: (In millions of won) Increase (decrease) in hedging derivative liabilities, net (117) 203 Net cash used in investing activities (545,428) (915,581) Classification Ownership Net asset value Revenue Profit for the year Location Reporting date Cash flows from financing activities Specified Money Trust ￦ 24,886 952 (11) Korea 31-Dec Increase (decrease) in borrowings, net ￦ (240,059) 570,308 DGB Lao Leasing Co.,Ltd 90% 11,468 (495) Laos 31-Dec Issuance of debentures 1,339,788 778,655 Repayment of debentures (391,320) (563,587) Increase in deposits for letter of guarantees, net 6,556 17,398 (c) Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Decrease in borrowings from trust accounts, net (39,213) (45,394) The Group has been involved in structured entities through investments in the asset-backed securities, project financing, beneficiary certificates, etc., and Increase in borrowings from fund accounts, net 41 125 the main characteristics of those structured entities are as follows: Increase (decrease) in foreign exchange settlement credit, net 6,010 (2,679) Increase (decrease) in domestic exchange settlement credit, net (93,258) 92,597 Description Paid-in capital increase 313,356 Asset-backed securitization Securitization vehicles are established to buy the assets from the originators and issue the asset-backed securities in order Stock issue costs paid (758) to facilitate the originators’ funding activities and enhance their financial soundness. The Group is involved in the securitizaDividends paid (47,335) (42,897) tion vehicles by purchasing the assetbacked securities issued, or providing credit enhancement. Hybrid bonds dividends paid (14,061) (14,061) Project financing Structured entities for project financing are established to raise funds and invest in a specific project such as M&A (Mergers Decrease in non-controlling interests (1,861) and Acquisitions), BTL (Build-Transfer-Lease), shipping finance, etc. The Group is involved in the structured entities by originating loans, investing in equity, or providing credit enhancement. Net cash provided by financing activities 525,288 1,103,063 Investment trust and private equity fund The structure of investment trust and private equity fund is to invest funds in equity securities and distribute income among Increase in cash and cash equivalents 12,494 288,127 investors on the basis of a trust agreement. The Group is an investor of the investment trust and private equity fund, and Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 909,742 571,064 recognizes gain or loss on valuation and dividend income in proportion to the percentage of shareholding. The Group may Effect of exchange rate in cash and cash equivalents 134 8,335 recognize a loss in principal when the values of relevant trust and fund are decreased. Increase in cash and cash equivalents from change of consolidation scope 7,836 42,216 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 45 ￦ 930,206 909,742 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 88 89 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (i) Nature and scope of interests in unconsolidated structured entities 2015 (In millions of won) The size of the interests in unconsolidated structured entities as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Asset-backed securitization Project financing Investment trust and private equity fund Total Investment assets ￦ 161,166 1,225,764 403,247 1,790,177 (In millions of won) Purchase commitments 15,000 19,515 34,515 2016 Credit granting 34,982 34,982 Asset-backed securitization Project financing Investment trust and private equity fund Total ￦ 176,166 1,260,746 422,762 1,859,674 Assets 3,597,038 14,839,210 8,641,573 27,077,821 2015 (In millions of won) (d) Business combinations Asset-backed securitization Project financing Investment trust and private equity fund Total The Group acquired 1,774,842 common shares (88.74%) of LS Asset Management Co., Ltd. at ￦33,999 million from existing stockholders on October 6, 2016 in order to maximize management efficiency and synergy effect between its subsidiaries, and the Group obtained control over LS Asset Management Co., Assets 3,786,058 11,999,402 6,190,452 21,975,912 Ltd. Upon consummation of the transaction LS Asset Management Co., Ltd. was changed to DGB Asset Management Co., Ltd. according to the resolution of the extraordinary meeting of shareholders held on October 6, 2016. Subsequently, the Group acquired the remaining 225,158 shares additionally at ￦2,988 million and holds all of the shares as of December 31, 2016. The revenue of the non-interests in unconsolidated structured entities for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2016 (In millions of won) The fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities at the time of acquisition are as follows: (In millions of won) Asset-backed securitization Project financing Investment trust and private equity fund Total Amount Interest income 2,119 53,016 55,135 Total assets ￦ 17,581 Fee and commission income 200 11,203 11,403 Total liabilities 801 Dividend income 921 28,801 29,722 Net assets ￦ 16,780 Total 2,319 65,140 28,801 96,260 2015 (In millions of won) The Group incurred expense of ￦751 million on due diligence and legal consulting related with the business combination. The legal consulting and due diliAsset-backed securitization Project financing Investment trust and private equity fund Total gence fee are accounted for as commission expense in the Group's statements of comprehensive income. Interest income 643 38,741 39,384 The Group recognized the goodwill generated from the business combination as an intangible asset. Fee and commission income 45 3,705 3,750 (In millions of won) Dividend income 992 6,552 7,544 Amount Total 688 43,438 6,552 50,678 Total transfer consideration ￦ 33,999 Non-controlling interests 1,889 (ii) Nature of associated risk Fair value of net assets 16,780) The book values recognized in the financial statements for the interests in unconsolidated structured entities as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as Goodwill ￦ 19,108 follows: 2016 (In millions of won) Asset-backed securitization Project financing Investment trust and private equity fund Total 2. Basis of Preparation Financial assets held for trading ￦ 188,221 1,883 190,104 Loans 66,648 1,431,968 1,498,616 (a) Statement of compliance Available-for-sale financial assets 52,855 459,418 512,273 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”), as prescribed ￦ 254,869 1,486,706 459,418 2,200,993 in the Act on External Audits of Corporations in the Republic of Korea. (In millions of won) The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issuance by the Board of Directors on February 8, 2017, which will be submitted for approval to 2015 the shareholders at a meeting to be held on March 24, 2017. Asset-backed securitization Project financing Investment trust and private equity fund Total Financial assets held for trading ￦ 161,166 161,166 (b) Basis of measurement Loans 1,177,798 1,177,798 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the following material items in the consolidated statements Available-for-sale financial assets 47,966 403,247 451,213 of financial position: ￦ 161,166 1,225,764 403,247 1,790,177 • derivative financial instruments measured at fair value • financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss measured at fair value The Group’s maximum loss exposure to unconsolidated structured entities as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: • available-for-sale financial assets measured at fair value 2016 (In millions of won) • liabilities for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements measured at fair value Asset-backed securitization Project financing Investment trust and private equity fund Total • liabilities for defined benefit plans recognized at the net of the total present value of defined benefit Investment assets ￦ 254,869 1,486,706 459,418 2,200,993 obligations less the fair value of plan assets and unrecognized past service costs Purchase commitments 84,402 35,504 119,906 Credit granting 61,327 61,327 (c) Functional and presentation currency ￦ 339,271 1,548,033 494,922 2,382,226 These consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean won, which is the Parent Company’s functional currency and the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates. DGB Financial Group Financial Section 90 91 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (d) Use of estimates and judgments Except as described below, the Group has consistently applied the accounting policies set out in Note 3 to all periods presented in these consolidated The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with K-IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions financial statements. that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. • K-IFRS No.1001, ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. The Group has applied the following amendments to standards and interpretation, with a date of initial application of January 1, 2016. The change had no significant impact on the measurements of the Group’s assets and liabilities. (i) Assumptions and estimation uncertainties Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment within the next financial year (i) K-IFRS No.1001, ’Presentation of Financial Statements’ are included in the following notes: Amendments K-IFRS No.1001, ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ clarifies the criteria for consolidating or segmenting financial statements and notes according to materiality, a criterion to specify what to keep in mind when presenting additional subtotal information in the financial statements. According • Note 13 – Allowance for loan losses to things mentioned above, the Group can select the order and way to write notes to the financial statements based on systematic standards which • Note 23 – Provisions considers possibility of understanding and comparison of financial statement. • Note 24 – Defined benefit obligations • Note 47 – Commitments and contingencies 3. Significant Accounting Policies In preparing these consolidated financial statements, the significant judgments made by management in applying the Group’s accounting policies and the key sources of estimation uncertainty except as described below were the same as those applied to the consolidated financial statements as of and for the The significant accounting policies applied by the Group in preparation of its consolidated financial statements are included below. The accounting policies year ended December 31, 2015. set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements except for the changes in accounting policies as explained in note 2.(d) and 2.(e). ① The change of the depreciation method and expected useful lives of furniture, equipment and vehicles T he Group changed the depreciation method of furniture, equipment and vehicles to a straight-line method from the declining balance method of depre(a) Operating segment ciation and expected useful lives to five years from four years. The change of estimation is to reflect revenue and expense more appropriately and the An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including substance of transaction and economic facts more accurately in the financial statements. Depreciation expense for the period ended December 31, 2016 revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All operating segments’ operating results are reviewed decreased ￦9,269 million due to this change, and it is not possible to estimate the effect of change for following financial years as of December 31, 2016. regularly by the Group’s CEO to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. The change of the depreciation method and expected useful lives of assets for business purpose and operating leased assets The Group has four operating segments which consist of Marketing, Money Market Center, Life Insurance, and Others, as described in note 4. The Group changed the depreciation method of furniture, equipment and vehicles and operating leased assets to a straight-line method from the declining balance method of depreciation and expected useful lives to five years from four years. The change of estimation is to reflect revenue and expense more (b) Basis of consolidation appropriately and the substance of transaction and economic facts more accurately in the financial statements. As a result, the depreciation expense (i) Business combinations decreased ￦9,269 million, and it is not possible to estimate the effect of change for the next financial year as of December 31, 2016. A business combination is accounted for by applying the acquisition method, unless it is a combination involving entities or business under common control. (ii) Measurement of fair value The consideration transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill that arises is The valuation team regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If third party information, such as broker quotes or pricing tested annually for impairment. Any gain on a bargain purchase is recognized in profit or loss immediately. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, services, is used to measure fair values, then the valuation team assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that such except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. The costs to issue debt or equity securities are recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No.1032, valuations meet the requirements of K-IFRS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classified. 'Financial Instruments: Presentation' and K-IFRS No.1039, 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement'. The Group reports significant valuation issues to the audit committee. The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognized in profit or loss. When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows. Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognized in profit or loss. • Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. • Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). If share-based payment awards (replacement awards) are required to be exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s employees (acquiree’s awards), then all or a portion of the amount of the acquirer’s replacement awards is included in measuring the consideration transferred in the business combina• Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). tion. This determination is based on the market-based measure of the replacement awards compared with the market-based measure of the acquiree’s awards and the extent to which the replacement awards relate to pre-combination service. If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement. (ii) Subsidiaries The Group recognizes transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involve(e) Changes in accounting policy DGB Financial Group Financial Section 92 93 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ment with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Subsequent to initial recognition, consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases. loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method except for loans and receivables of which the effect of discounting is immaterial. (iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated. Unrealised gains (iv) Available-for-sale financial assets arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. UnreAvailable-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as availablefor-sale or are not classified as financial assets alised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments or loans and receivables. Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value, which changes in fair value, net of any tax effect, recorded in other comprehensive income in equity. Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured and derivatives that are linked to and must be settled by delivery (iv) Non-controlling interests(NCIs) of such unquoted equity instruments are measured at cost. When a financial asset is derecognized or impairment losses are recognized, the cumulative gain NCIs are measured at their proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date. or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss. Dividends on an available-for-sale equity instrument are recognized in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive payment is established. Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. (v) De-recognition of financial assets (v) Loss of control The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the conWhen the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, and any related NCI and other components of tractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any interest retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost. Any interest in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognized as a separate asset or liability. (vi) Interests in equity-accounted investees If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred financial assets, the Group continues to recognize the transferred financial assets and recognizes financial liabilities for the consideration received. The Group’s interests in equity-accounted investees comprise interests in associates and a joint venture. (vi) Offsetting between financial assets and financial liabilities Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and operating policies. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the consolidated statement of financial position only when the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts, and there is the intention to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle Interests in associates and the joint venture are accounted for using the equity method. They are recognized initially at cost, which includes transaction the liability simultaneously. costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and OCI of equityaccounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases. (e) Derivative financial instruments, including hedge accounting Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as described below. (c) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts (i) Hedge accounting of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, and are used by the Group in management of its short-term commitments. Generally equity investments are excluded from cash and cash equivalents. However, redeemable preference shares, for which the period from the acquisition to The Group holds forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, currency swaps and other derivative contracts to manage interest rate risk and foreign redemption is short, are classified as cash and cash equivalents. exchange risk. The Group designated derivatives as hedging instruments to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities or firm commitments (a fair value hedge). (d) Non-derivative financial assets On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument(s) and hedged item(s), including the risk The Group recognizes and measures non-derivative financial assets by the following four categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the held-to-maturity investments, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets. The Group recognizes financial assets in the consolidated statehedging relationship. ment of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Fair value hedge Upon initial recognition, non-derivative financial assets are measured at their fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the asset’s acquisition or issuance. Changes in the fair value of a derivative hedging instrument designated as a fair value hedge are recognized in profit or loss. The gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value for a derivative hedging instrument and the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in profit or loss in the same line item of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. (i) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss A financial asset is classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition. The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or if the hedge no longer meets Upon initial recognition, transaction costs are recognized in profit or loss when incurred. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured the criteria for hedge accounting. Any adjustment arising from gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is amortized to profit or loss at fair value, and changes therein are recognized in profit or loss. from the date the hedge accounting is discontinued. (ii) Held-to-maturity investments Cash flow hedge A non-derivative financial asset with a fixed or determinable payment and fixed maturity, for which the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to When a derivative is designated to hedge the variability in cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly maturity, are classified as held-to-maturity investments. Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortized cost probable forecasted transaction that could affect profit or loss, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized in other using the effective interest method. comprehensive income, net of tax, and presented in the hedging reserve in equity. Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognized immediately in profit or loss. (iii) Loans and receivables DGB Financial Group Financial Section 94 95 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or the designation is revoked, then classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in profit hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument that has been recognized in other comprehensive or loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognized in profit or loss. income is reclassified to profit or loss in the periods during which the forecasted transaction occurs. If the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, then the balance in other comprehensive income is recognized immediately in profit or loss. (h) Property and equipment Property and equipment are initially measured at cost and after initial recognition, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated (ii) Separable embedded derivatives impairment losses. The cost of property and equipment includes expenditures arising directly from the construction or acquisition of the asset, any costs Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted for separately only if the following criteria has been met: directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. (a) the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract; (b) a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative; and Subsequent to initial recognition, an item of property and equipment shall be carried at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. (c) the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of property and equipment at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future Changes in the fair value of separable embedded derivatives are recognized immediately in profit or loss. economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. (iii) Other derivative financial instruments Changes in the fair value of other derivative financial instrument not designated as a hedging instrument are recognized immediately in profit or loss. Property and equipment, except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives that appropriately reflect the pattern in which the asset’s future economic benefits are expected to be consumed. (f) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price (the fair value of the consideration given or received) A component that is significant compared to the total cost of property and equipment is depreciated over its separate useful life. unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets. If the valuation technique incorporates significant inputs that are not based Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of on observable market data, the difference between the transaction price and the fair value based on the valuation technique (day-one profit or loss) is not property and equipment and are recognized in profit or loss. recognized in profit or loss upon initial recognition but deferred. Deferred day-one profit or loss is recognized over the period between the trade date and the date when the variables are expected to become observable in the market, or over the life of the trade (whichever is shorter). Depreciation method and the estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets are as follows: (g) Impairment of financial assets A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is Depreciation method Useful lives (years) impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably. However, losses expected as a result of future Buildings Straight-line method 40 events, regardless of likelihood, are not recognized. Leasehold improvements Straight-line method 5 Furniture, equipment and vehicles Straight-line method 5 In addition, for an investment in an equity security, a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below its cost is objective evidence of impairment. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted, if appropriate. The change is accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. If financial assets have objective evidence that they are impaired, impairment losses should be measured and recognized. (i) Intangible assets (i) Financial assets measured at amortized cost Intangible assets are measured initially at cost and, subsequently, are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortized cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of its estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. Losses are recognized in profit or loss and reflected in an allowance account. When the Group considers that there are no realistic prospects of recovery of the asset, the relevant amounts are written off. If the Amortization of intangible assets except for goodwill is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date amount of impairment loss subsequently decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognized, that they are available for use. The residual value of intangible assets is zero. However, as there are no foreseeable limits to the periods over which club then the previously recognized impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss either directly or by adjusting an allowance account. memberships are expected to be available for use, this intangible asset is determined as having indefinite useful lives and not amortized. (ii) Financial assets carried at cost The estimated useful lives of the Group’s assets are as follows: If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of Useful lives (years) the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows Computer software 4 discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset. Such impairment losses shall not be reversed. Contributed acceptances 10 20 Usable and profitable donation assets 10 20 (iii) Available-for-sale financial assets When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognized in other comprehensive income and there is objective evidence Amortization periods and the amortization methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. The useful that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a lives of intangible assets that are not being amortized are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances reclassification adjustment even though the financial asset has not been derecognized. Impairment losses recognized in profit or loss for an investment in an continue to support indefinite useful life assessments for those assets. Changes are accounted for as changes in accounting estimates. equity instrument classified as available-for-sale shall not be reversed through profit or loss. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument DGB Financial Group Financial Section 96 97 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (i) Research and development the lower amount of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the Expenditures on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognized in profit lease. Any initial direct costs are added to the amount recognized as an asset. or loss as incurred. Development expenditures are capitalized only if development costs can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable, and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is allocated to each sell the asset. Other development expenditures are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent rents are charged as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. (ii) Subsequent expenditures Subsequent expenditures are capitalized only when they increase the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other The depreciable amount of a leased asset is allocated to each accounting period during the period of expected use on a systematic basis consistent with expenditures, including expenditures on internally generated goodwill and brands, are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. the depreciation policy the lessee adopts for depreciable assets that are owned. If there is no reasonable certainty that the lessee will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is fully depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and its useful life. The Group reviews to determine whether (j) Borrowing costs the leased asset may be impaired. The Group capitalizes borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs are recognized in expense as incurred. A qualifying asset is an asset that requires a substantial period of time to get ready for (ii) Operating leases its intended use or sale. Financial assets and assets that are ready for their intended use or sale when acquired are not qualifying assets. Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) are recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. To the extent that the Group borrows funds specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the Group determines the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization as the actual borrowing costs incurred on that borrowing during the period less any investment income on the temporary investment of those borrowings. To the extent that the Group borrows funds generally and uses them for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the Group (iii) Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease shall determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization by applying a capitalization rate to the expenditures on that asset. The capitalization Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease shall be based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the Group that are outstanding during the period, other than fulfillment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets (the asset) and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset. borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset. The amount of borrowing costs that the Group capitalizes during a period shall not exceed the amount of borrowing costs incurred during that period. At inception or reassessment of the arrangement, the Group separates payments and other consideration required by such an arrangement into those for the lease and those for other elements on the basis of their relative fair values. If the Group concludes for a financial lease that it is impracticable to (k) Investment property separate the payments reliably, the Group recognizes an asset and a liability at an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying asset that was identified Property held for the purpose of earning rentals or benefiting from capital appreciation is classified as investment property. Investment property is meaas the subject of the lease. Subsequently, the liability shall be reduced as payments are made and an imputed finance charge on the liability recognized using sured initially at its cost. Transaction costs are included in the initial measurement. Subsequently, investment property is carried at depreciated cost less the purchaser's incremental borrowing rate of interest. any accumulated impairment losses. (n) Non-current assets held for sale Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of investment property at cost or, if appropriate, as separate items if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities, that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through part is derecognized. The costs of the day-to-day servicing are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. continuing use, are classified as held for sale. In order to be classified as held for sale, the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and its sale must be highly probable. The assets or disposal group that are classified as non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Investment property except for land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 40 years as estimated useful lives. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting date and adjusted, if appropriate. The change is accounted The Group recognizes an impairment loss for any initial or subsequent write-down of an asset (or disposal group) to fair value less costs to sell, and a gain for as a change in an accounting estimate. for any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell, up to the cumulative impairment loss previously recognized in accordance with K-IFRS No. 1036 ‘Impairment of Assets’. (l) Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than assets arising from employee benefits, deferred income tax assets and non-current A non-current asset that is classified as held for sale or part of a disposal group classified as held for sale is not depreciated (or amortized). assets held for sale, are reviewed at the end of the reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. Goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, (o) Non-derivative financial liabilities irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, are tested for impairment annually by comparing their recoverable amount to their carrying The Group classifies non-derivative financial liabilities into financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or other financial liabilities in accordance amount. with the substance of the contractual arrangement and the definitions of financial liabilities. The Group recognizes financial liabilities in the consolidated For impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial liability. cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets (“CGUs”). A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. The value in use is estimated by applying a pre-tax discount rate that reflect current market assessments of the time (i) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU for which estimated future cash flows have not been adjusted, to the estimated future cash flows Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading or designated as such upon initial recognition. Subsequent to expected to be generated by the asset or CGU. initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognized in profit or loss. Upon initial recognition, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition are recognized in profit or loss as incurred. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. (ii) Other financial liabilities (m) Leases Non-derivative financial liabilities other than financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are classified as other financial liabilities. At the date of initial The Group classifies and accounts for leases as either a finance or operating lease, depending on the terms. Leases where the Group assumes substantially recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at fair value minus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition. Subsequent to initial all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. All other leases are classified as operating leases. recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. (i) Finance leases The Group derecognizes a financial liability from the consolidated statement of financial position when it is extinguished (i.e. when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires). At the commencement of the lease term, the Group recognizes as financial assets and financial liabilities in its consolidated statements of financial position, DGB Financial Group Financial Section 98 99 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (p) Fair value of financial instruments (i) Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are due to be settled within 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render (i) Determination of fair value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value the related service. When an employee has rendered service to the Group during an accounting period, the Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service. Where the classification of a financial instrument requires it to be stated at fair value, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price for that instrument or by using a valuation model. (ii) Other long-term employee benefits The best evidence of fair value is quoted prices in an active market. If the market for a financial instrument is not active, the Group establishes fair value Other long-term employee benefits are employee benefits that are settled beyond 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the by using a valuation technique. Valuation techniques include using recent arm's length market transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, if availrelated service, and include the cost of training overseas which the Group grants to long-serving employees. The calculation method of the Group’s obligation able, as reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models. If is consistent with defined benefit plans. there is a valuation technique commonly used by market participants to price the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, the Group uses that technique. Periodically, the Group calibrates the valuation technique and (iii) Retirement benefits: defined contribution plans tests it for validity using prices from any observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on any available observable market data. When an employee has rendered service to the Group during a period, the Group recognizes the contribution payable to a defined contribution plan in exchange for that service as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the conUnobservable inputs are determined based on the best information available, for example by reference to similar assets, similar maturities or other analyttribution due for service before the end of the reporting period, the Group recognizes that excess as an asset (prepaid expense) to the extent that the ical techniques. prepayment will lead to a reduction in future payments or a cash refund. (ii) Classification and level of disclosure for fair value (iv) Retirement benefits: defined benefit plans K-IFRS No. 1107 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ requires the Group to classify its financial instruments held at fair value according to a hierarchy that The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees reflects the significance of observable market inputs. The classification of a financial instrument is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. fair value measurement in its entirety. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined below. The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation reLevel Description sults in a potential asset for the Group, the recognized asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds Level 1 Financial instruments are classified as Level 1 if their value is observable in an active market. from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. To calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements. Level 2 If there are no quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets, financial instruments classified as Level 2 have been valued using models whose inputs are observable in an active market. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the Level 3 Financial instruments are classified as Level 3 if their valuation incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observeffect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognized immediately in OCI. The Group determines the net interest expense (income) on the able market data (unobservable inputs). net defined benefit liability (asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit liability (asset), taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the period as a result (iii) Determination of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value of contributions and benefit payments. Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognized in profit or loss. Deposits, loans and receivables When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognized immediately in profit or loss. The Group recognizes gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement The estimated fair values of money market deposits and deposits with a residual maturity of less than 6 months are the carrying amounts. The estimated occurs. fair values of non impaired deposits, loans and receivables are the present value of contractual cash flows discounted at current market rates by factoring in the default rates and credit spreads. The estimated fair values of individually assessed impaired deposits, loans and receivable are the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. The estimated fair values of collectively assessed impaired deposits, loans and (v) Termination benefits receivables are the carrying amounts less allowances for loan losses. Termination benefits are recognized as an expense when the Group is committed demonstrably, without realistic possibility of withdrawal, to a formal deHeld-to-maturity financial assets tailed plan to either terminate employment before the normal retirement date, or to provide termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage The fair values are the quoted prices in the market or fair values evaluated by a credible evaluator. If there is no such information, their fair values are estivoluntary redundancy. Termination benefits for voluntary redundancies are recognized as an expense if the Group has made an offer of voluntary redunmated by using observable market prices of financial assets with similar credit level, maturity and profit rate. dancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted, and the number of acceptances can be estimated reliably. If benefits are payable more than 12 months after the reporting period, then they are discounted to their present value. Depository liabilities (r) Provisions The carrying amounts of non-interest bearing deposits and deposits with no stated maturity or a residual maturity less than 6 months are assumed to be fair values. The estimated fair value of an interest bearing deposit is the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate (market rate) of Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resourca recently issued deposit with the similar maturity. es embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Borrowings The risks and uncertainties that inevitably surround many events and circumstances are taken into account in reaching the best estimate of a provision. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined at the present value of the expected future cash flows. The carrying amounts of borrowings with readjustable term for floating rate or a contract maturity less than 6 months are assumed to be fair values. The estimated fair value of borrowings not quoted in an active market is the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate (market rate) of a recently issued borrowing with the similar maturity. Where some or all of the expenditures required to settle a provision are expected to be reimbursed by another party, the reimbursement shall be recognized when, and only when, it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received if the entity settles the obligation. The reimbursement shall be treated as a separate asset. (q) Employee benefits DGB Financial Group Financial Section 100 101 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of (v) Finance income and finance costs resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, the provision is reversed. (i) Interest A provision shall be used only for expenditures for which the provision was originally recognized. Interest income and expense are recognized in profit or loss using the effective interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments and receipts through the expected life of the financial asset or liability (or, where appropriate, a shorter period) to the Financial guarantee contracts are initially measured at their fair values and, if not designated as at fair value through profit or loss, are subsequently meacarrying amount of the financial asset or liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates future cash flows considering all contracsured at the higher of: tual terms of the financial instrument, but not future credit losses. the amount of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period; and the amount initially recognized less, cumulative amortization recognized on a straight-line basis over the guarantee period. The calculation of the effective interest rate includes all fees and points paid or received that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. Transaction costs include incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of a financial asset or liability. (s) Foreign currencies (ii) Fees and commission Fees and commission income and expense that are integral to the effective interest rate on a financial asset or liability are included in the measurement of (i) Foreign currency transactions the effective interest rate. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currencies of Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency using the reporting date’s exchange rate. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at the Other fees and commission income, including account servicing fees, investment management fees, sales commission, placement fees and syndication exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined. fees, are recognized as the related services are performed. When a loan commitment is not expected to result in the draw-down of a loan, the related loan commitment fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over the commitment period. Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognized in profit or loss, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available-forsale equity instruments, a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which are Other fees and commission expense relate mainly to transaction and service fees, which are expensed as the services are received. recognized in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. (iii) Dividends The Group recognizes dividend income when the shareholders' right to receive payment is established. (ii) Foreign operations If the presentation currency of the Group is different from a foreign operation’s functional currency, the financial statements of the foreign operation are (iv) Insurance income translated into the presentation currency using the following methods: Revenues from premium income are recognized at the time when such premium payments become due. If premium income is received before the nominated collection date, the Group records unearned insurance premium based on calendar-period calculation. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, whose functional currency is not the currency of a hyperinflationary economy, are translated to presentation currency at exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to functional currency at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. (w) Income taxes Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognized directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is disposed of, the relevant amount in the translation is transferred to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. On the partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the relevant proportion of such cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interest. In any other partial disposal of a foreign operation, the relevant proportion is reclassified to profit or loss. (i) Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of Foreign exchange gains or losses arising from a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which is neither planned the reporting period and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. The taxable profit is different from the accounting profit for the period nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and which in substance is considered to form part of the net investment in the foreign operation, are recognized since the taxable profit is calculated excluding the temporary differences, which will be taxable or deductible in determining taxable profit (tax loss) of future in other comprehensive income in the translation reserve. periods, and non-taxable or non-deductible items from the accounting profit. (t) Equity capital (ii) Deferred tax Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of ordinary shares and share options are recognized as a The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and deferred income tax assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. When the Group repurchases its share capital, the amount of the consideration paid is recognized as a deduction from equity and classified as treasury The Group recognizes a deferred tax liability for all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates, and interests in shares. The profits or losses from the purchase, disposal, reissue, or retirement of treasury shares are not recognized as current profit or loss. If the joint ventures, except to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the tempoGroup acquires and retains treasury shares, the consideration paid or received is directly recognized in equity. rary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The Group recognizes a deferred tax asset for all deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilized. (u) Share-based payment transactions The Group has granted shares or share options to its employees and other parties. For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the Group meaThe carrying amount of a deferred tax asset is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduces the carrying amount to the extent that it is no sures the goods or services acquired and the liability incurred at the fair value of the liability. Until the liability is settled, the Group remeasures the fair value longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow the benefit of part or all of that deferred tax asset to be utilized. of the liability at each reporting date and at the date of settlement, with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss for the period. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred DGB Financial Group Financial Section 102 103 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT tax liabilities and deferred income tax assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the (ii) Reserve for unearned premium reporting period to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Reserve for unearned premium refers to the amount of premium at the collection date as of or prior to the statement of financial position date, which will be realized in the subsequent periods. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if there is a legally enforceable right to offset the related current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis. (iii) Guarantee reserve In accordance with the Insurance Business Act and the Regulation on Supervision of Insurance Business, guarantee reserve refers to an amount calculated (x) Accounting for trust accounts based on the standard method of measuring the guarantee reserve, which is the guarantee amount for payment on future claims up to a reasonable level The Group accounts for trust accounts separately from its bank accounts under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act. Funds transin consideration of future estimated loss. ferred between a bank account and a trust account is recognized as borrowings from trust accounts in other liabilities with fees for managing the accounts recognized as non-interest income by the Group. (iv) Reserve for outstanding claims Reserve for outstanding claims is an estimate of loss for insured events that have occurred prior to the dates of consolidated statements of financial (y)Earnings per share position, but for which a fixed value cannot be determined. In estimating the reserve for outstanding claims, the expenses to be incurred in the course of The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attribsettlement of the insured events, such as expenses for lawsuit or arbitration, are added, and the claims to be reimbursed through sale of security assets, utable to ordinary shareholders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares which could be acquired in the course of settlement of the insured events or exercise of rights, such as right of reimbursement, are deducted. held. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise convertible notes and share options (v) Reserve for participating policyholders’ dividends granted to employees. Reserve for participating policyholders’ dividends is provided for future dividends to be paid to participating policyholders to compensate for the difference in actual investment yields, mortality rates or morbidity rates, and operating expense rates from the initial rates in each policy. In addition, it includes reserve (z)Acquisition costs for long-term maintenance dividends to discourage cancellations; reserve for revaluation dividends, which are policyholders’ share of earnings arising from In accordance with Article 31 of the Regulation on Accounting of Insurance Business and Article 3 of the Addendum to the Regulation, the Group amortizes asset revaluations; and reserve for excess crediting rate to provide compensation should the expected interest rates fall below the average interest rates actual policy acquisition costs (excluding the amount exceeding expected costs), which arose from a long-term contract entered into on or before March of one-year maturity time deposits in the current year. 31, 2004, over the life of the contract (up to seven years) using the straight-line method. If the difference is immaterial, the Group calculates amortization by subtracting the difference between premium reserves based on a net premium method and premium reserves based on a surrender value method from (vi) Dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation acquisition costs arose in the current year and deferred unamortized acquisition costs. Dividend reserve for policyholders’ income participation refers to the amount to be reserved, in lump sum, depending on the business performance for the purpose of appropriating it for future dividends to policyholders or for additional accumulation as part of policy reserve other than the reserve for particiOn the other hand, the lesser of the actual or expected costs for a new contract entered into after April 1, 2004, is amortized over the life of the contract pating policyholders’ dividends that is based on the contract terms and conditions. In accordance with the Supervisory Regulation, it is used for reserve for (up to seven years). The Group additionally amortizes the excess amount if unamortized acquisition costs are more than the difference between premium participating policyholders’ dividends and is required to be used within five years from the end of the year of occurrence. reserves based on a net premium method and premium reserves based on a surrender value method as of December 31, 2015. (ac) Liability adequacy test (aa) Insurance and investment contracts-classification The Group assesses, at the end of each reporting period, whether its recognized insurance liabilities are adequate, using current estimates of future cash The Group classifies a contract under which one party (the insurer) accepts significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to flows under its insurance contracts. If that assessment shows that the carrying amount of its insurance liabilities (less related deferred acquisition costs compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder as an insurance contact. The Group and related intangible assets) is inadequate in the light of the estimated future cash flows, the entire deficiency shall be recognized in net income. assesses the significance of insurance risk contract by contract, considering the amounts payable if an insured event occurs, and the amounts payable if no insured event occurs. In accordance with K-IFRS No.1104 Insurance Contact, the Group applies a liability adequacy test that meets specified minimum requirements. The minimum requirements are the following: The Group classifies a contract that exposes the issuer to financial risk without significant insurance risk as an investment contract. Depending on whether (i) The test considers current estimates of all contractual cash flows and related cash flows, such as claims handling costs, as well as cash flows resulting an investment contract contains a discretionary participation feature or not, the accounting treatments of the investment contract is different. If there from embedded options and guarantees. is the discretionary participation feature in the investment contract, it is treated as the same as insurance contracts, but if not, K-IFRS NO.1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is applied. (ii) If the test shows that the liability is inadequate, the entire deficiency is recognized in net income. A contract that qualifies as an insurance contract remains an insurance contract until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expired. If the insurance (ad) Reinsurance contracts risk is not significant in the period of insurance contract, it will not be reclassified as an investment contract. But in the case of the investment contract, The Group entered into reinsurance contracts with reinsurers to compensate them for losses on one or more contracts issued by the Group and shall not the Group reclassifies as an insurance contract if insurance risk turns significant after the first recognition. offset reinsurance assets against the related insurance liabilities or income or expense from reinsurance contracts against the expense or income from the related insurance contracts. (ab) Insurance contract liabilities (policy reserves) Reinsurance assets are tested for impairment at least annually. If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group shall reduce its carrying amount accordingly and recognize that impairment loss in net income. A reinsurance asset is impaired if, and only if: In accordance with the Supervision Regulation and related rules, the Group is required to maintain policy reserves for payment on future claims or refunds, and on dividends to participating policyholders. Such policy reserves are to be provided based on calculation methods approved by the Insurance Business Act of Korea, related laws and rules, and the Minister of Strategy and Finance of the Republic of Korea. (i) there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract; and (i) Premium reserve (ii) the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer. Premium reserve refers to an amount calculated by the net premium method for payment on future claims, which is the bigger amount between the one calculated based on standard interest rate and standard risk rate issued by the Financial Supervisory Service and the one calculated based on standard (ae) Policyholders’ equity adjustment rates applied to premium calculation. If premium reserve results in an amount below zero, the Group records the premium reserve as zero. Policyholders’ equity adjustments consist of reserve for stabilization of participating policyholders’ dividends, reserve for social contributions, net gain (loss) from valuation of AFS securities, and (negative) changes in equity arising from application of the equity method. The reserve for stabilization of participating policyholders’ dividends and the reserve for social contributions are the amounts reserved for future dividends to participating policyholders and future DGB Financial Group Financial Section 104 105 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT social contributions through surplus from asset revaluations, respectively. Gain (loss) on valuation of AFS securities and (negative) changes in equity arisBusiness model Contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interests All other cases ing from application of the equity method represent the policyholders’ portion of gain (loss) on valuation of AFS securities and (negative) changes in equity To collect contractual cash flows At amortized cost(*1) FVTPL(*2) arising from application of the equity method, respectively. Both to collect contractual cash flows and sell financial assets At FVOCI FVTPL(*2) For trading, and others At FVOCI FVTPL(*2) (af) Valuation of separate account assets and liabilities In accordance with Article 108 of the Insurance Business Act and the Supervision Regulation of Insurance Business, all assets and liabilities related to re(*1) The Group may irrevocably designate as at FVTPL to eliminate or significantly reduce an accounting mismatch. tirement benefit insurance contracts are managed and accounted for separately as separate account assets and liabilities in the consolidated statements (*2) The Group may irrevocably designate equity investments that is not held for trading as at FVOCI. of financial position. According to the amended Article 4-1 of Supervision Regulation of Insurance Business, the Group presents receivables from and payables to the separate account as deduction from the separate account liabilities and the separate account assets, respectively. Income and expenses of variable insurance contracts are not presented in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. However, income and expenses of severance insurance contracts, as shown above, are aggregated and presented as a one-line item in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income as sepaAs there are additional requirements for a financial asset to be classified as measured at amortized costs or FVOCI under K-IFRS NO.1109 compared to rate account income and separate account expenses, respectively, in accordance with Article 6-23 of the Regulation on Supervision of Insurance Business. the existing guidance in K-IFRS NO.1039, the adoption of KIFRS NO.1109 would potentially increase the proportion of financial assets that are measured at FVTPL, increasing volatility in the Group’s profit or loss. (ag) New Standards and interpretation not yet adopted The following new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Group for annual periAs of December 31, 2016, the Group has loans and receivables amounting to ￦37,454,619 million, heldto-maturity financial assets amounting to ￦7,890,515 ods beginning after January 1, 2016, and the Group has not early adopted them. million, available-for-sale financial assets amounting to ￦4,199,694 million, financial assets held for trading amounting to ￦402,482 million, and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss amounting to ￦82,255 million. Impact of the amendments on the following standards and interpretations cannot be estimated as of December 31, 2016. Under K-IFRS NO.1109, a financial asset is measured at amortized cost if it meets both of the following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: 1) the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows; and 2) the contractual terms of the financial asset (i) K-IFRS No.1109, ‘Financial Instruments’ give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. As of December 31, 2016, K-IFRS No.1109, published on September 25, 2015, is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with earlier adoption permitted. It the Group has loans and receivables which amount to replaces existing guidance in K-IFRS No.1039, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. The Group plans to adopt K-IFRS NO.1109 for the year ￦37,454,619 million, and held-to-maturity financial assets which amount to ￦7,890,515 million, and measured them at amortized costs. beginning after January 1, 2018. Under K-IFRS NO.1109, a financial asset is measured at FVOCI if it meets both of the following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: 1) the asset is K-IFRS No.1109 will generally be applied retrospectively; however the Group plans to take advantage of the exemption allowing it not to restate the comparheld within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets; and 2) the contractual terms ative information for prior periods with respect to classification and measurement including impairment changes. New hedge accounting requirements of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flow that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. As of will generally be applied prospectively except for certain exemptions including the accounting for the time value of options. December 31, 2016, the Group has debt instruments and beneficiary certificates classified as available-for-sale which amount to ￦3,538,198 Key features of the new standard, K-IFRS NO.1109, are 1) classification and measurement of financial assets that reflects the business model in which the million, ￦388,373 million, respectively. assets are managed and their cash flow characteristics, 2) impairment methodology that reflects ‘expected credit loss’ (ECL) model for financial assets, and 3) expanded scope of hedged items and hedging instruments which qualify for hedge accounting and changes in assessment method for effect of hedging relationships. Under K-IFRS NO.1109, on initial recognition of equity investment that is not held for trading, the Group may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value in OCI, and will not reclassify (recycle) those items in OCI to profit or loss subsequently. As of December 31, 2016, the Group has equity investment that is classified as available-for-sale which amounts to ￦273,123 million. K-IFRS NO.1109 will require the Group to assess the financial impact from application of K-IFRS NO.1109 and revise its accounting processes and internal controls related to financial instruments. Actual impact of adopting K-IFRS NO.1109 will be dependent on the financial instruments the Group holds and economic conditions at that time as well as accounting policy elections and judgment that it will make in the future. Under K-IFRS NO.1109, a financial asset is measured at FVTPL if the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise to specified dates to cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, the debt instrument is held within a business model whose objective is to sell the asset, or the equity instruments that are not elected to be designated as measured at FVOCI. The Group has not initiated any changes in internal controls processes or accounting processing systems, and has not performed an assessment of the impact resulting from the application of K-IFRS NO.1109. The Group is currently performing a detailed assessment of the impact resulting from the appliAs of December 31, 2016, the Group has equity instruments and trading derivative instruments measured at FVTPL which amount to ￦43,685 million, and cation of K-IFRS NO.1109, and expects to disclose additional quantitative information in the notes to the financial statements for the year ending December ￦122,751 million, respectively. 31, 2017 after completion of its assessment by September 30, 2017. Expected impacts on the consolidated financial statements are generally categorized Classification and measurement of financial liabilities as follows: Under K-IFRS NO.1109, the amount of change in the fair value attributable to the changes in the credit risk of the financial liabilities is presented in OCI, not recognized in profit or loss, and the OCI amount will not be reclassified (recycled) to profit or loss. However, if doing so creates or increase an accounting ① Classification and measurement of financial assets mismatch, the amount of change in the fair value is recognized in profit or loss. Under K-IFRS NO.1109, financial assets are classified into three principal categories; measured at amortized cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) and fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) based on the business model in which assets are managed and their cash flow characteristics, As a portion of fair value change which was recognized in profit or loss under the existing standard, K-IFRS NO.1039, will be presented in OCI under K-IFRS as detailed in the below table. NO.1109, profit or loss related to valuation of financial liabilities is likely to decrease. Under K-IFRS NO.1109, derivatives embedded in hybrid contracts where the host is a financial asset are not bifurcated. Instead, the hybrid financial instruImpairment: Financial assets and contract assets ment as a whole is assessed for classification. K-IFRS NO.1109 replaces the ‘incurred loss’ model in the existing standard with a forward-looking ‘expected credit loss’ (ECL) model for debt instruments, lease receivables, contractual assets, loan commitments, financial guarantee contracts. Under K-IFRS NO.1109, impairment losses are likely to be recognized earlier than using the incurred loss model under the existing guidance in K-IFRS NO.1039 as loss allowances will be measured on either of the 12-month or lifetime ECL based on the extent of increase in credit risk since inception as shown in the below table. DGB Financial Group Financial Section 106 107 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Stage Classification Loss allowances 4. Operating Segments Stage 1 Credit risk has not increased 12-month ECL: ECLs that resulted from possible default The Group has a Marketing Division, Money market center Division, Life insurance Division, Others, and conducts interdivisional and intradivisional performance evaluations. significantly since the initial recognition events within the 12 months after the reporting date An operating segment has been identified as a component of the Group on the basis of revenues and expenses, segment performance evaluations and Stage 2 Credit risk has increase significantly since the initial Lifetime ECL: ECL that resulted from all possible default resource allocation decisions made by the chief operation decision maker. recognition events over the expected life of a financial instrument Reportable segments are based on economic characteristics of the services provided. The four reportable segments are as follows: Stage 3 Credit-impaired Lifetime ECL: ECL that resulted from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument Description Business area Marketing Procurement and financial services for marketing Money market center Securities (including stocks) investment and operation, business acquisitions and sales of public debt, derivatives design and operation, work related to foreign exchange Under K-IFRS NO.1109, financial assets of which the credit was impaired at the initial recognition, cumulative changes in lifetime ECL since the initial recognition are recognized as loss allowances. Life insurance Procurement and financial services for life insurance Others Segments other than the above including trust segment and head office supporting segments As of December 31, 2016, the Group has debt instruments measured at amortized cost amounting to ￦45,345,134 million (loans and receivables ￦37,454,619 million, held-to-maturity financial assets ￦7,890,515 million), debt instruments measured at FVOCI as they are classified as avail(In millions of won) 2016 able-for-sale amounting to ￦3,538,198 million and has recognized loss allowances for ￦281,758 million. Money Market Life Adjustment Consolidated Marketing Center Insurance Others Subtotal (*2) amount Hedge accounting Net interest income ￦ 837,478 88,805 163,733 134,096 1,224,112 (22,026) 1,202,086 K-IFRS NO.1109 retains the mechanics of hedge accounting (fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, hedging on net investment in a foreign operation) which was Interest income 1,176,013 229,101 166,869 197,986 1,769,969 (31,000) 1,738,969 defined in the existing guidance in K-IFRS NO.1039, but provides principle-based and less complex guidance in hedging which focuses on the risk manage536,883 Interest expense 338,535 140,296 3,136 63,890 545,857 (8,974) ment activities. More hedged items and hedging instruments would qualify for hedge accounting, more qualitative and forward-looking approach will be taken Fee & commission income, net 60,743 503 922 11,471 73,639 (3,992) 69,647 to assessing hedge effectiveness, and qualitative threshold (80~125%) is removed under K-IFRS NO.1109. Insurance loss, net (115,815) (115,815) 60,901 (54,914) Other financial income (loss), net (*1) 10,500 68,924 23,944 91,552 194,920 (85,738) 109,182 Certain transactions which were not qualified for hedge accounting under the existing standard will be likely to qualify for hedge accounting under K-IFRS Bad debt expense (197,821) (197,821) NO.1109, decreasing volatility in the Group’s profits or loss. Other operating Income (loss), net (624,193) (133,005) (61,324) (122,314) (940,836) 199,585 (741,251) Operating income ￦ 284,528 25,227 11,460 114,805 436,020 (49,091) 386,929 As of December 31, 2016, the Group has hedged items such as asset and liability which amount to Total assets ￦ 34,647,029 8,859,607 5,575,058 7,510,179 56,591,873 (3,129,472) 53,462,401 ￦270,792 million and ￦359,849 million. During the year ended December 31, 2016, changes in the fair value of hedged items and hedging instruments which Total liabilities ￦ 34,646,357 7,091,552 5,298,421 2,869,955 49,906,285 (416,217) 49,490,068 amount to ￦9,195 million and ￦(9,135) million, respectively, are recognized in profit or loss. (*1) Other financial income, net, (excluding interest income/expense) includes net income on financial assets held for trading, net income on financial assets designated at fair value When initially applying K-IFRS NO.1109, the Group may choose as its accounting policy to continue to apply the hedge accounting requirements of K-IFRS through profit or loss, net income on available-for-sale financial assets, net income on held-to-maturity financial assets, net income on hedging derivative instruments, net income on NO.1039. hedged assets, impairment losses and reversal of impairment loss on financial assets, net income on foreign exchange and net disposal income on loans and receivables. (*2) Adjustments are mainly comprised of internal transactions between the operating segments such as interest income and expense that are adjusted by headquarter, and common expenses incurred which are not allocable for performance evaluation purpose such as bad debt expenses. (ii) K-IFRS No. 1115, ‘Revenue from Contracts from Customers’ K-IFRS No. 1115, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ is a single guidance applied to all contracts with customers, and it provides five-stage analysis 2015 (In millions of won) for recognizing revenue and replaces existing revenue recognition model which is based on risk and compensation. An existing risk and compensation model is changed to a kind of index which shows time of implementing performance duty. K-IFRS No. 1115 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or Money Market Life Adjustment Consolidated after January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. Marketing Center Insurance Others Subtotal (*2) amount Net interest income ￦ 811,146 86,013 167,288 121,073 1,185,520 (25,029) 1,160,491 Interest income 1,221,504 237,963 170,207 182,906 1,812,580 (35,849) 1,776,731 Interest expense 410,358 151,950 2,919 61,833 627,060 (10,820) 616,240 Fee & commission income, net 62,964 521 4,360 12,178 80,023 (1,952) 78,071 Insurance loss, net (117,777) (117,777) 89,848 (27,929) Other financial income (loss), net (*1) 9,181 60,263 19,220 82,366 171,030 (85,996) 85,034 Bad debt expense (223,188) (223,188) Other operating Income (loss), net (628,752) (133,976) (66,887) (123,982) (953,597) 224,096 (729,501) Operating income ￦ 254,539 12,821 6,204 91,635 365,199 (22,221) 342,978 Total assets ￦ 33,555,361 8,580,456 5,334,713 6,777,737 54,248,267 (3,103,821) 51,144,446 Total liabilities ￦ 33,635,490 6,884,644 5,049,145 2,175,611 47,744,890 (377,596) 47,367,294 (*1) Other financial income, net, (excluding interest income/expense) includes net income on financial assets held for trading, net income on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss, net income on available-for-sale financial assets, net income on held-to-maturity financial assets, net income on hedging derivative instruments, net income on hedged assets, impairment losses and reversal of impairment loss on financial assets, net income on foreign exchange and net disposal income on loans and receivables. (*2) Adjustments are mainly comprised of internal transactions between the operating segments such as interest income and expense that are adjusted by headquarter, and common expenses incurred which are not allocable for performance evaluation purpose such as bad debt expenses. DGB Financial Group Financial Section 108 109 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5. Cash and Due from Banks (a) Cash and due from banks (b) Classification and fair value hierarchy financial assets held for trading Cash and due from banks as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Classification and fair value hierarchy of financial assets held for trading as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2016 2015 2016 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash and cash equivalents ￦ 432,976 432,976 420,158 420,158 Equity securities ￦ 16,789 16,789 Due from banks in won The Bank of Korea 1,458,323 1,458,323 1,065,036 1,065,036 Debt securities 241,482 241,482 Commercial banks 353,356 353,356 308,612 308,612 Beneficiary certificate 2,553 18,907 21,460 Others 17,000 17,000 12,862 12,862 ￦ 19,342 260,389 279,731 Subtotal 1,828,679 1,828,679 1,386,510 1,386,510 Due from banks in foreign currencies The Bank of Korea 26,774 26,774 41,289 41,289 (In millions of won) Commercial banks 135,750 135,750 19,408 19,408 2015 Overseas banks 123,120 123,120 225,112 225,112 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Subtotal 285,644 285,644 285,809 285,809 Equity securities ￦ 21,345 2 21,347 Total ￦ 2,547,299 2,547,299 2,092,477 2,092,477 Debt securities 225,551 225,551 Beneficiary certificate 3,178 3,178 The amounts of due from bank which mature within 12 months are ￦2,302,299 million and ￦1,854,989 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, re￦ 24,523 225,551 2 250,076 spectively. The amounts of due from banks which mature after 12 months are ￦245,000 million and ￦237,488 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (c) Valuation method and inputs of level2 Valuation method and inputs used in measuring level 2 fair values of financial assets held for trading as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (b) Restricted due from banks Valuation method Inputs Restricted due from banks as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Debt securities DCF method Discount rate (In millions of won) 2016 2015 (d) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss Reserve deposits in won The Bank of Korea ￦ 1,308,324 865,036 Reserve deposits in foreign currencies The Bank of Korea 26,774 41,289 There is no deferred day-one profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. Overseas banks 36,995 41,410 Total 1,372,093 947,735 7. Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 6. Financial Assets Held for Trading (except Trading Derivative Instruments) (a) Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss The Group designated hybrid securities containing embedded derivatives as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. (a) Financial assets held for trading Financial assets held for trading as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Book value Fair Value Gain (loss) on Book value Fair Value Gain (loss) on Book value Fair Value Gain (loss) on Book value Fair Value Gain (loss) on before valuation (book value) valuation before valuation (book value) valuation Type before valuation (book value) valuation before valuation (book value) valuation Equity securities Stocks 16,454 16,789 335 21,008 21,347 339 Equity securities Redeemable preferred stocks ￦ 26,104 26,896 792 157,942 153,203 (4,739) Debt securities Financial bonds 32,468 32,391 (77) 25,369 25,517 148 Other securities Derivatives-linked securities 55,478 55,359 (119) 104,263 105,658 1,395 Corporate bond 22,493 22,357 (136) 31,611 31,524 (87) ￦ 81,582 82,255 673 262,205 258,861 (3,344) Others 188,392 186,734 (1,658) 170,676 168,510 (2,166) Subtotal 243,353 241,482 (1,871) 227,656 225,551 (2,105) There is no financial asset except for equity securities which mature within 12 months as of December 31, 2016 and 2015. The amounts of financial assets Beneficiary certificate 21,497 21,460 (37) 3,632 3,178 (454) designated at fair value through profit and loss, which mature after 12 months are ￦55,359 million and ￦105,658 million as of December 31, 2016 and Total ￦ 281,304 279,731 (1,573) 252,296 250,076 (2,220) 2015. respectively. The amounts of financial assets held for trading except for equity securities which mature within 12 months are ￦241,662 million and ￦170,119 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The amounts of financial assets held for trading except for equity securities which mature after 12 months are ￦21,280 million and ￦58,610 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. DGB Financial Group Financial Section 110 111 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (b) Classification and fair value hierarchy of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Sensitivity to changes in inputs of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: The classification and the fair value hierarchy of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as (In millions of won) follows: 2016 2015 (In millions of won) Profit or loss (*) Profit or loss (*) 2016 Advantageous change Disadvantageous change Advantageous change Disadvantageous change Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total ￦ 1,211 (1,513) 3,907 (1,647) Equity securities ￦ 26,896 26,896 Other securities 55,359 55,359 (*) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing discount rate (-1%p~1%p) and volatility (-10%~ 10%). ￦ 55,359 26,896 82,255 (f) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss (In millions of won) There is no deferred day-one profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity securities ￦ 153,203 153,203 8. Available-for-sale Financial Assets Other securities 75,299 30,359 105,658 ￦ 75,299 183,562 258,861 (a) Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (c) Changes in level 3 (In millions of won) Changes in level 3 of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss for the years ended December, 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2016 2015 (In millions of won) Accumulated Accumulated Fair Value gain (loss) on Fair Value gain (loss) on 2016 Cost (book value) valuation Cost (book value) valuation Equity securities Other securities Total Equity securities Listed equity securities ￦ 2,247 2,661 414 4,312 5,373 1,061 Beginning balance ￦ 153,203 30,359 183,562 Unlisted equity securities 192,327 244,785 52,458 208,627 254,290 45,663 Changes due to business combinations 792 792 Others 25,587 25,677 90 10 ,600 10 ,533 (67) Gain on valuation 1,000 1,000 Subtotal 220,161 273,123 52,962 223,539 270,196 46,657 Acquisition (128,099) (30,359) (158,458) Debt securities Government bonds 883,986 864,146 (19,840) 1,244,765 1,253,127 8,362 Ending balance ￦ 26,896 26,896 Financial debentures 1,106,603 1,097,704 (8,899) 1,115,493 1,113,181 (2,312) Corporate bonds 382,466 375,679 (6,787) 213,387 212,716 (671) (In millions of won) Available-for-sale securities in foreign currencies 358,969 352,182 (6,787) 143,721 143,904 183 2015 Others 856,391 848,487 (7,904) 788,570 788,751 181 Equity securities Other securities Total Subtotal 3,588,415 3,538,198 (50,217) 3,505,936 3,511,679 5,743 Beginning balance ￦ 136,011 136,011 Beneficiary certificate 389,994 388,373 (1,621) 285,871 283,614 (2,257) Changes due to business combinations 21,931 21,931 ￦ 4,198,570 4,199,694 1,124 4,015,346 4,065,489 50,143 Gain on valuation (4,739) 359 (4,380) The amounts of available-for-sale financial assets except for equity securities which mature within 12 months are ￦745,074 million and ￦437,496 million as Acquisition 30,000 30,000 of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The amounts of available-for-sale financial assets except for equity securities which mature after 12 months Ending balance ￦ 153,203 30,359 183,562 are ￦3,181,497 million and ￦3,357,797 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. (d) Valuation method and inputs of level 3 The gain or loss on valuation includes accumulated loss on valuation of fair value hedged items amounting to ￦257 million and ￦38 million as of December Valuation method and significant unobservable inputs used in measuring fair values of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss using 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. level 3 inputs as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Range (b) Classification and fair value hierarchy of available-for-sale financial assets Valuation method Unobservable inputs 2016 2015 The classification and the fair value hierarchy of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Binomial model, etc. Discount rate 7.68% ~ 12.74% 0.92% ~ 7.33% (In millions of won) Volatility 23.45% ~ 48.34% 2016 Growth rate 0% 0% Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Equity securities ￦ 2,979 270,144 273,123 (e) Sensitivity analysis of level 3 Debt securities 829,629 2,708,569 3,538,198 Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is performed by dividing the value changes of financial instruments affected by the changes of unobservable Beneficiary certificates 52,398 329,419 6,556 388,373 inputs into advantageous and disadvantageous changes. If fair values are affected by two or more inputs, changes are calculated by assuming the most ￦ 885,006 3,037,988 276,700 4,199,694 advantageous or the most disadvantageous situation. DGB Financial Group Financial Section 112 113 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) (*1) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing growth rate (0%p~1%p) and discount rate (-1%p~1%p) or increasing or decreasing liquidating value (-1%~1%) 2015 and discount rate (-1%p~ 1%p). Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (*2) Fair values of certain equity securities such as PEF are measured by the asset approach method. Fair value changes of such equity securities are excluded as sensitivity Equity securities ￦ 5,683 264,513 270,196 calculation by changes in inputs is practically impossible. Debt securities 1,103,004 2,408,675 3,511,679 Beneficiary certificates 41,014 242,600 283,614 (g) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss ￦ 1,149,701 2,651,275 264,513 4,065,489 There is no deferred day-one profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. (c) Valuation method and inputs of level 2 (h) Unrealized gain (loss) Valuation method and inputs used in measuring fair values of available-for-sale financial assets using level 2 inputs as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are Unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: as follows: (In millions of won) Valuation method Inputs 2016 Debt securities DCF method Discount rate Equity securities securities Debt certificates Total Beneficiary certificates NAV method Underlying asset (stock, bond, etc.) price Beginning balance ￦ 46,657 5,781 (2,257) ￦ 50,181 Realized loss on disposition of securities (2,015) (10,691) 1,573 (11,133) (d) Changes in level 3 Changes due to reclassification (3,117) (3,117) Changes in level 3 of available-for-sale financial assets for the years ended December, 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Unrealized gain (loss) 8,320 (41,933) (937) (34,550) (In millions of won) Ending balance ￦ 52,962 (49,960) (1,621) 1,381 2016 2015 Policyholders equity adjustment (2,251) Equity securities Beneficiary certificate Total Equity securities Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) 2,477 Net balance ￦ 1,607 Beginning balance ￦ 264,513 264,513 270,908 Changes due to business combinations 250 250 6,991 Realized loss (impairment loss) (657) (657) (3,348) (In millions of won) Unrealized gain 8,009 66 8,075 23,076 2015 Acquisition 34,870 6,490 41,360 15,646 Equity securities securities Debt certificates Total Disposal (36,841) (36,841) (46,711) Beginning balance ￦ 45,982 15,065 (1,024) ￦ 60,023 Transfer (*) (2,049) Realized loss on disposition of securities (22,848) (18,471) 2,922 (38,397) Ending balance ￦ 270,144 6,556 276,700 264,513 Changes due to reclassification (20,650) (20,650) Unrealized gain (loss) 23,523 29,837 (4,155) 49,205 (*) Transfer from level 3 to level 1 due to change in valuation method, which changed from external valuation price to market price. Ending balance ￦ 46,657 5,781 (2,257) 50,181 Policyholders equity adjustment (4,186) (e) Valuation method and inputs of level 3 Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) (8,310) Valuation method and significant unobservable inputs used in measuring fair values of available-for-sale financial assets using level 3 inputs as of December Net balance ￦ 37,685 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Range (i) Impairment losses Valuation method Unobservable inputs 2016 2015 Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: DCF method, etc. Discount rate 4.42% 20.16% 6.67% 20.65% (In millions of won) Growth rate 0% 0% 1% 2016 2015 Amount before Amount after Amount before Amount after (f) Sensitivity analysis of level 3 impairment impairment Impairment impairment impairment Impairment Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is performed by dividing the value changes of financial instruments affected by the changes of unobservable Equity securities ￦ 16,335 12,507 3,828 9,578 4,542 5,036 inputs into advantageous and disadvantageous changes. If fair values are affected by two or more inputs, changes are calculated by assuming the most Debt securities 32,000 31,482 518 advantageous or the most disadvantageous situation. Beneficiary securities 5,000 4,206 794 ￦ 21,335 16,713 4,622 41,578 36,024 5,554 Sensitivity to changes in inputs of available-for-sale financial assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (j) Available-for-sale securities carried at cost 2016 2015 Available-for-sale securities carried at cost as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Other comprehensive income or loss (*1)(*2) Other comprehensive income or loss (*1)(*2) Advantageous change Disadvantageous change Advantageous change Disadvantageous change ￦ 7,145 (4,248) 7,556 (4,429) DGB Financial Group Financial Section 114 115 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) The amounts of held-to-maturity financial assets, which mature within 12 months are ￦1,168,867 million and ￦1,018,735 million as of December 31, 2016 2016 2015 and 2015, respectively. The amounts of held-tomaturity financial assets, which mature after 12 months are ￦6,721,648 million and ￦6,599,724 million as Korea Asset Management Corp.(*1) ￦ 1,570 1,570 of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Daegu Dream Education 999 999 Kangaroo Republic 900 900 (b) Transferred held-to-maturity financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety Evergreenkeanggi Co., Ltd. 692 692 Transferred held-to-maturity financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: Evergreencampus Co., Ltd. 674 674 (In millions of won) Nam Yang Kwang-Jin C&G., Co., Ltd. 520 520 2016 Yeongdeok Enviro 516 516 Held-to-maturity financial assets Related liabilities K-Bank (*1) 9,000 Athena Private Equity Fund (investment) (*1) 3,000 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Net position SongHyun Young Entrepreneur No.1 800 Securities sold under repurchase agreement(*) ￦ 884,715 897,540 734,981 735,079 162,461 (investment in capital) (*2) 2014 SongHyun Growth Ladder No.2 1,200 (*) The Group transfers a contractual right which allows to take cash from transferred held-to-maturity bonds, but makes the agreement to repurchase of the transferred assets start-up (investment in capital) (*2) with a preselected price after sale or the amount of selling price plus fixed return. Others 3,287 3,181 ￦ 21,158 11,052 (*1) Measured at cost because it is not possible to measure fair value reliably. 10. Collateralized Securities (*2) Excluded from the securities measured at cost because value from external valuation agency is applied. It was measured at cost in the previous year. Investment securities pledged to various institutions as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: Gain on disposal of available-for-sale securities carried at cost for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Book value of held-to-maturity Purpose Collateralized value securitie Guarantees (In millions of won) 2016 2015 Bank of Korea settlements ￦ 260,000 258,025 The Bank of Korea, Korea Securities Depository Bank of Korea daylight overdraft 210,000 209,024 The Bank of Korea, Korea Securities Depository Book value (*) Gain on disposal Book value (*) Gain on disposal Bank of Korea borrowings 643,200 641,306 The Bank of Korea Badbank Harmony ￦ 2 56 3 108 Borrowings in foreign currencies 50,000 52,327 Sumitomo Mitsui Bank, Seoul branch Busan Future Education 42 Derivatives transactions 47,988 47,040 Samsung Futures Inc.,KB Futures Co., Ltd., etc. ￦ 44 56 3 108 Repurchase agreement 880,435 884,715 Korea Securities Depository (*) Beginning carrying amount before disposal Others 13,154 13,280 Korea Securities Depository ￦ 2,104,777 2,105,717 There are no impairment losses of available-for-sale securities carried at cost for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. 11. Investment in Associates 9. Held-to-maturity Financial Assets (a) Ownership (a) Held-to-maturity financial assets Ownership on associates as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Held-to-maturity financial assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2016 2016 Number of shares Acquisition Face value Acquisition cost Amortized cost(book value) Fair value Associates(*2) Relation owned Ownership cost(*1) Net asset value Book value Government bonds ￦ 4,910,239 5,025,548 5,055,346 5,160,580 Daegu FC(*3) Associate 300,000 9.20% ￦ 516 403 403 Financial debentures 360,000 363,479 362,561 355,056 (In millions of won) Corporate bonds 540,000 572,448 569,338 550,683 2015 Foreign currency bonds 60,425 57,202 60,425 57,970 Others 1,828,590 1,929,424 1,842,845 1,874,120 Number of shares Acquisition Associates(*2) Relation owned Ownership cost(*1) Net asset value Book value ￦ 7,699,254 7,948,101 7,890,515 7,998,409 Daegu FC(*3) Associate 300,000 9.20% ￦ 516 453 453 (In millions of won) 2015 (*1) Associate’s acquisition cost and book value are the carrying amount under previous K-GAAP on the date of transition to K-IFRS. (*2) Interests in Consus BTL Private Special Asset Fund 1, KB Shin Pyeongtaek Power Private Specific Trusts and Kiwoom Pohang Pure Water Private Specific Trust are more than Face value Acquisition cost Amortized cost(book value) Fair value 20% (28.6%, 25.0% and 28.6%, respectively), but it was not classified as an associate as the Bank cannot exercise significant influence over the investment advisory committee of Government bonds ￦ 4,601,888 4,694,545 4,749,518 4,900,205 Consus BTL Private Special Asset Fund 1, KB Shin Pyeongtaek Power Private Specific Trusts and Kiwoom Pohang Pure Water Private Specific Trust by an agreement. Financial debentures 400,000 404,057 402,866 405,761 (*3) Interests in Daegu FC is less than 20%, but it was classified as an associate as the Group can exercise significant influence over Daegu FC through sharing of management. Corporate bonds 580,000 613,829 616,664 600,481 Others 1,832,437 1,849,882 1,849,411 1,906,457 (b) Equity method ￦ 7,414,325 7,562,313 7,618,459 7,812,90 Loss on equity method accounting and changes of investments in associates for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: DGB Financial Group Financial Section 116 117 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) The amounts of loans and receivables, which mature within 12 months are ￦18,842,129 million and ￦18,237,305 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, 2016 respectively. The amounts of loans and receivables, which mature after 12 months are ￦18,860,952 million and ￦18,138,263 million as of December 31, Book value as of January 1, 2016 Loss on equity method accounting Book value as of December 31, 2016 2016 and 2015, respectively. Daegu FC ￦ 453 (50) 403 (In millions of won) (b) Loans in won 2015 Loans in won as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Book value as of January 1, 2016 Loss on equity method accounting Book value as of December 31, 2016 (In millions of won) Daegu FC ￦ 456 (3) 453 2016 2015 Loans to enterprises Operation loans ￦ 12,539,550 11,950,018 (c) Summarized financial information Facility loans 11,029,144 10,271,932 Summarized financial information of associates as of and for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Subtotal 23,568,694 22,221,950 (In millions of won) Loans to households Operation loans 5,838,943 5,524,532 2016 Housing loans 3,643,372 3,523,678 Assets Liabilities Gross revenue Net loss Subtotal 9,482,315 9,048,210 Daegu FC ￦ 6,886 2,506 5,180 (543) Loans to public sectors and others Operation loans 126,405 191,778 Facility loans 401,473 333,428 (In millions of won) Subtotal 527,878 525,206 2015 Total ￦ 33,578,887 31,795,366 Assets Liabilities Gross revenue Net loss Daegu FC ￦ 7,204 2,280 2,904 (38) (c) Loans in foreign currencies 12. Loans and Receivables Loans in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (a) Loans and receivables 2016 2015 Loans and receivables as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Loans to enterprises Operation loans ￦ 184,242 161,542 (In millions of won) Facility loans 99,235 130,512 2016 2015 Domestic import usance 260,385 249,338 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Total ￦ 543,862 541,392 Loans Loans in won Loans to enterprises ￦ 23,568,694 23,653,696 22,221,950 22,300,239 Loans to households 9,482,315 9,523,422 9,048,210 9,101,403 Loans to public sectors and others 527,878 528,691 525,206 526,434 Subtotal 33,578,887 33,705,809 31,795,366 31,928,076 (d) Finance lease receivables Loans in foreign Loans to enterprises currencies 543,862 544,057 541,392 541,499 Finance lease receivables as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Loans to other banks 313,118 313,118 164,291 164,291 (In millions of won) Finance lease receivables 633,246 633,600 579,696 581,390 2016 Others Bill bought 15,094 15,094 14,731 14,731 Receivables Bill bought in foreign currencies 134,301 134,301 88,697 88,697 Total investment in a lease Payments on guarantees 4,121 4,121 1,342 1,342 Minimum lease payments Unguaranteed residual value Unearned Interest Net investment in a lease Credit card accounts 398,636 398,440 377,322 377,064 Within 1 year ￦ 245,878 25,146 220,732 Bonds purchased under resale agreements 312,300 312,300 231,710 231,710 Exceed 1 year and within 5 years 419,297 23,525 395,772 Call loans 95,157 95,157 390,260 390,260 Exceed 5 years 404 64 340 Privately placed debentures 245,026 245,515 112,266 114,492 Privately placed public loan 222,471 222,605 181,821 187,781 ￦ 665,579 48,735 616,844 Other loans 114,251 114,251 167,699 167,699 (In millions of won) Subtotal 1,541,357 1,541,784 1,565,848 1,573,776 2015 Loans subtotal 36,610,470 36,738,368 34,646,593 34,789,032 Guaranty money 142,378 141,012 139,088 137,340 Total investment in a lease Accounts receivable 430,866 430,866 1,205,527 1,205,527 Minimum lease payments Unguaranteed residual value Unearned Interest Net investment in a lease Accrued income 323,700 323,700 323,109 323,109 Within 1 year ￦ 245,878 25,146 220,732 Other receivables 195,667 195,667 61,251 61,251 Exceed 1 year and within 5 years 368,024 23,525 344,499 Receivables subtotal 1,092,611 1,091,245 1,728,975 1,727,227 Exceed 5 years 404 64 340 Allowance for loan losses (281,758) (281,758) (360,335) (360,335) Present value discount (3,093) (3,093) (2,169) (2,169) ￦ 614,306 48,735 565,571 Present value premium 98 98 Deferred loan origination fees (7,350) (7,350) (5,062) (5,062) Deferred loan origination costs 43,739 43,739 44,497 44,497 Total ￦ 37,454,619 37,581,151 36,052,597 36,193,288 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 118 119 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13. Allowance for Loan Losses 2015 (In millions of won, except the number of companies) The number of Balance before Balance after (a) Loans and receivables companies restructuring Allowance restructuring Changes in allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Workout 9 ￦ 103,556 (21,291) 82,265 (In millions of won) Restructuring, industrial rationalization 22 15,641 (1,643) 13,998 2016 2015 31 ￦ 119,197 (22,934) 96,263 Beginning balance ￦ 360,335 324,062 Changes due to business combinations 7 15,109 Provision for losses 197,821 223,188 Collection of loans written-off 45,408 37,870 16. Derivative Instruments Disposal of loans (41,032) (34,771) Write-offs (264,295) (193,713) (a) Notional amounts of unsettled derivative instruments Unwinding effect (16,787) (11,710) Notional amounts of unsettled derivative instruments as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Effect of exchange rate (224) 312 (In millions of won) Others 525 (12) 2016 2015 Ending balance ￦ 281,758 360,335 Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total Currency Forward ￦ 6,493,828 214,215 6,708,043 5,425,041 5,425,041 Interest rate Swap related 419,350 419,350 420,748 420,748 14. Deferred Loan Origination Fees and Costs Stock Option bought related 209,521 209,521 341,972 341,972 Option sold 191,655 191,655 323,106 323,106 (a) Deferred loan origination fees Subtotal 401,176 401,176 665,078 665,078 Changes in deferred loan origination fees for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Total ￦ 6,895,004 633,565 7,528,569 6,090,119 420,748 6,510,867 (In millions of won) 2016 2015 (b) Valuation on trading and hedging derivative instruments Beginning balance ￦ 5,062 5,460 Valuation on trading and hedging derivative instruments as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Increase 6,553 4,835 (In millions of won) Decrease (4,265) (5,233) 2016 Ending balance ￦ 7,350 5,062 Valuation gain (loss) Fair value (trading) Fair value(hedging) Trading Hedging (b) Deferred loan origination costs (through profit (through profit Changes in deferred loan origination costs for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: and loss) and loss) Total Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities (In millions of won) <Currency related> Forward ￦ (4,917) (10,477) (15,394) 118,543 123,461 10,477 2016 2015 <Interest rate related> Swap 1,342 1,342 95 2,042 Beginning balance ￦ 44,497 38,861 <Stock related> Option (475) (475) 5,375 2,535 Increase 25,624 48,357 Reserve for credit risk adjustment (727) (727) (1,167) (21) (1) Decrease (26,382) (42,721) ￦ (6,119) (9,135) (15,254) 122,751 125,975 95 12,518 Ending balance ￦ 43,739 44,497 (In millions of won) 2015 Valuation gain (loss) Fair value (trading) Fair value(hedging) 15. Restructured Loans Trading Hedging (through profit (through profit Restructured loans under workout plans or other similar restructuring programs as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: and loss) and loss) Total Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities (In millions of won, except the number of companies) <Currency related> Forward ￦ 8,099 8,099 38,619 30,519 2016 <Interest rate related> Swap 2,722 2,722 50 3,150 The number of Balance before Balance after <Stock related> Option (785) (785) 5,892 3,011 companies restructuring Allowance restructuring Reserve for credit risk adjustment 117 139 256 (428) (10) (1) Workout 7 ￦ 68,003 (12,864) 55,139 ￦ 7,431 2,861 10,292 44,083 33,520 50 3,149 Restructuring, industrial rationalization 26 18,693 (1,274) 17,41 33 ￦ 86,696 (14,138) 72,558 (c) Gain (loss) on valuation of hedged assets Gain (loss) on valuation of hedged assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: DGB Financial Group Financial Section 120 121 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) (g) Valuation method and level 3 inputs Gain on valuation Loss on valuation Gain on valuation Loss on valuation Valuation method and significant unobservable inputs used in measuring fair values of derivatives level 3 inputs as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as Available-for-sale financial assets ￦ 5 151 58 206 follows: (net gain on available-for-sale financial assets) Range Available-for-sale financial assets 6,361 (net gain (loss) on foreign exchange) Valuation method Unobservable inputs 2016 2015 Loans (net gain (loss) on foreign exchange) 4,084 Trading derivative Binomial model, etc. Volatility Correlation coefficient 5.35% ~ 36.08% 9.90% ~ 48.34% Debentures (other operating loss, net) 1,104 2,458 instrument ￦ 10,450 1,255 58 2,664 Hedging derivative Binomial model, etc. Volatility Correlation coefficient 5.35% ~ 36.08% 9.90% ~ 48.34% instrument (d) Classification and fair value hierarchy of derivatives (h) Sensitivity analysis of level 3 inputs The classification and the fair value hierarchy of derivatives as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments is performed by dividing the value changes of financial instruments affected by the changes of unobservable 2016 inputs into advantageous and disadvantageous changes. If fair values are affected by two or more inputs, changes are calculated by assuming the most Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total advantageous or the most disadvantageous situation. Trading derivative assets (*) ￦ 118,543 5,375 123,918 Sensitivity to changes in inputs of derivative instruments as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Trading derivative liabilities (*) 123,461 2,535 125,996 Hedging derivative assets (*) 95 95 (In millions of won) Hedging derivative liabilities (*) 12,519 12,519 2016 2015 Profit or loss Profit or loss (In millions of won) Advantageous Disadvantageous Advantageous Disadvantageous 2015 change change change change Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Trading derivative instruments (*) ￦ 143 (144) 322 (128) Trading derivative assets (*) ￦ 38,619 5,892 44,511 (*) Fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing volatility by 10%. Trading derivative liabilities (*) 30,519 3,011 33,530 Hedging derivative assets (*) 50 50 (i) Deferred recognition of day-one profit or loss Hedging derivative liabilities (*) 3,150 3,150 In the case that the fair value of financial instrument is measured through a valuation technique with observable market data, the fair value of financial (*) Credit-risk adjustments are not reflected. instrument is a transaction price if the transaction price differs from the fair value through a valuation technique. If the valuation technique incorporates significant inputs that are not based on observable market data, the difference between the transaction price and the fair value based on the valuation (e) Valuation method and level 2 inputs technique (day-one profit or loss) is not recognized in profit or loss upon initial recognition but deferred. Deferred day-one profit or loss is recognized over Valuation method and inputs used in measuring fair values of derivative instruments using level 2 inputs as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: the period between the trade date and the date when the variables are expected to become observable in the market. If the variables become observable, the deferred remaining amount is recognized in profit or loss immediately. Valuation method Inputs Trading derivative instruments DCF method, etc. Discount rate, exchange rate, etc. The details of deferred day-one profit or loss as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Hedging derivative instruments DCF method, etc. Discount rate, exchange rate, etc. (In millions of won) 2016 2015 (f) Changes in level 3 Trading derivative assets Trading derivative assets Changes in level 3 of derivatives for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) Beginning balance ￦ (1,538) 2016 Increase (1,624) Trading derivative assets (*) Trading derivative liabilities (*) Decrease 226 86 Beginning balance ￦ 5,892 3,011 Ending balance ￦ (1,312) (1,538) Valuation loss (475) (83) Acquisition 3,327 (j) Hedges of net investment in foreign operations Disposal 1,903 Settlement (3,369) (2,296) The Group applied hedge accounting on some of the investments in foreign operations, and loss on translation of foreign operations as a result of hedge is as below. Ending balance ￦ 5,375 2,535 (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2016 2015 2015 Trading derivative assets Trading derivative assets Trading derivative assets (*) Trading derivative liabilities (*) Hedging derivative assets (*) Borrowings in foreign currency ￦ (2,383) (2,429) Beginning balance ￦ 1,360 1,960 16,781 Valuation loss (1,522) (1,314) Acquisition 7,414 Disposal 3,667 Settlement (1,360) (1,302) (16,781) Ending balance ￦ 5,892 3,011 (*) Credit-risk adjustments are not reflected. DGB Financial Group Financial Section 122 123 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17. Property and Equipment (d) Operating leases Operating leases revenues and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (a) Property and equipment (In millions of won) Property and equipment as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2016 2015 (In millions of won) Operating lease revenues Operating lease expenses Operating lease revenues Operating lease expenses 2016 2015 Within 1 year ￦ 494 5,246 508 4,252 Acquisition Accumulated Net book Acquisition Accumulated Net book Exceed 1 year and within 5 years 141 6,231 150 4,321 cost depreciation value cost depreciation valuet Exceed 5 years 185 265 Land ￦ 170,026 170,026 152,386 152,386 ￦ 635 11,662 658 8,838 Buildings 292,060 (90,393) 201,667 199,889 (74,743) 125,146 Leasehold improvement 48,137 (39,520) 8,617 44,657 (36,273) 8,384 Furniture, 194,687 (152,697) 41,990 204,232 (171,708) 32,524 equipment and vehicles 18. ntangible Assets Construction-in progress 6,687 6,687 58,232 58,232 ￦ 711,597 (282,610) 428,987 659,396 (282,724) 376,672 Changes in intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (b) Changes in property and equipment 2016 Changes in property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Changes due to Beginning business Impairment (In millions of won) balance combination Additions Disposal Amortization loss Others (*1) Ending balance 2016 Goodwil ￦ 2,582 19,108 21,690 Beginning Changes due to Ending balance business combination Acquisition Disposal Depreciation Others balance Software 42,098 18,809 (728) (18,340) 49 41,888 Land ￦ 152,386 29,528 (15,600) 3,712 170,026 Contributed 10,464 18 (1,071) 1,282 10,693 acceptance assets Buildings 125,146 6,293 (14,324) 84,552 201,667 Membership 7,681 355 1,131 (1,023) (252) 18 7,910 Leasehold improvement 8,384 3,390 (539) (3,422) 804 8,617 Others(*2) 39,396 21,471 (84) (10,817) 950 50,916 Furniture, 32,524 18 19,882 (597) (11,130) 1,293 41,990 equipment and vehicles ￦ 102,221 19,463 41,429 (1,835) (30,228) (252) 2,299 133,097 Construction-in progress 58,232 33,184 (84,729) 6,687 (*1) Software and contributed acceptance assets were transferred from construction-in-progress. ￦ 376,672 18 92,277 (16,736) (28,876) 5,632 428,987 (*2) Others consist of usable and profitable donation assets of ￦50,123 million. (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2015 2015 Changes due to Beginning Changes due to Ending Beginning business Impairment balance business combination Acquisition Disposal Depreciation Others balance balance combination Additions(*3) Disposal Amortization loss Others (*1) Ending balance Land ￦ 148,853 5,307 (1,774) 152,386 Goodwil ￦ 5,107 (2,525) 2,582 Buildings 127,832 8,760 3,425 (13,431) (1,440) 125,146 Software 30,753 705 27,819 (18,034) 855 42,098 Leasehold improvement 7,247 128 3,970 (112) (3,553) 704 8,384 Contributed 11,470 (1,006) 10,464 Furniture, 29,938 3,735 19,586 (496) (21,154) 915 32,524 acceptance assets equipment and vehicles Membership 6,553 1,317 625 (826) (23) 35 7,681 Construction-in progress 22,154 38,444 (2,366) 58,232 Others(*2) 36,745 12,660 (10,631) 622 39,396 ￦ 336,024 17,930 65,425 (608) (38,138) (3,961) 376,672 ￦ 90,628 2,022 41,104 (826) (29,671) (2,548) 1,512 102,221 (*1) Software and contributed acceptance assets were transferred from construction-in-progress. (c) Assets insured (*2) Others consist of usable and profitable donation assets of ￦37,781 million. Assets insured as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: (*3) Accounts payables related acquisition of intangible assets amount to ￦14 million. (In millions of won) Type Insurance amount Insurance period Insurance company Buildings Package insurance ￦ 237,336 2016.01.01 ~ 2016.12.31 Hyundai Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 19. Investment Property Buildings Package insurance 23,331 2016.01.30 ~ 2017.01.29 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Leasehold improvement Package insurance 10,465 2016.01.01 ~ 2016.12.31 Hyundai Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. (a) Investment property Leasehold improvement Fire insurance 7 2016.05.24 ~ 2017.05.23 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Changes in investment property for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Furniture, equipment and vehicles Package insurance 29,130 2016.01.01 ~ 2016.12.31 Hyundai Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. Furniture, equipment and vehicles Package insurance 9 2016.05.24 ~ 2017.05.23 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Furniture, equipment and vehicles Package insurance 48 2016.06.26 ~ 2017.06.25 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. Furniture, equipment and vehicles Fire insurance 68 2016.09.11 ~ 2017.09.10 Hyundai Marine & Fire Insurance Co., Ltd ￦ 300,394 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 124 125 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) (In millions of won) Beginning balance Acquisition Transfer Depreciation Ending balance 2016 2015 Land ￦ 62,528 (3,712) 58,816 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Buildings 44,107 1,065 (2,439) (1,934) 40,799 Demand deposits ￦ 14,883,589 14,883,589 13,162,503 13,162,503 ￦ 106,635 1,065 (6,151) (1,934) 99,615 Time deposits 20,070,388 20,039,256 19,574,668 19,566,506 (In millions of won) Negotiable certificates of deposit 431,492 431,518 756,206 756,674 Beginning balance Changes due to business ￦ 35,385,469 35,354,363 33,493,377 33,485,683 combination Acquisition Transfer Depreciation Ending balance Land ￦ 52,749 8,005 1,774 62,528 The amounts of depository liabilities, which mature within 12 months are ￦21,722,334 million and ￦21,441,455 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, Buildings 29,253 13,676 1,730 1,440 (1,992) 44,107 respectively. The amounts of depository liabilities, which mature after 12 months are ￦13,663,135 million and ￦12,051,922 million as of December 31, 2016 ￦ 82,002 21,681 1,730 3,214 (1,992) 106,635 and 2015, respectively. (b) Demand deposits (b) Book value and fair value of investment property Demand deposits as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Book value and fair value of investment property as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Book value Fair value Difference Book value Fair value Difference Deposits in won Passbook deposits ￦ 1,208,456 1,167,708 Land ￦ 58,816 74,645 15,829 62,528 78,771 16,243 Savings deposits 7,842,505 7,249,397 Buildings 40,799 45,556 4,757 44,107 43,866 (241) Corporate free savings deposits 4,413,811 3,642,276 ￦ 99,615 120,201 20,586 106,635 122,637 16,002 Others 1,058,638 830,717 Subtotal 14,523,410 12,890,098 The fair value of investment property is determined by factoring in the price of similar real estate transactions by independent real estate appraisal experts. Deposits in foreign currencies Current deposits 926 177 Passbook deposits 359,246 272,222 (c) Rental income and expenses of investment property Temporary deposits 7 6 Rental income and expenses of investment property for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Subtotal 360,179 272,405 (In millions of won) Total ￦ 14,883,589 13,162,503 2016 2015 Incomes Expenses Incomes Expenses Property with rental income ￦ 2,974 863 2,661 849 (c) Time deposits Property without rental income 187 221 Time deposits as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: ￦ 2,974 1,050 2,661 1,070 (In millions of won) 2016 2015 Deposits in won Time deposits ￦ 18,117,833 17,787,633 20. Other Assets Installment savings deposits 1,089,344 1,092,207 Long term housing saving deposits 122,950 165,621 Mutual installment deposits 6,029 7,775 Other assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Others 563,791 467,492 (In millions of won) Subtotal 19,899,947 19,520,728 2016 2015 Deposits in foreign currencies Time deposits 165,106 48,158 Prepayments ￦ 14,955 26,019 Installment savings deposits 5,335 5,782 Prepaid expenses 10,951 12,023 Subtotal 170,441 53,940 Unamortized deferred acquisition costs of new 62,012 29,683 Total ￦ 20,070,388 19,574,668 or renewal insurance contracts Separate account assets 74,654 55,831 Reinsurance assets 9,949 10,066 Others 24,828 23,231 22. Borrowings and Debentures ￦ 197,349 156,853 (a) Borrowings and debentures Borrowings and debentures as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 21. Depository Liabilities (a) Depository liabilities Depository liabilities as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: DGB Financial Group Financial Section 126 127 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) Issuance date Maturity date Interestrate (%) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2015-09-04 2025-09-04 3.03 ￦ 100,000 100,000 Average 2015-10-08 2018-10-08 1.72 30,000 30,000 interestrate (%) Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 2015-10-14 2018-10-14 1.78 40,000 40,000 Borrowings Borrowings in won The Bank of Korea 0.71 ￦ 622,903 622,903 531,243 531,243 2016-01-26 2019-01-26 1.77 100,000 Others 1.79 1,167,035 1,165,406 1,346,859 1,346,910 2016-04-07 2019-04-07 1.60 100,000 Subtotal 1,789,938 1,788,309 1,878,102 1,878,153 2016-06-03 2026-06-03 3.10 100,000 Borrowings in Borrowings 0.67 562,188 561,706 511,681 511,199 2016-08-26 2019-08-26 1.37 30,000 foreign currencies from banks 2016-09-23 2017-09-23 1.42 30,000 Bonds sold under Non-bank 1.67 734,981 735,079 812,795 812,975 2016-10-13 2017-10-13 1.52 80,000 repurchase 2016-10-19 2018-10-19 1.58 60,000 agreements 2013-04-29 2018-04-29 2.25 359,849 347,795 Call money Borrowings in won 1.33 72,000 72,000 100,000 100,000 2013-11-19 2019-05-19 5.00 10,291 10,413 Borrowings in foreign 1.45 8,710 8,710 17,848 17,848 2013-12-27 2019-06-27 5.60 20,631 20,886 Subtotal 80,710 80,710 117,848 117,848 2014-12-30 2020-06-30 5.00 10,018 10,023 Others Bills sold 1.32 6,965 6,983 8,968 8,989 2014-12-31 2019-12-31 5.00 10,018 10,024 Total 3,174,782 3,172,787 3,329,394 3,329,164 2016-09-30 2022-09-30 4.40 20,000 Debentures Debentures in won 2.81 3,750,958 3,832,544 2,801,346 2,908,222 2014-03-17 2017-03-17 3.91 30,000 30,000 Debentures in foreign currencies 2.25 359,849 359,849 347,795 347,795 2014-07-28 2016-07-28 3.12 30,000 Less discount on debentures (3,290) (3,290) (3,224) (3,224) 2014-12-24 2016-12-23 2.75 40,000 Total 4,107,517 4,189,103 3,145,917 3,252,793 2014-12-30 2016-12-30 2.75 30,000 Borrowings and Debentures ￦ 7,282,299 7,361,890 6,475,311 6,581,957 2015-05-28 2017-05-28 2.26 50,000 50,000 2015-05-28 2018-05-28 2.60 30,000 30,000 2015-06-15 2017-07-15 2.21 10,000 10,000 The amounts of borrowings and debentures, which mature within 12 months are ￦3,609,232 million and ￦2,876,714 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The amounts of borrowings and debentures, which mature after 12 months are ￦3,676,357 million and ￦3,601,821 million as of Decem2015-06-15 2018-06-15 2.51 30,000 30,000 ber 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 2015-08-12 2017-08-12 2.02 30,000 30,000 2015-08-12 2018-08-12 2.29 30,000 30,000 (b) Debentures 2015-09-01 2018-03-02 2.05 30,000 30,000 2015-09-01 2019-03-04 2.35 20,000 20,000 Debentures as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2015-09-16 2018-09-16 2.35 20,000 20,000 (In millions of won) 2015-09-30 2017-09-30 2.19 20,000 20,000 Issuance date Maturity date Interestrate (%) 2016 2015 2015-10-14 2017-04-14 2.18 30,000 30,000 2011-10-20 2016-10-20 4.25 ￦ 70,000 2016-01-27 2017-01-26 2.38 40,000 2012-01-17 2017-01-17 3.98 100,000 100,000 2016-01-27 2019-01-25 2.72 10,000 2012-06-21 2017-06-21 3.75 100,000 100,000 2016-02-22 2017-05-22 2.26 35,000 2013-04-19 2018-04-19 2.90 50,000 50,000 2016-02-22 2019-02-22 2.59 10,000 2014-05-29 2019-05-29 3.25 50,000 50,000 2016-03-31 2017-03-31 2.31 50,000 2015-11-23 2020-11-23 2.29 100,000 100,000 2016-03-31 2017-09-30 2.39 10,000 2015-11-23 2018-11-23 2.05 50,000 50,000 2016-04-19 2018-04-19 2.38 20,000 2016-09-30 2019-09-30 1.56 50,000 2016-04-19 2019-04-19 2.64 20,000 2016-09-30 2021-09-30 1.68 60,000 2016-05-31 2018-05-31 2.33 40,000 2016-06-21 2018-12-21 2.27 25,000 2010-08-31 2016-12-31 5.05 120,000 120,000 2016-06-21 2019-06-21 2.47 40,000 2010-08-31 2016-12-31 5.05 80,000 80,000 2016-07-19 2018-01-19 2.01 30,000 2011-04-15 2016-04-15 4.46 100,000 2016-07-19 2018-07-19 2.07 30,000 2011-05-06 2016-05-06 4.43 20,000 2016-07-19 2019-07-19 2.34 40,000 2011-10-20 2018-01-20 4.49 120,000 120,000 2016-09-02 2018-08-31 2.15 30,000 2011-10-20 2018-01-20 4.49 10,000 10,000 2016-09-02 2019-09-02 2.41 30,000 2012-03-08 2019-01-08 4.37 150,000 150,000 2016-10-06 2018-04-06 2.21 20,000 2012-10-09 2022-10-09 3.35 100,000 100,000 2016-10-26 2018-04-26 2.38 10,000 2013-05-16 2023-05-16 3.21 100,000 100,000 2016-10-26 2018-10-26 2.46 40,000 2013-09-06 2023-09-06 4.01 100,000 100,000 2016-11-11 2018-02-09 2.36 30,000 2014-04-23 2017-04-23 3.07 100,000 100,000 2016-12-22 2018-06-22 2.61 40,000 2014-05-14 2017-05-14 3.03 100,000 100,000 2016-10-07 2017-01-04 1.87 20,000 2014-08-04 2016-02-04 2.47 50,000 2016-12-21 2017-02-21 2.31 20,000 2014-08-22 2017-08-22 2.74 50,000 50,000 2016-12-27 2017-02-28 2.31 10,000 2014-11-18 2017-11-18 2.32 180,000 180,000 2016-12-28 2017-02-28 2.31 10,000 2014-11-26 2018-02-26 2.26 110,000 110,000 Subtotal 4,110,807 3,149,141 2015-02-04 2018-08-04 2.10 80,000 80,000 Less discount on debentures (3,290) (3,224) 2015-04-15 2018-10-15 1.84 60,000 60,000 Total ￦ 4,107,517 3,145,917 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 128 129 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23. Provisions The weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation are 13.18 years and 13.13 years as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on published statistics and mortality tables. (a) Borrowings and debentures (b) The gains and losses related to defined benefit plans Changes in provisions for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: The gains and losses related to defined benefit plans for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2016 2016 2015 Beginning balance Increase Decrease Ending balance Current service cost ￦ 29,201 27,894 Allowance (*1) Provision for financial guarantee ￦ 25 123 148 Interest expense 5,382 4,819 Non-financial guarantee contract 1,402 796 2,198 Interest income on plan assets (4,588) (3,839) Subtotal 1,427 919 2,346 ￦ 29,995 28,874 Unused commitment (*2) 13,256 (1,995) 11,261 Allowance for restoration (*3) 4,063 1,080 (106) 5,037 Other allowance Mileage on credit cards 918 (3) 915 (c) Defined benefit obligations Fraudulent usage of credit card 26 (22) 4 Defined benefit obligations as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Dormant deposits repayment (*4) 1,796 38 1,834 (In millions of won) Welfare for retired employees 2,917 (503) 2,414 2016 2015 Litigation 267 106 (120) 253 Present value of retirement benefit obligations ￦ 204,291 169,276 Others 12,095 313 (7,611) 4,797 Fair value of plan assets (195,518) (151,201) Subtotal 18,019 457 (8,259) 10,217 Total 36,765 2,456 (10,360) 28,861 Net liabilities occurred from retirement benefit obligation ￦ 8,773 18,075 (In millions of won) (d) Changes in present value of retirement benefit obligations 2015 Changes in present value of retirement benefit obligation for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Changes due (In millions of won) Beginning to business balance combinations Increase Decrease Ending balance 2016 2015 Allowance (*1) Provision for financial guarantee ￦ 24 1 25 Defined benefit obligations at beginning of the year ￦ 169,276 131,194 Non-financial guarantee contract 2,601 (1,199) 1,402 Current service cost 29,201 27,894 Subtotal 2,625 1 (1,199) 1,427 Interest expense 5,382 4,819 Unused commitment (*2) 14,811 60 (1,615) 13,256 Remeasurement 12,609 8,857 Allowance for restoration (*3) 3,509 480 795 (721) 4,063 Benefit paid (12,593) (8,928) Otherallowance Mileage on credit cards 1,147 (229) 918 Changes due to business combinations 416 5,440 Fraudulent usage of credit card 14 12 26 Defined benefit obligations at end of the year ￦ 204,291 169,276 Dormant deposits repayment (*4) 3,438 (1,642) 1,796 Welfare for retired employees 1,934 983 2,917 Litigation 1,615 267 (1,615) 267 (e) Changes in fair value of plan assets Others 9,523 2,517 3,825 (3,770) 12,095 Changes in fair value of plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Subtotal 17,671 2,517 5,087 (7,256) 18,019 (In millions of won) Total ￦ 38,616 2,997 5,943 (10,791) 36,765 2016 2015 (*1) Allowance is accounted for as the estimated amount that requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year ￦ 151,201 110,404 fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a guarantee obligation. Interest income on plan assets 4,588 3,839 (*2) In the case that there is the commitment to providing the credit line, allowance for unused commitment is recognized because the additional withdrawing amount and time for Remeasurement (2,391) (1,564) unused commitment is not certain and the Group is exposed to credit loss risk. Contribution of employer 46,532 39,806 (*3) Allowance for restoration is calculated as the present value of the restoration expense estimated and calculated at a discount rate as of December 31, 2016 and 2015. (*4) The best estimate of repayments on dormant deposits is recognized as provision. Benefit paid (4,828) (4,616) Changes due to business combinations 416 3,332 Fair value of plan assets at end of the year ￦ 195,518 151,201 24. Defined Benefit Obligations The Group expects to pay ￦46,532 million in contributions to its defined benefit plans in 2017. (a) Major assumptions of actuarial valuation (f) Sensitivity analysis Major assumptions of actuarial valuation as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Effects to the defined benefit obligation from reasonably possible changes to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, (In millions of won) as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2016 2015 (In millions of won) DGB DGB DGB DGB Financial DGB DGB 2016 2015 Financial Life Insurance Capital Group Life Insurance Capital Type Increase (1%p) Decrease (1%p) Increase (1%p) Decrease (1%p) Group Co.,Ltd. Daegu Bank Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Daegu Bank Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Discount rate 2.02% 3.41% 2.58% 3.02% 2.03% 3.34% 2.93% 2.95% Discount rate Increase (decrease) in defined benefit obligation ￦ (19,904) 23,369 (15,482) 20,826 Salary increases Application of salary increase rate of each job group and age group according to experience statistics Future salary growth Increase (decrease) in defined benefit obligation ￦ 23,483 (20,348) 20,956 (15,881) DGB Financial Group Financial Section 130 131 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an approximation of the sensitivity (*) The fair value of other financial liabilities is ￦1,358,724million and ￦2,251,722million as of December31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. of the assumptions shown. The amounts of other liabilities, which mature within 12 months are ￦1,202,608 million and ￦2,108,376 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, re(g) Fair value of plan assets by category spectively. The amounts of other liabilities, which mature after 12 months are ￦156,424 million and ￦142,831 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, The Group’s management policy to plan assets is to invest in stable products regardless of the rate of return. Accordingly, the Group is investing the plan respectively. assets in fixed interest rate products and floating interest rate products which guarantee principal and interests. Fair value of plan assets by category as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 27. Assets and Liabilities Denominated in Foreign Currencies (In millions of won) 2016 2015 (a) Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Due from banks(*) ￦ 188,832 145,051 Debt securities 6,685 6,149 Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Contribution to National 1 1 (In millions of won / thousands of US dollars) Pension Plan 195,518 151,201 2016 2015 Foreign currency(*) Translation into won Foreign currency(*) Translation into won (*) Due from banks comprise retirement pensions of Samsung Life Insurance, Kyongnam Bank, Busan Bank and and Shinhan Life Insurance. These include principal guaranteed products and the annual rate of return is 1.28% Assets Cash in foreign currencies $ 57,294 ￦ 69,240 $ 58,407 ￦ 68,453 Due from banks in foreign currencies 236,362 285,644 243,864 285,809 Available-for-sale financial assets 291,421 352,182 122,785 143,904 25. Insurance Contract Liabilities Held-to-maturity financial assets 50,000 60,425 Insurance Contract liabilities as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Loans Loans in foreign currencies 449,609 543,862 461,938 541,392 (In millions of won) and Loans to other banks in foreign currencies 174,000 210,279 55,000 64,459 2016 2015 receivables Bills bought in foreign currencies 111,134 134,301 75,680 88,697 Premium reserve ￦ 4,952,584 4,770,432 Advances for customers in foreign currencies 2,865 3,462 1,024 1,200 Reserves for unearned premium 4,608 4,532 Credit card accounts in foreign currencies 2,649 3,201 2,531 2,966 Minimum guarantee reserve 13,690 4,578 Call loans in foreign currencies 78,642 95,157 205,000 240,260 Reserve for outstanding claims 97,743 97,992 Privately placed debentures in foreign currencies 21,316 25,760 Reserve for participating policyholders' dividends 4,099 3,323 Deposits in foreign currencies 21 26 Reserve for policyholders' profit dividends 1,117 1,340 Subtotal 840,236 1,016,048 801,173 938,974 Loss preservation reserve for participating insurance 698 837 Total foreign currency denominated assets $ 1,475,313 ￦ 1,783,539 $ 1,226,229 ￦ 1,437,140 Policyholders’ equity adjustment 2,251 4,186 Liabilities Deposits in foreign currencies $ 439,073 ￦ 530,620 $ 278,453 ￦ 326,345 Others 44,410 53,250 Borrowings Borrowings in foreign currencies 465,195 562,188 436,590 511,681 ￦ 5,121,200 4,940,470 Call money in foreign currencies 7,208 8,711 15,230 17,848 Subtotal 472,403 570,899 451,820 529,529 26. Other Liabilities Debentures Debentures in foreign currencies 297,765 359,849 296,014 347,795 Other liabilities as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Less discount on debentures (427) (516) (740) (867) (In millions of won) Subtotal 297,338 359,333 295,274 346,928 2016 2015 Other liabilities Financial guarantee in foreign currencies 234 283 49 58 Other financial liabilities (*) Accounts payable ￦ 493,302 1,180,624 Foreign exchanges payable 8,895 10,750 2,752 3,225 Accrued expenses 382,521 418,149 Domestic exchange settlements credits 23 93,281 Import deposit money in foreign currencies 5,912 7,144 8,161 9,565 Prepaid cards 7,460 7,266 Accounts payables in foreign currencies 723 874 340 290 Debit cards 362 363 Subtotal 15,764 19,051 11,302 13,138 Guarantee deposit for securities subscription 633 63 Total foreign currency denominated liabilities $ 1,224,578 ￦ 1,479,903 $ 1,036,849 ￦ 1,215,940 Liabilities incurred by agency relationship 52,564 44,725 Deposit for credit control 410 2,812 (*) Foreign currencies other than U.S. dollars are translated into U.S. dollars at the appropriate exchange rates at end of the reporting period. Withholding taxes 9,012 8,967 Deposits for letter of guarantees and other 199,358 191,823 Account for agency business 78,112 124,083 Financial guarantee contract 388 222 (b) Gain and loss on foreign currency transactions Insurance claims payable 10,375 10,488 Gain and loss of foreign currency transactions for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Others 124,512 168,341 (In millions of won) Subtotal 1,359,032 2,251,207 2016 2015 Other non-financial liabilities Separate account liabilities 76,626 56,693 Unearned revenue 25,238 23,879 Gain on foreign currency transactions ￦ 204,979 122,639 Income tax payable 33,012 20,796 Loss on foreign currency transactions (200,805) (123,001) Prepaid insurance 7,165 3,177 Net gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions ￦ 4,174 (362) Others 34,826 21,669 Subtotal 176,867 126,214 Discount present value (10,926) (10,794) Total ￦ 1,524,973 2,366,627 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 132 133 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28. Capital Stock, Capital Surplus, Capital Adjustment and Non-Controlling Interests 2016 2015 (In millions of won) Regulatory reserves for loan losses ￦ 288,302 180,331 (a) Capital stock, capital surplus and capital adjustment as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: Changes due to business combinations 2,931 (i) Authorized shares 500,000,000 shares Estimated transfer to regulatory reserves for loan losses 15,689 105,040 Regulatory reserves for loan losses at end of the year ￦ 303,991 288,302 (ii) Number of shares issued 169,053,154 shares (iii) Par price 5,000 won Details of profits after adjusting for regulatory reserves for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (iv) Capital stock 845,265,770,000 won (In millions of won) (v) Capital surplus 1,560,454,863,590 won 2016 2015 (vi) Capital adjustment (-)996,675,400 won Regulatory reserves for loan losses ￦ 15,689 105,040 Adjusted profits after reserves for credit losses 271,968 189,058 Earnings per share after adjusting regulatory ￦ 1,609 1,131 reserves for loan losses (in won) (b) Non-controlling interests Hybrid bonds issued by subsidiaries are classified as non-controlling interests and hybrid bonds dividends are accounted for as profit attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Non-controlling interests as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 30. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (In millions of won) Description Issuance date Maturity date Interest rate (%) 2016 2015 Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 as follows: Hybrid bonds1 (*1) 2013-05-28 2043-05-28 4.53 ￦ 199,700 199,700 (In millions of won) Hybrid bonds2 (*1) 2013-10-25 2043-10-25 5.55 59,911 59,911 2016 Hybrid bonds3 (*1) 2013-11-01 2043-11-01 5.55 29,954 29,954 Net gain on Net gain on Subtotal 289,565 289,565 valuation of valuation of Net gain on Remeasure available-for held to translation ment of Others (*2) 2,055 951 sale financial maturity financial of foreign defined Total ￦ 291,620 290,516 assets assets operations benefit plan Total Hybrid bonds dividends ￦ 14,061 14,061 Beginning balance ￦ 37,685 14,825 4,403 (39,044) 17,869 Net decrease due to valuation (28,335) 3,306 (25,029) (*1) Hybrid bonds may be redeemed earlier after 10 years from the date of issuance and the Group may extend the maturity with the same conditions at maturity. If the Group Changes due to reclassification (3,117) 3,117 decides not to pay dividends on common stock, hybrid bonds dividends are not paid either. Realized gain on disposition (11,133) (5,125) (16,258) (*2) Others are non-controlling interests in DGB Life Insurance and DGB Lao Leasing Co., Ltd Net gain on the fair value hedge accounting (6,215) (6,215) Effect of hedge of net investment (2,383) (2,383) Gain on translation of foreign operations 3,895 3,895 29. Retained Earnings Remeasurements of employee benefits (14,969) (14,969) Fluctuation of policy reserve adjustment 1,935 1,935 (a) Retained earnings Effect of income taxes 10,787 (286) (350) 3,619 13,770 Retained earnings as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Net balance at end of period ￦ 1,607 15,837 5,565 (50,394) (27,385) (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2016 2015 2015 Legal reserve (*1) ￦ 163,749 131,401 Net gain on Net gain on Discretionary appropriated reserve (*2) 1,043 1,155 valuation of valuation of Net gain on Remeasure Unappropriated retained earnings (*3) 1,138,582 930,490 available-for held to translation ment of sale financial maturity financial of foreign defined ￦ 1,303,374 1,063,046 assets assets operations benefit plan Total Beginning balance ￦ 45,497 2,750 (31,137) 17,110 (*1) The Financial Holding Company Act requires a financial holding company to appropriate at least 10% of its net income after income taxes as legal reserve until such reserve Net decrease due to valuation 49,057 49,057 equals 100% of its paid-in capital. This reserve is not available for payment of cash dividends; however, it can be used to reduce the Company’s deficit or be transferred to capital. (*2) The Company calculates and discloses its regulatory reserves for loan losses in the separate financial statements in accordance with Article 27-1 and 27-2 of the Supervisory Changes due to reclassification (20,650) 20,650 Regulations on Financial Holding Companies. Realized gain on disposition (38,397) (1,644) (40,041) (*3) Unappropriated retained earnings includes reserve for trust of ￦8,737 million and ￦8,426 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Net loss on the fair value hedge accounting 148 148 Effect of hedge of net investment (2,429) (2,429) Gain on translation of foreign operations 4,610 4,610 (b) Regulatory reserves for loan losses Remeasurements of employee benefits (10,421) (10,421) In accordance with the Supervisory Regulations on Financial Holding Companies, the Group reserves the difference between allowance for credit losses by Fluctuation of policy reserve adjustment (386) (386) K-IFRS and the Supervisory Regulations on Financial Holding Companies in the account of regulatory reserves for loan losses. Regulatory reserves for loan Effect of income taxes 2,416 (4,181) (528) 2,514 221 losses as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are summarized as follows: Net balance at end of period ￦ 37,685 14,825 4,403 (39,044) 17,869 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 134 135 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31. Interest Income and Interest Expense 2016 2015 (In millions of won) Insurance revenue ￦ 854,695 921,788 (a) Interest income Reinsurance revenue 34,593 36,579 Interest income for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Fees on reinsurance revenue 5,265 1,943 (In millions of won) Separate account revenue 5 5 2016 2015 ￦ 894,558 960,315 Interest on due from banks ￦ 15,209 16,362 Interest on financial assets held for trading 8,850 (b) Insurance expenses Interest on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 8,037 37 Insurance expense for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Interest on available-for-sale financial assets 74,308 79,389 Interest on held-to-maturity financial assets 215,727 245,623 (In millions of won) Interest on loans 1,422,640 1,414,930 2016 2015 Others 3,048 11,540 Insurance expense ￦ 110,772 96,829 ￦ 1,738,969 1,776,731 Refunds expense 574,449 576,942 Policyholder dividends 315 337 Reinsurance premium 42,342 40,528 (b) Interest expense Deferred acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts (50,519) (35,355) Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Expenses on acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts 71,136 52,167 (In millions of won) Contribution to insurance reserve 182,782 251,120 2016 2015 Separate account expense 5 5 Interest on deposits ￦ 376,645 462,076 Amortization expenses on deferred acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts 18,190 5,671 Interest on borrowings 46,481 49,663 ￦ 949,472 988,244 Interest on debentures 107,062 97,003 Interest on borrowings from trust account 3,231 3,273 Others 3,464 4,225 ￦ 536,883 616,240 34. Net Gain on Financial Instruments Held for Trading Net gain on financial instruments held for trading for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 32. Fee and Commission Income / Commission Expense (In millions of won) Description 2016 2015 (a) Fee and commission income Gain Gain on securities held for trading Dividend income ￦ 344 53 Fee and commission income for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Gain on disposal 6,414 14,780 (In millions of won) Gain on valuation 603 857 2016 2015 7,361 15,690 Commissions received ￦ 122,382 127,700 Gain on derivatives instrument Gain on transaction 401,782 314,107 held for trading Guarantee fees 4,090 4,027 Gain on valuation 118,676 40,020 Commissions received related to trust account 11,279 9,359 Reversal of reserve for credit risk adjustment 12 117 ￦ 137,751 141,086 520,470 354,244 Gain on financial instruments held for trading ￦ 527,831 369,934 (b) Commission expense Loss Loss on securities held for trading Commission expenses (acquisition expenses) 237 300 Commission expenses for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Loss on disposal 10,113 11,708 (In millions of won) Loss on valuation 2,176 3,077 2016 2015 12,526 15,085 Commissions paid ￦ 22,259 20,574 Loss on derivatives instrument Commission expenses (acquisition expenses) 236 319 Commissions on credit cards 45,609 42,095 held for trading Loss on transaction 377,094 315,870 Commissions paid related to trust account 236 346 Loss on valuation 124,068 32,706 ￦ 68,104 63,015 Reserve for credit risk adjustment 739 502,137 348,895 Loss on financial instruments held for trading ￦ 514,663 363,980 Net gain on financial instruments held for trading ￦ 13,168 5,954 33. Insurance Income and Insurance Expenses Net gain on financial assets held for trading contains interest income, interest expense, dividend income, net income on valuation and net income on disposal (a) Insurance income of financial assets held for trading. Insurance income for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: DGB Financial Group Financial Section 136 137 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35. Net Gain on Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 39. Share-based Payment Transactions Net gain on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: The Group grants equity linked special incentives to executives and employees and measures compensation expenses at fair value. The maximum number (In millions of won) of stocks to grant are determined at the time when the agreement is made, and cash compensation is awarded if the pre-determined conditions are met. 2016 2015 (a) Equity linked special incentive (long-term performance share plan) Gain on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Dividend income ￦ 8,732 6,696 Gain on valuation 1,128 1,576 Gain on disposal 250 (i) The Group granted equity linked special incentive for the purpose of motivation to improve long-term performance. Equity linked special incentive as of ￦ 10,110 8,272 December 31, 2016 are as follows: Loss on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Loss on valuation ￦ 456 4,920 10th 11th 12th 13th Loss on disposal 8,102 ￦ 8,558 4,920 Shares to be granted 19,596 shares 11,484 shares 8,380 shares 30,095 shares Net gain on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss ￦ 1,552 3,352 Grant date 2014.3.21 2014.12.26 2015.3.19 2016.2.1 Exercise method Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Cash settlement Net gain on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss contains dividend income, net income on valuation and net income on disposal of Conditions Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ Service conditions/ financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss. Performance conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Performance conditions Exercise price per share in won Nil Nil Nil Nil 36. Net Gain on Available-for-sale Financial Assets Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (ii) Changes in long-term performance share plan for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (In won) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Gain on available-for-sale financial assets Dividend income ￦ 30,745 11,383 Shares Weighted average exercise price per share Shares Weighted average exercise price per share Gain on disposal 49,351 75,427 At beginning of year 54,402 shares ￦ 67,085 shares ￦ Gain on valuation of fair value hedged items 5 58 Shares granted 45,665 shares 25,606 shares ￦ 80,101 86,868 Shares exercised 30,512 shares 38,289 shares Loss on available-for-sale financial assets Loss on disposal ￦ 5,259 11,062 At end of year 69,555 shares 54,402 shares Loss on valuation of fair value hedged items 151 206 ￦ 5,410 11,268 The exercise price per share and weighted average expected life are nil and 1.23 years, respectively. Net gain on available-for-sale financial assets ￦ 74,691 75,600 (iii) Major factors of measuring fair value of long-term performance share plan by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: 37. Impairment Loss on Financial Assets (In won) Option pricing model Stock price Option price Expected variance Expected life Risk free rate Fair value Impairment losses on financial assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 10th Black-Scholes option pricing model 9,770 15.64% 0.22 years 1.31% 9,719 (In millions of won) 2016 2015 11th Black-Scholes option pricing model 9,770 23.45% 0.98 years 1.56% 9,545 Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets ￦ 4,622 5,554 12th Black-Scholes option pricing model 9,770 22.81% 1.21 years 1.58% 9,494 Bad debt expenses 197,821 223,188 13th Black-Scholes option pricing model 9,770 23.23% 1.98 years 1.63% 9,321 ￦ 202,443 228,742 (iv) Expense of equity linked special incentive for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) 38. General and Administrative Expenses 2016 2015 General and administrative expense ￦ 171 140 General and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) 2016 2015 (v) Liability of equity linked special incentive as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Employee benefits ￦ 398,816 385,879 (In millions of won) Rent 20,517 19,608 2016 2015 Depreciation 29,788 39,077 Long-term accrued expenses ￦ 300 213 Amortization 30,111 29,651 Tax and dues 23,339 24,111 Advertising expense 14,879 12,332 Physical training expense 1,303 1,273 Service expense 39,053 35,194 40. Other Operating Loss, Net Others 81,192 80,080 ￦ 638,998 627,205 Other operating loss, net for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: DGB Financial Group Financial Section 138 139 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2015 (In millions of won) 42. Non-Operating Income, Net Other operating income Gain on sale of loans ￦ 37,140 18,763 Non-operating income and loss for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Reversal of provision for financial guarantee liabilities 1,207 (In millions of won) Reversal of provision for unused commitment 1,995 1,615 2016 2015 Reversal of other provision 2,632 2,254 Non-operating income Gain on disposal of property and equipment ￦ 47 75 Merchandise sold 1,609 1,411 Gain on disposal of intangible assets 1 82 Service revenue 13,782 12,072 Rental income 3,491 3,205 Others 2,167 1,629 Others 9,632 12,754 ￦ 59,325 38,951 ￦ 13,171 16,116 Other operating loss Fees for credit guarantee fund ￦ 55,090 54,007 Non-operating loss Collecting expenses for written-off loans ￦ 130 90 Deposit insurance premiums 50,835 47,466 Donations 6,307 8,529 Loss on sale of loans 6,577 10,911 Others 5,879 7,065 Loss on valuation of financial debentures 1,104 2,458 ￦ 12,316 15,684 Provision for financial guarantee liabilities 123 Non-operating gain, net ￦ 855 432 Provision for dormant deposits repayment 796 Provision for undrawn commitment 57 Provision for others 1,020 5,117 43. Income Tax Expenses Cost of goods sold 15,118 12,746 Others 1,456 3,091 (a) Income tax expenses ￦ 132,119 135,853 Income tax expenses for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Other operating loss, net ￦ (72,794) (96,902) (In millions of won) 2016 2015 Current income tax ￦ 78,630 79,385 41. Operating Revenue and Expense Changes in temporary differences (6,471) (44,719) Income tax expenses directly charged to equity 13,770 337 Operating revenue and expense for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Others 89 (In millions of won) Income tax expenses ￦ 85,929 35,092 2016 2015 Operating revenue (b) The reconciliation of effective tax rate Interest income ￦ 1,738,969 1,776,731 The reconciliation of effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Fee and commission income 137,751 141,086 (In millions of won) Insurance income 894,558 960,315 2016 2015 Gain on financial assets held for trading 527,831 369,934 Profit before income tax expenses ￦ 387,784 343,411 Gain on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 10,110 8,272 Income tax calculated at the statutory tax rate 93,382 82,643 Gain on available-for-sale financial assets 80,101 86,868 Adjustments: Gain on hedging derivative instruments 1,347 2,927 Income not assessable for tax purposes (26,098) (24,044) Gain on foreign currency transactions 204,979 122,639 Expense not deductible for tax purposes 2,682 3,764 Others 59,325 38,951 Refund of income taxes (2,872) (3,621) 3,654,971 3,507,723 Effect of a subsidiary 8,975 13,954 Operating expense Others 9,860 (37,604) Interest expense 536,883 616,240 Income tax expenses ￦ 85,929 35,092 Commission expense 68,104 63,015 Effective tax rate 22.16% 10.22% Insurance expense 949,472 988,244 Loss on financial assets held for trading 514,663 363,980 Statutory tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Loss on financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 8,558 4,920 Loss on available-for-sale financial assets 5,410 11,268 Tax base Rate Loss on hedging derivative instruments 10,587 2,277 Up to ￦200 million 10% Loss on foreign currency transactions 200,805 123,001 More than ￦200 million ~ Up to ￦20 billion 20% Impairment loss on financial assets 202,443 228,742 More than ￦20 billion 22% General and administrative expenses 638,998 627,205 Others 132,119 135,853 3,268,042 3,164,745 Operating income ￦ 386,929 342,978 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 140 141 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (c) Changes in deferred income tax assets (liabilities) 44. Earnings per Share Changes in deferred income tax assets (liabilities) for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (a) Basic earnings per share 2016 Income tax expenses for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In won, except share information) Temporary differences to be deducted from (added to) taxable income Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) 2016 2015 Changes due Changes due Beginning to business Ending Beginning to business Ending Profit attributable to owners of the Group ￦ 287,676,590,811 294,097,767,140 balance combination Beginning Decrease balance balance combination Beginning Decrease balance Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 169,053,154 167,231,236 <Temporary differences> Basic earnings per share ￦ 1,702 1,759 Accrued income ￦ (231,452) (220,960) (231,565) (220,847) (54,875) (52,617) (54,900) (52,592) Present value discount on (40,425) (28,659) (40,425) (28,659) (9,783) (6,935) (9,783) (6,935) securities (b) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding Gain on valuation of securities (70,372) 32,827 13,750 (51,295) (16,994) 7,955 3,363 (12,402) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Gain on valuation of derivatives (3,831) 7,710 (4,431) 8,310 (927) 1,866 (1,072) 2,011 (In shares) Other provisions, etc. 30,616 24,163 30,616 24,163 7,403 5,826 7,403 5,826 2016 Unused annual/ monthly leave 30,269 32,726 30,792 32,203 7,316 7,764 7,298 7,782 Weighted average of Dormant deposit 5,205 1,871 482 6,594 1,260 453 117 1,596 number common Unamortized deferred 104,410 50,103 54,307 25,267 12,125 13,142 Date Shares Weight shares outstanding acquisition costs of new or renewal insurance contracts At beginning of period 2016.01.01 169,053,154 366/366 169,053,154 Others 245,180 143 174,627 128,755 291,195 60,853 31 36,951 30,272 67,563 Total ￦ 69,600 143 24,305 (21,923) 115,971 19,520 31 1,263 (5,177) 25,991 (In shares) (*) Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) arising from accumulated other comprehensive income were subtracted or added directly to accumulated other comprehensive income. 2015 Weighted average of number common (In millions of won) shares outstanding Date Shares Weight 2015 At beginning of period 2015.01.01 134,053,154 365/365 134,053,154 Temporary differences to be deducted from (added to) taxable income Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) Paid-in capital increase 2015.01.20 35,000,000 346/365 33,178,082 Changes due Changes due Beginning to business Ending Beginning to business Ending At end of period 169,053,154 167,231,236 balance combination Beginning Decrease balance balance combination Beginning Decrease balance <Temporary differences> Accrued income ￦ (247,074) (42,330) (137,521) (195,473) (231,452) (59,792) (9,313) (34,210) (48,440) (54,875) (c) Diluted earnings per share Present value discount on (79,150) (40,425) (79,150) (40,425) (19,154) (9,783) (19,154) (9,783) Diluted earnings per share are equal to the basic earnings per share because the Group has no issued dilutive securities. securities Gain on valuation of securities 73,519 (131,097) 33,157 45,951 (70,372) 17,792 (31,687) 7,985 11,084 (16,994) Gain on valuation of derivatives (6,507) (3,831) (6,507) (3,831) (1,575) (927) (1,575) (927) Other provisions, etc. 35,341 30,616 35,341 30,616 8,547 7,403 8,547 7,403 45. Cash and Cash Equivalents Unused annual/ monthly leave 26,398 29,969 26,098 30,269 6,387 7,244 6,315 7,316 Dormant deposit 4,519 929 243 5,205 1,094 225 59 1,260 Cash and cash equivalents on statements of cash flows as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Unamortized deferred 183,410 79,000 104,410 44,385 19,118 25,267 acquisition costs of new or (In millions of won) renewal insurance contracts 2016 2015 Others (1,333) 77,412 334,663 165,562 245,180 (323) 18,439 80,137 37,400 60,853 Cash and due from banks ￦ 2,547,299 2,092,477 Total ￦ (194,287) 87,395 247,557 71,065 69,600 (47,024) 21,824 58,074 13,354 19,520 Restricted due from banks (1,372,093) (947,735) Due from banks with original maturities of more than three months. (245,000) (235,000) (*) Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) arising from accumulated other comprehensive income were subtracted or added directly to accumulated other comprehensive income. Cash and cash equivalents ￦ 930,206 909,742 (d) Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) before offset Deferred income tax assets (liabilities) before offset as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) 46. Significant Non-cash Transactions 2016 2015 Deferred income tax assets ￦ 113,855 130,260 Significant non-cash transactions for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Deferred tax liabilities (87,864) (110,740) (In millions of won) Deferred tax liabilities, net ￦ 25,991 19,520 2016 2015 Decrease in loans due to write-offs ￦ 264,295 193,713 The Group sets off a deferred tax asset against a deferred tax liability of the same taxable entity if, and only if, they relate to income taxes levied by the same Decrease in loans due to disposal 41,032 34,771 taxation authority and the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities. Transferred to loans from available-for-sale financia assets 10,000 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 142 143 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47. Commitments and Contingencies (g) Commitments with financial institutions that the Group makes about the issuance of letters of credit. Commitments with financial institutions that the Group makes as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (a) Pending litigation (i) Commitments related to letters of credit As of December 31, 2016, there are 45 pending lawsuits brought to court by the Group, as a plaintiff, amounting to ￦14,772 million and 29 pending law(In millions of won / thousands of US dollar) suits against the Group amounting to ￦4,823 million. The major lawsuit case is as follows: 2016 2015 Financial Institutions In foreign currency In won In foreign currency In won A lawsuit amounting to ￦333 million has been filed against the Group due to a severance package cut and the first trial is in progress. The Group recognized provisions of ￦401 million in respect to the above and other lawsuits as of December 31, 2016. KOOKMIN BANK $ ￦ 15,000 $ ￦ 20,000 JEONBUK BANK 10,000 (b) There is a collateral of ￦8,143 million related with a lease deposit in regard to the Group’s land and buildings as of December 31, 2016. KDB Bank 20,000 Total $ ￦ 15,000 $ 30,000 ￦ 20,000 (c) Non-financial guarantee contracts Non-financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Acceptances and guarantees outstanding in won ￦ 372,278 239,323 Financial Institutions Limit Usage Limit Usage Acceptances and guarantees outstanding in foreign currencies 29,846 35,000 JEONBUK BANK ￦ 10,000 5,000 10,000 Contingent acceptances and guarantees 209,255 201,365 BUSAN BANK 20,000 20,000 Loan commitments 6,880,023 6,929,260 KDB Bank 60,000 39,797 30,000 15,000 Purchasing commitments for securities 141,788 106,284 Woori Investment Bank 20,000 ￦ 7,633,190 7,511,232 Total ￦ 110,000 44,797 60,000 15,000 (d) Financial guarantee contracts Financial guarantee contracts as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: 2016 2015 (In millions of won) 48. Transactions with Related Parties Financial guarantee contract in won ￦ 8,863 13,031 Financial guarantee contract in foreign currencies 20,679 8,846 (a) Related parties except for subsidiaries Purchasing commitments for ABCP 84,000 15,000 Details of related parties except for subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: ￦ 113,542 36,877 (In millions of won) Name Relation Ownership Capital stock (e) Insurance commitment Daegu FC (*) Other 9.20% 16,310 The Group’s general and special account derived from insurance contracts with clients as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (*) Daegu FC is an associate company of Daegu Bank which is wholly owned by the Group. (In millions of won) 2016 2015 (b) Transactions between the Group and the related parties except for subsidiaries Numbers Contract amount Numbers Contract amount (i) Significant balances between the Group and the related parties except for subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: General account 1,284 ￦ 20,929,097 1,185 ￦ 18,963,236 (In millions of won) Separate account 177 177 2016 2015 1,284 ￦ 20,929,274 1,185 ￦ 18,963,413 Financial Institutions Daegu FC Daegu FC Assets Loans ￦ 9 (f) Reinsurance agreement Liabilities Deposits ￦ 2,304 4,673 The details of the Group’s ceding agreements as of December 31, 2016 are as follows: Others 17 26 ￦ 2,321 4,699 Ceding method Reinsurance company Ceding amount/ratio Product type More than proportion General Re Corporation ￦ 55 million Life insurance (ii) Significant transactions between the Group and the related parties except for subsidiaries for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as Korean Re ￦20 million ~ ￦80 million Life, disability, cancer insurance follows: Proportion Korean Re 50% Accident insurance Korean Re 50% CI insurance (In millions of won) Korean Re 30% Cancer insurance 2016 2015 Korean Re 30% ~ 50% Dangerous job Financial Institutions Daegu FC Daegu FC Korean Re 17.5% All products (new after financial year 2009) Expenses Interest on deposits ￦ 43 55 Korean Re 50% Child insurance (2013 co-developed product) Korean Re 80% Collateral and non-ceding products sold among financial year 2002 ~ 2006 Munich Reinsurance 5~40% All products Munich Reinsurance 50% Silver cancer insurance DGB Financial Group Financial Section 144 145 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (c) Guarantees and collaterals given or received between the Group and the related parties (iii) Method of credit risk management There are no guarantees and collaterals that the Group provides for funding of related parties or are provided by related parties as of December 31, 2016. ① Loans (d) Compensation for key management personnel Credit line The Group manages the concentration risk by considering the economic conditions and environmental factors, and sets credit line for each individual, inCompensation for key management personnel in total and for each of the following categories for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as dustry and type of loan. The Group evaluates the concentration ratio of the borrower with large exposure and uses the concentration ratio as a parameter follows: for credit risk management. (In millions of won) 2016 2015 Credit approval system Classification Daegu FC Daegu FC Enterprises' Credit Scoring System is operated through sophisticated, common or unsophisticated credit rating models according to the amount of enShort-term employee benefits ￦ 7,490 6,073 terprises' loans and financial conditions. Households' Credit Scoring System is operated through the ASS (Application Scoring System) or BSS (Behavioral Other long-term benefits ￦ 742 415 Scoring System). Post-employment benefits 1,368 1,413 Evaluation ￦ 9,600 7,901 The Group systematically evaluates clients' qualifications for a loan by the professional in charge of credit assessment and SRM (Senior Relationship Management) and reevaluates the clients' capability to redeem according to the change of credit conditions. Evaluation is performed on a regular basis. If there is a specific circumstance regarding clients, evaluation may be performed when necessary. In the case of households, the length of extension, renewal or revolving of loans is determined according to the Behavioral Scoring System. 49. Financial Risk Management ② Debt securities (a) Purpose of risk management The Group manages the credit risk for debt securities through their credit rating or the similar external credit rating. In the case of using the external credit rating, it is converted to internal rating and its credit line is managed in accordance with the credit line regulations on internal rating. The Group has exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk and operational risk from financial instruments. The Group's risk management system aims at maintaining capital adequacy and managing stability through the comprehensive appraisal and management of significant risks that arise in management ③ Risk mitigation policy activities. By optimizing risk and return balance, the risk management system realizes the stable growth of the Group, while maximizing company value and If there is a circumstance or evidence that can increase the credit risk, the Group takes action to mitigate credit risk such as reducing amounts outstanding maintaining an adequate equity capital level as well as achieving business strategies, policies and plans. (in discussion with the clients or counterparties if appropriate). (b) Risk management organization Collateral The Group's risk management organization consists of a risk management committee, risk management council, risk management working group, risk manThe Group has various policies and guidance regarding the mitigation of credit risk. Generally, the Group obtains collateral for loans and operates guidance agement department and sub-risk management departments. The risk management committee (the Committee) is the top decision-making body chaired related to acquisition, valuation, and limits related to collateral management. In the case of collateral for real estate, settlement of mortgage is required for by an outside director. It sets up risk management strategy, maintains the adequacy of capital level and manages risk tolerance. Commissioned by the Comacquisition. For movable assets, securities and deposit receivables and establishing the right of pledge is required. Other receivables are required to be mittee, the risk management council (the Council) deliberates and resolves issues on the agenda, develops and controls risk management strategies and obtained through transfer. Obtained collateral are revalued through appraisal after a certain amount of time. Collaterals for loans are, for instance, house, policies and oversees interest rates, capital supply and management risks involving new products and businesses. The risk management working group (the equipment, factories, land, deposit, debt securities and equity securities. Working Group) monitors the operation and practical review of resolutions and deliberations of and by the Council. The risk management department (the Department) assists top management, the Committee, the Council and individual risk management department of each division fine-tune their risk manageGuarantee and derivatives ment plans and measure as well as analyze risks at the division level. The Group sets up sub-risk management departments for credit risk, liquidity risk, marThe Group enters into guarantee and derivative contracts to transfer the credit risk of its loans and receivables to third parties. The above contracts require ket risk and operational risk and each department is responsible for compliance with risk management strategy and policy. Through the step-by-step loss third parties to make payments to reimburse the Group for a loss incurred by debtor’s default. management (MAT), the Group built a step-by-step reporting system which prevents additional loss and controls risk efficiently for the excessive loss on trade and valuation of the loss limited portfolio. Master netting agreements In many cases, even though master netting agreements are in place, the lack of an intention to settle on a net basis results in the related assets and liabilities (c) Credit risk being presented gross on the statement of financial position. In the case of counterparty's default, the Group may reduce some of the losses from the credit (i) Purposes of credit risk management risk when all transactions with counterparty are offset. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to The Group, if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises (iv) Maximum exposure of credit risk principally from the Group's balance accounts and off balance accounts such as loans and receivables, payment guarantee, securities, derivatives from Maximum exposure of credit risk as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) customers and investment securities. The purposes of credit risk management are to maintain the asset quality by controlling loss possibility for the coun2016 2015 terparty in falling to meet its contractual obligations and to manage industry type and borrower type concentration risk by controlling a loan portfolio and the On balance accounts(*1) credit share limit. Due from banks(*2) ￦ 629,226 565,994 Financial assets held for trading(*3) 364,233 269,634 (ii) Credit risk management organization Financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss(*3) 55,359 105,658 Available-for-sale financial assets(*3) 3,538,198 3,511,679 Credit risk management is conducted by the Committee, the Council, the Working Group, the Department, credit risk team and sub risk management departHeld-to-maturity financial assets 7,890,515 7,618,459 ments. The Department conducts recognizing, measuring, controlling and checking the adequacy of the Group-wide, departmental or organizational credit Loans 36,373,478 34,399,965 risk. It also conducts analyzing and reporting credit risk, developing and improving credit risk management skill, reporting the result of credit risk check-up Receivables 1,081,141 1,652,632 and providing the information. Derivative assets-hedging 95 50 Credit risk team conducts installing and operating the credit risk management system. Loan review department conducts check-up of loan quality classiReinsurance assets 9,949 10,066 fication through regular credit review. Sub-risk management departments establish and implement credit risk management plans, recognize, measure, ￦ 49,942,194 48,134,137 analyze and report credit risk, manage loan portfolio considering risk and return, analyze credit risk and conduct follow-up management resulted from new Off-balance accounts product launching, implement the resolutions from the Committee and Council, supervise countries' credit risk considering credit level of international credit Financial guarantee contracts ￦ 113,542 36,877 appraisal institutes and submit other credit risk reporting documents. Internal audit inspects the adequacy of recognizing, measuring and evaluating credit Commitments 7,021,811 7,035,544 risk, credit risk control organization and managing process. Non-financial guarantee contracts 611,379 475,688 ￦ 7,746,732 7,548,109 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 146 147 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (*1) After impairment and setting off / (*2) Except for due from Bank of Korea / (*3) Except for equity securities and beneficiary securities (vi) Loans Loans as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) Degree of credit risk exposure is based on the net book value of financial position. In the case of financial guarantee, it is measured as the maximum amount 2016 to be paid for the debtor and in the case of loan contract which cannot be cancelled or can be cancelled if critical changes occur, it is measured as the entire Public sectors amount of the contract. Enterprises Households and others Credit card Total Neither overdue nor impaired loans ￦ 25,523,158 9,425,349 747,839 393,873 36,090,219 (v) Degree of industrial risk concentration of financial assets which have credit risk Not impaired but overdue loans 97,519 32,433 623 149 130,724 Degree of industrial risk concentration of financial assets which have credit risk as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Impaired loans 358,493 24,533 1,887 4,614 389,527 (In millions of won) 25,979,170 9,482,315 750,349 398,636 36,610,470 2016 Allowance for loan losses (239,572) (22,907) (2,191) (7,246) (271,916) Balance account (*1) Off-balance account (*1) Present value discount (1,465) (1,465) Financial assets Deferred loan origination cost and fee 15,645 20,261 483 36,389 Financial designated at Available assets held fair value sale Held-tomaturity Financial Nonfinancial Net book value ￦ 25,753,778 9,479,669 748,641 391,390 36,373,478 for through profit financial financial Derivative guarantee guarantee trading (*2) or loss (*2) assets (*2) assets Loans assetshedging Total contracts contracts Commitments Total (In millions of won) Enterprises 2015 Manufacturing ￦ 59,098 50,021 10,936,122 11,045,241 16,408 219,262 1,936,638 2,172,308 Construction 21,129 153,306 1,003,481 1,177,916 54,000 19,044 298,095 371,139 Public sectors Enterprises Households and others Credit card Total Wholesale and retail 20,008 3,410,312 3,430,320 3,518 204,777 556,885 765,180 Financial services 32,390 14,912 1,484,280 814,349 1,329,939 3,675,870 1,566 232,690 234,256 Neither overdue nor impaired loans ￦ 24,018,124 8,990,714 654,938 373,014 34,036,790 and insurance Not impaired but overdue loans 120,363 38,963 577 172 160,075 Others 209,092 40,447 447,450 744,935 9,299,316 10,741,240 39,616 166,730 385,691 592,037 Impaired loans 427,059 18,533 4,136 449,728 Subtotal 241,482 55,359 2,011,957 1,782,619 25,979,170 30,070,587 113,542 611,379 3,409,999 4,134,920 Households 9,482,315 9,482,315 1,203,781 1,203,781 24,565,546 9,048,210 655,515 377,322 34,646,593 Government and 1,526,241 6,107,896 750,349 8,384,486 67,209 67,209 Allowance for loan losses (254,052) (22,708) (1,625) (7,737) (286,122) public institutions Present value discount (39) (39) Credit card 398,636 398,636 2,340,822 2,340,822 Present Value Premium 98 98 Derivatives 123,918 95 124,013 Reserve for (1,167) (1,167) Deferred loan origination cost and fee 20,583 18,390 462 39,435 credit risk adjustment Net book value ￦ 24,332,136 9,043,892 654,352 369,585 34,399,965 Allowance (271,916) (271,916) Present value discount (1,465) (1,465) Deferred loan originated 36,389 36,389 Overdue occurs when the counterparty of the contract is not able to pay the principal and interest on the date of contract. Impairment is the case when cost and fee there is objective evidence of impairment and the loss event had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial Total ￦ 364,233 55,359 3,538,198 7,890,515 36,373,478 95 48,221,878 113,542 611,379 7,021,811 7,746,732 assets and a reliable estimate of the loss amount can be made. The evidences of impairment are such as: past due more than 90 days, bad credit information (*1) After impairment and setting off / (*2) Except for equity securities and beneficiary securities according to credit information management regulation, restructuring of receivables and debt in overdue condition and revolving of bad exposure. (In millions of won) 2015 (vii) Loans that are neither overdue nor impaired (*1) Credit qualities of loans as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 that are neither overdue nor impaired refer to the Group's internal credit appraisal system and are as follows: Balance account (*1) Off-balance account (*1) Financial (In millions of won) assets 2016 Financial designated at Available assets held fair value sale Held-tomaturity Financial Nonfinancial Public sectors for through profit financial financial Derivative guarantee guarantee trading (*2) or loss (*2) assets (*2) assets Loans assetshedging Total contracts contracts Commitments Total Enterprises Households and others Credit card Total Enterprises 1~6 ￦ 24,479,901 8,760,730 743,886 298,140 34,282,657 Manufacturing ￦ 99,787 30,031 10,860,228 10,990,046 6,368 1,983,562 238,468 2,228,398 7 320,489 308,642 2,774 34,100 666,005 Construction 74,151 101,516 1,059,997 1,235,664 15,000 340,762 15,523 371,285 8(*2) 144,308 121,675 365 25,312 291,660 Wholesale and retail 20,014 3,167,186 3,187,200 46 556,835 178,826 735,707 Financial services 41,698 20,004 1,306,751 664,058 1,235,556 3,268,067 197,821 2,652 200,473 9(*2) 12,357 61,361 13,182 86,900 and insurance 10(*2) 8,585 26,258 7,579 42,422 Others 183,853 70,694 270,846 719,264 8,242,579 9,487,236 15,463 361,906 40,219 417,588 Not rated(*3) 557,518 146,683 814 15,560 720,575 Subtotal 225,551 90,698 1,751,535 1,534,883 24,565,546 28,168,213 36,877 3,440,886 475,688 3,953,451 ￦ 25,523,158 9,425,349 747,839 393,873 36,090,219 Households 9,048,210 9,048,210 1,174,285 1,174,285 Government and 14,960 1,760,144 6,083,576 655,515 8,514,195 13,800 13,800 (In millions of won) public institutions Credit card 377,322 377,322 2,406,573 2,406,573 2015 Derivatives 44,511 50 44,561 Public sectors Reserve for (428) (428) Enterprises Households and others Credit card Total credit risk adjustment 1~6 ￦ 23,198,937 8,240,981 652,369 275,136 32,367,423 Allowance (286,122) (286,122) Present value discount (39) (39) 7 271,433 315,506 2,168 34,890 623,997 Present value premium 98 98 8(*2) 100,745 113,873 401 24,910 239,929 Deferred loan originated 39,435 39,435 9(*2) 11,463 62,258 13,171 86,892 cost and fee 10(*2) 8,458 23,930 8,103 40,491 Total ￦ 269,634 105,658 3,511,679 7,618,459 34,399,965 50 45,905,445 36,877 7,035,544 475,688 7,548,109 Not rated(*3) 427,088 234,166 16,804 678,058 (*1) After impairment and setting off / (*2) Except for equity securities and beneficiary securities ￦ 24,018,124 8,990,714 654,938 373,014 34,036,790 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 148 149 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (*1) The Group assesses and manages credit rating of loans classifying loans into enterprises (external audit, non-external audit, individual business, financial institute, public sector (ix) Impaired loans and special finance) and loans to households. Combined evaluation model of financial model and non-financial model is used for loans to enterprises other than loans to financial Loans which have evidence of impairment are measured either individually or collectively according to material criteria of the loan. Loans either individually institute, public sector and special finance. Regular check for adequacy is conducted to guarantee the adequacy of credit rating. or collectively measured for impairment, collateral and estimated fair value of other credit reinforcement are as follows: (*2) The definition of bankruptcy in Basel II is based on overdue criteria and default criteria and is applied to the definition of impairment of the Group. Impairment unit is borrower criteria thus there might be loans under 8th degree which are neither overdue nor impaired. ① Categories of impaired loans (In millions of won) (*3) Amount of non-rated loan is ￦720,575million (￦678,058million as of December 31, 2015) and arises from inter-bank transactions such as call loans, purchase of RP, and inter-bank loans and loans related with sound collateral (deposits and warranty) and sound bills (discounted bills and electronic factoring). Amount of not rated loans from inter-bank 2016 transactions and sound loan borrowers is ￦313,118 million (￦164,291 million as of December 31, 2015) and ￦407,457 million and (￦513,767 million as of December 31, 2015), Public sectors respectively. Enterprises Households and others Credit card Total Individual assessment Impaired loans ￦ 267,699 124 1,326 627 269,776 Classification of rating Internal credit rating External credit rating Allowance for doubtful accounts 58,599 37 67 577 59,280 Current 1~6 AAA~BB Collective assessment Impaired loans 90,794 24,409 561 3,987 119,751 Precautionary 7 B Allowance for doubtful accounts 35,127 9,952 230 2,656 47,965 Substandard 8 CCC Impaired loans ￦ 358,493 24,533 1,887 4,614 389,527 Doubtful 9 CC, C Allowance for doubtful accounts ￦ 93,726 9,989 297 3,233 107,245 Estimated loss 10 D (In millions of won) (viii) Loans that are past due but not impaired 2015 ① Age analysis of loans that are overdue but not impaired Enterprises Households Credit card Total (In millions of won) 2016 Individual assessment Impaired loans ￦ 361,136 123 422 361,681 Public sectors Allowance for doubtful accounts 88,855 123 389 89,367 Enterprises Households and others Credit card Total Collective assessment Impaired loans 65,923 18,410 3,714 88,047 Less than 30 days ￦ 81,310 29,002 400 140 110,852 Allowance for doubtful accounts 24,547 9,139 2,732 36,418 More than 30 days ~ less than 60 days 13,065 2,768 223 9 16,065 Impaired loans ￦ 427,059 18,533 4,136 449,728 More than 60 days ~ less than 90 days 3,144 663 3,807 Allowance for doubtful accounts ￦ 113,402 9,262 3,121 125,785 ￦ 97,519 32,433 623 149 130,724 (In millions of won) ② Estimated fair value of collateral for impaired loans 2015 Public sectors (In millions of won) Enterprises Households and others Credit card Total 2016 Less than 30 days ￦ 101,108 37,585 577 158 139,428 Enterprises Households Public sectors and others Total More than 30 days ~ less than 60 days 14,156 1,197 14 15,367 Real estate ￦ 122,513 7,961 1,612 132,086 More than 60 days ~ less than 90 days 5,099 181 5,280 Movable asset 7,665 95 7,760 ￦ 120,363 38,963 577 172 160,075 Securities and debentures 16 105 121 ② Estimated fair value of collateral for the loans that are overdue but not impaired is as follows: Warranty 13,445 686 14,131 (In millions of won) Others 1,764 1,764 2016 ￦ 145,403 8,847 1,612 155,862 Public sectors Enterprises Households and others Credit cards Total (In millions of won) Real estate ￦ 27,962 17,859 214 4 46,039 2015 Movable property 8,500 2,566 11,066 Enterprises Households Total Securities and debentures 45 11 56 Real estate ￦ 144,126 4,914 149,040 Warranty 15,153 2,164 17,317 Movable asset 2,715 345 3,060 Others 78 52 130 Securities and debentures 65 29 94 ￦ 51,738 22,652 214 4 74,608 Warranty 13,189 218 13,407 Others 1,238 1,238 (In millions of won) 2015 ￦ 161,333 5,506 166,839 Public sectors Enterprises Households and others Total (x) Restructuring loans and receivables Real estate ￦ 44,530 23,478 311 68,319 Restructuring loans and receivables is an activity to maximize the collection of loans and receivables by changing the condition of a financially troubled borMovable property 7,235 1,295 8,530 rower and includes extension of maturity, postponement of payment and relief of interest rate. Restructured loans and receivables as of December 31, 2016 Securities and debentures 1 272 273 and 2015 are ￦86,696 million and ￦119,197million, respectively. Warranty 16,284 1,398 17,682 Others 44 44 ￦ 68,094 26,443 311 94,848 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 150 151 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (xi) External credit rating of debt securities (xii) Offsets of financial assets and financial liabilities The Group manages debt securities using external credit rating and debt securities classified by external credit rating and categories are as follows: The Group has financial instruments which are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. The similar agreements include The relationships between external credit rating and internal credit rate are described in note 49.(c) derivative clearing agreements, repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements, etc. (vii) Loans that are neither overdue nor impaired. Some of the derivative instruments are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement. In accordance with this agreement, all the derivatives ① Debt securities in won transactions are terminated in the credit event such as bankruptcy of any of the counterparties and the net amounts offset in each transaction will be paid (In millions of won) from one party to another at the time of termination. The Group’s repurchase agreement transactions, and securities lending transactions, etc., are also 2016 subject to an agreement similar to ISDA (International Derivatives Swaps and Dealers Association) offsetting agreements. Financial assets Financial assets and liabilities are not offset in the statement of financial position because ISDA offsetting agreements and similar agreements are exerdesignated at fair Financial assets value through Available-for-sale Held-to-maturity cisable only in the credit event and the parties to transactions have no intention to either settle on a net basis, or realize the asset and settle the liability held for trading profit or Loss financial assets financial assets Total simultaneously. <Long term credit rating> ① Offsetting financial assets AAA ￦ 7,913 40,447 1,673,059 2,236,464 3,957,883 Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: AA+ ~ AA6,523 14,912 486,775 336,643 844,853 (In millions of won) A+ ~ A29,492 110,206 40,558 180,256 2016 BBB+ ~ BBB10,820 24,722 35,542 Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the Others 2,805 2,805 financial assets statement of financial position Gross amounts of Gross offset amounts presented in the Not rated 1,010,264 5,276,850 6,287,114 recognized of recognized statement of Financial Collateral received Subtotal 57,553 55,359 3,305,026 7,890,515 11,308,453 financial assets financial liabilities financial position instruments Securities Cash Net amount <Short term credit rating> Bonds purchased under resale agreements ￦ 312,300 312,300 298,883 13,417 A1 52,671 52,671 Accrued balance spot exchange 210,072 210,072 209,923 149 A2 ~ A3 131,258 131,258 Trading derivative assets 71,411 71,411 5,125 3,600 167 62,519 Subtotal 183,929 183,929 Hedging derivative assets 95 95 95 Total ￦ 241,482 55,359 3,305,026 7,890,515 11,492,382 Total ￦ 593,878 593,878 215,048 302,483 167 76,180 (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2015 2015 Financial assets designated at fair Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the financial assets statement of financial position Financial assets value through Available-for-sale Held-to-maturity Gross amounts of Gross offset amounts presented in the held for trading profit or Loss financial assets financial assets Total recognized of recognized statement of Financial Collateral received financial assets financial liabilities financial position instruments Securities Cash Net amount <Long term credit rating> AAA ￦ 6,484 40,335 1,266,105 2,207,036 3,519,960 Bonds purchased under resale agreements ￦ 231,710 231,710 200,202 31,508 AA+ ~ AA3,129 20,004 655,761 355,845 1,034,739 Accrued balance spot exchange 954,669 954,669 954,057 612 A+ ~ A27,457 111,500 61,961 200,918 Trading derivative assets 31,657 31,657 7,297 3,692 20,668 BBB+ ~ BBB19,971 19,971 Hedging derivative assets 50 50 50 Not rated 45,319 1,334,409 4,993,617 6,373,345 Total ￦ 1,218,086 1,218,086 961,354 200,202 3,692 52,838 Subtotal 57,041 105,658 3,367,775 7,618,459 11,148,933 <Short term credit rating> A1 62,616 62,616 ② Offsetting financial liabilities A2 ~ A3 105,894 105,894 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Subtotal 168,510 168,510 Total ￦ 225,551 105,658 3,367,775 7,618,459 11,317,443 (In millions of won) 2016 Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the Not rated amount is ￦6,287,114 million (￦6,373,345 million as of December 31, 2015) and domestic credit appraisal companies do not assess the credit financial assets statement of financial position rating of government and some public entities. Among not rated amount, government and public entity bond is ￦5,919,492 million (￦4,228,770 million as Gross amounts of Gross offset amounts presented in the recognized of recognized statement of Financial Collateral of December 31, 2015), monetary stabilization bond is ￦49,920 million (￦49,977 million as of December 31, 2015) and other bond is ￦317,702 million ( financial liabilities financial assets financial position instruments provided Net amount ￦2,094,598 million as of December 31, 2015). Bonds purchased under resale agreements ￦ 734,981 734,981 734,981 ② Debt securities in foreign currencies Accrued balance spot exchange 185,039 185,039 184,958 81 (In millions of won) Trading derivative liabilities 117,712 117,712 44,412 73,300 2016 2015 Hedging derivative liabilities 12,519 12,519 12,519 Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets AAA ￦ 69,434 ￦ 1,050,251 1,050,251 964,351 85,900 AA+ ~ AA17,516 A+ ~ A146,267 74,470 BBB+ ~ BBB69,389 Total ￦ 233,172 143,904 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 152 153 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) (In millions of won) 2015 2015 Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the On demand Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 More than financial assets statement of financial position 1 month months months months months months 60 months Total Gross amounts of Gross offset amounts presented in the <On-balance accounts> recognized of recognized statement of Financial Collateral financial liabilities financial assets financial position instruments provided Net amount Demand deposits ￦ 13,162,503 13,162,503 Time deposits 59,856 2,764,755 4,143,135 4,633,592 6,459,531 1,155,578 195,255 390,281 19,801,983 Bonds purchased under resale agreements ￦ 812,795 812,795 812,795 Negotiable 74,281 132,302 168,662 354,164 42,255 771,664 Accrued balance spot exchange 135,963 135,963 135,829 134 certificates of deposits Trading derivative liabilities 22,951 22,951 6,201 16,750 Subtotal 13,222,359 2,839,036 4,275,437 4,802,254 6,813,695 1,197,833 195,255 390,281 33,736,150 Hedging derivative liabilities 3,150 3,150 3,150 Borrowings in won 560,305 115,306 100,153 156,538 468,844 368,182 174,237 1,943,565 ￦ 974,859 974,859 954,825 20,034 Borrowings in foreign 53,505 139,838 52,099 118,788 112,944 39,187 516,361 Bonds sold under 154,840 307,325 94,603 266,719 122 823,609 repurchase (d) Liquidity risk agreements (i) Purposes of liquidity risk management Call money 117,848 117,848 The purposes of liquidity risk management is to manage the risk which occurs when there are not enough financial resources and liquidity for principal and Other borrowings 2,901 4,791 1,239 56 8,987 interest, not due to the problem of payment ability but due to the situation such as maturity inconsistency of assets and liabilities. Additional reasons for Subtotal 889,399 567,260 248,094 542,101 581,910 407,369 174,237 3,410,370 liquidity risk include abnormal disposal of assets or fund raising through liabilities. Debentures in won 4,490 59,558 219,242 334,311 1,580,010 404,399 440,145 3,042,155 Debentures 3,956 3,956 363,467 371,379 in foreign currency (ii) Method of liquidity risk management Subtotal 4,490 59,558 223,198 338,267 1,943,477 404,399 440,145 3,413,534 Liquidity risk management covers all the monetary transactions of assets and liabilities. The methods of measuring, evaluating and managing liquidity risk Other financial 1,590,954 31,236 35,910 34,544 105,353 35,018 43 1,833,058 are as follows: liabilities Total ￦13,222,359 5,323,879 4,933,491 5,309,456 7,728,607 3,828,573 1,042,041 1,004,706 42,393,112 Establish liquidity ratio of supervising organization and periodic liquidity gap limit for the maturity differences of assets and liabilities and report the results <Off-balance accounts> to the Committee and the Council Financial guarantee ￦ 36,877 36,877 Promote the precaution of liquidity risk considering fund raising time Commitments 7,035,544 7,035,544 Possess sufficient current assets as provision for liquidity shortage Payments on guarantees 475,688 475,688 Establish and implement a liquidity risk dealing Total ￦ 7,548,109 7,548,109 (iii) Maturity analysis of financial liabilities ③ Derivative financial liabilities Contractual maturity analysis for financial liabilities is as follows: Financial liabilities held for trading and demand deposits are recognized as fair value and included in the 'On demand' section. (In millions of won) 2016 A. Non-derivative financial liabilities (In millions of won) Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 More than 1 month months months months months months 60 months Total 2016 <Trading derivatives> On demand Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 More than Currency related ￦ 36,105 33,719 21,466 32,171 123,461 1 month months months months months months 60 months Total <On-balance accounts> Stock related 316 398 407 769 645 2,535 Demand deposits ￦ 14,883,589 14,883,589 Subtotal 36,421 34,117 21,873 32,940 645 125,996 Time deposits 59,438 2,747,139 4,407,914 4,727,622 6,494,827 1,324,173 104,623 310,392 20,176,128 <Hedging derivatives> Negotiable 130,099 99,804 41,022 153,751 14,665 439,341 Currency related 933 2,789 6,755 10,477 certificates of Interest rate related 2 2,032 8 2,042 deposits Subtotal 933 2,791 6,755 2,032 8 12,519 Subtotal 14,943,027 2,877,238 4,507,718 4,768,644 6,648,578 1,338,838 104,623 310,392 35,499,058 Total ￦ 37,354 34,117 24,664 39,695 2,032 8 645 138,515 Borrowings in won 632,018 53,829 198,265 179,029 510,939 355,323 155,508 2,084,911 Borrowings in foreign 72,864 123,561 113,746 215,087 42,039 567,297 (In millions of won) Bonds sold under 132,942 320,299 93,088 187,867 9,710 743,906 repurchase 2015 agreements Less than 1~3 4~6 7 ~ 12 13 ~ 36 37 ~ 60 Call money 80,710 80,710 1 month months months months months months Total Other borrowings 2,300 3,850 772 56 6,978 <Trading derivatives> Subtotal 920,834 501,539 405,871 582,039 562,688 355,323 155,508 3,483,802 Currency related ￦ 10,843 8,900 5,420 5,356 30,519 Debentures in won 364,451 130,484 437,554 446,720 1,797,188 252,130 561,157 3,989,684 Stock related 75 374 1,004 843 715 3,011 Debentures 4,079 4,079 366,629 374,787 Subtotal 10,918 9,274 6,424 6,199 715 33,530 in foreign currency <Hedging derivatives> Subtotal 364,451 130,484 441,633 450,799 2,163,817 252,130 561,157 4,364,471 Interest rate related 3,061 89 3,150 Other financial 755,058 11,226 65,265 34,253 75,365 35,301 43 976,511 liabilities Total ￦ 10,918 9,274 6,424 6,199 3,061 804 36,680 Total ￦14,943,027 4,917,581 5,150,967 5,681,413 7,715,669 4,140,708 747,377 1,027,100 44,323,842 <Off-balance accounts> Available assets to fulfill the payment obligations of liabilities and to carry out the unpaid loan contracts are cash, due from The Bank of Korea, loans, equity Financial guarantee ￦ 113,542 113,542 securities and debt securities. The Group is able to deal with unexpected cash flows through the disposal of securities and by additional fund raising reCommitments 7,021,811 7,021,811 sources such as the asset securitization market. Payments on guarantees 611,379 611,379 Total ￦ 7,746,732 7,746,732 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 154 155 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (e) Market risk (In millions of won) 2015 Market risk is the risk that the fair value of financial instruments or future cash flows is affected by the volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. Period end Average Minimum Maximum Interest rate risk ￦ 132 215 35 532 (i) Purposes of market risk management Foreign exchange risk 1,383 124 27 1,383 Purposes of market risk management are to secure the profitability and stability by controlling the losses generated from managed assets and liabilities due Stock risk 1,912 1,885 369 3,417 to volatility of market risk factors such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. Those subject to market risk management are securities Diversification effect (1,489) (455) (17) (2,266) held for trading, foreign currency net open positions, derivatives, off balance transactions and other market risk inherent assets and liabilities. Total risk ￦ 1,938 1,769 414 3,066 (ii) Market risk management organization The Group divides exposures to market risk into trading position and non-trading position. To promote the classification and management of trading posiThe sum of VaR for each risk type does not match the total VaR due to correlation between risk factors and the diversification effect. The correlation betion, the Group operates its accounting and computer system according to the classification. The Group also classifies and operates a trading desk and tween risk factors and the volatility are calculated using the simple moving average method. nontrading desk separately. Market risk management of the Group is conducted by the Committee, the Council, the Working Group, the Department and sub-risk management departments. The Department is distinctly separated from operating departments and controls entire market risks. The main tasks of The interest rate risk of DGB Life Insurance Co.,Ltd. the Department are to establish and implement a market risk management policy, to review the adequacy of market risk management criteria, to establish The interest rate exposure is the volume of the interest-bearing asset and liability that their values arechanged based on interest rate fluctuations. The and implement the market risk tolerance management system, to distribute market risk tolerance, to monitor the observance of market risk tolerance, to duration provided by an asset management firm, bond rating agency or trust company must be applied to the interest-rate sensitivity of the interest-bearing assess, analyze and report total market risk and to establish and implement the market risk management system. Front office is distinctly separated from asset. If the duration is unavailable, the maturity method from the Financial Supervisory Services is applied. For the interest rate sensitivity of interest-bearthe assisting department and the Department. The main tasks of the front office are to establish and implement investing policy, process and strategy, to set ing liability, different variables are applied on the basis of the insurance categorization and the way of interest rate separation. out and operate the limit of the Group's market risk tolerance, to record transaction history and to submit related documents to the assisting department. DGB Life Insurance Co.,Ltd. calculates interest rate risks reflecting the interest rate backspread amount due to the difference between the market rate and The assisting department is supposed to secure the restrict separation of work and mutual control function between middle office and back office. The main the accumulated rate because of the revision of the method of calualation of interest rate risk amount. tasks of assisting departments are to review the compliance of limits, transactions, profit and loss evaluation, to conduct follow up works such as exchang(In millions of won) ing transaction confirmation documents based on operating department's transaction documents, accounting, money and to submit market risk reports. 2016 2015 (iii) Trading position Interest rate Interest rate Interest rate Interest rate Trading position is the interest rate, equity positions, derivatives, foreign exchange positions, among others that pursue profit from short-term changes in Exposure sensitivity(%) sensitivity amount Exposure sensitivity(%) sensitivity amount market factor price rather than pursue profit from interest income. Specifically, it includes short-term trading and the financial instruments for arbitrage I. Interest-bearing liability trading of stock, interest rates, foreign exchange, commodity, among others, which are acquired by a professional dealer or operational departments within 1. Interest rates fixed ￦ 1,532,132 11.05 ￦ 16,925,358 ￦ 1,416,132 11.06 ￦ 15,659,561 a predetermined limit, things acquired for hedging risk, derivative that does not apply hedge accounting, etc. 2. Interest rates linked 3,318,585 5.60 18,575,013 3,229,182 3.69 11,912,477 Subtotal 4,850,717 7.32 35,500,371 4,645,314 5.94 27,572,038 ① Risk management method II. Interest bearing assets The tolerance limit (including the limit of VaR, investment limit, loss limit) to manage the market risk on trading positions is required to be set principally at 1. Due from banks 278,896 2.67 745,450 273,391 0.23 61,950.00 least once a year, and approved by the Committee. Compliance of the tolerance limit is monitored daily and the changes of the risk are simultaneously reported to the management, the Council and the Commit2. Financial Assets designated 55,359 3.19 176,561 96,649 2.60 251,152 at fair value through profit or loss tee on a regular basis (daily, monthly, and annually). Plans for dealing with the market risk are established and operated for each level of the risk. 3. Available-for-sale financial assets 1,302,398 4.18 5,444,084 1,275,736 5.06 6,456,801 ② Risk assessment method 4. Held-to-maturity 3,210,153 7.91 25,383,289 2,955,402 7.71 22,778,957 Value at Risk (VaR) 5. Loans 352,660 8.04 2,835,806 359,722 6.79 2,443,852 The main method to measure and manage exposure to market risk for trading position is VaR. The VaR measures the potential loss in value of a risky asset Subtotal ￦ 5,199,466 6.65 ￦ 34,585,190 ￦ 4,960,900 6.45 ￦ 31,992,712 or portfolio over a defined period for a given confidence interval. The VaR is calculated by applying 99% confidence level at a 10-day. Ⅲ. The minimum interest rate amount 120,699 105,697 Ⅳ. The interest rate backspread amount 23,334 14,366 Analysis of crisis situations Ⅴ. The interest rate risk amount (Ⅲ+ Ⅳ) ￦ 144,033 ￦ 120,063 The Group conducts crisis situation analysis to determine changes in market price of the portfolio under extreme market volatility that cannot be considered in the VaR model. Crisis situation analysis is conducted every business day for all the assets, or if necessary, can be performed by constructing a portfolio. Implementations are reported to the Council one or more times a month. For analysis of crisis situation, changes in the Group’s assets and liabilities are Other price risks of DGB Life Insurance Co.,Ltd. measured under integrated scenario which assumes decline in stock prices by 30.8%, rise in interest rates by 200bps and change in exchange rate by 25%. Other price risks of DGB Life Insurance Co.,Ltd. are the risks that financial instrument’s cash flow or fair value is changed due to the change of market price other than an exchange risk or interest risk. The price risk is an analysis about KOSPI 200 index changes, and 10% increase and decrease are used for Verification reasonable and possible fluctuations. This shows management’s evaluation about the reasonable and possible fluctuations of the stock index. Adequacy of the VaR model is continuously monitored through follow-up verification. Verification is conducted for the latest 250 business days. If a real loss exceeds a virtual loss (1-day VaR) of the previous day significantly, the Group verifies assumptions and modifies the model, if necessary. Verification is (In millions of won) conducted every business day and implementations are reported to the Council once or more times a month. 2016 2015 Profit or loss Other comprehensive income Profit or loss Other comprehensive income VaR by risk types (trading position) VaR by risk types as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Beneficiary certificate 10% increase ￦ 116 79 (In millions of won) 10% decrease (116) (79) 2016 Period end Average Minimum Maximum (iv) Non-trading position Interest rate risk ￦ 164 1,804 The Group manages interest rate risk for non-trading position. Interest rate risk of non-trading position is the risk that the net asset value or net interest Foreign exchange risk 264 636 37 2,482 income might decrease due to the inconsistency of interest rate maturity and the unfavorable change of market interest rate. The Group measures interest Stock risk 902 2,312 825 2,832 rate risk for interest assets such as loans, dues from banks and bonds, for interest rate liabilities such as deposits and borrowings and for hedge derivaDiversification effect (257) (1,018) (228) (3,672) tives. Among non-trading positions, marketable availableforsale financial assets (stocks) are managed through VaR. Total risk ￦ 909 2,094 634 3,446 DGB Financial Group Financial Section 156 157 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ① Method of interest rate risk management The Group uses reinsurance for the purpose of building financial stability and easing the concentration of the insurance risk. The reinsurance strategy is The tolerance limit to manage the interest rate risk on trading positions is required to be set in principle at least once a year, and approved by the Committee. managed by the reinsurance management standard that the risk committee sets up. The Group determines reinsurance ceded in the consideration of the To verify complying with the tolerance limit, the interest risk is measured and managed at least once a month, and reported to the management, the Council risk tendency of the contract, the Group’s payment ability, and mortality profit and loss. and the Committee. (h) Capital management ② Assessment methods for interest rate risk The Group is required to maintain more than 8.625%(Minimum 8%, conservation buffer 0.625%) of minimum capital compared to risk-weighted assets (“BIS ratio”) on a consolidated basis according to the Financial Holding Company Act. BIS ratio is defined by the ‘International Convergence of Capital MeasureValue at Risk (VaR) ment and Capital Standard’ of Basel Committee on Banking Supervision within the Bank of International Settlement. BIS ratio is an international standard Interest rate VaR measures potential losses in value of a net asset over a defined period for a given confidence interval. The Group calculates interest rate regarding the capital adequacy ratio regulation to cope with risk increase of financial companies and is calculated as ‘(common stock capital + other core VaR by the gap of interest rate and the modified duration. capital + supplementary capital – deductions) ÷ risk weighted assets’. Common stock capital is the permanent capital comprised of capital, capital surplus, retained earnings, etc., other core capital is comprised of hybrid securities which meet the requirements of Basel III, and supplementary capital is comprised Earning at Risk (EaR) of allowances for credit losses accumulated for assets classified as ‘normal’ or ‘precautionary’ and hybrid securities which meet the requirements of Basel EaR is the quantity by which net income is projected to decline in the event of an adverse change in prevailing interest rates. III. Deductions are assets (e.g. deferred income tax assets) which don’t have the nature of capital for the purpose of capital adequacy regulation and are deducted from equity capital. Regulated capital and BIS ratio (neither audited nor reviewed by the external auditor) of the Group as of December 31, 2016 Others and 2015 are as follows. The Group has complied with all the external capital maintenance restriction conditions for the past two years. The Group evaluates interest rates risk by using the rate of interest gap, and conducts the interest risk analysis of crisis situations under abnormal market (In millions of won) conditions one or more times a quarter. Also, the department verifies the accuracy, completeness and suitability one or more times a year regularly and 2016 2015 observes measurement-related data constantly and independently. Total capital (A) ￦ 4,302,306 4,098,912 Basic capital (B) 3,639,639 3,245,220 Interest rate VaR (non-trading position) Common stock (C) 3,392,398 2,975,309 Interest rate VaR as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Supplementary capital (D) 662,667 853,692 (In millions of won) Risk weighted asset (E) ￦ 33,273,379 31,787,501 End Average Minimum Maximum Ratio of total capital (A/E) 12.93% 12.89% 2016 (*) ￦ 46,362 35,387 8,320 78,216 Ratio of basic capital (B/E) 10.94% 10.21% 2015 (*) 65,732 43,207 8,365 73,233 Ratio of common stock capital (C/E) 10.20% 9.36% (*) Simple sum of Daegu Bank’s interest rate VaR and DGB Capital Co.,Ltd’s interest rate VaR. 50. Disclosures for Fair Value (v) Foreign exchange bias Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value of financial instruments or future cash flows are affected by the volatility of foreign exchange rate. The Group does not divide foreign exchange position into trading position and non-trading position but manages it on the whole. Exposures to foreign exchange (a) Valuation method of fair value for financial instruments measured at amortized cost risk as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Valuation method of disclosed fair value for assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value are as follows: (In millions of won) Valuation method USD JPY EUR Others Cash and due from banks The estimated fair values of cash and due from banks are the carrying amounts. 2016 Foreign currency financial assets ￦ 1,545,048 189,882 55,797 205,148 Held-to-maturity financial assets The fair values of held-to-maturity financial assets are determined using prices evaluated by credible evaluators. Foreign currency financial liabilities 1,429,171 132,776 22,481 138,030 Loans The fair values of loans are the present value of contractual cash flows discounted at market rates by factoring in the 2015 (*) Foreign currency financial assets 1,922,285 82,077 35,835 64,371 default rates and credit spreads. Foreign currency financial liabilities 1,561,696 104,621 22,704 48,367 Depository liabilities The estimated fair values of demand deposits are the carrying amounts. The estimated fair values of time deposits are the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate. (f) Operational risk Borrowings The estimated fair values of call money and borrowings in won are the carrying amounts. The fair values of other borrowings are the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate. Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from a wide variety of causes associated with the Group's processes, personnel, technology and Debentures The fair values of debentures are the present value of future cash flows discounted at the interest rate. infrastructure and from external factors. The Group designates a related department to identify operational risk and other departments are responsible for recognition of loss data and computer system management. The Department is responsible for establishing and implementing operational risk strategy, policy and process. It is also responsible for establishment, operation and improvement of operational risk management system and management of the Group's (b) Classification and fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at amortized cost loss data. The Group applies operational standardized approach and calculates required capital with the average amount for three years by mapping its The classification and the fair value hierarchy of financial instruments measured at amortized cost as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: business lines into eight lines and aggregating the amounts obtained by multiplying gross income for each business line by the corresponding rate(12~18%). Tolerable limit for operational risk is set at least once a year and gets an approval from the Committee. Operational risk is measured and is reported to the (In millions of won) management, the Council and the Committee on a regular basis. 2016 Type Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (g) Insurance risk Financial assets Cash and due from banks ￦ 2,547,299 2,547,299 The Group calculates an insurance price risk amount on the basis of risk based on capital requirements (RBC). The insurance price risk is the possibility of Held-to-maturity financial assets 3,045,299 4,953,110 7,998,409 a loss from the difference between the actual insurance payment and benefit payments from policyholders. The details of the insurance risk exposure as of Loans 36,501,376 36,501,376 December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: (In millions of won) Receivables 1,079,775 1,079,775 2016 2015 ￦ 5,592,598 4,953,110 37,581,151 48,126,859 Death ￦ 15,733 14,728 Financial liabilities Depository liabilities ￦ 14,883,589 20,470,774 35,354,363 Hazard 4,585 4,335 Borrowings 80,710 3,092,077 3,172,787 Hospitalization 3,277 3,400 Debentures 4,189,103 4,189,103 Surgery·diagnosis 11,931 11,643 Medical indemnity 3,301 3,051 Other financial liabilities 1,347,798 1,347,798 Others 2,411 2,332 ￦ 14,964,299 29,099,752 44,064,051 Total ￦ 41,238 39,489 DGB Financial Group 158 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (In millions of won) 2015 Type Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Cash and due from banks ￦ 2,092,477 2,092,477 Appendix Held-to-maturity financial assets 3,232,561 4,580,343 7,812,904 Loans 34,548,997 34,548,997 Receivables 1,644,291 1,644,291 ￦ 5,325,038 4,580,343 36,193,288 46,098,669 Financial liabilities Depository liabilities ￦ 13,162,503 20,323,180 33,485,683 Borrowings 117,848 3,211,316 3,329,164 Debentures 3,252,793 3,252,793 Other financial liabilities 2,240,928 2,240,928 ￦ 13,280,351 29,028,217 42,308,568 (c) Valuation method and inputs of level 2 Valuation method and inputs used in measuring fair values of financial instruments measured at amortized cost using level 2 inputs as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Type Valuation method (*) Inputs (*) Financial assets Held-to-maturity DCF method Discount rate (*) Valuation methods and inputs of items which carrying amounts are assumed to be fair values are not disclosed. (d) Valuation method and inputs of level 3 Valuation method and significant unobservable inputs used in measuring fair values of financial instruments measured at amortized cost using level 3 inputs as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Type Valuation method (*) Unobservable inputs (*) Financial assets Loans DCF method Discount rate, credit spreads, prepayment rate Financial liabilities Receivables DCF method Discount rate Depository liabilities DCF method Discount rate Borrowings DCF method Discount rate Debentures DCF method Discount rate Other financial liabilities DCF method Discount rate (*) Valuation methods and inputs of items which carrying amounts are assumed to be fair values are not disclosed. DGB Financial Group Appendix 160 161 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DGB Financial Group Awards Third-party Assurance Statement 2016-2017 Sustainable Management Awards & Accolades Dear DGB Financial Group Management and Stakeholders Introduction Date Awards Organizations The Korean Standards Association (“KSA”) was commissioned by DGB Financial Group to perform a third-party Assurance Engagement of ‘DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Integrated Sustainability Report’ (the “Report”). KSA presents independent opinions as follows as a result of feasibility of the 2016.02.25 Awarded the grand prize for the Individual category in the 2016 Korea Best Banker Award Seoul Economic Daily / Seoul Economic Network data contained in this Report. DGB Financial Group has sole responsibility for content and performance contained in this Report. 2016.08.29 DGB Daegu Bank was selected as the best bank in the Evaluation of Financial Consumer Protection Financial Supervisory Service Independence 2016.09.16 Listed in the FTSE4Good Indices for 6 consecutive years EIRIS As an independent assurance agency, KSA does not have any kinds of commercial interest in businesses of DGB Financial Group apart from under2016.09.28 Jointly awarded KSI and KRCA in the Korea Sustainability Conference for 3 consecutive years Korea Standards Association taking a third-party assurance on the Report. We have no other contract with DGB Financial Group that may undermine credibility and integrity as an 2016.10.11 Listed in the 2016 Asia Sustainability Ranking 100 for 3 consecutive years Sustainalytics independent assurance agency. 2016.10.19 Listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for 8 consecutive years for the Korea category and 7 S&P Dow Jones Indices / RobecoSAM / Korea Productivity Assurance Standards and Level consecutive years for the Asia-Pacific category Center This Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008) assurance standards to provide Moderate Level assurance. We checked the three princi2016.11.01 Selected as an excellent company in response to climate change in the CDP Korea for 2 consecutive years CDP Korea / CDP ples of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness in combination with information credibility of the Report. We also verified whether the Report content 2016.11.14 Awarded the KCCI Chairman Award in the 4th Korea Governmental Award to Beloved Enterprises Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy / Small and Medium was created in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines and ISO 26000. Business Administration / Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry ASSURANCE TYPE, SCOPE AND LIMITATIONS 2016.11.17 DGB Social Contribution Foundation won the blue ribbon in the Korean Red Cross Order, and the Korean Korean Red Cross We performed a Type 2 Assurance Engagement in accordance with AA1000AS. This implies that we verified the accuracy and quality of the statements Red Cross Presidential Citation for Excellent Social Contribution made by DGB Financial Group and the sustainability performance data included in this Report. The scope of verification is a period from Jan 1, 2016 to Dec 31, 2016, and depending on the content, includes some information for the first half of 2017. The results and reporting practices of DGB Financial 2016.12.05 DGB Daegu Bank won the presidential citation for the Corporation category in the 2016 National Volunteer Ministry of the Interior / Korea Volunteer Center Group's related companies, overseas branches, suppliers, partners, and third parties, excluding DGB Financial Group and its seven subsidiaries (Daegu Contest to Celebrate 11th Volunteer Day Bank, DGB Life Insurance, DGB Capital, DGB Asset Management, U-Pay, DGB Data System, DGB Credit Information) stated in the report, are not included 2016.12.08 DGB Daegu Bank won the presidential citation for the Organization category in the 21st SME Financial Small and Medium Business Administration in the scope of this verification. The scope of this Assurance Engagement primarily includes the systems and initiatives undertaken by DGB Financial Support Award Group including its sustainable management policies, goals, projects, standards and performance during the reporting period defined in the Report. 2016.12.13 DGB Daegu Bank won the grand prize for the Bank category in the 2016 Korea Finance Award Maeil Business Newspaper / MBN While the company’s environmental and social data as well as financial data was verified, the scope of review concerning stakeholder engagement was limited to the materiality test process. Assurance Methodology We used the following methods to gather information, documents and evidence with respect to the assurance scope. • Analyses of articles related to DGB Financial Group’s sustainable management published by domestic media outlets over the last three years External Assurance & Certifications • Analyses of issues reported in the sustainability reports published by domestic and overseas industry peers • Visit DGB Financial Group headquarter/Interview with employees in charge of sustainable management and managers of respective issues • Verification of management system and process to improve achievement in sustainable management and to prepare the Report • Review of the consistency between the financial performance data and the company's audit report/publicly announced data Date Awards Organizations • Examination of internal documents and basic materials 2007. 04. 30 Third-party assurance on DGB Daegu Bank’s 2006 Sustainability Report GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) 2010. 06. 16 First Korean financial institution to have its GHG inventory verified by a third party Korea Standards Association (KSA) Assurance Results and Opinions [On an assurance principle/process level] 2011. 05. 30 Environmental Management System (ISO 14001) certification Approved by the Korea Accreditation Board (KAB) KSA reviewed the draft version of this Report to present our opinions as an assurance provider. Modifications were made of the Report content if Certified by KSA deemed necessary. We were not aware of any significant errors or inappropriate descriptions in this Report as a result of our Assurance Engagement. 2011. 11. 20 Korea’s first financial institution to obtain the Green Management System Administered by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy As such, we present our opinions of the 2016-2017 DGB Financial Group Integrated Sustainability Report as follows. Certificate (KS I 7001/7002) Approved by KAB Certified by KSA Inclusivity 2013. 06. 03 Acquisition of utility model patents on DGB’s donation methods and equipment by the name of investors Korea Intellectual Property Office (KIPO) We believe that DGB Financial Group is making an all-out effort for major stakeholders’ participation in promoting sustainable management, and we assured procurement and operation of diverse stakeholder communication channel of DGB Financial Group. We were not aware of any omission of significant stakeholder group. DGB Financial Group selected representatives from stakeholder groups including individual and corporate customers, partner companies, employees, and local communities and conducted interviews with them. Furthermore, the Group invited experts from various fields including economic, social and environmental to the 'Expert Meeting for DGB Financial Group's Integrated Sustainability Report’ to reflect the values of various stakeholders in its management activities and sustainability report. Materiality We are not aware of any significant omissions or exclusions of data that is material to stakeholders. We verified that DGB Financial Group conducted materiality test with issues identified from analyses of internal and external environments and reported according to the result. This year we expanded our operational boundaries to include DGB Asset Management to identify group-wise issues and included key information in the Report. In order to cover a wider range of operational boundaries, we would like to recommend that the procedure for identifying material issues should be further developed so that the material issues for stakeholders of Daegu Bank and the seven other affiliates can be identified in a more meticulous and thorough manner. Responsiveness '2016 Korea Sustainability '2016-2017 Dow Jones Selected as an excellent Awarded the presidential citation Awarded the grand prize We verified that DGB Financial Group responded stakeholders’ needs and interests through reflecting stakeholders’ opinions in the Report. We are not Conference' Sustainability Indices (DJSI)' company in response for the Corporation category for the Bank category aware of any evidence that DGB Financial Group’s response to significant issues of stakeholders was reported inappropriately. We recommend that Korean Readers' Choice Awards Certificate of Asia-Pacific & to climate change in the in the 2016 National Volunteer in the 2016 Korea Finance the Group establish a primary operating system in which the opinions of stakeholders of Daegu Bank and its seven affiliates included in the operating DJSI Korea '2016 CDP Korea' Contest to Celebrate 11th Award boundary of this Report are linked with the group-wise sustainability strategies, action plans, and KPI as well. Volunteer Day DGB Financial Group Appendix 162 163 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GHG emissions Verification Statement Findings On Specific Performance Information Independent GHG Verification Statement The data provided in the report was gathered by a responsible team of DGB Financial Group members from each of its department and subsidiaries and then processed and presented for different purposes. We verified the energy usage, water usage, greenhouse gas emissions, employees’ business Introduction trips, employee training hours, data on industrial accidents, and data generation processes of DGB Financial Group. After closely verifying, we have confirmed that the information and data disclosed are the result of stable and consistent activities, and recommend that the Group expand the verifiThe Korea Standards Association(“KSA”) has conducted independent and reasonable GHG emissions verification based on Report of GHG emissions cation level and scope by ensuring accuracy of the data collected from each subsidiary. and energy usage(“GHG report”) provided by DGB Financial Group(“DGB”). DGB is liable for the emissions data covered by GHG report and verification team is responsible for the verification statement provided. KSA reviewed the data management systems of DGB and examined the emissions data in Verification of Material GRI G4 Indicators accordance with the verification standards. We confirmed that this Report was prepared in accordance with GRI G4 Core Option. Based on data DGB Financial Group provided, we also confirmed a validity of the contents related to General Standard Disclosure and Specific Standard Disclosure indicators. Independency General Standard Disclosures In addition to providing independent verification to the GHG report, verification team does not have any interest in for-profit financial activities throughout the business activities of DGB. There is also no bias for any stakeholder in DGB Financial Group. We verified that this Report is in compliance with requirements for General Standard Disclosures of Core Option. We examined indicators below. G4-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58 Scope of Assurance The verification scope is GHG report, 2016 including the head Office of DGB(including the second head office), domestic branches and affiliates of DGB. Specific Standard Disclosures As a result of verification activities, verification team has found no omission or significant error and assures a reasonable level of assurance. We checked DMAs with respect to Material Aspects identified from a decision making process on which content to be disclosed. We examined indicators below. G4-EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4, EC7, EC8, EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN6, EN7, EN8, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN19, EN29, EN30, EN34, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA9, LA10, LA12, LA13, Verification Standards LA16, HR3, HR12, SO1, SO3, SO4, SO5, SO11, PR5, PR6, PR7, PR8, PR9, FS1, FS2, FS3, FS4, FS5, FS6, FS13, FS14, FS15, FS16 To conduct verification activities, verification team applied verification standards and guidelines. The standards and guidelines are as follows. Opinions and Recommendations by Sector [On a performance/issue level] • GHG&Energy Target Scheme Guidelines(2016-255) provided by Ministry of Environment, Republic of Korea We present the following recommendations to help DGB Financial Group establish a company-wide sustainable management strategy and respond to continuous issues of sustainability. • Verification guideline for management of GHG emissions trading scheme (2016-015) provided by Ministry of Strategy and Finance, Republic of Korea • KS Q ISO 14064-1,2,3 : 2006 Economic • IPCC Guideline DGB Financial Group, seeking to become the best financial partner for a better future, pursues top-class financial companies that grow together with all of its stakeholders. It focuses on customer satisfaction as the center of all business activities and seeks to be a company that fulfills its social reIn case of Scope3(domestic/overseas business trips for work and commuting travel), verification team assures the consistency and the accuracy in sponsibilities for its customers, shareholders, employees, local communities, and the country as a whole. In order to achieve sustainable management, accordance with the estimating method. The estimating methods are applied to activity data internally collected and standards provided by related risk management is required in order to balance economic profitability and social responsibility and grow together with stakeholders. Under this unfavorable and uncertain economic environment, the Group must create new profit models to improve profitability and continue to manage financial risk organizations. accordingly. In addition, continuous efforts are needed to develop financial products and services for a more advanced local community through finance, thereby achieving higher economic performance and social responsibility. Verification Procedures and Limits Environmental Verification team conducted document review, onsite assessment, corrective action, and verification report by the verification procedures. We applied In order to encourage environmentally-conscious management, DGB Financial Group provides financial support to environmentally responsible local risk-based approaches and sampling method, and that may contain errors, omissions and false statements that verification team has not found. businesses in the form of interest in cooperation with Korea Environmental Industry and Technology Institute (KEITI). This is truly an exemplary case of sustainable management. Currently, many global financial companies and institutions are pursuing socially responsible investment and are actively Verification Conclusion considering or promoting environmentally sound investment deliberation processes. In line with these movements, DGB Financial Group is also leading the way to add results of an environmentally sound evaluation process conducted by external parties to be included in its internal incentive system. As a result of verification activities, verification team has found no significant error. Therefore, Korean Standards Association confirms emissions data covered by GHG report, 2016 by DGB Financial Group is adequately quantified. In this context, we recommend that DGB Financial Group do everything within its reach to incorporate an environmentally sound evaluation process in decision-making with stakeholders as a priority. Social DGB Financial Group is a community-based group that promotes diverse social activities centered on the local community and shares its values with May 19, 2017 local residents. Not being complacent about is the location, however, DGB Financial Group is making its way into overseas markets such as Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia and Myanmar as a leading global financial institution. Therefore, we recommend that DGB Financial Group further expand its scope to global financial markets, reorganize its sustainable finance strategy, develop differentiated green financial products and social contribution activities, thereby striving to create new shared value as a global leading financial institution going forward. May 2017 Baek, Soo-Hyun KSA Chairman & CEO Korean Standards Association (KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance with the Law for Industrial Standardization in 1962, is serving as a knowledge service provider who distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality management, sustainable management, KS certification and ISO certification. KSA is committed to the sustainable development of Korean society as an ISO 26000 national secretary, certified GRI training partner, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI(Korea Sustainability Index) operator, UN CDM DOE(development operational entity), and assurance provider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas energy target management system. DGB Financial Group Appendix 164 165 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI G4/ISO26000 Contents Index General Standard Disclosures Caterogy G4 Contets Index Page ISO26000 Assurance Caterogy G4 Contets Index Page ISO26000 Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 3 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 ● c. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6,14-15, 44 ● d. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization 4 ● Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 30-31 ● G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 4 6.3.10/6.4.16.4.2/ ● governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, 6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5/ G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 88 ● environmental and social impacts. 6.8.5/7.8 G4-6 Number and names of countries where the organization manages operating sites or 5 ● G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics 30-31 ● which are related to sustainable topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 4 ● G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions 30-31 ● with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and 5 ● holders report directly to the highest governance body. types of customers and beneficiaries G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance 30-31 ● G4-9 Report the scale of the organization 57, 62 ● body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe G4-10 Employment type, contract, and regional labor force status 62 ● to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining 63 ● G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees 30-31 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 ● agreements. G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 30-31 ● G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 14-15 6.3.10/6.4.16.4.2/ ● (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for 6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5/ this arrangement). G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the 4, 14-15 ● 6.8.5/7.8 G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its 30-31 organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain ● committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 44-45 ● member organization G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are 30-31 ● G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or About This Report ● avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholder other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, 54-55 ● G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) 78 ● approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, Identified Material G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or 76-77 5.2/7.3.2/ 7.3.3/7.3.4 ● strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Aspects equivalent documents G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s 54-55 ● and Boundaries b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. or equivalent documents is not covered by the report G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance 54-55 ● G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries About This Report ● G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s 54-55 ● b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining identification and management of performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, Report Content and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 70-71 ● G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organiza54-55 ● G4-20 The Aspect Boundary within the organization 70-71 ● tion’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-21 The Aspect Boundary outside the organization 70-71 ● G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, 54-55 ● G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and N/A ● environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. the reasons for such restatements. G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the 54-55 ● G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect About This Report ● organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Boundaries G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 30-31 ● Stakeholder G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 8 ● G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the 30-31 ● Engagement G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 8 5.3 ● highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 9 ● G4-51 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 30-31 ● engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the managers, and executives, and the organization’s performance engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-52 The process for determining remuneration 30-31 ● G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 8 ● G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remunera30-31 ● engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and tion, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid indi31 ● vidual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About This Report 7.5.3/7.6.2 ● for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About This Report ● G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the 31 ● G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). About This Report ● organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 88 ● highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-32 a. ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen 82-83 ● Ethics G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as 45-46 4.4/6.6.3 ● b. GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below) and Integrity codes of conduct and codes of ethics. c. Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful 45-46 ● assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical 45-46 ● G4-33 a. Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 79 7.5.3/7.6.2 ● or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation assurance for the report through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided DGB Financial Group Appendix 166 167 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Specific Standard Disclosures _ Economic Specific Standard Disclosures_Human Rights Caterogy G4 Contets Index Page ISO26000 Assurance Caterogy G4 Contets Index Page ISO26000 Assurance Ethics G4-EC1 Direct Economic Value Generated And Distributed 14-15 6.8.16.8.2 ● Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total Number Of Incidents Of Discrimination And Corrective Actions Taken No cases ● and Integrity /6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 G4-EC2 Financial Implications And Other Risks And Opportunities For The Organization’S Activities 14-15 ● Human Rights Grievance G4-HR12 Number Of Grievances About Human Rights Impacts Filed, Addressed, And Resolved No cases ● Due To Climate Change Mechanisms Through Formal Grievance Mechanisms G4-EC3 Coverage Of The Organization’S Defined Benefit Plan Obligations 63 ● G4-EC4 Financial Assistance Received From Government N/A ● Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development And Impact Of Infrastructure Investments And Services Supported 50-52, 68-69 ● Specific Standard Disclosures_Society Impacts G4-EC8 Significant Indirect Economic Impacts, Including The Extent Of Impacts 68-69 ● Caterogy G4 Contets Index Page ISO26000 Assurance Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage Of Operations With Implemented Local Community Engagement, Impact 68-69 ● Assessments, And Development Programs Specific Standard Disclosures _ Environmental Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Operations With Significant Actual And Potential Negative Impacts On Local 65 ● Communities Caterogy G4 Contets Index Page ISO26000 Assurance G4-SO4 Communication And Training On Anti-Corruption Policies And Procedures 65 ● Materials G4-EN1 Materials Used By Weight Or Volume 65 6.5.4 ● G4-SO5 Confirmed Incidents Of Corruption And Actions Taken 65 ● G4-EN2 Percentage Of Materials Used That Are Recycled Input Materials 66 ● Grievance Mechanisms G4-SO11 Number Of Grievances About Impacts On Society Filed, Addressed, And Resolved No cases ● for Impacts on Society Through Formal Grievance Mechanisms Energy G4-EN3 Energy Consumption Within The Organization 67 6.5.3, 6.5.5 ● G4-EN4 Energy Consumption Outside Of The Organization 67 ● G4-EN6 Reduction Of Energy Consumption 67 ● G4-EN7 Reductions In Energy Requirements Of Products And Services 67 ● Specific Standard Disclosures_ Product Responsibility Water G4-EN8 Total Water Withdrawal By Source 66 ● Emissions G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (Ghg) Emissions (Scope 1) 67 ● Caterogy G4 Contets Index Page ISO26000 Assurance G4-EN16 Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas (Ghg) Emissions (Scope 2) 67 ● Product and Service G4-PR5 Results Of Surveys Measuring Customer Satisfaction 59 ● Labeling G4-EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas (Ghg) Emissions (Scope 3) 67 ● Marketing G4-PR6 Sale Of Banned Or Disputed Products No cases ● G4-EN19 Reduction Of Greenhouse Gas (Ghg) Emissions 67 ● Communications G4-PR7 Total Number Of Incidents Of Non-Compliance With Regulations And Voluntary Codes No cases ● Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary Value Of Significant Fines And Total Number Of Non-Monetary N/A ● Concerning Marketing Communications, Including Advertising, Promotion, And Sanctions For Non-Compliance With Environmental Laws And Regulations Sponsorship, By Type Of Outcomes Transport G4-EN30 Significant Environmental Impacts Of Transporting Products And Other 66~67 ● Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total Number Of Substantiated Complaints Regarding Breaches Of Customer Privacy No cases ● Goods And Materials For The Organization’S Operations, And Transporting And Losses Of Customer Data Members Of The Workforce Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary Value Of Significant Fines For Non-Compliance With Laws And Regulations No cases ● Environmental G4-EN34 Number Of Grievances About Environmental Impacts Filed, Addressed, And N/A ● Concerning The Provision And Use Of Products And Services Grievance Mechanisms Resolved Through Formal Grievance Mechanisms Financial Services Sector Supplemnet Specific Standard Disclosures _ Labor Practice and Decent Work Caterogy G4 Contets Index Page Caterogy G4 Contets Index Page ISO26000 Assurance Product Portforlio FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines 36-37 ● Employment G4-LA2 Benefits Provided To Full-Time Employees That Are Not Provided To Temporary Or Part40-43, 63 6.4.4/6.8.7 ● FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business 44, 60 ● Time Employees, By Significant Locations Of Operation lines G4-LA3 Return To Work And Retention Rates After Parental Leave, By Gender 63 6.4.4 ● FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with 32 ● Labor/Management G4-LA4 Minimum Notice Periods Regarding Operational Changes, Including Whether These Are Notify before ● environmental and social requirements included inagreements or transactions Relations Specified In Collective Agreements 30 days FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and 33, 38 ● Training and Education G4-LA9 Average Hours Of Training Per Year Per Employee By Gender, And By Employee 62 6.4.7/6.8.5 ● social policies and procedures as applied to business lines Category FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and 32-33, 38 ● G4-LA10 Programs For Skills Management And Lifelong Learning That Support The Continued 61 ● social risks and opportunities Employability Of Employees And Assist Them In Managing Career Endings FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/ 56 ● Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 Composition Of Governance Bodies And Breakdown Of Employees Per Employee 62 6.2.3/6.3.7 /6.3.10/6.4.3 ● large) and by sector Opportunity Category According To Gender, Age Group, Minority Group Membership, And Other Local Communities FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 34 ● Indicators Of Diversity FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 34, 51 ● Equal Remuneration G4-LA13 Ratio Of Basic Salary And Remuneration Of Women To Men By Employee Category, By Equal salary and 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.3/6.4.4 ● for Women and Men Significant Locations Of Operation remuneration Product and Service FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 32-33 ● Labeling FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 32-33, 51 ● Labor Practices G4-LA16 Number Of Grievances About Labor Practices Filed, Addressed, And Resolved Through No cases ● Grievance Mechanisms Formal Grievance Mechanisms DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UN Global Compact / SDGs Index UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX UN Global Compact Principles Compliance 10 Principles Page Human Right Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 60, 62 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 60, 62 Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 61, 62 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 63 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and DGB Financial Group Joined the UN Global Compact, Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 39, 62 the UN International Convention on Corporate Social Environment Responsibility in July 2006, and complies with the Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 64, 65 10 principles in the 4 areas (human rights/labor/ challenges; environment/anti-corruption). Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 64-67 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 59-60 technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 64-65 and bribery. DGB Financial Group SDGs Monitored ● Target Set ● ● NO POVERTY ZERO HUNGER GOOD HEALTH AND QUALITY EDUCATION GENDER EQUALITY DGB Financial Group WELL-BEING 2016-2017 Integrated Sustainability Report ● ● ● Contact Information CLEAN WATER AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, REDUCED INEQUALITY If you have any questions about our sustainable AND SANITATION CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE management or this Report, please contact us using the following methods: ● ● ● DGB Financial Group Website SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE CLIMATE ACTION LIFE BELOW LIFE ON LAND DGB Financial Group www.dgbfg.co.kr CITIES AND CONSUMPTIOIN AND WATER COMMUNITIES PRODUCTION DGB Daegu Bank www.dgb.co.kr DGB Life Insurance www.dgbfnlife.com DGB Capital www.dgbfncapital.co.kr DGB Asset Management www.dgbam.com PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS FOR DGB U-Pay www.dgbupay.com AND STRONG THE GOALS DGB Data System www.dgbds.co.kr INSTITUTIONS DGB Credit Information www.daegucredit.co.kr DGB Financial Group DGB Economic Research Institute Address 111, Oksan-ro, Buk-gu, Daegu, Republic of Korea Tel +82-53-740-7971 / Fax +82-53-740-7997 E-mail sustainability@dgbfn.com June 2016 DGB Financial Group 2016-2017 Integrated Sustainability Report was printed on eco-friendly papers using soybean oil printing techniques.
