1/46 2/46 Mission Terms and Standards Energy in motion for success of society. “PLASKE” JSC, Organization means PLASKE Joint Stock Company OMS means Organization Management System UN GC means United Nations Global Compact EFQM means the European Foundation for Quality Management Vision ISO 9001 means Quality management systems — Requirements ISO 10018 means Quality management — Guidelines on people involvement and competence ISO 14001 means Environmental management systems — Requirements with guidance for use We are moving forward managing the energy in motion for the good of society. ISO 20121 means Event sustainability management systems — Requirements with guidance In this motion we are committed to social justice, environmental protection, creation of safe for use products and sustainable economic growth of Organization. ISO 21500 means Guidance on project management ISO 26000 means Guidance on social responsibility ISO 27000 means Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management systems. Overview and vocabulary ISO 27001 means Information technology — Security techniques — Information security Objective management systems — Requirements 27002 means Information technology — Security techniques — Code of practice for information security controls Unique logistics solutions for an efficient economy. 27003 means Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management system implementation guidance 27004 means Information technology — Security techniques — Information security management — Monitoring View 27005 means Information technology — Security techniques — Information security risk management. General information 27007 means Information technology — Security techniques — Guidelines for information To create unique solutions, introduce intellectual logistics and represent the interests of the security management systems auditing cargo owner at all stages of a secure supply chain to ensure carriage and delivery of goods ISO 28000 means Specification for security management systems for the supply chain at the specified destination point right on time reducing the economic risks and costs for our ISO 31000 means Risk management — Principles and guidelines Customers. OHSAS 18001 means Occupational Health and Safety. Requirements SA 8000 means Social Accountability ICC means Internal Code of Conduct 3/46 Contents Stakeholders 5 1. Output of Products 6 2. Corporate Governance 8 3. Financial Statements 11 4. Human Rights 14 5. Labour Relations 18 6. Environment 28 7. Anti-corruption Measures 31 8. Social Partnership 36 9. Development Strategy 40 4/46 Introductory Word 9 years ago “PLASKE”JSC joined the UN Global Compact. It was a significant step for the development reduce corruption practices, simplify international trade and logistics procedures, reach a higher level of of the Organization’s strategy reflecting the global trends. We are convinced that the business community production thus attracting additional freight flows to Ukraine and encouraging sustainable development. within the UN Global Compact committed to its 10 principles is capable of successfully combating the current problems challenging humanity, i.e. corruption practices, violation of human rights, labor standards In 2016 our Organization was committed to Sustainable Development, which ensures the satisfaction of and negative environmental effects. today’s needs without undermining the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. The UN Global Compact principles and international standards allow us to comprehensively approach the implementation Guided by the national and international standards and confidently holding a leading position in the of international sustainable development strategy laid down in the SDG 2030, guiding our activities and the market we continue to develop our socially-oriented activity striving to increase the social capital in solving functioning of the Organization’s management system. global problems. The Sustainable Development Goals were adopted by 193 Member States of the United Nations. At the heart of “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” are the Adopting the SDG-2030 as a benchmark for strategy and activities of the Organization, we build our 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which clearly define our daily activities. Public Performance Report on this principle defining the most important Objectives requiring our efforts. This Public Performance Report overviews the results of our work in 2016 in the areas of fighting corruption, The first goal of sustainable development — No Poverty — means to end poverty in all its forms supporting cultural and social projects, the environment, labor relations, human rights, financial results, everywhere. In our daily activities we are committed to fostering sustainable economic growth creating output of products and cooperation with Stakeholders. We strive to maintain a balance of interests of additional opportunities for all, thus reducing inequality, raising the basic standard of living, promoting all Stakeholders, enforce human and labor rights in the Organization, ensure perfect conditions for the equitable social development. potential of each and everyone. We believe that economic growth should be environmentally-friendly. Harmonizing our goals and internal policies with 10 internationally recognized principles, in the framework of our participation in the UN Global Compact we have supported the “Call to Action: AntiTo maintain the principle of transparent and public conduct of business, the Organization is registered Corruption and World Development Program“ initiated by the UNGASS Working Group on Anti-Corruption To as an open form of ownership. It is a joint-stock company that legally allows us to protect the rights and improve the Management System of the Organization, guided by the internationally recognized practices, interests of the Shareholders, issue securities and report on our performance. To this end, the Organization we are planning to implement the provisions of ISO 37001 «Anti-bribery management systems», published issues reports published on the website of the public information database of the National Commission on by ISO late in 2016. Securities and Stock Market of Valuables. To promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development we take an active part in the Partnership, peace, economic growth, social integration and environmental protection remain our development of national and international projects aimed at maintaining social responsibility. “PLASKE” JSC traditional values. Our mission is to support the process of sustainable development and to achieve the UN plays one of the key roles in projects improving the social and economic environment in Ukraine namely, SDGs. We call on the leaders of the business community to join us and make their contribution to ensure the projects to simplify international trade and logistics procedures. They are: Single Window Local Solution key task of mankind: to act for peace and prosperity. project, participation in the Interagency Working Group on Trade and Logistics Facilitation in Ukraine and work on the National Strategy for Trade Facilitation and Digital Economics. These initiatives allow us to Chairman of the Supervisory Board, “PLASKE” JSC Oleg PLATONOV 5/46 Stakeholders The work of the Organization within the Ukrainian and international markets as part of public organizations in particular stipulates its membership in numerous social groups. Our decisions and programs, standards and instruments adopted affect the interests of a significant share of society. Experience in implementing The principles of Sustainable Development are the reference points in the work of the Organization in qualitative changes both within the Organization (for example, the management system) and within the 2016 together with a valuable end product. Sustainable development is possible due to the balance between whole market to improve the situation of those involved in the business process gives us the opportunity to the interests of the Stakeholders. The policy and strategy for dealing with Stakeholders is based on the steadily involve new social groups in these changes. ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the recommendations of the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility (Fig. No.01). This activity shall ensure the sustainable development of the whole society for the sake of future generations. The main aspects of Stakeholder engagement are listed below. Fig. No.01. Main interests of the Stakeholders 6/46 7/46 PLASKE Joint Stock Company was established in 1998 as a freight forwarding company. Today we The development of the business community in the transport sector is one of our key represent an efficient partnership of separate companies located in 4 different countries, focused on the priorities. In 2016 “PLASKE” JSC organized a series of events in Odessa for the 15th time in a best possible satisfaction of Consumers’ needs. row in the framework of the largest event in the trade and transport market: the International Transport Week, where opinion leaders and market participants could once again exchange their As a member of international organizations (OSJD, FIATA, IATA, EBA, ICC, etc.) we actively participate in experiences and learn more about trade facilitation. the development of high business standards for all market participants and contribute to the unlocking of the high transit potential of the Odessa Region. “PLASKE” JSC plays a prominent role in the development of anti-corruption measures. The implementation of the Single Window-Local Solution project was one of the important steps in this Providing consumers with a full range of services for air, rail, sea and ferry deliveries, we continue to process. This project covers the activities of an Interagency Working Group and the development expand the network of our reliable partners and provide the highest quality service. “PLASKE” JSC is an of the National Strategy for Trade Facilitation of Ukraine. The main objective of trade facilitation official operator of VIKING Train on the territory of Ukraine. We have been actively promoting the expansion is to accelerate the international trade and reduce its cost while ensuring safety and security by of the multimodal transport opportunities in 2016 at numerous profile events in Ukraine and beyond. reducing the cost of disruptive bureaucratic formalities. This means simplification of formalities, procedures and appropriate exchange of information and documents between those involved in We are convinced that the exchange of experience and vocational training is an indispensable condition the supply chain. for raising standards in the industry. That is why a year after the Organization was founded, a decision was taken to launch a new business direction: the information and consulting services. Today, experts The whole set of our key areas of business — freight forwarding, travel services, vocational from Odessa and all over Ukraine are trained in 14 courses related to freight forwarding, supply chain training, production of printed products and management consulting — help us to ensure the management, dangerous goods, air freight, global distribution booking systems GALILEO and AMADEUS. sustainable development of “PLASKE” JSC and society as a whole. Tourism contributes to the development of cooperation between Ukrainian and foreign marketers. The B2B tourism is a significant part in the work of our Travel Department. Fig. No.02. Organization’s key business directions Photo Gallery: Photos below demonstrate the main business directions of Organization Freight forwarding since 1998 Information and consulting services Travel services since 1999 since 1999 8/46 9/46 We constantly seek to make the corporate governance as efficient as possible to achieve the sustainable Trying to make our management system better we share our expertise and best practices with the development goals, to comply with the UN Global Compact principles and to fulfil our corporate responsibility leading Ukrainian and foreign companies. In 2016 we participated in the first KAIZEN tour to the Swedenobligations. based company Lantmannen Aksa, and took part in a business trip to Kuehne + Nagel, a leading logistics Using the highest standards, the experience of the leading world companies and the recommendations provider in Ukraine. The Japanese management system based on the continuous improvement of production of international organizations we have implemented 14 universally recognized international standards and processes, supporting business processes and management has broadened the views of our employees on regulatory documents of the management system, including requirements of the International Organization the opportunities and capacities of the Organization’s development. for Standardization (ISO), UNECE, and EFQM. In 2016 we conducted additional training to expand the In 2016 “PLASKE” JSC range of skills and knowledge of our employees in the field of successfully passed the audit, which strategic management and the application of “Administrative confirmed its compliance with ISO Technology“, which includes the following management 9001, 28000, 14001, OHSAS 18001, tools: organizing scheme, administrative management SA 8000, ISO 26000 (Guidelines for scale, performance indicators system — statistics, weekly Social Responsibility), ISO 10018 planning, strategic planning and management, a system of (Quality management — Guidelines written communication and coordination, financial planning. on people involvement and competence), ISO 21500 (Guidance Strategic planning provides for an annual strategic on project management), ISO 27001 session with brainstorming. This allows us to analyze the (Information technology — Security efficiency of the year and to build a new strategy respecting techniques — Information security the objectives of the Organization, as well as to minimize management systems). the risks that should be taken into account when making managerial decisions. Seven departments and twenty one division being the part of our Organizational Chart are clearly aware of their valuable end product, which qualitatively increases the effectiveness of the Organization’s activities. In 2016, we paid more attention to the channels of promotion and communication with our potential Consumers. We created the Department of Distribution and the Department of Marketing and Communications to achieve success in this area. These changes moved the transparency approach when dealing with appeals from Consumers and Stakeholders to the brand new level. Photo Gallery: Presentation of the Management System improvement delivered by the Organization at the Constellation of Quality Conference Together with the European Business Association “PLASKE” JSC organized the business meeting “European Business Standards“. Using the experience of “PLASKE” JSC as an international company we shared our views on implementing and applying European business management practices and integrating ISO international standards into a single management system with EBA members. Within the framework of the “Constellation of Quality“ conference in 2016 our Organization has shared its experience in quality and personnel management and improvement of the management system with the business community of Ukraine. 10/46 “PLASKE” JSC attended the 11th EFQM Quality Tournament among the Central and Eastern Europe Following these events the Organization was invited to join the CEEC Quality Leaders Club as a Laureate countries (CEEC) which recognizes industry leaders with an indisputable track record of success in turning of the Award. Quality Leaders Club is a voluntary elite association of the best enterprises in the region strategy into action and continuously improving their organization’s performance. The award ceremony having the status of winners, laureates or finalists of the Quality Award within the CEE countries. The Club took place in 2016 at the EFQM Headquarters in Brussels. “PLASKE” JSC was recognized for excellence gathers the best enterprises of Kazakhstan, Lithuania, the Republic of Belarus, Russia, Hungary and Ukraine. personally by the EFQM CEO, Léon Tossaint. Photo Gallery: Ceremony of awarding the winners of the International Quality Tournament of the Central and Eastern European Countries. EFQM in Brussels. Evaluation of the introduction of administrative tools in the OMS was the successful participation of the In the picture: Photocopy of diploma presented by EFQM organization prepared business case “The success of introducing new management tools“ in the project “Best in CSR“, to “PLASKE” JSC initiated by the magazine “Sustainable Business“ in the program of interaction with the local community. 11/46 12/46 Profit is what makes our main goal reachable. Respecting the principle of transparency “PLASKE” JSC recognizes the contributions to the life of the country, its authority and fair trade. In this way the state publishes its financial statements for public. publicly recognizes the achievements of the enterprises that fill the country’s budget and welcomes their community spirit and good faith. The Organization strictly complies with the requirements of fiscal legislation, which was confirmed in 2016. “PLASKE” JSC won the 1st regional tour of the All-Ukrainian rating “Conscientious Taxpayers 2015“ In 2016, the amount of the value added tax paid to the budget increased. At the same time, income and among medium-sized enterprises in the transport and communications sector of the Odessa Region, which profits decreased (Fig. No.03). Fig. No.03. Consolidated income statement for 2015-2016, UAH thousand 51 298,2 50000 39 543,8 40000 30000 20000 10 763,5 10000 2 362,7 303,8 1 383,9 0 Net sales revenue Income tax Net profit 2015 2016 13/46 Fig. No.08. Capital investment, 2015-2016, UAH thousand 1500 1 409,0 1 118,8 971,4 932,5 1000 500 290,2 38,9 0 Total Including: Fixed asset acquisition Acquisition of intangible fixed assets (software. licenses) 2015 2016 14/46 15/46 Protection of human rights, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, together with High ethical standards and non-discrimination practices mean equal career opportunities for all the prevention of human rights violations have been our priority since the foundation day. Today, these employees of the Organization. To implement the fifth Sustainable Development Goal (gender equality principles form the basis for the managerial and entrepreneurial culture in “PLASKE” JSC. and empowerment for all women and girls) we increased the percentage of female employees in 2016 as compared to 2015. To establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality in political, economic We recognize that every member of society has equal economic, social, cultural rights. We build our and public life last year there was an increase of 2% in the number of women in executive positions in relationships with Stakeholders on this particular basis. The first three principles of the UN Global Compact “PLASKE” JSC. This is 3% less than in 2015. In 2017 we plan to improve our training and development concerning the human rights were originally laid down in the Organization’s Policy and the Rules of the strategies in order to promote gender equality and empower women. Management System. In fact, our Management System and Policy contain provisions on observing the balance of interests of the Stakeholders. The feedback system for staff and Stakeholders allows us to quickly track and respond to their needs and complaints. Women -2 44 46 56 54 +2 Men Fig. No.09. Fig. No.10. Fig. No.11. Gender balance within the executive TGender balance within the executive Changes in the gender balance within the executive positions, 2015, % 2016, % positions, 2015-2016, % 16/46 As of December 2016, women accounted for more than 50% of the total number of employees (Figure 12). Fig. No.12. The number of women against the total number of employees, 2016, ppl. 156 151 150 90 88 100 57,69 % 58,28 % 50 5 2 40 % 0 Total Total number of full-time Employed as per civil law employees contracts Number Women 17/46 The age distribution of the Personnel in 2016 increased by 5% in the share of employees aged between more than half of all our employees work in the Organization for more than 5 years, which manifests the 31 and 40 and the share of employees aged under 20 increased by 1% compared to the previous year. Personnel’s loyalty, observance of human rights and comfortable environment for the development and The latest trend indicates that “PLASKE” JSC is willing to employ young personnel providing them with implementation of labor rights for the Personnel. a platform for growth and development within the Organization. At the same time, it is important that 17 17 28 33 2015 2016 39 35 1 2 16 14 Fig. No.13. Fig. No.14. Age structure, 2015, % Age structure, 2016, % Age structure of employees, years old < 20 21-30 31-40 41-50 50+ 18/46 19/46 Human resource management Significant relative growth was witnessed in the number of employees having more than 5-year time record as in 2011 we introduced staff increase. Most of the people employed in 2011 continue to work successfully within the Organization. Human resource management in the Organization is regulated by the Ukrainian legislation and labor relations, which determine the relevant policy. The number of personnel changed insignificantly by the end of 2016 compared with 2015. In 2016 the Organization introduced no significant quantitative changes within the departments and divisions as the 42 Fig. No.16. focus was on personnel development and vocational training. 40 Time record and seniority within Total number of personnel increased on 1 person in 2016 (Fig. No.15). the HR, 2015, % 29 30 Fig. No.15. Total number of employees by the end of the year, 20 2015-2016, people 16 13 10 150 151 0 150 58 Fig. No.17. 100 50 Time record and seniority within the HR, 2016, % 40 50 30 0 19 20 15 10 8 2015 2016 0 <1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years over 5 years 20/46 Fig. No.18. Probationary employee as per business directions, 2016, people 100 83 75 50 48 31 100 % 25 25 12 10 11 8 57,83 % 12,05 % 30,12 % 0 Total Travel services Freight forwarding Other directions Probationary Successfully employee employed 21/46 Quality education The driving force of the Organization is its competent personnel well-aware of its functions and 57 employees have completed vocational training courses during 2016. This indicator is 5% higher responsibilities. This approach is an integral part of the Personnel Development Program in our Organization. against the previous year (54 people), which is yet another proof of Organization’s interest in the Introducing Administrative Technology tools we decided to create the PLASKE Academy, which in addition to professional growth of its employees, increasing their knowledge and skills therefore contributing their specific knowledge-oriented training develops managerial and soft skills. rising competence. Our Organization considers the staff development as one of its priority tasks. In the first half of 2015 In 2016 we continued the trend of increasing the number of external training events as knowledge there was a trend of increasing the number of personnel, who received training at the PLASKE Academy. provided by highly-qualified experts is a prerequisite for doing business in a rapidly changing environment. We launched the Leadership School program, which consists of a nine-module six-month training program involving theory, interactive webinars, and practical skills development. Photo Gallery: PLASKE employees taking vocational Photo Gallery: PLASKE employees at the first Brainstorming session for corporate employees training course in tourism KAIZEN Seminar in the south of Ukraine within business hands-on seminar “Marketing Intensive” The Competence Department was assigned to pay more attention to the managerial skills, respective In 2016 we paid more attention to training our managers at external events, namely: specialized knowledge and ways to apply Administrative Technology management tools in their daily activities. As there professional training and advanced training for executives and mid-level managers. The number of external was a possible need to recruit a large number of staff, we also planned the development of aids that would events increased more than 3-fold; the number of participants increased by 7%. help to learn the technologies applied within the Organization, as well as to improve the skills of existing employees. This is directly related to the need to improve the quality of management skills and change management approaches. We want to raise the competence of our managers through gaining external knowledge. At the “PLASKE” JSC pays great attention to the vocational training of its personnel. In 2016, 89 employees same time, by the end of 2016, the number of personnel who attended vocational training decreased by 9%. took part in seminars, trainings and courses that enhance the level of competence in various fields of activity. It should be noted that many employees have attended several training courses during the year or In 2017 we plan to involve more staff in training supporting the fourth Sustainable Development Goal to participated in two or more events. ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. 22/46 Fig. No.19. Fig. No. 20. Number of training activities, 2015-2016, events/courses The number of Personnel successfully completed vocational training courses, 2015-2016, people 97 89 100 50 46 50 40 35 0 30 2015 2016 The number of staff trained and retrained within their competencies has increased in 2016. We are committed to evolve this trend in 2017 since the specifics of activities in all three business areas requires 20 dynamic changes. The need to monitor and react promptly to them making the right decisions is vital for the development of the Organization and the economy as a whole. 11 9 Fig. No. 21. 10 Vocational training and retraining within the certain competencies, 2010-2015, people 0 100 2015 2016 57 54 50 Internal External events/ events/courses courses 0 2015 2016 23/46 Fig. No.22. Fig. No. 23. Training for executives and mid-level managers, 2015 Training for executives and mid-level managers, 2016 46 40 60 40 60 58 54 30 45 43 30 45 24 20 31 30 20 16 30 11 10 15 6 10 15 5 6 3 0 0 0 0 Vocational training: Specialized Participants, Vocational training: Specialized Participants, Administrative tools training and career people Administrative tools training and career people enhancement enhancement Vocational training: Internal events/ External events/ Administrative tools courses, number courses, number Vocational training: External events/ Administrative tools Specialized training and Internal events/ courses, number career enhancement courses, number Specialized training and 359,0 career enhancement Since the majority of employees were internally trained in 300 2015, investments in vocational training in the reporting year 224,4 have been decreased. Fig. No. 24. 150 Investments in vocational training for our employees, 2015-2016, UAH thousand 0 2015 2016 24/46 Supporting young personnel Well-being, incentives, outdoor activities Alongside with the opportunity to learn and acquire the necessary knowledge and skills during working The third Sustainable Development Goal (to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at hours, the Organization supports its employees in their efforts to obtain higher education on-the-job. In all ages) has become one of the priorities for “PLASKE” JSC in 2016. The PLASKE team in mini-football 2016 seven “PLASKE” JSC employees got on-campus/off-campus education on the job (Fig. No.25). successfully took part in the Odessa Shipping Cup 2016 championship. Our team won in all three matches reaching the first place in the A group. PLASKE football team took part in the mini-football tournament on the Navy Day organized by the Odessa Commercial Sea Port. Fig. No.25. In 2016 employees of “PLASKE” JSC also made several corporate trips to the picturesque corners of Number of people who got on-the-job education, Ukraine: Sofiyivsky Park in Uman and Belgorod-Dnestrovsky Fortress. 2015-2016, people 8 6 6 4 Photo Gallery: PLASKE team takes part in indoor soccer tournament 2 1 1 0 0 On-campus Off-campus PLASKE employees during the corporate tour to Belgorod-Dnestrovsky Fortress 25/46 Comfortable and safe working conditions Salaries and rewards We have elaborated and successfully introduced the Organization’s management system in the field In 2016 despite the turbulence in the economy and the destabilizing production processes we increased of occupational safety to provide comfortable and safe working conditions for our employees. Health the salaries for our personnel (Fig. No. 26). protection, hygiene and safety is ensured in accordance with international standards OHSAS 18001, SA 8000. The following working conditions system operates in “PLASKE” JSC: Fig. No.26. The average salary per one full-time employee, • modern workplaces and devices for internal and external communication; UAH thousand • video surveillance in office premises to ensure the safety of our personnel and consumers; • access control system; • adjustable heating system, air conditioning and ventilation systems, which maintains the most 15 352,6 comfortable temperature; 15000 • modern facilities, corresponding to the established sanitary and hygienic standards; 12 863,2 • licensed software on personal computers; • non-contact faucets for water saving; • clean drinking water for our personnel; SDG 6 (визуализация) • lamps with energy sensors to save electricity; 10000 • constant maintenance of buildings and office premises by performing repair and construction works; • 15-minute technical breaks for our personnel; • specially equipped premises for lunches and coffee-breaks with access to clean drinking water. 5000 In 2016, no case of occupational injuries was recorded in “PLASKE” JSC. This again proves the fact that the Organization has created decent and safe working conditions. 0 2015 2016 At the end of 2016 the personnel voted for the best employees at the company’s internal Portal. Following the voting results the winners were awarded at the corporate New Year party (bonus in the amount of the monthly salary). Photo Gallery: Safe and comfortable working places for corporate employees Photo Gallery: Awarding the winners of the Best Employee Award 26/46 Trade union Fig. No.27. Additional leaves taken by our employees, 2015-2016, days PLASKE Trade Union shall collectively protect the rights and interests of its members and provide mutual assistance to employees. The Trade Union ensures the unity of the personnel and the protection of its interests. Primary Association of the Trade Union Organization of “PLASKE” JSC and the Employer annually conclude a Collective Agreement, which sets forward the obligations of the Organization as an employer and the trade union as employees. This Agreement regulates socio-economic, industrial and labor 48 50 relations in the Organization and guarantees the creation of favorable working conditions, recreation, sports and other aspects of social security. In fact, the Collective Agreement is an instrument for achieving social peace through the mechanisms and tools prescribed in it for cooperation and ensuring the interests of both parties. 38 37 40 As regards the labor relations “PLASKE” JSC is guided by the current Code of Labor Laws of Ukraine, the Conventions of the International Labor Organization and the United Nations, the Principles of the UN Global Compact, the provisions of ISO 26000, ISO 10018 and SA 8000. 30 To maintain emotional wellbeing and health our employees attend fitness center (cardio, group and gym) at special rates and the football section. They also receive targeted help for recovery during the 23 vacation. 20 In 2016 twice as many workers had a regular leave provided for in the Collective Agreement as well as a social leave (Fig. No.27). Also, the number of additional leaves for an irregular working hours remains practically stable in comparison with the previous year. 10 4 2 0 Additional leave Leave as provided Social leave for those affected for irregular for in the Collective by Chernobyl catastrophe; working hours Agreement leave for workers having children, etc. Photo Gallery: Voting during the PLASKE Trade Union meeting 2015 2016 27/46 The amount of financial assistance provided in 2016 also increased (Fig. No.28 и №29). The funds transferred by the Organization to the PLASKE Trade Union in 2016 have almost doubled (Fig. No.30). Fig. No.28. Fig. No.29. Fig. No.30. Number of people who received financial assistance, Financial assistance provided to our The funds transferred by the Organization to 2015-2016, people employees, 2015-2016, th. UAH the PLASKE Trade Union, 20152016, th. UAH 150 132 300 300 126 250,8 250,0 210,5 100 200 200 110,0 50 100 100 0 0 0 2015 2016 28/46 29/46 Supporting the 7th, 8th and 9th Principles of the UN Global Compact is an important aspect of the Our goal in the field of ecology is to preserve the environment. We use graphs in the form of inverse Organization’s social responsibility. We realize that increasing responsibility for the environment, statistics to track our footprint. The less the use of natural resources, the more successfully we are moving approaching environmental issues on the basis of the precautionary and promoting the development and towards this goal. distribution of environmentally-friendly technologies are the key aspects on which the preservation of the environment depends. Also in 2016 to save the energy and water consumed by the Organization the following set of measures was taken: Environmental risk management is an integral part of the current Organization Management System in the field of life safety. To implement the environmental policy we identify threats and risks in the 1. Raising personnel awareness on the sustainable use of electricity and water resources. supply chain that can cause environmental damage. We apply the principle of balance in minimizing the 2. Control over the burning mode of lighting and electric heating equipment in the office premises. harmful effects on the environment in the management of environmental risks. Production processes are 3. Step-by-step replacement of regular valves for LED lamps, which save the energy consumed. LED mandatory, taking into account the requirements of the current national and international legislation in lamps do not contain mercury vapor, and are therefore environmentally safe and do not require the field of environmental protection, recommendations and requirements of international initiatives and special conditions for disposal. standards, including the Constitution of Ukraine, the principles of the UN Global Compact, ISO 14001, ISO 4. Electric energy and water consumption meters were checked in due time. 26000, ISO 28000 standards. 5. Timely maintenance, preventive maintenance and preventive testing of electrical equipment, measurement of insulation resistance and grounding in the office premises. The freight forwarding, key business direction of “PLASKE” JSC, includes the dangerous goods transport. We assume responsibility to reduce the impact of threats on the environment managing the supply chain security risks by selecting reliable transport service providers in accordance with the requirements of The amount of resources consumed depends not only on measures to save them, but also on the regulatory documents. In 2016 we registered zero environmental accidents during the dangerous goods number of staff and clients in office premises. In 2016, more events and training courses were held with transport. the participation of people involved. For this reason, the amount of energy consumed increased compared to 2015. Since the number of personnel and events carried out in the office premises increased, the water Fig. No.31. Fig. No.32. consumption also increased in 2016 (Pictures №33 и №34). Electricity consumption, kW/h Electricity consumption in the office premises, 1 person/year, kW/h Fig. No.33. Fig. No.34. Water consumption, m³ Water consumption, 1 person/year 341 350 314 128 300 000 3000 1 418 1 271 2 276 2 276 10,3 1000 10 8,4 200 000 2000 100 000 1000 500 5 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 30/46 Recycling For the disposal of waste materials we use the service suppliers that have been selected as per the procedure of responsible procurement. Trying to reduce the impact on the environment we are committed to recycling and processing of waste. In 2015 a large number of equipment was replaced. This means it would operate properly in 2016 We have identified the waste products that are to be recycled and processed: burned-out lamps for lighting without the need to utilize it. office space, office equipment, including batteries for uninterruptible power supplies, and used office paper for the printer. In 2016 we made an important step towards the preservation of the environment by recycling of fluorescent lamps, paper and batteries (Fig. 35-37). Fig. No.35. Fig. No.36 Fig. No.37. Disposal of fluorescent lamps Battery recycling, units Paper recycling, kg 19 306 15 300 15 15 200 10 10 100 5 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 31/46 32/46 Today the fight against corruption is a top-priority challenge for our nation. Along with government The software product speeds up the interaction between a large number of organizations and authorities fighting against corruption, promoting transparent and ethical business practices, the business companies, preventing the corruption practices. Moreover, it provides non-contact, paperless handling of community plays an important role in building a transparent global economy. containers with foreign trade cargoes. The geographical location of Ukraine makes an international trade an important priority in the Fig. No.38. development of our country’s economy. The streamlining of economic activity is possible due to the Participants of the Single Port Community simplification of trade procedures. This means that most of the trade facilitation efforts concern customs Information System procedures. One of the obstacles to international trade is the processing of goods crossing the Ukrainian border. Dealing with transport and logistics in its daily activities “PLASKE” JSC realizes that changes in this sector are extremely necessary. Freight forwarder Shipping Customs Following the UNECE Recommendations No 33, 34 and 35 “PLASKE” JSC jointly with Odessa Commercial Sea Port initiated a project for the introduction of the Single Window — Local Solution agency technology in the Southern Customs and the ports of the Odessa Region in 2012. The project was aimed at preventing corruption and promoting deregulation, limiting bureaucratic procedures, ensuring the Control security of the supply chain, standardizing and digitalizing international trade procedures in the context authorities Consigner of Ukraine’s integration into European and world markets. Port Community System The project envisaged the creation of a unified information system of the port community in the ports of the Odessa region. This Port Community System (ISPS) accumulates, verifies, processes, stores, exchanges Sea and transmits electronically information and documents for border, customs and other control authorities. Consignee carrier It allows registration of persons, vehicles, goods, including cargo and luggage. This system complies with the legislation on electronic documents and takes into account the Single Window concept in international practice and the recommendations of international organizations in the use of electronic records and digital Port signatures. Hauler authorities Stevedoring «PLASKE» JSC has developed a data processing center for the port company community system in Ukraine: «PPL 33-35» LLC, which created the hardware and software complex «Unified Port Community Information System» for the implementation of the tasks on automation of processes based on electronic recording and protected electronic digital signature. The key tasks of this company are: • support for the developed software product; The Port Community System is based on: • protection of electronic commercial information; • openness; • development and improvement of information exchange between • transparency; the authorized governmental and non-governmental organizations. • access-friendly approach; • consistency; • automation. 33/46 At the initiative of Ukrainian National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICCUkraine) an Interagency Working Group was established to coordinate and monitor the progress and to Single Window — Local Solution: Development determine the direction of its implementation. It consists of the representatives of government authorities, law enforcement agencies, business associations and organizations, traders and transporters. In 2014 and Recognition by the Ukrainian and World taking into account the Ukraine’s obligations undertaken in December 2013 after the signing of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement and to facilitate the proper implementation of the “Reform Strategy-2020“, Community a decision was made to transform the Interagency Working Group on Implementation of Single Window — Local Solution Project into the Interagency Working Group on International Trade and Logistics Facilitation “PLASKE” JSC contributes the Interagency Working Group in conducting free seminars on the UNECE in Ukraine. Guidelines for employees of ministries and departments of Ukraine, as well as for business community. Such events allow those involved in the supply chain to gain knowledge on ISPS operating in Ukraine. The renewed Interagency Working Group’s TOR include: • development and implementation of the National Strategy for the International Trade and In 2016 the Sixth International Seminar on Trade Facilitation and the Single Window “Trade Facilitation Logistics Facilitation, and Trade and Transport Corridors Development in Ukraine“ was held in the framework of the annual • creating the basis for the establishment of the National Committee on Trade Facilitation pursuant International Transport Week in Odessa. The 13 speakers, leading experts in this area, presented the key to the UN recommendations. topics of the seminar: the impact of the further implementation of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement and other international conventions and agreements on the development of transport corridors in Ukraine; The decisions taken at the three meetings of the IWG in 2016 were respected in the orders of the the prospects for using the ISPS Port Community System (Single Window) implemented in the Odessa port Government of Ukraine, which assign specific executors and responsible persons at the level of the central as a hub for international trade and transport corridors in the country. executive authorities. Activities of the Interagency Working Group and the relevant presentations of the speakers are located at singlewindow.org, open for the stakeholders. Here you can find regulatory documents on the project, minutes of meetings with the results of the project implementation, newsletters and data on the statistics The government sets itself the task of creating favorable of the use of ISPS by freight forwarding companies in the ports of Ukraine. transit conditions and developing the transport and logistics system of Ukraine for its further integration into the European system and community. The above initiatives encourage their implementation. This local solution was created as a pilot project. It is a basis for more extensive national projects. Photo Gallery: 23 Meeting of Temporary Working Group on Trade and Logistics Facilitation in Ukraine 34/46 The immediate plans of the ISPS development include its expansion to other seaports and ferry transport, enhancing information protection within the ISPS system and its integration into the information Membership and Partnerships systems of state agencies. On its way towards SDGs 16 and 17 “PLASKE” JSC actively participates in international and national At the request of the Ukrainian Sea Ports Authority complete transition to electronic registration of associations and organizations, which helps us to build an open society and intensify the work within the ships at all ports of Ukraine would be the next step in the ISPS development. As Ukraine is considering framework of the Global Partnership. the development of its transit potential within the New Silk Road (in November 2016, Ukraine signed the Agreement on cooperation and the development of eSilkRoad electronic platform, the Memorandum on Anti-corruption measures and joint activities to elaborate efficient tools for trade, logistics and strategic cooperation between the Ukrainian House in Beijing and the International Chamber of Commerce transport facilitation are implemented through our membership in IATA, FIATA, OSJD, the European of the Silk Road, the Cooperation Agreement between the center of modern China “Tianxiang Link“ and the Business Association and the International Chamber of Commerce. International Chamber of Commerce of the Silk Road) we can say that the ISPS as trade facilitator acquires new potential and value. Improving standards in the industry is our key goal reached within the membership in international organizations. The second year in a row we have been developing the recommendations on common approaches in vocational training for rail undertakings within the framework of the OSJD Temporary Working Group. The Chairman of this group is a representative of “PLASKE” JSC. Further work in this The government considers the Single window — Local Solution project as an extremely important direction to be continued in 2017. measure to fight and eliminate corruption practices, which entails additional revenues to the state budget and positioning of Ukraine as an attractive axis for the fast transit, and as a basis for further rapid data processing systems based on Single window concept in other areas of public relations in Ukraine. The implementation of this project demonstrated our Stakeholders that the private sector’s efforts can improve the economic results that affect the whole society. This initiative of the public-private partnership to streamline economic activity undoubtedly strengthens Ukraine’s position in international trade despite the difficult period for our state. Addressing the issues of the global cooperation the Twenty-third Session of the Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business (UN/CEFACT) held from 3 to 4 April 2017 in Geneva approved the Recommendation No. 36 on Single Window Interoperability. The delegation from Ukraine, including the representatives of PLASKE JSC and PPL 33-35 LLC as independent experts, took part in its development. Due to the successful implementation of the 10th principle of the UN Global Compact for the implementation of the “Single Window — Local Solution” project in 2016, “PLASKE” JSC took the opportunity to disseminate its experience and took part in the national project “Bestin in CSR”, presenting the business case “Practical experience on counteracting corruption in Ukraine“ which was successfully Photo Gallery: PLASKE’s active participation in the work evaluated in the field of socially responsible corporate governance and reporting. of partner organizations — Participation in the signing of FIATA/OSJD Memorandum of Understanding at the FIATA Multimodal Transport Institute session 35/46 “PLASKE” JSC is a member of 14 international associations and organizations (Fig. No. 39). Fig. No.39. Participation of “PLASKE” JSC in the national and international organizations №1 №2 №3 №4 №5 №6 №7 №8 №9 №10 №11 №12 №13 №14 In 2016 the number of events we attended has increased due to active social and business position Membership status of JSC “PLASKE” in associations and business unions: of “PLASKE” JSC as a member of the national and international associations (Fig. No.40). Our responsible impact on the global processes in the business community towards SDGs has also increased. 1. FIATA (International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations) Individual Member 2. OSJD (Organization for Cooperation of Railways) Affiliated Enterprise 3. IATA (International Air Transport Association) Accredited Cargo and Passenger Agent 4. UIC (International Union of Railways) Affiliated Member Fig. No.40. 178 5. ICC Ukraine (Ukrainian National Committee of International Chamber of Commerce) Full Member Number of events attended by our 200 6. ORCC (Odessa Regional Chamber of Commerce) Member representatives 7. UKRZOVNISHTRANS (Association of Freight Forwarding and Logistics Organizations of Ukraine) 144 Associate Member 8. ACBU (Association of Customs Brokers of Ukraine) Full Member 9. UAPQ (Ukrainian Association of Perfection and Quality) Member 100 10. DBA (Digital Business Alliance) Corporate Member 11. EBA (European Business Association) Associate Member 12. IPCSA (International Port Community System Association) Member 13. BLB (Association of Exchange Brokers and Logistics Experts) Associate Member 0 14. Odessa Tourism Member 2015 2016 36/46 37/46 For many years so far “PLASKE” JSC has been supporting projects that develop cultural traditions and values for future generations and contribute to the preservation of our cultural heritage. We care about financial, organizational, technical support of a number of projects, theaters, museums, and libraries. Given their scale these activities strengthen the tourist and intellectual attractiveness of our city and the region in the whole. At the same time the criteria for project selection are the systematic nature of its activities and its future benefits for society. That is why our social projects entail many years of fruitful cooperation. Sculpture, Literature and Time: Joint Projects with the Odessa Literary Museum The Garden of Sculptures, Odessa Calendar, Festival of Literature and the Long Night of Museum are In the picture: 2016 Odessa Calendar four projects we implement together with the Literary Museum. The Odessa Calendar is published annually on the Odessa Foundation Day, the 2nd of September. It The Garden of Sculptures is an open air exposition of sculptures. Founded in 1995 in the courtyard of the starts in September and presents the history of one of the oldest streets of the city. During the year research Literary Museum for two decades so far the Garden has been a popular tourist spot. The Garden houses the assistants of the museum together with famous Odessa local ethnographers collect materials and prepare works of Odessa-based, Ukrainian and foreign sculptors. Each sculpture is somehow connected with Odessa the calendar for publication. By the 222nd Foundation Day “PLASKE” JSC, Literary Museum and Tourism city, Odessa literature and writers who created a unique image of our city in their works of art. of Odessa Association have issued yet another 14th calendar dedicated to the history of Yekaterininskaya Street (named after Catherine the Great). The calendar has a brochure with a detailed description of the history of each house and every institution that has ever been located in this street. Such calendars have long been the subject of collecting. A limited circulation is distributed among libraries, schools, museums, and also among those who admire Odessa city from all over the world. The Long Night of the Literary Museum is thematic cultural event held annually, gathering up to five thousand people overnight. The museum night has become a popular spot for the rising generation, which is an indicator of an increase of the cultural level of society. In the picture: Books and other culturological printed materials For the second consecutive year Odessa hosts the International Literary Festival. This year, the number published with the support of of participating writers has doubled: about 40 authors from 18 countries represent their works in Odessa. “PLASKE” JSC Visitors of the festival had the opportunity to get acquainted with the literature of Romania, Indonesia, Canada, Argentina, the United States and many other countries. In 2017, literary readings of works by Odessa authors are planned within the flashmob, which will be held on July 13, the day of awarding the first Babel Prize. “PLASKE” JSC will support this event organizationally and technically. As part of our social partnership in 2016 we continued supporting the projects of the Odessa National Scientific Library, including the XVII All-Ukrainian Exhibition Forum «The Ukrainian Book in the Odessa Region», which contributes to the preservation and enhancement of the spiritual and cultural heritage of the Ukrainian nation, the development and functioning of the Ukrainian language in the public life, the rise of the domestic publishing business, the assertion of the prestige of the Ukrainian book in the society, the dissemination and popularization of new books published in the current Year in the territory of Ukraine, providing the libraries of the Southern region with the new literature. 38/46 Odessa National Theater of Opera and Ballet Our social partnership concerns the publishing industry. We support the project “Odessa Library“, which publishes books of outstanding Odessits and works about Odessa as well as the almanac DeribasovskayaRishelyevskaya. Since 2009, the almanac has become a part of the Organization’s powerful cultural projects. During this “PLASKE” JSC is the General Partner of the Odessa Opera period 33 issues of the almanac “Deribasovskaya-Rishelyevskaya“ were published. A new design concept and Ballet Theater and has been promoting the activities was created, as well as an almanac matrix with permanent sections: poetry, prose, first steps (where of the theater over the last six years. Acting as a partner children and adolescents may publish their works). As a result the publication became more popular and “PLASKE” JSC produced several premieres, created a lot of famous. Today this is the only publication in which Odessa writers, local historians, art historians, poets, and presentation products within the marketing support for theater. journalists can share their views and experiences with the general public. It is important to note that this It is important for us not only to replenish the repertoire of is not a commercial publication, and its issues are presented not only to the authors, libraries of the city, the theater, but also to promote it. After all, the more people museums, but also to honorable guests of the World Odessites Club. visit opera, concert and ballet performances, the more public resonance these performances will produce and the more vivid traces will be left in the minds of our contemporaries. In 2016 we supported the premiere of the ballet Cipollino In the picture: Poster for Cipollino Ballet, published in 2016 with the support of “PLASKE” JSC World Odessit Club World Odessit Club is a public organization, presented in different countries and bringing together the citizens of Odessa, which, as said, by Mikhail Zhvanetsky, the President of the Club, are spread across the globe. The members of the World Odessites Club are well-known writers, musicians, bankers, journalists, businessmen, local historians, artists, lawyers, doctors, well-known in the city and far beyond… The club regularly gathers its members and friends, holds presentations, exhibitions, concerts, entertaining discussions on various socially important topics. This amazing phenomenon in the life of the city has been actively growing and developing for 26 years. In the picture: Issues of “Corner of Deribasovskaya and Rishelievskaya streets” yearbook, published in 2016 with the support of the Organization 39/46 Support for Orphanage We try to develop new activities and directions for the social responsibility of business expanding the circle of Stakeholders and increasing their impact in this area. In 2016 at the suggestion of the Peace Manifesto Foundation, we held an event for the children of the Odessa “Svitanok“ orphanage. We invited them to visit the administrative office of the Organization on the New Year’s eve. Our employee told about the company’s work: “Regardless your background and the starting conditions you should always dream on and do your best to achieve success!“ In one of the premises of “PLASKE” JSC they played a business game: they organized their own company with director, accounting, department of production, quality control, marketing and organized their own coffee break. In the process of interaction each kid happily tried on his or her new responsibilities from the future “adult life“. At the end of the meeting they received delicious gifts and educational games. This was a kind of professional orientation, a motivating meeting, during which each child from the orphanage could try on a new profession. An indicator of the importance of such events is the lively response from the orphans. At the end of the meeting, some of them asked “What should I do to work in your company?“ And we answered: «You should study hard and believe in your own strength“. Photo Gallery: Business role-playing game and presentation about “PLASKE” JSC activity for children from “Svitanok” orphanage. In 2017 we will happily respond to proposals for organizing such events for children from vulnerable groups. 40/46 41/46 The guidelines for the organizational policy of PLASKE JSC are the Principles of the UN Global Compact Fig. No.41. and the Sustainable Development Goals 2030. Strategic tasks of “PLASKE” JSC, Participation in 14 international and national associations and organizations, public activities and the recognized status of one of the market leaders enable us to track global and sectoral trends and plan our activities so that together we can change the world for the better. Analyzing global trends and initiatives of different levels we compare them with the values and guidelines of our Organization and form long-term and short-term tasks in accordance with the global agenda. Production of the finished product, 1 corresponding to the established characteristics Improvement of the Organization’s Management 2 System in accordance with the recognized standards Providing marginal profit, sufficient for the 3 implementation of goals and objectives Respect for human rights when interacting with 4 Stakeholders Vocational training, decent working conditions, support of 5 labor initiatives and relations Preservation of the environment, resource management, 6 waste utilization Anti-corruption measures involving the participation in 7 projects and initiatives to prevent and fight corruption Community development through the support of social 8 and cultural projects 42/46 PLASKE JSC Communication on Progress 2016 Project Idea — Oleg Platonov. Authors team — Lyudmila Platonova, Artem Khachaturyan, Denys Glagoliev, Olena Serkeli, Alexander Prunchak, Anna Glovatskaya, Olena Bondarenko, Svitlana Yeromenko, Olga Voronina. Editorial board — Oleg Platonov, Lyudmila Platonova, Inessa Platonova. Photos — Inessa Platonova, Sergey Trusov, Natalia Kalinina. Private Joint Stock Company “PLASKE”, Please, do not hesitate to feedback P.O.B. 299, Odessa, 65001, UKRAINE Contact person: Head of Compliance Department Tel.: +38 (048) 7 385 385, 7 288 288 Mr Denys Glagoliev This Communication on Progress 2016 was verified by the Expert Commission of the Organization. All Fax: +38 (048) 7 385 375, 7 287 221 Tel.: +38 (048) 7 385 385 Rights Reserved. Reproduction in part or whole without direct link or reference is prohibited. Skype: plaske.ua Tel.: +38 (048) 7 288 288 E-mail: odessa@plaske.ua Email: quality@plaske.ua Internet: www.plaske.ua 43/46
