RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD Website: www.rongaiws.com RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com TH 20 February 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) FOR YEAR 2016 I am pleased to reaffirm Rongai Workshop & Transport Ltd.’s commitment to and support for the UN Global Compact initiative and its ten principles in respect of human rights, labor rights, environmental and anti-corruption. Rongai Workshop & Transport Ltd is one of the oldest road transport companies in Kenya, in 2017 it looks forward to celebrating its 70th birthday and we have long striven to demonstrate that it is possible to run a commercial trucking business with these principles as the foundation. 2016 has been a difficult year for the Kenya economy, the formal manufacturing base of the economy appears to be shrinking with loss of jobs and income for many and competition in the road freight industry is fierce due to the shortage of cargo, leading to downgrading of cargo rates and thereby margins. Despite the financial challenges we have been determined to focus on our Vision, re-defined in 2015 “TO BE THE TRANSPORTER AND EMPLOYER OF CHOICE BY 2017” by adhering to and driving improvements through our Rongai Mission, detailed below,  Offering efficient, reliable and customized transport solutions to our customers.  Providing best employment conditions and growth opportunities to our employees enabling empowerment.  Ensuring fair returns to our shareholders’ investment with ethical practice.  Achieving the above through safe, sustainable and environmentally friendly practices whilst enhancing community development. Rongai Workshop & Transport Ltd. was started by Mr. Gordon Eccles in 1947 as an agricultural workshop in rural Rongai near Nakuru but soon added transport to the range of services offered to local farmers and plantations in the area. The Company was incorporated in 1966 as Rongai Workshop & Transport Ltd. with its extensive workshop now devoted to the maintenance of our current 106 truck articulated fleet. We transport import and export containers from and to Mombasa, Nairobi and most areas in Kenya for raw materials, agricultural produce (largely tea) as well as the distribution of locally manufactured goods and commodities and offer our transport customers and logistics partners container handling and temporary storage facilities at our three sites in Mombasa, Nairobi and Rongai. Strong ethics and a continuous drive for high standards in all areas of our operation have been a hall mark of Rongai’s operation. Despite the difficult trading environment I am happy to report on the actions and initiatives that we have made in 2016 to further integrate the Global Compact and its principals into our business thinking, culture and our working lives. 2 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com FOCUS ON ENHANCING HUMAN RIGHTS Rongai places huge value on its Human Resource and we seek to provide our whole workforce (numbering 310 people in December 2016) with decent working conditions that go beyond mere compliance with statutory requirements. We recognize the implications and importance of good health amongst our employees, proactively managed and well monitored by our Company Nurse. Our Director of Health and Safety, and our Workshop and Operations Department continually seek ways to enhance safe working environment and promotion of best practice in all aspects of our operation, all of which impact motivation and productivity. In the past this health and safety consciousness was generally conveyed to our workforce informally by hands-on training, daily operational communication and board bulletins/notices and to new employees via induction and section supervision while under probation. In mid-2016 we called in an HR Consultant to audit our systems and procedures and to make recommendations as to how we could better communicate these to our staff to promote understanding and compliance in a company growing in size and complexity of operation. We continue to formalize, review and upgrade our procedures to ensure clarity and continue to sensitize our workforce on the importance of EOH&S, its integration as part of our daily work and operations as well as to ensure compliance with all regulations to conserve our environment and natural resources as well as endeavor towards an accident/illness and discrimination free, healthy and safe work environment. To improve on our work environment and efficiency in business as well as to enable empowerment and development of lower and middle ranking employees, our Kaizen-type training that had started in late 2015 continued throughout 2016 at six weekly intervals. Truck drivers, who constitute the largest single group of employees were brought into the training, they all enjoyed the training that showed them how they can help others in the Company team enhance their own performance. The Company has long undertaken on-the-job training for Workshop employees and drivers but we set up a formal structuring for skills enhancement at all levels within our Workshop and Operations to ensure no-one missed being considered for such skills upgrade if they showed capacity. Managers in all departments have been trained in closely monitoring gaps in their skills matrix and working towards obviating them by identifying internal candidates to undergo training to cover those gaps. We have continued and taken “ownership” of THE 6 “S” SYSTEM in our places of work 1 S – SORTING • Space Saving • Improved work efficiency 2 S SYSTEMATIC ARRANGEMENT • Reduced search time • Improved response 3 S SHINING • Healthy, clean work environment • Abnormalities are visible & corrected 4S STANDARDIZATION • Higher productivity • Better Quality 5S SELFDISCIPLINE • Habit of doing right • First time right • Total employee Involvement 6S SAFETY underpins everything Ensuring safety while doing all the above 3 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com The challenge has been to have employees at all levels and in all areas instill these principles as part of our daily lives so we have worked hard to keep up the motivation and enthusiasm to learn these new selfdisciplines even while business was difficult. Following on from our work in 2015 where we put in place or thoroughly reviewed the following policies to uphold human rights within our organization, we focused in 2016 on disseminating and promoting a better understanding of:  Workplace Policies in Place:  Health Provision Policy  HIV/AIDS Policy (includes Discrimination)  Implementation & Management Plan for H&S in the Workplace  Environment Policy & Management Plan  Ethics Policy  Discrimination Policy  Emergency Action Plan  Fire Safety Policy  Dangerous Occurrence Policy Any new policies or amendments to existing policies have been discussed and disseminated through our weekly hour (Wednesday 2 pm) OSHA briefings either as a General Assembly or in Departments as well as in sectional briefings. We comply in all aspects of the National OSH Act 2007 Health & Safety Compliance but go well beyond mere compliance as we seek to develop individuals through training and enhance their prospects for promotion as well as access to information on general health and welfare issues, life style choices through the following:  Trained OSHA team in place, quarterly self audits & mitigation meetings held.  All our employees are encouraged to be self-disciplined & take up responsibility to ensure our workplaces are kept safe & healthy through weekly H&S Briefs. All statutory safety trainings are undertaken, First Aid & an Emergency Action Plan with designated responsibilities in place to ensure we always have sufficient trained personnel on site at any time  A Comprehensive Workplace Programme through Peer Education since 2008, partnering & networking with various NGOs like APHIA II RV, APHIA PLUS. We have continued with our partnership with the very dynamic DANDELION AFRICA, for once-a-month, on-site Peer Education enrichment on topics requested by employees. This has been very enthusiastically received and through the close and willing co-operation of the Operations Department’s Management we managed to achieve more days’ participation for Drivers/Turnmen than ever before. This group of employees are always very awkward to reach because they work largely out of station. All these activities happen in working hours and our work load is scheduled to allow as many employees as possible to be freed up and encouraged to attend. 4 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com COMPREHENSIVE WORKPLACE PROGRAMME 2016 6S SYSTEMS DRIVE – Since in 2015 H&S was given priority & a major focus with the newly introduced 6S system via thorough housekeeping & personnel involvement through all levels in the workplace. The CWPP steering committee decided that Environment linked with Peer Education & Community outreach should be given more of a focus in 2016. CWPP steering committee meetings are held 2 or 3 times annually to plan CWPP activities (wider than just H&S) & evaluate their impact in the workplace. Meeting dates 3/12/2015, 17/5/2016, 9/9/2016 SAFETY IN WORKPLACE a) H&S COMPLIANCE OSH Act 2007  Quarterly Self Audits followed by OSHA minuted committee meetings to confirm, follow up & resolve pending issues held. 1st quarter audit 30/3/2016 Meeting held: 8/4/2016 Dissemination: 4/5/2016 2nd quarter audit 16/6/2016 Meeting held: 5/7/2016 Dissemination: 27/7/2016 3rd quarter audit 21/9/2016 Meeting held: 7/10/2016 Dissemination: 26/10/2016 Final quarter audit 21/12/2016 Meeting held: 6/1/2017 Dissemination: 18/1/2016  Annual OSHA& Fire Audits conducted: 6 to 7/7/2016 & Reports submitted Nakuru County OSHS office. No major recommendations – Stanley M’Ringera OSHA Fire Auditor  Fire Drills conducted on 11/4/2016 & 26/9/2016 reports posted & improvements advised during weekly H&S Briefings.  Fire Team OSHA compliance refresher training still valid 2016 but an in-house “reminder” session was conducted by Fire Team Leader on September 2017 for 27 personnel (24 Rongai & 3 Nairobi).  First Aiders OSHA compliance refresher training December 2015 St. John’s Ambulance for 25 personnel.  LIfting Equipment & Plant Inspection Rongai Workplace inspected on: 31/5/2016 – Peter E. Kinugu  Mombasa Yard OSHA H&S & Fire Audits submitted to the Mombasa County DOSHS Office on 12/5/2016. a) SECTIONAL SAFE WORK PRACTICE (SWP) sessions by Managers/Supervisors for promoting good work safety & best practice in our Workplace continued in 2016 24/2/2016 Safe Operation & around Lifting Equipment for 8 Forklift Drivers & Container Base personnel by Kevin Fernandes (W/shop Manager) 17/6/2016 Safe/proper way to bleeding air from diesel line of Beiben Trucks 15 Service Yard mechanics by Moses Githinji (Service Yard Supervisor) 2/7/2016 Safe/SOP of checks & service of trailer hub/wheel/axle & bearing replacement for all Trailer Service Yard & Go Down Service crews by Kevin Fernandes (w/shop Manager) 29/10/2016 Safety reminders on Panel beating/Spraying on 31/10/2016 Proper Use of jacks, drills & gas welding units for 11 Body Shop & Spray Booth personnel by Patrick Kamau (Supervisor) Workshop managers were also busily engaged from mid-2016 in formalizing SOPs on service processes for use by Workshop staff to ensure standardization in work and for training and individual SOP’s during SWP sessions to promote best practice & safety in our workplace. 5 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com b) Safe Work Procedure/Peer Ed training/session Hours + 2015 Awards: A Target of 12 hours per employee per year is set. Trainers/Peer Ed leaders are responsible for ensuring attendance list is signed up & training cards are updated. Uniform times were set for sessions & SWP trainings in 2016 to ensure that everyone had a fair chance to build hours. OSHA Statutory trainings are not included. All personnel who contributed to safety & wellbeing in the workplace or who managed 9hours or more hours training hours were recognized & awarded company branded items for their attendance effort at 3/2/2016 H&S General Assembly. c) SAFETY TOPICS shared & discussed in 2016 during Wednesday 2pm half hour briefs included: Mid & End Year 6S Awards, Safety Boot protective functions – proper wear & care; Best Practice when riding Motorbikes & Boda Bodas. Fire How to respond in an Emergency – Personal pro-action towards fire prevention. Fire Drill Report disseminations, Eye protection, Office – Ergonomics – Proper posture at computer & when using mobile phones. Be prepared: personal pro-action to learn basic safety of any equipment/machines in your work station. New arrangements for ensuring drivers proper rest time. d) SAFE WORK PROCEDURES FOR MACHINES & EQUIPMENT Hydraulic System fitted to Low-loaders – After a number of strain injuries to rescue personnel in 2016– All Low Loaders modified with semi-automated hydraulic system fitted by David Omata (Lathe room Operator) to lift & lower ramps instead of manually lift & fitment. HEALTH MONITORING  In-house Clinic continues to be staffed by a Company Nurse who runs a daily health/first aid clinic who decides whether to refer to local clinic or to Company doctors/hospitals in Nakuru.  Driver Health monitoring – including annual eye checks & pro-active management of any chronic health issues. This continued throughout 2016 . New nurse was employed in December 2016 with 13 years’ experience at Kijabe AIC Mission Hospital.  Comprehensive Health records are kept analysis is done at year end & shared where appropriate & for compliance with the OSHA Auditor to monitor trends & for health education/improvements.  PLWHIV Support Employees who know their HIV status and have requested support go for monthly review at St. Mary’s Hospital HIV Clinic Gilgil at company expense this continues.  Public Hygiene Monitoring – this continued in all our welfare facilities & company canteen as advised in 2015. The area for washing utensils & effluent management was upgraded during April 2016  Dust Nuisance Relief 90% shade net lengths were added to the existing shade net canteen side, as well as fence lines in our service yard & canteen area to help with the dust alleviation in the dry weather.  Health Topics shared & discussed in 2016 included: First Aid during heat weather & How to avoid heat related illness. Procedure for Medical Emergency. How to deal with bleeding injury & measures to take to protect against HIV & other blood related illnesses. 6 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com PASTORAL CARE Thought for the Months of 2016 Monthly inspiration from anyone willing to share & encourage workplace colleagues December Set SMART goals achieve a good measure of success in our lives our goals need to be: Specific, Measureable, Attainable, Realistic & Time bound. – Emmanuel Ngarambe – IT Manager October Lessons to be learnt from V formation flight of migrating geese Increases team efficiency, leader slipstream makes for easier & quicker flying, staying united motivates & encourages when facing challenges makes for progress. Support/back up for the leader – Henry Obedi – Safety Manager August Leadership Principles we can learn from 7 habits of an Eagle –– Life requires lone flight at times, Focus on a Goal, Move on to new opportunities not live on past success, Face a challenge head on, Test commitment of partners, Leave comfort zone or no personal growth, Shed old habits that weigh us down, Strive & never give up. Jane Mbugua – Admin Office. July RWS New Journey progress to date & need for individual commitment to achieve our desired company transformation in the rapidly changing global market & economy. G.Musoga HRM Appreciating our Fire Team efforts at night to extinguish dormitory fire at Rongai Boys Sec. School & our Enviro Teams efforts to reach over 1000 students/teachers/BodaBoda operators whilst sharing WED at primary schools. March Mombasa exemplary progress & example of 6S – Valerie shared photos of before/after of Mombasa 6S transformation process. Gave an appreciation of Mombasa achievements in 6S lead by Robert Mwangi to encourage our Rongai workplace to take up example. February What is effective communication – the need for positive communications daily to improve our daily interactions in both home & workplace. George Musoga HRM January Releasing Creativity in our Lives – New Year& need for extra corporate effort to achieve our mission. Creativity is the Key First remove barriers (very often self inflicted/imposed) which prevent release of creativity/critical thinking. –. Creative energy vs negative energy PEER EDUCATION Dandelion Africa local based NGO Team were engaged again in 2016 to provide monthly support & enrichment to our Peer Education with a Dandelion Day once per month for everyone providing comprehensive health awareness & life skills education. They also partnered with us on various CSR initiatives throughout the year. Monthly topics chosen by our people are presented in a participatory manner backed up drama skits or with visiting doctors/guest speakers. A report is provided by Dandelion Team Leader for each engagement. 7 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com 19/1/2016 Provided a TB Awareness Day – Recognizing symptoms & treatment, allaying fears & misconceptions around TB but also reminding that failure to seek/complete TB treatment has legal implications. 9/2/2016 Conducted in conjunction with MOH Rongai a voluntary TB Testing Day requested by our workers in our Rongai Workplace following a few confirmed cases of TB amongst our workers. 60 workers were tested until test containers ran out. A second testing day was held. 24/3/2016 Health & Lifestyle Causes & how to manage chronic illnesses – healthy diet & plenty of exercise, cut out excessive consumption of alcohol, fatty/oily & sugar full food/drinks & stop smoking all which contribute to chronic illness. 19/4/2016 Understanding Stress in the Workplace – How to recognize symptoms & causes of stress overload & how to manage. Personal reflection encouraged to see where we contribute to our own stress & impact stress levels of others around us. 23/8/2016 Functional Families -Understanding gender & need for a gender balanced home & society promoting sharing of roles & important decision making. 16/9/2016 Raising awareness on connection between poor health, over population which perpetuates the poverty cycle & impacts the environment. 4/10/2016 Causes & control of excessive reactive behavior/emotions & Anger Management 29/11/2016 Role of Father/Husband for good parenting. Population Matters UK Newsletters –To provide more resource material for our Peer Educator team & keep health, lifestyle, population & environment linked with individual & collective mindfulness/choices & how we impact our shared world. We joined Population Matters online (UK based organization committed to campaigning/raising awareness on these interrelated issues that threaten not just the future of our planet but also humanity itself). Their bi monthly newsletter has links to access current & related awareness articles which we print for our Peer Ed board. Linkup with Highway Corridor Health Resource Centre (HCHRC) (health wing of Long distance Drivers/Transport & Allied Workers Union) August/Sept 2016 2 Supervisor (Newton Rutto & Manager Henry Obedi) attended 1 day courses facilitated by HCHRC who chose RWS amongst others for their pilot plan to give better support to HIV higher risk workplaces (transporters & construction industry) in promoting HIV awareness & general health/better lifestyle amongst their many offsite personnel. 14/9/2016 HCHRC Guest Speaker – Joel Karanja addressed our assembled workplace on need to promote the 8 Pillars of Wellness – Social, Spiritual, Emotional, Environmental, Physical, Intellectual, Occupational & Financial. He brought a questionnaire to be filled anonymously by all personnel (drivers were asked to fill them during Defensive Driving training sessions) to be used by HCHRC to assess/identify our needs & help redefine our CWPP programme. 8/9 December 2016 HCHRC provided a VCT/HIV & Education on site. 8 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com NOPE Annual Peer Educators/Wellness Champion Open Challenge 2016 – A RWS/Dandelion 20 strong team of available Peer Eds took up the challenge on Saturday 15/10/2016 & emerged as 2016 Winners – returning with the coveted perpetual NOPE Impressive Challenge Trophy. A well-deserved accoladeWe appreciated their efforts 19/10/2016 Wednesday general assembly. Rongai highly values our Peer Eds voluntary commitment to helping their work colleagues with challenge support, conflict resolution as well as wellbeing awareness. Also their example & encouragement to self-discipline & personal action to ensure a healthy/safe, functional/productive family, workplace & environment. 2016 Topics presented/discussed by our Peer Ed Leaders during Wednesday 2pm Briefs 16/11/2016 God’s Phamarcy Benefits of eating Fruits & Vegetables 24/11/2016 Why people fear knowing their status & attending VCT. Plans for marking World Aids Day in the Workplace with NCHRC VCT on site. 12/10/2016 Promoting Lifestyle Change with chronic medical conditions & obesity increase – Preventative measures – avoid skipping/over eating meals, understanding cholesterol, avoid liver disease with less intake of fat, sugar, alcohol, unnecessary medication etc. 26/10/2016 Office staff U Tube video -Muscular/Skeletal strain/deformation. Long hours spent on smart phones/laptops at work plus social media interaction with neck in bent position resulting in chronic neck & back trouble. Need to bring phones & screens to eye level. 31/8/2016 First Aiders How to give First Aid in the event of an eye injury. Seeking medical help quickly & accident reporting to prevent infection & avoid reoccurrence & eliminate injury. 22/6/2016 Why/How to avoid Antibiotic Abuse & Sickness resistance to Drugs Finishing antibiotics prescribed, no sharing medications. Awareness of drugs/chemicals used/sprayed in mass produced vegetables/animal products effect our health. 16/3/2016 Understanding need for & how to Budget properly to avoid debts & relationship conflicts. Unrealistic budgeting & common pitfalls. 23/3/2016 Heatwave prevailing – Heat induced illness & how to manage. Drink enough water etc. 10/2/2016 Recap of TB awareness & need for testing & why some people afraid to test. 24/2/2016 First Aiders – How to deal with various types of bleeding injuries. Precautions to take for HIV blood transferable disease when administering First Aid to casualty. IN HOUSE Construction work for Upgrading Security & Welfare Facilities a) Security at Gate Improvement – Main Gate Security Hut employee/visitor processing area upgraded & under cover. b) External Container Base Canteen/diner Upgrade: c) Former Diamond T breakdown shed conversion to re house & isolate Genset & compressors for Tyre & Lubes Dispenser sections & improve noise nuisance in the workshop office area. COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT EMERGENCY RESPONSE RWS– remains a committed corporate member of the Rongai Community Policing facilitated by Gogar Farm in conjunction with the Rongai Police & OCS. Our Security Team Leaders alternate attendance every month, Minutes are received by our MD & any important security matters disseminated to workplace when necessary. COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY 24/3/2016 – Emergency watering of our sponsored tree plantation at Shalom to tide over very dry period. 9 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com Regular Monthly emergency water delivery by our tanker to the MOH Rongai Dispensary. Due to unpaid bills issues the Rongai Town Borehole appears to be an unreliable source for the hospital. ROAD REPAIRS ON THE RONGAI – SALGAA D317 – Following hollow promises & frustrated efforts to get our Rongai/Salgaa connector road properly repaired/re-carpeted by the Rongai MP & Visoi Ward RWS undertook 2 extensive Pot hole filling initiatives in second half of 2016 costing over Kshs. 140,000/= in material/machine & labour RONGAI YOUTH FOOTBALL SUPPORT – Facilitated our local youth Lone Stars Team to participate in 2016 County level Tournament by Fuel provision together with Gogar Farms & Vanessa Grant Girls School loan of school bus for all away matches. EDUCATION BURSARY – Sponsorship of Naomi Momanyi Bosibori to Vanessa Grant Girls Secondary, Rongai. Naomi is the daughter of James Momanyi, one our Rongai service yard tyreman. Naomi gained a good pass in her KPCE in Nov 2015 was accepted by VGGS & awarded by RWS Directors a full boarding & tuition sponsorship at the VGGS school in Rongai for the duration of her secondary education providing she keeps up her commitment to their holistic education provision. EDUCATIVE FIELD DAYS HELD a) 26/4/2016 Geothermal Development Company – 12 GDC workshop/technical personnel came with Jackson Raini (Environmental Scientist) & Chairman of Friends of Menengai Crater for an instructive walk around to see how RWS endeavors to follow best practice in our operations & manage our waste streams with environmental concern as a high priority. b) 9/11/2016 Kenya Industrial Training Institute – 18 Mechanical/Automotive Technology students & 2 Lecturers visited Rongai Workshop for a walkabout, observation & discussion tour of our workshop operations. It was highly appreciated by the HOD KITI as an opportunity for students to see a workshop in operation. Facilitation of 2016 distribution of KCPE/KSSE Exam papers100 L of diesel donated to Sub County Education Division for their annual end year national exams. Rongai Community Athletics – Fuel provided for Rongai participants to attend County athletics trials through HM Sister Hiltrude of Gogar Primary School. ACK Rongai Parish – Child Development Centre –15 bags of cement donated to build on to ECD classrooms in April 2016 Rongai Chief’s office –Revamp of Chiefs desk & donation of 2 tables & 10 chairs for his newly built office September 2016 Vanessa Grant School for the Mentally Challenged – H&S Director is member of their Board of Management & RWS provides support where we can. Drum burner & waste management sorting bins donated in December 2016. Road Safety/Drivers Prayers for Safety on Molo Hill 17/12/2016 -instigated by Sis. Hiltrude of Gogar Primary who holds RWS & neighboring Rongai Businesses in high esteem for encouraging & supporting our local community. She persuaded the Nakuru Catholic Bishop to hold prayers before the Christmas 10 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com Holidays for all drivers/road users & to raise awareness in the County, the community & amongst all drivers for good road safety. In attendance were Base Commanders Salgaa & Molo, St. Johns Ambulance, Sis Hiltrude & included our Stephen Njenga, driver trainer who addressed the assembled & advised church prayers alone cannot stop the carnage on our roads. All stakeholders need to unite to ensure drivers are trained in defensive driving skills & our road safety rules & regulations are properly & transparently observed & policed. Red cross Humanity Walk May 2016– Nakuru County – RWS facilitated a representative team of six of our workers wearing Rongai Tshirts & a financial donation towards this awareness/fund raising event in Nakuru town. Nakuru Hospice Support – A financial donation was also given in the same month to their annual fundraiser walk. Link up with HEART (Health Education Africa Resource Team) a Nairobi based NGO’s programme – ‘Freedom for Girls’ with Dandelion Africa our local NGO’s ‘Let it Flow’ programme & sponsored Kshs. 100,000/= for 222 primary school girls from Lenginet & Shalom Pri Sch girls with sanitary pads for 1 year for uninterrupted school attendance during menses. ST stocks are kept in school store & issued monthly to prevent them being sold or misused. RWS/Dandelion Wives Day 11/6/2016 –Provision of a FP/RH/HIV & general health/hygiene education morning for our employees wives in preparation for the Lenginet Outreach provision on 15/6/2016. Our Wives were provided with tea/mandazi & mobilization money for this & for Lenginet. Ladies Youth Football team members were also assisted to attend. Hygiene/Health Day at Lenginet Pri School 15/6/2016 – RWS partnered with Start With One NGO Nakuru educator team to provide a 3 session Hygiene/Health awareness morning. A bucket filter was donated to their ECD class. It was a fun educative & interactive day. Lenginet FP/RH HIV/AIDS Outreach15/6/2016 – Same day RWS partnered with Dandelion Africa/MOH & co-sponsored, this community outreach at Lenginet Centre. Focus was to be on Family Planning provision/Reproductive Health/HIV Awareness/referral but services also included child inoculation/deworming, cervical cancer screening & general medical & health awareness. Dandelion were surprised at general medical need on the day despite a MOH clinic next door. RWS is concerned and frustrated by the lack of general medical provision in these marginalized, subsistence farming & climate change stricken areas around Rongai District & that the focus for FP/RH & HIV is significantly eclipsed at these outreaches by the huge general medical need that has also to be provided at these outreaches. 421 community people assisted. 100 women screen for cervical cancer & 183 women received Reproductive Health care. 75 people passed through the VCT & 1000 dewormer medications were given to surrounding schools – 278 dewormed on site. RWS/Dandelion Africa Youth Reproductive Health/HIV/AIDS Awareness & Football Tournament 16/12/2016 RWS/DA sponsored/partnered to provide a day for health education around a fun, interactive & friendly football competition for 8 ladies/8 men’s team from local locations. Henry Obedi our Workshop Safety Manager gave a motivational talk, encouraging self-motivation, behavior change & need for reevaluating social & cultural norms/practices amongst the youth if Kenya is also “Tu Songa Mbele” (RWS new journey Motto) & our environment conserved. He also pressed for youth to remain peaceful in the coming election year. Dandelion Health Team provided a well-attended VCT & RH education whilst the matches were being played at the Rongai Football Stadium & Gogar Primary pitches. 11 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com LABOUR Rongai has been Unionized for more than four decades, we believe in equal opportunity for all subject to the physical and skill demands of any job irrespective of any other consideration and we also firmly believe in the right to representation and a fair investigation and fair hearing in the event of any productivity or disciplinary issue. We do not employ minors, we seek to employ all workers on a permanent basis other than temporary hand labor chores, actively encourage long service and seek to promote from within where possible positions and opportunities become available and offer in-house training and guidance to individuals for who show aptitude for higher positions of responsibility. We are based in a rural area with significantly lower opportunities for young adults to find jobs without leaving to the big urban centers. We therefore try to offer as many opportunities as we can for temporary attachments for those undergoing vocational technical trainings. Where we have a vacancy and an attachee has scored highly in his appraisal during his attachment with the company, we follow up with his to see if he is interested in taking up the post. Currently we have 3 attachees. CBA 2015/2017: in line with the CBA, in June 2016 as the start of the second year of this agreement the agreed increment for wages of 8% was implemented. The Company has long had an open door policy, now assisted by largely open plan offices, where senior Management including Executive Directors are available to any member of the workforce of whatever rank in the event their concerns are not being addressed through their Department supervisors and managers. To help encourage and widen communication challenges we hold forum meetings with our drivers on a regular basis, at least every two months where on the given day, those who are able to attend are encouraged to raise concerns and challenges they face to senior management and get immediate feedback or an undertaking to look closely at the issue. In 2016 the Forum will be held every month and incorporated into our meeting calendar. In 2016 we seek to extend and tailor our 6 ‘S’ principles to our long distance drivers who largely work offsite to better promote their understanding of and engagement with the Company, its vision and mission to further assist drivers to manage the heightened challenges of their work/family life balance and provide a counter to the often non-constructive culture of the trucking industry. 2016 RONGAI COMPANY TEAM BUILDING DAY 11/12/2016 To boost our workplace company spirit & help us see where we can improve on team cooperation/efficiency. We asked The National Organization of Peer Educators NOPE to run a Team Building Day for our Rongai Workplace with as many drivers as we could muster on the day. Over 200 employees gathered at Gogar Hangars for an interactive, very participatory, fun but educative day which highlighted some team work and information dissemination areas we need to work on. Our significant corporate growth has resulted in a fall away of company history knowledge & the salient details somewhat hazy of our development in other locations & strategies to realize our company vision/mission for our new journey – “Tusonga Mbele” to be the Transporter & Employer by 2017. A tasty Indian cuisine based lunch washed down with sodas & followed by ice-cream was enjoyed by all in thanksgiving for all 12 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com opportunities & collective work effort that brought us to end 2016 with hope & a sense of achievement as well as usher in Christmas Festive Season. 4-6/10/2016 – SMETA Fairtrade Audit – A Bureau Veritas SMETA auditor was contracted to conduct this ethical compliance audit in response to a long term customer’s request to assist them show their own Fairtrade compliance. The 4 Pillars of Labor, H&S, Environment & Ethics in our Operations were reviewed. The resulting audit report with recommendations were uploaded on SEDEX website platform available to all other SEDEX members – customers/service/suppliers. The audit has a 3 year validity after which a review audit expects upgrading recommendations to have been incorporated in our company policies, SOPs & daily operations. ENVIRONMENT Rongai continues to commit to ensuring we protect our environment to the very best of our ability and continually seeking to find better ways to improve on our footprint on our environment going forward. We have long focused on high standards of maintenance of our trucks, trailers, service vehicles and other equipment in use in our business to ensure minimum possible effect on the environment. The introduction of the 6 ‘S’ system through our lean management training has a large component of protection of the environment under pinning it not least by the drive to reducing unnecessary waste of resources, by keeping our workplaces clean and well ordered. Rongai has a long tradition of re-cycling, and we continually seek to find new and additional areas in which we can re-cycle our waste productively. We adhere to all the standards and recommendations issued by NEMA although we are often frustrated by the lack of easily available information on opportunities for better disposal of waste which we cannot re-use ourselves. Environmental Compliance  Annual Environmental Self Audit conducted on 12/4/2016 & Report submitted 26/4/2016 NEMA Nakuru County. We undergo an Annual Audit by outside and registered auditors, which includes asking our neighbors for feedback, this report is sent to NEMA. We put together a programme and budget allocation to upgrade any areas we deem feasible for the year as recommended for such by our Auditors. We have very strict approach to cleaning up any debris or displacement of vegetation in the event of a serious accident on the road. We only deal with licensed Re-use and Scrap dealers and make efforts to visit and understand how and what our waste items are used for & endeavor to support local licensed outlets where we can for waste disposal/recycling. We measure and document our production of waste products as well as the disposal; we continually assess and refine how we may lower the volume of residual waste products which makes good business as well as environmental sense. We consult widely to find better ways to dispose of our waste products and drive continuous improvement in this area. 13 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com Environmental Upgrading of our Mombasa Yards: Environment Team Visit to Mombasa Our Enviro/H&S Director – Cheryle Robinson, Technical Director Anthony Robinson & Cyrus Githae our company Environment Manager visited our Mombasa Yards for 10 days in February 2016 to assist them prepare for & go through NEMA compliance Baseline Audits. Some technical (with safety element) trainings were also undertaken. Lead expert Alex Mwangi & RWS long term environment advisor, Jackson Raini conducted these audits with Cyrus & assisted both Mombasa yards with baseline commendations to improve enviro impact in their daily operations. These Baseline audit reports were presented to NEMA Mombasa office on 12/5/2016. Environmental Activities at our Rongai Workplace 25/5/2016 – Guest Speaker – Friends of Mau Watershed (FOMAWA) CEO Jacob – Ushered in June Enviro month with a power point presentation sharing with our assembled workplace our joint enviro investment/programme for commercial tree plantations in Lenginet & Shalom Pri Schools & our proposed plans for celebrating WED 2016. 5/6/2016 World Environment Day : (celebrated by RWS on 8/6/2016) – RWS Team of 30 personnel mixed management, workshop & drivers split into 2 groups to represent the company & engage with our 2 primary schools at Lenginet & Shalom. Theme we presented: Lets Join the Race to Make the World a Better Place The hectic morning’s programme at each school included:  Prayer for our environment around our Wangari Mathai Peace Trees planted 2015  Student drama, dance & song presentations.  FOMAWA reminder on importance of trees & caring for our shared income generating commercial tree plantations.  Lollipop give out to all students assembled to celebrate WED  RWS Waste management awareness & presentation of 2 RWS high temp drum burners along with a “how to use” demo showing responsible disposal of lollipop wrappers.  Power Point UTube Environment clips shown to students of Wangari Mathai’s Hummingbird, Plight of our Rhinos & appreciation of our African Wildlife Heritage by Anthony Robinson.  Presentation of a Perpetual Enviro Trophy for use annually on World Enviro Day & asante awards for the relevant students & school teachers for good care of our plantations. 8/6/2016 Lenginet & 15/6/2016 Shalom schools Dandelion Puberty/Personal Hygiene Education RWS sponsored/engaged Dandelion Africa to Let it Flow team to link Environment Day for these primary school girls with interactive discussions on understanding sexuality, puberty, emotions, menstrual cycle & personal hygiene – dispelling cultural myths etc. At Lenginet Pri School many older girls are from Turkana poor backgrounds & but still in Primary Education. We plan as Dandelion Team suggested in 2017 we do a follow up with sessions or pubescent boys to equip them also with skills to manage adolescence followed by a combined gender class to create better understanding by each on each other’s challenges during this high risk time, how they impact & could help 14 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com each other avoid HIV infection, unwanted pregnancies , avoid sex working & thereby perpetuating poverty cycle etc. Marking WED at our Workplace – Cyrus Githae our new Environment Manager put together an enviro Power Point highlighting enviro pollution which included a YouTube clip of Nakuru Municipal Dumpsite & how one, single parent, Kenyan woman was managing to educate her children off a recycling initiative there. An inspirational story but at same time very shocking & to see the massive scale of our waste generation & enviro degradation just in Nakuru town. Cyrus pressed the need for individual enviro consciousness & showed ways to make personal contributions to enviro friendly practices whilst at work from positive examples he had found around our workshop. He prepared our Peer Ed Leaders to lead discussions on the same in their Peer Ed Cat groups during the month of June 2016. Over 80 personnel were engaged including management – a positive improvement on 2015 when less than half our personnel bothered to attend. Other Environment Topic shared & discussed in 2016 included: 9/11/2016 WWF Living Planet Report Summary highlighting alarming biodiversity loss over last 60 years especially in our oceans due to over exploitation & other unsustainable human activities in name of development. Be advocates for change – it starts with us! Recycling of Archives to provide eco fuel for Eco Cooker – In 2016 our 40 ft archive container was given a thorough 6S housekeeping/systematic arrangement make over by a team headed up by our Filing Clerk Elsie. A copious amount of used paper was generated which we are recycling mixed with sawdust & chardust to make briquettes to save on firewood for our Eco cooker installed 2015. Two small eco, charcoal saving jikos were also bought for making chapatis making to replace worn standard type also. ANTI-CORRUPTION Rongai Workshop & Transport Ltd has a very long standing and high standard of ethics and we do not condone or perpetrate any form of corruption in our business relationships. Our Company Profile, often distributed to and discussed with existing and prospective clients and suppliers has a prominently displayed Business Ethics page which reads as follows: Our ethics are strictly adhered to and remain a central business tenet for the Company:  A strict “no bribery” policy in all areas of business, whether with the various arms of the Government, Police or Port or in private business relationships with clients and suppliers  We load within the axle limit Government regulations  Transparent accounting practices including good tax compliance  We seek to offer fair remuneration and good working conditions to all employees  We seek to continually improve our HSSE standards beyond mere compliance This clearly stated and adhered to stance is a critical part of our value system as a Company and makes us stand out from the crowd in the road transport industry in Kenya. 15 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com Business in 2016 has been very challenging and we often feel that our clearly stated and uncompromising position on this, loses the Company considerable business opportunities. We have valued the interaction with people at the various business associations that we joined in 2015 such as Kenya Association of Manufacturers, Shippers Council of Eastern Africa and others as we seek to find new strategies from a wide group of people who are all very keen to counter corruption and eradicate it. Our membership of UN Global Compact as a world wide body committed to Anti-corruption ideal as well as the support for the other nine principles makes it very clear where we stand. We believe it is not only important for individual Companies to “walk the talk” but also as stakeholders in the long term, to engage positively and proactively through such organizations with Government Ministries and policy makers to help ensure laws are fair and encourage compliance and that enforcement of those laws is widely applied without fear or favor to level out the playing field to enhance and accelerate sustainable national development. Employees take pride in our reputation for a very high standard of ethics, which earns them respect in their work and home lives; they too come up against the challenges on a daily basis of harassment and we hope that by teaching them techniques for politely but determinedly side-stepping requests for inducements . We continually encourage and teach how important it is that they personally act in an open and honest fashion and train, particularly our drivers, how to approach and relate to people who may be seeking to harass them to provoke an opportunity for bribery. PROMULGATION OF UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES We would like to make this COP report available to all our stakeholders and will upload this report as part of our website and would ask that it be uploaded to the UN Global Compact Website. We would also like to be able to avail a copy to our Customers and Suppliers on request. Our shareholders and all members of our Board of Directors value the opportunities for participation, information and support provided by our membership of UN Global Compact and this COP report will form part of our AGM Agenda for the Year 2016. We have had very hectic & busy but unfortunately financially very difficult 2016 even as we have sought to drive our newly defined Company Vision and Mission with long term training and implementation of Kaizen type lean management in a sustainable and measurable manner. It has been challenging to find the time and resources to further encourage engagement and development of all our workforce but we feel that significant progress was made in many areas. We look forward to our 70th Anniversary celebration in April 2017 and it will be an opportunity to review that we have achieved in all the important areas in the past 10 years and to underscore how important it is that Rongai takes a leadership role in promoting the four principles that UN Compact stands for. We have no illusions that 2017 will be an easy year, add to which will be the Elections in August 2017 and our celebrations will also focus on the ultimate importance of promoting peace and goodwill in our wider Rongai community. We would thank UN Global Contact for their assistance and initiatives in promoting the very essential principles of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption VANESSA EVANS MANAGING DIRECTOR RONGAI WORKSHOP & TRANSPORT LTD 16 RONGAI WORKSHOP AND TRANSPORT LTD. Website: www.rongaiws.com 17
