Sustainability Report 2016 Content ­Securitas in Brief 3 CEO statement 4 Strategy 5 Governance 6–7 About the report 8 Value creation 9 ­Securitas' responsibilities 10–15 Risk management 16–23 Facts and figures 25–28 GRI Index 30–31 Sustainability reporting For 2016, ­Securitas AB is publishing a sustainability report prepared according to the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The report was prepared in accordance with the Core application level. Unless otherwise noted, the report pertains to the 2016 calendar year. The sustainability report is a complement to the ­Securitas AB Annual Report 2016 and includes all companies in the ­Securitas Group, unless otherwise specified. The report has not been reviewed by an external third party. ­Securitas in Brief S ­ ecuritas operates in 53 countries throughout North America, Europe, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia and employs more than 335 000 people. S ­ ecuritas serves a wide range of customers of all sizes in a variety of industries and customer segments. Security solutions based on customer-specific needs are built Diagram_BV_sid 117 / 1combinations of on-site, mobile and remote guarding, electronic through different security, fire and safety and Diagram_BV_sid corporate risk 91 /1 management. Total sales and Salaries and benefits per business organic sales growth Sales per segment segment, MSEK (%) MSEK % 80 000 10.0 64 000 8.0 48 000 6.0 32 000 4.0 16 000 2.0 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 ■ Security Services ■ Security Services Organic sales growth, % North America 41% North America 29 380 (43%) ■ Security Services Europe 45% ■ Security Services ■ Security Services Europe 29 848 (43%) Ibero-America 12% ■ Security Services ■ Other 2% Ibero-America 8 609 (12%) ■ Other 1 313 (2%) Dividend, MSEK Current taxes paid, MSEK 1 250 1 250 1 000 1 000 750 750 500 500 250 250 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 Markets in which ­Securitas conducts operations: Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Jordan, Latvia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, Uruguay, the USA and Vietnam. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 3 CEO Xxxxxxx statement Leading the Industry in a Sustainable Way ­Securitas is the knowledge leader in security, specialized in protective services built on technology, people and knowledge. By providing safety to the communities where we operate, we contribute to a more sustainable society. We lead by example and aim to conduct all aspects of our operations in a responsible way. 2016 was characterized by increased levels of with ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code is included uncertainty in the world, not least as a result of in the Group’s enterprise risk management process. heightened terrorist threats and increased security Corporate social responsibility is well integrated needs due to the refugee situation in many couninto our operations. We believe it ensures long-term tries. S ­ ecuritas was able to fulfill a critical function growth and that it gives us a competitive advantage. in society by mobilizing resources and providing ­Securitas is one of few security companies that can security for our customers and I am proud of our take on the security challenges of today’s world in a employees, who have responded to tough chalsustainable way. lenges with speed, alertness and integrity, often under extraordinarily difficult conditions. ­Securitas is leading the ongoing transformation Alf Göransson of the security industry from traditional guarding to President and CEO ­Securitas AB a much broader spectrum of protective services, combining on-site, mobile and remote guarding with electronic security solutions, fire and safety, and corporate risk management. Our focus on achieving our long-term financial goals while ­delivering superior customer value in our daily ­operations is proving successful. Our performance in 2016 reflects a core business that is fundamentally strong, with stable income and good growth. Continued growth is the foundation for a sustainable business – economically, socially and environmentally – and a main prerequisite for us to remain a solid employer to our more than 335 000 employees. Attracting, retaining and continuously developing our people is key to ensuring that we are able to fulfill our customer commitments and keep the position as one of the world’s leading security companies. We work actively with occupational health and safety issues and we also use our size and influence to develop the security industry in terms of working conditions. Securitas is a signatory of UN Global Compact and commit to its ten principles. Acting with integrity and ensuring we take an active stand against corruption are prioritized issues for us. We train our employees in awareness and management of suspected corruption in all our markets and we have a zero-tolerance policy against all forms of bribery and corruption. Non-compliance 4 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Xxxxxxx Strategy Sustainability Strategy ­Securitas’ strategy is to be the leading security company, specializing in protective services based on people, technology and knowledge. The sustainability strategy is based on our fundamental values – Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness – and guided by our key corporate policies and guidelines, such as S ­ ecuritas’ Values and Ethics Code. ­ ecuritas’ core business is security. By providing S ­Securitas’ strategy is to move up the value safety to the communities where we operate, we chain and offer security solutions instead of only contribute to a more sustainable society. We lead traditional manned guarding. This will enable us to by example and aim to conduct all aspects of our operate in a way that is in line with our standards. operations in a responsible way. To us, corporate Our position as one of the largest companies in social responsibility is a business approach that the industry enables us to work actively toward delivers economic, social and environmental beneimproving the status of the security officers and fits to our stakeholders and adds value to the the conditions in the security business, for exam­Securitas brand. We enjoy a strong reputation and ple, through active dialog with authorities, industry living up to our customers’ and other stakeholders’ associations and unions. expectations is a vital part of our strategy. To meet our stakeholders’ expectations of us Our customers can be found in nearly all indusas a responsible, honest and transparent company, tries and segments and some operate in sectors ­Securitas strives to continuously improve our susthat are important for the whole of society. By protainability work and communication. Submitting a viding them with high-quality security solutions sustainability report according to the GRI guidelines and operating in a responsible and sustainable for the 2016 financial year forms part of this aim. manner, our customers can focus on their core business and develop. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 5 Governance How We Lead and Manage Our Sustainability Work Conducting our business according to laws and regulations, maintaining high business ethical standards and upholding our shared values are important components of all of ­Securitas’ operations. At ­Securitas, corporate social responsibility (CSR) • All employees are trained in ­Securitas’ Values is an integral part of our everyday work, and susand Ethics Code, to ensure that they understand tainable operations are the foundation for our longand comply with the code term growth. The business must be sustainable, • ­Securitas encourages all employees to report not only financially, but also socially and environincidents of non-compliance with S ­ ecuritas’ mentally. Values and Ethics Code. This can be done through various channels, for example, the Group Structured sustainability work reporting system, ­Securitas Integrity Line Our values have served as the foundation for our • Non-compliance with ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics work for many years and our structured and sysCode is considered a risk, and as such, it has been tematic sustainability work is based on ­Securitas’ classified as one of six prioritized risks in the Values and Ethics Code, one of our key corporate Group’s enterprise risk management process policies. • ­Securitas has a zero-tolerance policy against all • All employees and business partners are forms of bribery and corruption, including facility expected to comply with the laws and regulapayments. S ­ ecuritas’ Values and Ethics Code and tions in the countries in which ­Securitas operates the ­Securitas anti-corruption policy set out mini• ­Securitas will comply with economic and trade mum requirements that ensure compliance with sanctions issued by the United Nations, the the law European Union and the United States of • All supply arrangements should be in accordance ­America, where applicable with applicable laws and all suppliers must • ­Securitas supports and respects the fundamental comply with ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code human rights set out in the United Nations Uni• To meet the requirements of customers and versal Declaration of Human Rights. We also other key stakeholders regarding transparency support the principles set out in the ILO’s Declaand communication, S ­ ecuritas submitted this ration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at sustainability report according to the GRI G4 Work and OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Sustainability Reporting Guidelines for the Enterprises ­financial year 2016 • ­Securitas does not employ or accept any form of child labor or forced or bonded labor 6 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Governance Organization Policies Board of Directors ­Securitas conducts its business according to all The Board decides on S ­ ecuritas’ CSR strategy and applicable local laws and regulations. ­Securitas’ policies. Group Policies establish the framework for all polices and compliance monitoring in the Group. Several of President and CEO these policies relate to our sustainability work: Alf Göransson, President and CEO of ­Securitas AB, ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code sets out has ultimate responsibility for the realization of the the principles to which we adhere regarding human Group’s sustainability work. rights, employees, business ethics, environment and community involvement Group CSR Steering Committee ­Securitas Anti-Corruption Policy clearly sets The Group CSR Steering Committee establishes out the principle of zero tolerance for any corrupt the principles for S ­ ecuritas’ CSR work and closely practices, with clear definitions, requirements for follows up cases of alleged non-compliance with risk assessment, guidance regarding third-party ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code, reported relationships, training and follow-up through the different reporting channels. The ­Securitas Group Emissions Policy states that ­committee meets regularly. we should strive to continually reduce our climate impact, focusing primarily on the energy and transGroup CSR Officer port areas The Group CSR Officer leads the daily work, and in ­Securitas Supplier and Subcontractor Policy addition to following the regular reporting line, also establishes that all supply arrangements should be reports to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. in accordance with applicable laws and all suppliers Responsibilities include coordination of corporate shall comply with S ­ ecuritas’ Values and Ethics code. social responsibility activities across the Group, which involves working closely together with other core functions, for example, the legal and risk orgaSustainability indexes nization at different levels in the company, as well • STOXX Global ESG Leaders (STOXX) as HR managers at the country level. Other responsibilities include stakeholder engagement on CSR International commitments issues, and supporting the countries of operation • UN Global Compact with respect to sustainability matters. • CDP • Security Ligue’s Code of Conduct and Ethics • International Code of Conduct Association • EcoVadis Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 7 About the report A Broad Approach to Sustainability Prerequisites for reporting Definitions ­Securitas AB’s sustainability report is prepared The sustainability report includes all companies in according to the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidethe ­Securitas Group, unless otherwise specified. lines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The In certain indicators data also from the associated report was prepared in accordance with the Core companies in India and Vietnam is included in the application level. Unless otherwise noted, the sustainability report. report pertains to the 2016 calendar year. The Operations outside of S ­ ecuritas’ direct control, sustainability report is a complement to the such as suppliers and customers, are not included ­Securitas AB Annual Report 2016 and includes all in the report. companies in the S ­ ecuritas Group, unless otherwise specified. The report has not been reviewed by an Deviations external third party. The report is prepared according to the G4 Sustain­Securitas AB’s sustainability report describes ability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting the Group’s work with regards to economic, enviInitiative (GRI). If an assessment of the collected ronmental and social aspects. Information and key data has shown that the quality in certain areas is indicators have been selected based on the areas not sufficiently high, that particular data has not deemed most important for ­Securitas to measure, been included in the report. Examples of this follow up and communicate. The basis for the include presentation by gender or by age group materiality analysis is the stakeholder dialog, where in certain indicators. These deviations are specified key external and internal stakeholders’ views are in the GRI Index. considered. This process provides a way for S ­ ecuritas to continuously improve its sustainability work and communication. Both external and internal stakeContact person holders stated employees’ working conditions, Cecilia Alenius including labor relations and training, as the most Group CSR Officer relevant sustainability issue for ­Securitas. E-mail address: cecilia.alenius@­securitas.com 8 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Value creation How we Create Value For our customers For society ­Securitas’ broad range of increasingly sophisticated Safety and stability are key in a well-functioning security solutions means fewer incidents and busicommunity. ­Securitas’ role is to help companies, ness interruptions. With better risk analysis and infrastructure and government authorities to operimproved proactivity, crime, fire and other threats ate the way they are intended, without interrupcan be prevented, resulting in strengthened security tions. The protection of workplaces, public areas and lower costs from damages and disturbances. and properties plays an important part in how we New technology, in combination with specialized contribute to a safer and more sustainable society. security officers, enables ­Securitas to deliver more As one of few global security companies with the segment and customer-specific solutions that not track record, expertise and capacity to protect core only protect our customers and prevent incidents functions of society, ­Securitas’ responsibility is of and crimes, but also – in many cases – support their even greater importance in times of uncertainty business and add value. and insecurity. For our shareholders A growing share of security solutions means more than just higher income and operating margin Customer growth, it also helps ­Securitas reach our financial goals. In addition, it enhances the stability and presatisfaction surveys dictability of future income and cash flow. Other benefits include a higher customer retention rate through Customers are an important stakeholder longer contract durations and a stronger position for group and customer satisfaction surveys is contract renewal. For shareholders, this entails a one way of maintaining a constructive dialog better and more stable cash flow and a means for with this group. ­Securitas to stay ahead of the competition. 57% of all countries of operation conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys. For our employees In order to attract, retain and develop our employThe three key conclusions from surveys ees, ­Securitas strives to be a reliable employer. conducted in 2016 are: Employees who remain with the company longer >Training – the security officers need the become more qualified through training and expericorrect training for the assignment ence, and are a vital part of realizing our strategy to > Increased communication – more offer protective security through our security solucommunication to make things easier tions. This is achieved through continuous develfor our customers opment of processes for recruitment, onboarding > Service quality – continue to ensure and talent management. ­Securitas also utilizes high quality with respect to services tools such as employee surveys and several chanand personnel nels for reporting cases of non-compliance with ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. Health and Definitions according to GRI G4 safety work are vital to our operations and the security officers deployed receive training, instructions and equipment in line with the assignment. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 9 ­Securitas’ responsibilities Our Core Business Contributes to a More Sustainable Society ­Securitas’ core business is security. By providing safety to the communities where we operate, we contribute to a more sustainable society. We lead by example and aim to conduct all aspects of our operations in a r­ esponsible way. Safety and stability are key in a well-functioning Association, and the European Workers’ Council community. ­Securitas’ role is to help companies, (EWC) in our European division. ­Securitas meets infrastructure and government authorities to UNI and the EWC regularly, actively discussing many ­operate the way they are intended, without interkey issues concerning our employees. Our engageruptions. The protection of workplaces, public areas ment with unions ultimately strengthens the develand properties plays an important part in how we opment of the industry. In countries where contribute to a safer and more sustainable society. ­Securitas does not have collective bargaining As one of few global security companies with agreements or union r­ epresentation, we encourage the track record, expertise and capacity to protect other ways of maintaining open dialog with our core functions of society, ­Securitas’ responsibility is employees. of even greater importance in times of uncertainty and insecurity. Health and safety ­Securitas is the knowledge leader in security, Health and safety work are vital to our operations specialized in protective services built on technoland often form part of the services we offer our ogy, people and knowledge. Our reputation is customers. Our security officers are trained not strong; living up to our customers’ and other stakeonly to protect their own health and safety, but also holders’ expectations is our number one priority. to help others while on assignment, for example, For ­Securitas, this means delivering high-perforby performing first-aid and CPR. Health and safety mance security while making sure our business and aspects can vary depending on the assignment, operations are sustainable. and customer sites are therefore assessed from a health and safety perspective. The security officers Our people – the core of S ­ ecuritas deployed receive training, instructions and equipWe employ more than 335 000 people around the ment in line with the assignment. Many countries world, distributed across 53 countries. Attracting, of operation are OHSAS 18001 certified, but we retaining and continuously developing our people is also work actively with occupational health and therefore key to ensuring that S ­ ecuritas is able to safety issues in countries that are not certified. ­fulfill our customer commitments. Employees who A frequent question concerns the health and remain with the company longer become more safety aspects associated with the risk that our ­qualified through training and experience, and are a security officers may be exposed to violence in the vital part of realizing our strategy to offer protective line of duty. Since the risk of violence is an inevitasecurity through our security solutions. To secure ble occupational hazard in the security industry, our position as one of the leading global security ­Securitas makes extensive efforts to secure the companies, we must continue to train and develop health and safety of both our officers and the indiour employees at all levels. This is achieved through viduals they must, from time to time, act against. continuous development of processes for recruitThe use of violence is not permitted. If threatening ment, onboarding and talent management. situations occur, our officers are instructed to avoid As part of our aim to offer predictive security confrontation and await the arrival of the police. solutions, ­Securitas values good relations with The vast majority of our security officers do not unions and their representatives, based on open carry weapons. Those who do have undergone dialog. We have a global contract with UNI Global specialist training and licensing requirements, and Union (UNI) and the Swedish Transport Workers’ are usually placed in special assignments. 10 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 ­Securitas’ responsibilities Human rights International and Human Rights Watch. If the ­Securitas uses its size and influence to develop the assessment shows that it will be very difficult to Working security industry in terms of working conditions. As conduct business in an acceptable way, ­Securitas conditions a leading actor in the security market, it is important will not enter the market. Operations are not conSustainable we pay wages that meet or exceed industry levels. ducted in markets subject to war or armed conflict. operations ­Securitas has sound processes in place to ensure If the conditions are satisfactory and ­Securitas High Operaethical we live up to all legal standards, following local and proceeds with an acquisition, the customary due business tional standards excellence regional legislation and regulations regarding social diligence process is supplemented with, for examsecurity charges and taxation. ple, background checks of key personnel and verifiWith more than 335 000 To assess and verify our ability to operate in a cation against sanction lists. employees, working condinew market in an acceptable way, a thorough risk To further strengthen ­Securitas’ proactive tions are key. But we must analysis is conducted prior to entering a new approach to risk management, a Group wide goveralso operate in an ethical market. The issues and market conditions analyzed nance, risk and compliance (GRC) system is used. manner and offer high-­ include human rights and risk of corruption when The system facilitates cross-functional workflows quality services. Only then conducting business. When deemed necessary, between legal, risk, management assurance and will all of our areas of operacustomers can also be risk assessed. CSR functions. It also provides our managers with tion become sustainable. As a large employer, ­Securitas always strives to a better overview. For further information on listen to its employees. One important tool in this ­­Securitas’ enterprise risk management, please regard is our recurring employee surveys; another is see pages 16–23. the use of internal reports of non-compliance with ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code. We believe it is Anti-corruption important to have several different communication Acting with integrity and ensuring we take an and reporting channels. Those include employee active stand against corruption are prioritized ombudsmen, a local call center or an internal e-mail issues for ­Securitas. Certain markets are more chaladdress. All employees are informed about the lenging than others in this regard. However, this ­Securitas Integrity Line (­Securitas Hotline in the US does not mean that low-risk countries are not suband Canada, Linea de Alerta in Mexico), which is ject to situations of bribery or corruption. For manned around the clock and is also open to exter­Securitas, it is important to train our employees in nal parties. awareness and management of suspected corruption in all our markets. Proactive risk management ­Securitas’ anchored anti-corruption policy provides Not complying with S ­ ecuritas’ firmly established definitions and examples as well as assistance in evalValues and Ethics Code is considered an operational uating whether or not a situation complies with our risk, and as such, is classified as one of six prioritized zero-tolerance policy against all forms of bribery and risks in the Group’s enterprise risk management procorruption, including facility payments. ­Securitas’ cess. To proactively address this issue, all countries Values and Ethics Code and the anti-corruption policy of operation must complete annual self-assessset out minimum requirements that ensure compliments concerning processes and procedures for ance with applicable local and extraterritorial laws. implementing and complying with the Code and Local entities are subsequently asked to create their other Group-wide policies and guidelines. Results own detailed policies for gifts and entertainment. are analyzed closely, with the country president ulti­Relevant managers and administrative staff have to mately responsible for acting on any identified devicomplete a detailed e-learning course on the antiations. Specific attention is given to newly acquired corruption policy. companies to ensure their adherence to the Group's policies and processes. If required, internal or exterSustainability reporting nal audits may be carried out. ­Securitas annually publishes a sustainability report Prior to acquiring a company in a country where according to the Global Reporting Initiative's guide­Securitas does not currently conduct operations, a lines in order to meet the requirements of customcomprehensive country focused risk assessment is ers and other key stakeholders regarding transparcarried out. The assessment and analysis cover ency and communication. The stakeholder dialogs issues of corruption, human rights, local legislation during 2016 again confirm that the top priority for and other market conditions relevant to conducting ­Securitas is working with and disclosing key figures operations. ­Securitas’ sources of information for working conditions and labor relations. include trusted organizations, such as Transparency Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 11 ­Securitas’ responsibilities Comprehensive dialog with our stakeholders S ­ ecuritas aims to be a responsible, honest and transparent company. We encourage an ongoing dialog with our stakeholders in order to better understand their expectations and to identify areas in which there is room for improvement. We meet many of our stakeholders regularly during the course of our daily work, and once a year, key stakeholders are also invited to participate in a survey. Listed below are ­Securitas’ key stakeholders and a description of how we engage with them. Stakeholders Dialog forums Customers ­ ecuritas’ employees at different levels frequently meet with S We must have an in-depth understanding of our customers’ ­customers and continuously engage in an dialog with them. needs and industry-specific requirements, both to provide ­Customer satisfaction surveys and evaluation reports are optimal and cost-effective security solutions and to meet their ­important tools. requirements on us as a supplier regarding sustainability. Employees and employee representatives The most important forum is the ongoing daily dialog between ­ ecuritas’ most valuable assets are our more than 335 000 S our employees and S ­ ecuritas managers at different levels. ­employees, distributed over 53 countries around the world. ­Securitas also utilizes tools such as employee surveys and several Past, present and future employees are important to channels for reporting cases of non-compliance with ­Securitas’ ­Securitas and considered part of our company’s foundation. Values and Ethics Code. ­Securitas has a continuous dialog with local unions, UNI and the EWC. Shareholders, investors and analysts We publish interim reports and other continuous financial inforAn ongoing dialog with our shareholders and investors ensures mation, organize Investor Days, and conduct other investor and the long-term development of our business. analyst meetings, roadshows and conferences. At the Annual General Meeting, all shareholders are able to exercise their ­influence. Suppliers The main forum is the on-going dialog between our suppliers and ­ ecuritas has many suppliers in its operations. Ensuring that S ­Securitas representatives on all levels. In particular, when conour suppliers follow our requirements concerning values ducting negotiations for new contracts or re-negotiating and ethics, among other things, is essential to S ­ ecuritas. existing contracts. Industry organizations ­ ecuritas holds memberships in local and global industry S As one of the largest companies in the security industry, ­organizations, such as the Security Ligue, the American Society ­Securitas is a driving force in raising the standards and levels of Industrial Security (ASIS) and the International Code of Conof professionalism in the industry. duct Association (ICoCA). Meetings are conducted regularly. Local communities As a large employer and a trusted partner to our customers, S ­ ecuritas plays an active role in thousands of local communities we engage in a constant dialog with different parts of the across the globe. Ensuring security and safety in all areas of ­societies where we operate. ­society is a prerequisite for a functioning community. Policy-makers and authorities ­ ecuritas maintains a continuous dialog with authorities S S ­ ecuritas cooperates closely with authorities in all countries where and ­policy-makers at the local, national and international level. we operate – both to improve our business conditions and to explore new business opportunities. 12 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 ­Securitas’ responsibilities Key issues ­Securitas’ approach The benefits of security solutions, with a higher degree of In a more clear, transparent and sustainable way, communicate electronic security the benefits of electronic security, providing data showing how The cost efficiency of security solutions including technology a predictive approach increases the level of security and, at the same time, make security more cost efficient. ­Securitas’ ability to ensure continuity and performance delivery Values and ethics In order to attract, retain and develop our employees, S ­ ecuritas Recruitment and onboarding strives to be a reliable employer. Developing and upholding solid human resources processes is a vital factor to our success. Training and skill development ­­Securitas values proactive relationships and a constructive dialog Talent management with local unions as well as global union associations. Fair terms of employment Health and safety The bottom line effects of S ­ ecuritas leading the transformaProvide solid data and figures supporting our strategy. Enhance tion of the security industry the focus on how the transformation of offered services affects How to manage the challenges related to the transformation to the financial results and how ­Securitas manages the risks electronic-driven security solutions ­associated with investing in electronic security solutions. Explain the benefits of the position as industry leader. Maintaining stable and long-term operations Quality of procured goods and services Provide our suppliers with information regarding our Values and Values and ethics requirements Ethics Code and include compliance with the Code in our supplier contracts. We also have specific guidelines and standards for Compliance with anti-corruption policy ­suppliers and conduct supplier risk assessments when required. Contract commitment and fulfillment of deliveries Status of security officers and the profession Within industry organizations, strive to improve the status of the Remuneration issues security officer profession, raise industry wage levels and intensify skills development efforts. Employee skills development Terms for values and ethics in the international security industry Create work opportunities Active participation in various local projects, such as security Equal conditions for men and women, ethnic and religious training in schools, promoting cooperation with local communities minorities, individuals with disabilities, etc. and suppliers, mentorship programs for young people, and employment opportunities for people having difficulties entering Procurement from local suppliers the job market. S ­ ecuritas always strives to be engaged in the Contribution to increased security and safety in local local communities. communities, through cooperations Laws and regulations concerning the security industry Work to improve the business conditions in the security industry. Possibilities to expand assignments to ensure a safer society Explore opportunities to take over ­non-core police tasks. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 13 ­Securitas’ responsibilities Sustainability progress 2016 Priorities and results 2016 Priorities 2017 ­Securitas’ Values T  he governance, risk and compliance (GRC) system Continued follow-up of areas covered in the was further improved. The system facilitates crossenterprise risk management self-assessments and Ethics Code functional work and improves processes and routines and other sustainability reporting, particularly concerning health and safety and human rights Seven country visits were conducted Effort to complete training in ­Securitas’ Values and Support countries that have not yet completed Ethics Code in all countries continued. In total, the training in ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code approximately 92 percent of managers and office personnel and 80 percent of security officers have completed the course ­ Securitas Integrity Line was introduced in one country and has now been implemented in all 53 countries Employee Employee surveys were carried out in Security Follow-up of improvement actions set as a result Services Europe (covering all employees) and Security of the outcome of the employee surveys relations Services North America (covering managers and office personnel) Five meetings were held with UNI and the EWC Continue to engage in an active and constructive dialog with UNI and the EWC CO2 emissions Average CO2 emissions increased 0.7 percent Continue efforts to reduce emissions from for cars and 2.8 percent for minivans, mainly due to company-owned and leased cars and minivans vehicles included in acquisitions carried out in 2016 ­Securitas reached a score of Performance band C Use results in CDP to drive change toward lower in the 2016 CDP emissions Reporting An investor meeting with a sustainability focus was Continuous stakeholder dialog held in May 2016 External and internal stakholders were invited to Further increase the scope of the GRI report, participate in S ­ ecuritas' annual survey about our including adding KPIs / indicators sustainability work and communication A survey was carried out regarding occupational Consider the new legal requirements regarding health and safety work in countries that are not sustainability reporting and a policy for Board and OHSAS 18001 certified management diversity Business practice Implementation of Group guidelines for risk assessment Launch of an e-learning course in ­Securitas' fair of suppliers, including a due diligence process competition policy for relevant employees Follow up completion of the course in the anticorruption policy for all relevant employees 14 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 ­Securitas’ responsibilities CASE Cooperation to find missing children in Belgium Since 2012, S­ ecuritas in Belgium has been a partner Focus also informs the public of missing children and of Child Focus, a foundation working to find missing this is where S ­ ecuritas plays an important role. Our children and protect abused children. The Belgian security officers receive information about missing organization was founded in 1996 on the initiative children, and watch for them during their working of Jean-Denis Lejeune, one year after the disaphours to help find them. If a security officer comes pearance of his own daughter, and is a member of across someone who looks like one of the children, Missing Children Europe, a federation of 30 members he or she informs ­Securitas Care Center. The Care in 26 countries in Europe. Center, which is the contact point between ­Securitas Child Focus works actively to protect missing and Child Focus, in turn alerts Child Focus so that children, abducted or runaway children, and sexually they can take quick action. abused and exploited children. The organization proEach year, Child Focus launches a new campaign vides psychological and legal support to the victims, to create awareness about their work. ­Securitas both the children themselves and their parents. Child helps by distributing posters and other material. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 15 Risk management Proactive Risk Management and Internal Control ­Securitas’ process for enterprise risk management (ERM) seeks to identify, prioritize and manage the key risks to our business at all levels and in all parts of the business. ­Securitas’ internal control system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives. The system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, as well as compliance with the main policies. Internal control over financial reporting is included cial control (for more detailed information on the as a part of the overall internal control of ­Securitas model, refer to pages 46–47 in the printed Annual and constitutes a central part of the Group’s corpoReport 2016), and in the ­Securitas Reporting rate governance. The description below covers a Manual, which specifically focuses on reporting broader perspective on how ­Securitas’ internal conmatters to ensure compliance with reporting trol is organized, using a structure based on the requirements and rules. This creates an environCOSO model (2013, Framework), but also makes ment that supports reliable and accurate reporting. specific reference to items pertaining directly to internal control over financial reporting. On pages Risk assessment 19 –23 we describe the company’s enterprise risk At the highest level, the Board considers where management process, which sets the overall profuture strategic opportunities and risks lie, and cess for ­Securitas’ proactive and continuous work helps shape the corporate strategy. Balanced with risk management and internal control. and focused risk management is necessary for ­­Securitas’ insurance and claims strategy is to “act the fulfillment of ­Securitas’ strategies and the as if uninsured”. Refer to page 44 in the printed achievement of its corporate objectives. Annual Report 2016 for more information about Enterprise risk management (ERM) is an integral insurance as a risk management tool. component of S ­ ecuritas’ operations, and risk awareness is part of the company culture. Risk Control environment assessments are conducted within the framework The key features of the control environment include: of the S­ ecuritas ERM process, regardless whether clear terms of reference for the Board and each of its the assessments pertain to operational risks or committees, a clear organizational structure with financial reporting risks. ­Securitas does not classify documented delegation of authority documented in compliance risk as a separate category. Instead, it an approval matrix, from the Board to President and is included in the operational category. Risk assessCEO and further to Group Management. It also ment is a dynamic process that aims to identify includes the competence of employees and a series and analyze risks in relation to ­Securitas’ objectives. of Group policies, procedures and frameworks. It serves as the basis for implementing mitigating Emphasis lies on the competence and abilities of actions after considering the controls in place the Group’s employees, with continuous training and (reduce, transfer / share or accept the risk in quesdevelopment actively encouraged through a wide tion). See page 20 for more details on the risk variety of schemes and programs. assessment and planning process. The Group has three fundamental values – ­Integrity, Vigilance and Helpfulness – to help its employe­es exercise good judgment and make ­decisions on a consistent basis. Policies that apply to internal control over financial reporting are described in ­Securitas’ Group Policies, which include the company’s model for finan16 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Risk management Group 1 approval ERM matrix self-assessment1 5 Continuous policy Letter of development and representation1 imple­mentation Group-wide Control 4 Activities 2 Financial Basic control1 controls1 Group-level reporting Business instructions and controls framework 3 Audit, risk and control diagnostics1 This illustration shows an overview of the key Group-wide control activities. 1 Described in further detail below. Group-wide control activities between divisions. Each reporting country is Internal control covers all divisions and subsidiaries responsible for acting on any deviations. in the Group. Internal control activities are established by policies and processes, which help ensure Basic controls that all management directives to manage risks are 2 Detailed controls in financial reporting proexecuted. Controls are performed on several levels cesses such as revenue, payroll and IT, are included within the organization and are established based as one component of S ­ ecuritas’ overall Group-wide on the process concerned. control structure called “basic controls”. Basic controls set the minimum Group requirement with ERM self-assessment regard to what needs to be in place based on risk 1 Every major country throughout the Group assessment. Supplementary controls ensure full performs an annual self-assessment, which is a part protection of the company’s assets and assure of the process to manage enterprise-wide risks. It accurate and reliable financial reporting tailored to covers key risks, including financial reporting risks, the entity’s company’s specific conditions. These measures taken and compliance with ­Securitas controls can include manual, application or general Group Policies and S ­ ecuritas Reporting Manual. An IT ­controls. example of an operational risk included in the selfassessment package is assignment execution risk. Key areas covered: An example of a financial reporting risk is manage• protection of company assets ment estimates. For further information, refer to • completeness and timeliness of customer invoicing www.­securitas.com. • credit collection procedures The self-assessments promote control aware• contract management ness and accountability and are signed off by each • HR / payroll country president. The external auditor and / or • IT another internal or external resource validates the • business continuity planning answers to questions in the questionnaire deemed • validity of payments to third parties to be risk areas for the selected reporting countries. • accuracy of general ledger The answers are compiled at the divisional and • timeliness and accuracy of Group reporting Group levels to support benchmarking within and • compliance with local requirements Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 17 Risk management Audit, risk and control diagnostics The controller is also responsible for reporting 3 One important audit activity is the country financial information to Group that is correct, comdiagnostics. The diagnostics comprise a work proplete and timely. The controller receives continuous gram covering IFRS compliance, as well as key confeedback from the Group regarding reporting qualtrols within financial reporting processes, contract ity, which is an effective tool for enhanced reportmanagement and IT security. These reviews are ing. In addition, each division has a divisional conusually conducted within the first year after an troller with corresponding responsibilities at the acquisition has been made and a follow-up is perdivisional level. formed during the second year, provided that significant areas for improvement have been identiLetter of representation fied. The Group also performs risk and control diag5 The Group has a representation process in nostics in functional areas which, by nature, have a which operating unit presidents and controllers sign high degree of inherent risk. These diagnostics aim a letter of representation in connection with the to ensure compliance with key policies such as the year-end report, stating their opinion on whether or Contract Management policy and ­Securitas’ Values not the internal control over financial reporting and and Ethics. ­Securitas develops this audit and the reporting packages give a true and fair view of review process on a continuous basis using both the financial position. internal and external resources. The letter also covers the broader perspective of internal control, including compliance with ­Securitas Financial control Group Policies related to financial reporting. 4 Control activities specifically aimed at managing risks related to financial reporting include methInformation and communication ods and activities for securing assets, controlling ­Securitas’ channels for information and communithe accuracy and reliability of internal and external cation are constantly developed to ensure that all financial reports, and ensuring compliance with employees are given clear objectives and are made defined guidelines. aware of the parameters that constitute acceptable Regular analyses of the financial results at the business practices, as well as the expectations of various levels of the organization using the financial the Board in managing risks, in order to achieve set model ensure that financial information maintains a goals and objectives. This provides a clear definihigh level of quality. ­Securitas’ financial reporting is tion of the Group’s purpose and goals, accountabilibased on the following foundations: ties and the scope of permitted activities of • ­Securitas Group Policies for financial planning employees. ­Securitas Group Policies are available in and reporting, long-term financing and treasury, a Group-wide IT system. risks and insurance, communications, branding, Systems and procedures have been implelegal issues and IT mented that support complete, accurate and timely financial reporting and provide management with • Guidelines in ­Securitas’ financial model, which the necessary reports on business performance relacreate the framework for a simple and clear intertive to the established objectives. The Group reportnal reporting method, including timely and accuing department regularly issues guidance on reportrate follow-up of financial key figures (­Securitas ing matters and the reporting manual is available in a Six Fingers) Group-wide database. Reporting units regularly pre• ­Securitas’ Reporting Manual, which provides all pare financial and management reports that are dismanagers and financial staff with detailed cussed at review meetings at different levels. These instructions and definitions for financial reporting include an analysis of financial performance and risks • The controller, who is responsible for continuously in order for the organization to understand its ensuring that the financial information provided is responsibility with regard to internal control and its accurate, transparent, relevant and up to date impact in relation to risks, goals and objectives. Controllers at all levels hold a key role in terms of Monitoring integrity, professionalism and the ability to work in Monitoring is performed at different levels and by teams in order to create the environment that is different functions within the organization dependneeded to achieve transparent, relevant and timely ing on whether it is related to operational or finanfinancial information. Local controllers are responsicial reporting matters. Key functions include the ble for ensuring compliance with the approved set Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, Group of policies and frameworks, and for ensuring that Management, functional committees, Management internal controls pertaining to financial reporting Assurance, the Group risk organization, and local processes are implemented. and divisional management. Refer to page 21 for more information. 18 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Risk management Four-step process for managing enterprise risk ­Securitas’ enterprise risk management process (ERM) is engrained in the business and based on close cooperation between operative management and all functions working with the different parts of the risk management process. 1 d ris k ut an The process starts with risk identificaInp tification n ide tion and prioritization during the ERM planning process 2 S ­ ecuritas Group Policies as well as local Operational cy processes, rules and procedures estabPoli lish the framework for day-to-day risk opment Risk-based management vel 3 de The identified risks and adopted itoring Financial / Contract mon ­policies also set the structure for all Financial and compliance monitoring in the Group reporting acquisition 4 The ultimate responsibility for governance of risk management lies with the Board of Directors, but the work involved in minimizing risks takes place Ris t through a structured process of assigning k managemen responsibility to all levels of the organization activities S ­ ecuritas is exposed to various types of risks in its To support the ERM work, ­Securitas has impledaily business. When providing security services, mented a web-based governance, risk and compli­Securitas manages not only its own risks, but also ance (GRC) system that comprises all four steps in risks on behalf of its customers. Minimizing the risk ­Securitas’ enterprise risk management process and of a loss occurring, and thereby protecting our gathers the ERM information in one database. The stakeholders, is an important objective. ­Securitas’ GRC system supports the overall ERM work in the risks have been classified into three main categoGroup. It is used to streamline the ERM processes ries: contract and acquisition risks, operational to further structure current processes and workassignment risks and financial risks. The categoflows. The main workflows included in the system ries are based on the natural flow of the business – are ERM self-assessment, ERM business plan, entering into a contract, execution of the assignpolicy management, sustainability reporting, audit ment and the financial result. Similar risk categories module and risk register. Also, the system autoare also relevant for acquisitions, but are then clasmates current processes, such as reports, with the sified as acquisition risks, operational integration aim to improve the overall quality of the ERM work risks and financial integration risks. and serves as a single point of information. All of the risks in these categories can impact The four steps and current actions are described the Group’s financial performance and position if in further detail on the following pages. they are not managed in a structured way. This is why ­Securitas has developed its four-step process approach for managing enterprise risks. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 19 Risk management 1 Input and risk identification The ERM process is integrated into the Group’s business planning and performance monitoring processes, regardless of the risk category concerned. As part of the overall annual business plan process, each level of the organization prepares an ERM business plan. The ERM business plan includes risk assessment, risks are currently considered key Group risks and controls, risk management activities and action have been assigned primary focus for the coming plans. It determines the main focus and priorities year. For examples of these risks and how they are for operational risk management at the country, managed, refer to www.securitas.com. division and Group level for the coming year. The ultimate prioritization of key risks for each ­Securitas’ ERM business plan risk assessment tool year is decided by Group Management and preis used to facilitate the risk assessment process, as sented to the Audit Committee. well as action planning, depending on the level of risk and controls that are in place. Key risk determination The yearly risk assessment process is coordinated by the Group risk organization, which is also responsible for maintainSix key risks 2016 ing the risk register. The risk register contains about • Customer contract risk 50 risks and is updated annually, primarily based on • Assignment execution risk the country ERM business plans, but also on other • Compliance (regulatory and other) risk sources of input such as audits, self-assessment • IT failure risk results and management input. Out of the 50 risks, • Price risk about 15 are selected as top risks that will be sub• ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics compliance risk jected to monitoring activities. Out of these, six 20 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Risk management 2 Policy development One of the cornerstones of the ERM process is ­Securitas Group Policies, which establish the framework for all policies and comp­liance monitoring in the Group. The Group Policies are developed by management and key policies approved by the Board. Using all available input, both from internal ERM • ­Securitas’ Values and Ethics Code ensures that ­processes, including yearly risk assessment and the company upholds and promotes the highest establishing risk business plans, but also external ethical business standards. ­Securitas’ basic requiresuch as changing regulations an assessment is made ment is to act within the framework of laws and whether new policies need to be created or existing international conventions, such as the United policies need to be updated. A general policy update Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. is released after the statutory Board meeting in May This means that ­Securitas respects and complies every year, but specific policies are also issued when with competition rules, labor market regulations, necessary throughout the year. agreements and safety requirements, environmenSome of the key policies adopted by S ­ ecuritas tal legislation and any other provisions that set the that are relevant from a governance perspective are: parameters of our operations. For further informa• Contract policy sets out the process and main printion, refer to pages 7 and 10–15. ciples for managing customer contract risk, based • Communication policy in accordance with the on standard terms, a full customer and contract risk stock market’s requirements for information with evaluation, as well as a framework of key policies for the aim of ensuring that the company fulfills these contracting guarding services and electronic security requirements. solutions. The objective is to manage the risks • Competition law compliance policy to ensure ­arising from customer contracts, and to ensure that that S­ ecuritas and its subsidiaries or affiliates are all customer contracts have a fair and reasonable committed to full compliance with all competition allocation of responsibility and risk between the laws and regulations. ­customer and ­Securitas and that the price reflects • Insider policy as a complement to the insider the risk taken on by S ­ ecuritas. ­legislation in force in Sweden. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 21 Risk management 3 Risk management activities Group Management sets the risk management policies for the entire Group. Accountability for managing risks is clearly assigned to management at Group, divisional and local level. Group Management has overall responsibility for To be successful, all of ­Securitas’ branch managthe management of risks, and for the implementaers must understand the risks associated with protion and maintenance of control systems in accorviding services and be able to assess and control dance with the Board’s policies. Specifically, divithese risks. ­Securitas actively pursues different risk sional management and established functional management activities to increase awareness and committees are responsible for ensuring that a proknowledge. One important tool is the business risk cess for creating risk awareness exists throughout evaluation model “The Scale”. For further informathe division. The divisional presidents are responsition on this, refer to www.­securitas.com. ble for all aspects of the operations in their divisions, including operational risk management and RISK RESPONSIBILITIES risk minimization. Operating unit managers and Branch / Country / Principal activities area division Group country risk managers are responsible for ensuring Risk assessment that risk management is part of the local corporate Contract management culture at all levels within a country. Loss prevention Accountability for managing risks is clearly Claims settlement assigned to management at Group, divisional and Insurance purchasing local level. 22 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Risk management 4 Risk-based monitoring Monitoring permeates all levels throughout the organization and is performed by different functions depending on whether it is related to operational or financial reporting matters. A range of activities are undertaken to monitor, follow up and mitigate risks. Monitoring is performed at several different levels • The functional committees determine and by key functions within the organization and differcommunicate appropriate policies and monitor ent activities are continuously undertaken to monithe key issues within each area of responsibility, tor, follow up and mitigate risks. refer to page 31 in the printed Annual Report • The Board of Directors plays an important role 2016. in the ongoing process of identifying and evalu• The ERM Committee owns and manages the ating significant risks faced by the Group and the process which provides tools and helps manageeffectiveness of related controls. ment identify and manage the risks inherent in • The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness ­Securitas’ line of business. of the Group’s ERM and internal control systems. • The Group Management Assurance function In addition, the Committee also supports the Board has a coordinating and monitoring role in relation with the task of ensuring internal control over to certain internal control activities at Group level. financial reporting. This is accomplished through Risk assessments together with analysis of ERM several activities such as the review of basic conself-assessment results are used as the basis for trols. The Committee also reviews all quarterly and determining which activities are to be carried out annual financial reports before publication. in relation to monitoring from an audit perspective. • The President and CEO and Group Manage• Local management is primarily responsible for ment review performance through a compremonitoring and ensuring compliance by local hensive reporting system based on regular busiunits with S ­ ecuritas Group Policies including any ness reviews of actual results, analyses of varidivision-specific policies and guidelines. ances, key performance indicators (­Securitas’ model for financial control, refer to pages 46–47 in the printed Annual Report 2016) and regular forecasting. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 23 Xxxxxxx 24 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Facts and figures Employees New employees – age group and gender Number of employees per business segment in relation to total new employees, % New employees % Number 59 150 000 56 120 000 53 90 000 50 60 000 47 30 000 44 0 12 13 14 15 16 ■ Security Services North America, 33% Women Men % of average number ■ Security Services Europe, 35% ■ Under 30 years ■ Under 30 years of yearly employees. ■ Security Services Ibero-America, 18% ■ 30–50 years ■ 30–50 years 2016: 59% (56) ■ Other, 14% ■ Over 50 years ■ Over 50 years ■■ Actual number. 2016 2015 Women Men 2016: 165 084 (157 935) Security Services North America* 111 997 108 107 Under 30 years 12.0 39.2 Security Services Europe 117 155 118 151 30–50 years 7.1 30.2 Security Services Ibero-America 60 848 59 508 Over 50 years 2.2 9.3 Other* 45 945 42 079 Total 335 945 327 845 Managers and office personell * T he comparatives have been restated due to an organizational change that took place in the Group as of January 1, 2016. This change has had no effect on the total Group level. Specification of years of service per employment category Managers and office personell ■ Less than 1 year, 17% Managers and office personnel 2016 Security officers ■ 1–2 years, 13% Less than 1 year 2 303 ■ 2–5 years, 20% 1–2 years 1 741 ■ 5–10 years, 21% ■ Over 10 years, 29% 2–5 years 2 671 5–10 years 2 802 Over 10 years 3 860 Total 13 377 ■ Less than 1 year, 17% Security officers ■ 1–2 years, 13% ■ 2–5 years, 20% ■ Less than 1 year, 31% Security officers 2016 ■ 5–10 years, 21% Total ■ 1–2 years, 17% Less than 1 year 94 801 ■ Over 10 years, 29% ■ 2–5 years, 21% 1–2 years 53 920 ■ 5–10 years, 17% ■ Over 10 years, 14% 2–5 years 65 167 5–10 years 53 946 Over 10 years 42 968 Total 310 802 ■ Less than 1 year, 31% Total ■ 1–2 years, 17% ■ 2–5 years, 21% ■ Less than 1 year, 30% Total 2016 ■ 5–10 years, 17% ■ 1–2 years, 17% Less than 1 year 97 ■ 104Over 10 years, 14% ■ 2–5 years, 21% 1–2 years 55 661 ■ 5–10 years, 18% ■ Over 10 years, 14% 2–5 years 67 838 5–10 years 56 748 Over 10 years 46 828 Total* 324 179 * T he difference compared with total number of employees is explained by missing information from five countries of operation. ■ Less than 1 year, 30% ■ 1–2 years, 17% ■ 2–5 years, 21% ■ 5–10 years, 18% ■ Over 10 years, 14% Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 25 Facts and figures Employees Share of employees with Share of employees Andel avwith anställda Share of employees with Share of employees Andel avwithanställda med tillsfull-time and part-time full-time andmed part-time permanent and temporary heltidsrespektive permanent and temporary vidareanställning respektive employment, respectively employment,deltidsanställning split per gender work contracts, respectively work contracts, split per gender tidsbegränsad anställning Fö ■ Full-time, 85% (84) ■ ■ Heltid, Full-time, men, 70%85% (84) ■ Permanent, 88% (88) ■ Permanent■employees, Tillsvidare, 88% (88) ■ ■ Part-time, 15% (16) ■ ■ Deltid,15% Full-time, women, 15% (16) ■ Temporary, 12% (12) men, 71% ■ Tidsbegränsad, 12% (12) ■ Definitions according to GRI G4 ■ Part-time, men, 11% Definitions according to GRI G4 ■ Permanent employees, ■ ■ Part-time, women, 4% women, 17% ■ Definitions according to GRI G4 ■ Temporary employees, men, 10% ■ Temporary employees, women, 2% Definitions according to GRI G4 Share of employees Proportion of senior Workforce split on covered by collective Arbetsstyrka uppdelad management hired from the employment category bargaining agreements på anställningskategori local community, 2016 55% ■ Security officers, 96% ■ 55% (48) ■ Väktare, 96% ■ Hired from local ■ Managers/office personnel, 4% Definitions according■ Chefer/tjänstemän, to GRI G4 4%community, 95% (96) ■ Hired from outside local community, 5% (4) 2016 Senior management: Members Managers/ of the country’s executive office personnel 14 481 management team Security officers 315 864 Total* 330 345 Local employee: An employee who is born in or has the legal * The difference compared with total right to reside indefinitely in number of employees is explained the country by missing information from four countries of operation. Definitions according to GRI G4 Gender distribution, average number of Gender distribution, yearly employees Board of Directors Employee turnover, % % % % 100 100 44 45.2% 80 80 42 60 60 40 40 40 38 20 20 36 0 0 34 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 ■■ Women. 2016: 21% (20) ■■ Women. 2016: 33% (38) ■■ Men. 2016: 79% (80) ■■ Men. 2016: 67% (62) 26 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Facts and figures Health and safety, training Work-related injuries Causes, work-related fatalities 2016 2015 2016 2015 Actual number of Traffic accident 2 6 work-related injuries 6 139 6 361 Shooting, other fatal attack 1 1 Injury rate 1.8 1.9 Fire accident 0 1 Actual number Other accident 1 0 of work-related fatalities 4 8 Notes: One of the traffic accidents 2016 (France) occurred while traveling to or from Definitions according to GRI G4 work, but are according to local rules classified as work related fatalities (2015: 1). The fatality reported as Other accident is being investigated, since it is not yet establised whether the accident was work-related. Countries of operation with Countries of operation with formal health and safety formal health and safety Work related fatalities 2016, per country committees* committees* France Poland Thailand Traffic accident 1 0 1 Shooting, other fatal attack 0 1 0 77% Other accident 1 0 0 Total 2 1 1 Training hours ■ Share of total number of ■ Share of total number of 2016 2015 countries, 77% countries, 77% Total number of hours of training 7 957 045 6 624 460 Actual number 2016: 41 Actual number 2016: 41 Average number of hours * Reporting countries represent 99% of total sales / 96% of total of training per employee 24.09 21.87 number of employees Definitions according to GRI G4 Definitions according to GRI G4 Active OH&S work Active occupational health and safety (OH&S) work is ­prioritized and vital to ­Securitas’ ­operations and performance. Although not all of our operations are OHSAS 18001 c­ ertified, they have OH&S committees and all employees are continuously trained to ensure they c­ an carry out their duties in a safe way and avoid injuries at work. Formal ­processes are in place for reporting and investigating OH&S incidents and ­correcting the causes. Facts and figures Environment Other Gross direct emissions and indirect marked-based emissions Average CO2 Subscription to / endorsement of external of CO2 equivalent, 2016* emissions from vehicles declarations, principles, etc Tonnes Gram / km No. of vehicles ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 160 000 250 14 000 Country 9001 14001 27001 18001 140 000 230 13 000 Security Services North America 120 000 210 12 000 Canada ■ 100 000 190 11 000 80 000 170 10 000 Security Services Europe 60 000 150 9 000 Austria ■ 130 8 000 Belgium (incl. Luxembourg) ■ 40 000 12 13 14 15 16 Croatia ■ ■ ■ ■ 20 000 Czech Republic (incl. Slovakia)* ■ ■ ■ 0 Max CO2 gram per km for Denmark ■ ■ Direct Indirect Indirect Total new minivans (6–7 seater): (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 3) Estonia ■ ■ 175 Max CO2 gram per km Finland ■ ■ ■ for new company cars France ■ Direct Indirect Indirect (max 5 seater): 135 2016 Germany ■ (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 3) Average CO2 emissions from vehicles: 146 Hungary ■ ■ ■ Security Services North America 8 436 2 932 9 527 ■■ Number of vehicles: Ireland ■ ■ ■ Security Services Europe 58 518 20 952 31 253 14 651 Latvia ■ Security Services Ibero-America 21 184 2 605 9 471 Montenegro ■ ■ ■ ■ Africa, Middle East and Asia 3 247 913 2 845 Netherlands ■ ■ ■ Other 77 40 1 326 Norway ■ ■ ■ Total 91 462 27 442 54 422 Poland ■ Change compared with 2015 -2% 34% n/a Romania ■ ■ ■ ■ Serbia ■ ■ ■ * In 2016, the disclosed indirect emissions are calculated using the market based method, according to GHG Protocol requirements. Sweden ■ ■ Compared with 2015, the indirect market based emissions (scope 2) are 34% higher. 2015 discloures are calculated according to the location based method. Switzerland ■ If the location based method is applied also for 2016, indirect scope 2 Turkey ■ ■ ■ ■ emissions decreased with 2% compared with 2015. UK ■ ■ ■ ■ 2010 is the base year, as it was the first year ­Securitas assessed its climate impact. No recalculation of the base year has been Security Services Ibero-America done, even though the scope of the climate assessment has been extended to include 37 more countries, compared with 2010. Argentina ■ Chile ■ A GHG assessment quantifies all seven Kyoto greenhouse gases where applicable and it is measured in units of carbon dioxide Colombia ■ ■ equivalence, or CO2e. For ­Securitas the following greenhouse Ecuador ■ gases are applicable and have been included in the assessment: Peru ■ ■ ■ Carbon dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous oxide (N2O). Portugal ■ ■ ■ Biogenic CO2 emissions: 28.2 tonnes (2015: n/a) Spain ■ ■ ■ The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard is a standard Uruguay ■ for reporting climate data. The system Our Impacts has been used as the calculation tool. Operational control is the chosen consolidation approach. Africa, Middle East and Asia Definitions according to GRI G4 Hong Kong ■ India ■ ■ ■ ■ Singapore ■ UAE ■ Vietnam ■ * OHSAS 18001 certification pertains to Slovakia 28 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 Xxxxxxx CASE Creating opportunities for war victims in Colombia In Colombia, the long civil war has left behind numerous victims, Colombian state to train our employees in human rights issues. many of them with little education and living in poor conditions. The objective of the initiative, which is promoted by the Colombian In 2012, ­Securitas Colombia joined the United Nations Global government and the Swedish Business Network in Colombia, is Compact and the initiatives Business for Peace (B4P) and to fight corruption by strengthening the development of a fair ­Women's Empowerment. Being part of these initiatives allowed business environment with clear rules. As part of the initiative, us to generate public-private partnerships for the recruitment of war ­Securitas Colombia has adopted the guidelines included in the victims, displaced persons and retired military personnel. ­Securitas World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative. provides basic security officer training for these recruits at no cost With the help of UN Global Compact and Corporación Fenalco and then offers them employment in the company. Solidario, an organization promoting corporate social responsibility, In another initiative, through the signing of the so called ­Securitas Colombia also trains suppliers in business ethics, social ­transparency pact, ­Securitas has reached an agreement with the responsibility and human rights. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 29 GRI Index GRI Index S ­ ecuritas AB’s sustainability report is prepared according to the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The report was prepared in accordance with the Core application level. AR = S­ ecuritas AB Annual Report 2016 SR = S ­ ecuritas AB Sustainability Report 2016 GRI reference and description Page refere nce Note UN Global Compact GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO statement SR 4 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organization AR 49 G4-4 Primary services AR 6–7 G4-5 HQ location AR 49 G4-6 Countries of operation SR 3 G4-7 Nature of ownership AR 134–135 G4-8 Markets served AR 14 G4-9 Scale of operation AR 14, 87 (note 9), 114 (note 38) G4-10 Number of employees SR 25 Includes data from the associated 6 companies in India and Vietnam. G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements SR 26 Includes data from the associated 3 companies in India and Vietnam. G4-12 Supply chain description SR 12–13 G4-13 Significant changes AR 49–57 G4-14 Precautionary approach SR 11 G4-15 External charters SR 28 G4-16 Memberships and partnerships SR 12–13 Material aspects and boundaries G4-17 List of entities AR 124 (note 49) In the following standard disclosures and indicators, data from the associated companies in India and Vietnam is included: G4-10, G4-11, G4-EC6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-LA1, G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA9, G4-PR5. G4-18 Defining report content SR 8, 11, 12–13 G4-19 Material aspects SR 8, 11, 12–14 G4-20 For each aspect, report the aspect SR 8, 11, 12–14, 30–31 boundary within the organization G4-21 For each aspect, report the aspect SR 8, 11, 12–14, 30–31 boundary outside the organization G4-22 Restatements n/a The comparatives in Number of employees per business segment (page 25) have been restated due to an organizational change that took place in the Group as of September 1, 2016. The change has no effect on the total Group level. G4-23 Significant reporting changes n/a Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups SR 12–13 G4-25 Basis for identification SR 12–13 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 12–13 G4-27 Key topics raised SR 8, 12–13, 25–28, 30–31 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period SR 8 G4-29 Previous report April 11, 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle SR 8 G4-31 Contact point SR 8 G4-32 Content index and in accordance SR 30–31 G4-33 Assurance SR 8 Governance G4-34 Governance structure AR 26–45 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Codes of conduct SR 6–7, 12–14 10 30 Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Index GRI reference and description Page refere nce Note UN Global Compact SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-DMA-a Report why the aspects are material SR 4–7, 12–13 G4-DMA-b Report how material aspects are managed SR 5–7, 14 G4-DMA-c Evaluation of the management approach SR 8–14, 25–28, 30–31 MATERIAL ASPECTS ECONOMIC Aspect: Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and AR 58–59 distributed Aspect: Market presence G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired SR 26 Includes data from the associated 6 from the local community at significant companies in India and Vietnam. locations of operation ENVIRONMENTAL Aspect: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions SR 28 Includes data from the associated 7, 8, 9 (Scope 1) companies in India and Vietnam. G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) SR 28 Includes data from the associated 7, 8, 9 emissions (Scope 2) companies in India and Vietnam. G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) SR 28 Includes data from the associated 7, 8, 9 emissions (Scope 3) companies in India and Vietnam. SOCIAL – L ABOR PR AC TICES AND DECENT WORK Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee SR 25 Not reporting by region (see also 6 hires and employee turnover by age group, page 8). Includes data from the gender and region associated companies in India and Vietnam. Aspect: Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 Countries of operation with formal joint SR 27 Reporting on number of countries management-worker health and safety of operation with formal health and committees safety committees. Includes data from the associated companies in India and Vietnam. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, SR 27 Not reporting rates of occupational diseases, lost days, and occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and total number of workand absenteeism, or by region related fatalities, by region and by gender or gender (see also page 8). Includes data from the associated companies in India and Vietnam Aspect: Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per SR 27 Not reporting by gender or 6 employee by gender, and by employee employee category (see also category page 8). Includes data from the associated companies in India and Vietnam. SOCIAL – HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Child labor G5-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as SR 6, 11 1, 2, 5 having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Aspect: Forced or compulsory labor G5-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as SR 6, 11 1, 2, 4 having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor SOCIAL – PRODUC T RESPONSIBILIT Y Aspect: Product and service labeling G5-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer SR 9 Includes data from the associated satisfaction companies in India and Vietnam. Production: S ­ ecuritas AB in cooperation with Intellecta Corporate. Photo: Ingemar Lindewall: Cover, pages 2, 3, 15, 24 and 27. Agustín Baeck: page 29. Securitas Sustainability Report 2016 31 Xxxxxx ­Securitas AB P.O. Box 12307 SE-102 28 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Lindhagensplan 70 www.­securitas.com
