Musgrave Group Musgrave House, Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork, Ireland. T12 TN99 T: +353 (0) 21 452 2100 E: group@musgrave.ie musgravegroup.com 19th August 2017 His Excellency António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Musgrave Annual Global Compact Communication on Progress Dear Secretary-General, We are pleased to confirm that Musgrave is committed to continuing its support for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in respect of human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption and to advancing them within our sphere of influence. We are committed to continuing to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to continue to articulate our commitment both to our employees, partners, clients and the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will publicly report on our progress in this regard. Please find attached our Communication on Progress 2017, as well as the contact person responsible for communications with the office of the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Chris Martin Group CEO Musgrave Group plc: Registered in Ireland No 105820. Registered office: Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork. Directors: P. Lacy (Chairman), C. Musgrave (Vice Chairman) C. N. Martin (Group CEO), T. Kenny (Secretary), N. Keeley, W. Mackeown, S.Buckley, N. Hartery, M. Kelleher, R. Brennan, C. Pilling Musgrave Group Musgrave House, Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork, Ireland. T12 TN99 T: +353 (0) 21 452 2100 E: group@musgrave.ie musgravegroup.com 19th August 2017 His Excellency António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Musgrave Annual Global Compact Communication on Progress Dear Secretary-General, Musgrave is one of Ireland’s largest and most successful companies. We are a private familyowned business, founded in 1876 and headquartered in the city of Cork. Together with our retailer partners, we employ more than 45,000 people. We partner with entrepreneurial retailers and food service professionals. We operate 7 brands in the Republic of Ireland, in Northern Ireland and in Spain – including the SuperValu, Centra, Daybreak, Mace, Dialprix and Dialsur retail brands and the Market Place wholesale brand. We support more than 1,450 local independently-owned retail stores. During 2017, we have progressed with our current 3-year Sustainability Strategy, aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We are continuing to challenge ourselves to improve our sustainability performance and are proud to have achieved verification under the Irish Food Board (Bord Bía) Origin Green sustainability programme www.origingreen.ie We have set stretching sustainability targets that build on our success in minimising our impacts over the last 2 decades. We also want to support our retail partners to improve their sustainability performance and inspire consumers to live more sustainably too. We have been signatories to the UN Global Compact since May of 2004 and undertake to continue to respect and promote its ten principles. We attach our 2017 Communication on Progress for your attention. We will also communicate our COP to our stakeholders via our website. Yours sincerely, John Curran Head of Sustainability Musgrave Group plc: Registered in Ireland No 105820. Registered office: Ballycurreen, Airport Road, Cork. Directors: P. Lacy (Chairman), C. Musgrave (Vice Chairman) C. N. Martin (Group CEO), T. Kenny (Secretary), N. Keeley, W. Mackeown, S.Buckley, N. Hartery, M. Kelleher, R. Brennan, C. Pilling United Nations Global Compact Musgrave Communication on Progress 2017 What is the UN Global Compact? By doing so, business, as a primary Through the implementation of driver of globalisation, can help ensure consistent policies and clear targets for “The Global Compact asks companies to that markets, commerce, technology every aspect of the business, as well as embrace universal principles and to and finance advance in ways that mechanisms to continuously measure partner with the United Nations. It has benefit economies and societies and report performance, Musgrave is grown to become a critical platform for everywhere. ensuring that the Global Compact forms the UN to engage effectively with a core part of our business strategy. enlightened global business.” Musgrave: Committed to UN – Former UN Secretary-General Ban KiGlobal Compact Communications moon unglobalcompact.org Musgrave has been a signatory to the Our 2017 COP will be communicated to The UN Global Compact is a strategic Global Compact since 2004; we will our stakeholders via our website policy initiative for businesses that are continue our commitment to the ten musgravesustainability.com – committed to aligning their operations principles, as set out in this where a wide range of information and strategies with ten universally Communication on Progress (COP) for relating to our approach to accepted principles in the areas of 2017 and the accompanying statement sustainability can also be found. human rights, labour, environment and of support. anti-corruption. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 1|Page Human Rights Principles of the UN Global Musgrave requires that the national laws Outcomes Compact and regulations of the country of employment are observed, but, as a The Musgrave Ethical Trading Policy was Principle 1: Businesses should support minimum, that international human updated and revised in 2016 as part of and respect the protection of rights and labour law is applied. the development of our current internationally proclaimed human rights; Musgrave expects that people working sustainability strategy and is also and for our suppliers will be treated fairly aligned with the UN Sustainable and with respect. Development Goals. We ensure that all Principle 2: make sure that they are not Musgrave own-brand products comply complicit in human rights abuses. Musgrave is committed to ensuring that with our Ethical Sourcing Policy, and all all of our supply chain stakeholders, suppliers are required to sign up to the regardless of where they live or work, principles of that policy. Actions are treated with respect and dignity and are able to live in an environment Management systems are in place to As a responsible organisation, Musgrave undamaged as a result of our business guarantee the provenance of the believes that we must ensure that the activity. We want to ensure that those products we source and to manage goods we source are produced in a with whom we trade share our ethical issues we identify within our sustainable way, in the context of principles, are committed to ensuring supply chain. Codes of conduct are potential impacts on the environment or that the rights of all workers and human developed that inform and guide trading societal impacts. rights in general are protected. teams on ethical sourcing of all goods and services. We underscored this commitment by signing up to the principles of the United There have been no incidences of Nations Global Compact in 2004, and we human rights violations associated with have publically reported an annual our operations. Communication on Progress, under the terms of Global Compact, since that date. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 2|Page Labour Principles of the UN Global Actions 4. Hours of work are in compliance Compact with the laws of the country where The fair exchange of goods and services workers are employed. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold is increasingly an issue of concern to the the freedom of association and the modern consumer. We want everyone 5. No forced or compulsory labour effective recognition of the right to who deals with us, directly or indirectly, (bonded labour) will be used. collective bargaining; to be treated with respect and dignity. 6. Child labour will not be used. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms We also want to ensure that Musgrave 7. Discrimination in respect of of forced and compulsory labour; activities and the activities of our employment and occupation will not suppliers do not damage the be permitted. Principle 5: the effective abolition of environment. 8. Health, safety and welfare of child labour; and employees are protected. To that end, we have made the following Principle 6: the elimination of 9. No goods will be sourced from commitments, as part of our Ethical discrimination in respect of employment oppressive regimes. Trading Policy: and occupation. 10. Measures are taken to prevent 1. All Terms of Trading are fair and damage to the environment. honest. 11. Corruption, including extortion and 2. The rights of all workers and human bribery will not be tolerated. rights in general are protected. 3. Workers have freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 3|Page Outcomes As an example of our community Most recent estimates show that our involvement and commitment to good retail stores spent €350 million in local Musgrave conducts its business in causes, the annual combined charitable communities in 2016. Our ‘Community accordance with traditional core values and community support by our retail Impact Study’ shows this spend which include: partners in SuperValu, Centra and averages €6.0 million per week through Daybreak is recorded to be over €3.5 a combination of payments to local  Long term, stable relationships million. suppliers, acquisition of local business  Not being greedy services, wages, charitable donations Our support of independent businesses, and local sponsorships.  Honesty and the communities they serve, helps  Working hard build and sustain vibrant local The study reveals that our stores economies through the multiplier effect: sourced over €80 million worth of  Achievement for every €1 spent at a local business, products, from over 3,800 local 45 cents is re-invested locally (this suppliers, and contributes €3.5 million in All Musgrave divisions measure contrasts with a local re-investment of donations or sponsorship commitments performance and report quarterly to the only 15 cents for every €1 spent at a to over 5,500 local charities, community Head of Sustainability. corporate chain). groups, schools and sports clubs. As well as supporting local suppliers, our stores There have been no recorded incidences also spent an estimated €18 million in of discrimination, violations of freedom communities where its stores are of association/collective bargaining, child located during 2017. labour or forced or compulsory labour. Musgrave is one of the country’s leading employers with 45,000 people employed across its network of stores, On average, each of our stores accounts for an additional 25 jobs in the surrounding community. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 4|Page Environment Principles of the UN Global We published our original Corporate Outcomes Compact Environmental Charter in 2000, which was a first for any Irish-based retail and Musgrave has continuously expanded its Principle 7: Businesses should support a distribution business. Since then, our retail business over the last 10 years, precautionary approach to environmental and broader sustainability but our strong focus on sustainability environmental challenges; strategies have evolved and matured. programmes and initiatives has meant that this growth has been achieved in Principle 8: undertake initiatives to We have defined targets and reporting parallel with reductions in environmental promote greater environmental mechanisms for our facilities, and work impacts. responsibility; and closely with our retail partners to further our environmental goals as a business The overall result of this effort has been Principle 9: encourage the development and at consumer level. that since 2006, we have more than and diffusion of environmentally friendly halved our carbon footprint. technologies. In 2015, we established a new 3-year sustainability strategy aligned to the UN Sustainable development Goals, which Actions focuses on the following key areas: Musgrave has long been a proponent of  Minimising Environment & Climate doing business sustainably; it was a Change Impacts natural progression that we should formalise our approach to environmental  Driving Sustainable Sourcing & management and public reporting in the Consumption late 1990s.  Leading in Health & Wellbeing  Taking an Active Leadership role in the Community COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 5|Page Minimising Environment & Climate (absolute) waste at source against a Each business unit has implemented Change Impacts 2015 baseline. water efficiency practices and set annual reduction targets. Carbon Management: Our strategy We are also maximising the amount of focuses on the implementation of recycling across our business and The next stage is to work more closely Sustainability and Energy & Natural supporting more of our retailers to with our suppliers to reduce water usage Resources Policies, which underpin improve their recycling performance. in their operations. divisional action plans that are aimed at reducing the energy intensity of our Our recycling rate now stands at 98%; We are also planning to collaborate with operations by 10% against a 2015 up from 64% in 2006. large own-brand suppliers on supply baseline. chain water reduction projects that Food Waste: Prevention of food waste is reduce the water footprint (embedded We have also set a 3 year ambition for a a key part of our waste management water) of our own-brand products. further 10% reduction in total carbon plans. We send zero food waste to footprint of our operation against a 2015 landfill and are working to help baseline. consumers to reduce their food waste through initiatives such as own-brand We have continued to use 100% Green packaging design improvements and Electricity in all of our buildings. practical guidance on portion control, cooking and storage. Packaging & Waste: Our Packaging Policy is driving actions at product We also focus on a hierarchy that development/review stage as we aim to prioritises food waste prevention before be early adopters of packaging re-distribution to charities; before other improvements by actively pursuing forms of recovery/recycling and re-use. packaging optimisation with our suppliers. Water Conservation: We have We have continued to send zero implemented a Water Conservation recoverable waste to landfill and are Policy and are targeting a 25% reduction targeting a further 10% reduced in total in our consumption of water versus a 2015 baseline. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 6|Page Driving Sustainable Sourcing & suppliers will be audited at a frequency Our retail and wholesale brands are Consumption appropriate to the scale of risk and nonworking with suppliers and bodies such conformances addressed without delay. as Bord Bía (Irish Food Board) on Ethical Sourcing: We updated our Ethical appropriate collaboration projects that Trading Policy during 2016 and have Sustainable Consumption: We have bring about sustainability benefits. been communicating it to key members updated our Sustainability Policy and are of Trading teams in order to ensure that communicating its requirements of our Musgrave achieved verification under ethical risks are identified, ranked and stakeholders to ensure that it is the Origin Green Sustainability mitigated. understood by all. The aim of this work programme in 2016, Ireland’s only is to support trading teams in working national sustainability standard. We have also revised our risk-based with suppliers to drive actions that auditing process to ensure that it is able improve the sustainability attributes of Further partnerships with accreditation to identify and monitor the performance our own-brand portfolio. bodies will enable us to underscore our of high-risk categories/suppliers commitment to farm animal welfare and effectively on an on-going basis and We are also focusing on increasing sales biodiversity. enable appropriate actions to be taken of 'in season' and 'locally sourced' where non-conformances are identified. produce/products Plans are also in place to ensure that all Product/raw material provenance and key team-members receive regular sustainability credentials are verified training and guidance on supplier ethical and, where possible/necessary, are risk management and on key areas of underscored through the use of risk in each category. appropriate accreditation bodies Human Rights: We have developed Animal Welfare & Biodiversity: The plans to ensure that the requirements requirements of our Farm Animal of our Ethical Trading Policy are Welfare and Biodiversity policies are understood by key members of our communicated to all stakeholders and Trading teams and communicated are driving actions that ensure that farm effectively to all suppliers so that they animal welfare is protected and also understand our requirements and biodiversity is enhanced. can demonstrate compliance. As part of this process ‘high-Risk’ own-brand COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 7|Page Leading in Health & Wellbeing cultural organisations we are helping We are successful in building more people and age groups to become connections with all members of the Nutrition & Healthy Eating: We are active and take ownership of their community and are connecting people raising awareness among consumers of personal wellbeing. and building awareness of and action to the benefits of nutrition & healthy eating Our community fitness campaigns have combat loneliness isolation especially in and are helping them to make informed successfully captured hearts and minds rural communities. food choices that fit with their own and encouraged more consumers to visit personal needs and lifestyles. our stores. Employment & Opportunities: We are Health is a core driver of our range and active in creating local employment in we are making healthy eating more our facilities and encourage our retailers affordable through pricing and Community to support local employment. Our promotions that influence consumers to mentoring and support for local switch. Being a Good Neighbour: Our facilities producers strengthens their businesses are operated with minimum impact on and enables them to grow and in turn Education & Awareness: Our brands are their communities and on their create more local employment and focused on meeting the needs of neighbours. Teams at every one of our prosperity. We are also creating consumers seeking information on sites have built relationships with local awareness among young people of the healthy eating, diet and nutrition. We communities and ensure that any issues career possibilities in retail and are provide wide-ranging and clear are dealt with promptly. At the same working with state and local bodies to information to consumers on all aspects time, our Store Development teams provide guidance and mentoring of health and wellbeing. continuously improve the design of opportunities for students. Our information is backed-up by stores to ensure that they minimise guidance from recognised experts in impacts on the local environment. healthy eating, diet and nutrition and Vibrant Communities: Our continued enables us to provide in-store sponsorship of the Tidy Towns personalised consumer healthy-eating programme (see: www.tidytowns.ie), information supported by helpline and Irelands foremost community online resources. sustainability programme is driving projects that bring about positive Active Living: Our brands are helping improvements in local communities. consumers to become more active and Our community projects benefit people to manage their fitness. Through by inspiring them to come together; partnerships with local sporting and giving them a sense of pride in place. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 8|Page Anti-corruption By signing the Call to Action, we ask  Support corporate efforts to Governments to: enhance anti-corruption implementation, corporate  Fully implement and enforce the governance, innovative collective tenets of the UN Convention against action, and public-private Corruption by strengthening antipartnership initiatives. Principles of the UN Global corruption policies, laws and Compact enforcement mechanisms to create Outcomes Principle 10: Businesses should work a level playing field and incentivise against corruption in all its forms, good behaviour; There have been no incidences of including extortion and bribery.  Make a commitment to reduce corruption in Musgrave. corruption risks from procurement and contract processes of largeActions scale projects that are designed to support sustainable development; Musgrave is opposed to all forms of corruption, including extortion and  Commit to engaging in competitive bribery. Musgrave will not engage in and transparent procurement such practices nor will it accept its processes through public suppliers engaging in corrupt activities. advertising of all Government procurement cases; In June 2014, Musgrave committed its  Achieve greater transparency in support to the UNGC Call to Action: relation to revenues received by Anti-Corruption and the Global Governments from private sector Development Agenda; an appeal by the companies; private sector urging Governments to promote efficient and effective anticorruption measures and to implement robust policies that will foster good governance. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 9|Page Measuring Our Performance COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 10 | P a g e
