KRYSTALLINE SALT LTD COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS OCTOBER 2016— SEPTEMBER 2017 FOR THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 11 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT CONTENTS  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT  INTRODUCTION  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOR  ENVIRONMENT  ANTI CORRUPTION  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION 2 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 22211222222 INTRODUCTION Krystalline Salt Limited is one of the largest salt producers in East Africa. It was established on 20th February 1984, primarily as a salt manufacturer, with sales and distribution as a support functions. It took almost a decade of hope, struggle, dedicated staff and mostly patience to harvest our 1st batch of salt. In 2007, we achieved a milestone. We acquired Mombasa Salt Works (formerly called Fundisha salt, the oldest Salt works in Kenya, started by Germans in early 1920). This allowed us to have a very strong presence within East and Central Africa. Our Head Office is based in Nairobi, Kenya. Our Salt works, refinery and packing operations are located 20 KM from Malindi town in sub towns namely Gongoni and Marereni, all on Malindi-Lamu road. Our Sales and Distribution operations are carried out from Changamwe, Mombasa. We have Distribution Depots in Nairobi and Malaba. CONTENTS Our products are Kaysalt Premium, Kaysalt and Habari. Currently they are available in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, DR Congo, North Malawi and South Su STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT dan.  INTRODUCTION Our desire to embrace and adapt to new state of the art technology has kept us well  HUMAN RIGHTS ahead.  LABOR  ENVIRONMENT Our greatest asset are our employees, we have a total of 700 employees, additionally we employ 2000 seasonal workers.  ANTI CORRUPTION  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We take pride in our commitment and to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global  CONCLUSION Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. Our Corporate Social Responsibility Projects are also in line with the Seventeen Sustainable Development Goals. 3 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 33311333333 HUMAN RIGHTS Krystalline Salt recognizes that Human Rights are an integral corporate citizenship and we respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Krystalline Salt has established a code of conduct and core values which are consequently rooted in our company culture. Our culture is about foster ing r espect for all, CONTENTS which means all our stakeholders, from our employees, local community, our consumers, customers and suppliers. We are guided by three pillars  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I. Respect for all – Respect and work as a team with all stakeholders  INTRODUCTION II. Continuous improvement – challenge ourselves daily to improve our operations  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOR III. Communication – effective and constant communication to strengthen the respect  ENVIRONMENT among all stakeholders and continuously improve at all levels.  ANTI CORRUPTION We expect all our staff to project the following values  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION  Integrity, Passion & Ownership  Evolution through continuous innovation  Service excellence through efficiency and consistency  Commitment to quality and safety We recognize our obligation to conduct our activities in full knowledge of and compliance with the requirements of all regulatory and statutory legislations. 4 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 44411444444 We support human rights in the following ways:  We regularly engage monthly with the communities within which we operate through the CSR Committees. We are able to find solutions to concerns raised by both the community and us during such forums.  We have provided several access roads through our salt works and have permitted the community members to use them when going to the ocean and other neighbouring villages.  In 2006, the Kenya National Commission On Human Rights (KNCHR) did an audit of all salt companies and made recommendations on various issues. The Commission did the audit again in January 2017. The Commission commended the efforts we have made in addressing the previous recommendations and nothing grievous was raised from the audit findings. However, we CSR Committee members with KSL Management await the official release of the report by KNCHR.  We have conducted an educational program for the single mothers and womCONTENTS en on sexual abuse during which counselling sessions were conducted.  The CSR projects to address human rights can be found from page 16  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT  INTRODUCTION  We planned and conducted a survey in 2017 to gain a better understanding of our employees in terms of their values and perceptions. In the survey we also  HUMAN RIGHTS put forth questions that attempted to ascertain whether they knew about their  LABOR rights as per the 2010 constitution of Kenya. We found that only 56% were confident that they knew their rights. We are considering including educative  ENVIRONMENT facts regarding our constitution when training our employees as well as initi ANTI CORRUPTION ate programs that may help raise awareness as to their rights.  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION Women participants during a counselling session on sexual abuse in Meru 5 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 55511555555 LABOR Krystalline Salt applies the following labour principles through the Code of Conduct and our Human Resource Policies. Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We support these principles by the following actions:  We do selection and recruitment of candidates into our organization based on CONTENTS qualifications, experience, skills, competence and aptitude. We provide training and opportunity for growth in an enabling environment. Terms and conditions of  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT service are openly negotiated and laid down in the employment contract.  INTRODUCTION  We adhere to the effective abolition of child labour by ensuring that we comply  HUMAN RIGHTS with minimum age provisions of the labour laws. We only hire candidates with  LABOR national Identity cards.  ENVIRONMENT  ANTI CORRUPTION  We comply with the Minimum Wage Order, our employees are paid slightly  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY above the minimum wage. We review our employees salaries annually. In 2017  CONCLUSION the average increment was 10%.  We have managed to convert all our casuals to permanent staff. This was to enable them have a sense of job security as well as a decent work and continuous personal growth.  We are encouraging more women to join our workforce and we currently have 40% of our staff at the refinery being women.  We have managed to provide free gated housing, electricity, security and clean water to all our employees. The employees are further encouraged to maintain kitchen gardens within the gated unit provided by the company in order to enable them achieve food security at the household level. These have relieved them some financial strain.  As a way of providing primary health care to our employees, we started our own in-house clinic in 2012 at our factory in Gongoni where our employees get free services.  We realized that some of our employees are made to retire on medical reasons due to lifestyle diseases like hypertension and diabetes. We are supporting them by catering for their medical expenses and also ensuring that they are able to meet their daily basic needs after retirement. We are so far supporting 3 retirees. In line with the above, we are planning with Avenue Health Care to provide regular trainings and health care to our employees on Lifestyle diseases. 6 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 66611666666  We provide a healthy and safe working environment to all employees. In line with our Occupational Health and Safety Policy, we: create awareness to employees on healthy and safe working procedures through continuous awareness and training. We continue to periodically call OHS experts to train our staff and perform audits of our processes.  respond quickly to emergencies by abiding to emergency planning and preparedness procedures.  engage in activities that promote occupational health and safety.  maintain and continually improve an effective occupational health and safety programme, which meet the standards of the applicable statutory, CONTENTS legal and regulatory requirements.  minimize the occurrence of OHS accidents by identifying hazards and  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT initiating preventive and corrective action procedures appropriately.  INTRODUCTION  HUMAN RIGHTS  Hold weekly routine factory inspections to identify possible hazards such  LABOR as mechanical hazards, chemical hazards, electrical hazards, fire, hot  ENVIRONMENT temperatures, bright light and glare, noise, ergonomic hazards, transport  ANTI CORRUPTION hazards, atmospheric dust (from the surrounding environment) and bio CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITCON logical hazards.  CONCLUSION  Improve on our visual display at the refinery for further sensitization and re-enforcement.  We give our employees the opportunity to attend various trainings every year.During the trainings and workshops, our employees get the opportunity to be innovative and further to implement their ideas for continued improvement.  Our employees are involved in kaizen projects to enable them realize personal growth and productivity. One of our Kaizen Project Objectives is to make our workplace safe . We have reduced the number of injuries from 18 to 3 per month. This has been achieved through trainings, thorough root cause analysis of the reported injuries and taking corrective actions on lessons learnt.  First Aid Training is done annually, Fire safety after every two years, occupational Health and safety training after three years and refresher courses are offered on a need basis.  As part of our culture, newly recruited female employees go through a sexual harassment awareness training. This is to inform them that our policy does not tolerate or encourage sexual harassment in the workplace and that they should bring to the attention of management whenever they are faced with such. Trained first-aiders, fire marshals and health and safety committee members showing their certificates after 7 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 77711777777  Through our steering committee, we create awareness among our employees on HIV/AIDS. In April 2017, We partnered with the Subcounty Public Health Office and did HIV/AIDS awareness sessions where the employees were met at the workplace. Tests were done along with counselling sessions. The exercise was extended to the families of our employees who were met and tested at the household level. 198 people were tested, out of which 2% were tested positive. We also learned that 65% of those who turned up were actually being tested for the first time. The steering committee during a training session We have organized with the Local Public Health center to provide extended health care services to the 2% who tested positive of HIV virus.  We have an internship program through which:CONTENTS  We have engaged almost ten education institutes where we absorb new graduates and attachés into our operations. The objective is to give the student hands-on experience in their areas of expertise. We have ab STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT sorbed 8 students from various universities this year.  INTRODUCTION  HUMAN RIGHTS  Through our membership with KAM (Kenya Association of Manufac LABOR turers), we are also participating in the TVET (Technical and Voca ENVIRONMENT tional Education Training for Graduate Industrial Trainees Program.  ANTI CORRUPTION  We have had the chance to orientate 8 students who were attached to  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Public Health Office for an Industrial attachment. We gave them the  CONCLUSION opportunity to learn all the standard compliance matters that a food manufacturing industry must adhere to in relation to their mandate as Public Health Officers. One of the interns working on a machine’s con8 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 88811888888  We do evaluation of our activities for continuous improvements. In 2017, we hired a Risk Auditor to conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey. The purpose of the Survey was to gauge the general satisfaction of our employees as well as gain a better understanding of their values and perceptions. The satisfaction index was derived by aggregating all the thematic areas and averaging to get the overall satisfaction score CONTENTS  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT  INTRODUCTION  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOR  ENVIRONMENT  ANTI CORRUPTION  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION 9 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 99911999999 ENVIRONMENT Krystalline Salt Limited is sensitive to the fact that our operations may have an effect on the local and global environment. As a result of this, the management is committed to a program of continual improvement and the prevention of pollution so as to minimize the potential harmful effects of such activities. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. CONTENTS Our guiding principle is to meet, all relevant environmental regulations, laws and codes of practice in order to minimize any adverse environmental effects caused as a consequence of our activities and products.  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT We implement our policies through a coordinated environmental management system.  INTRODUCTION We set targets and goals to improve our environmental performance.  HUMAN RIGHTS Below are the specific actions we take in order to achieve the Principles: LABOR  ENVIRONMENT  We sustainably manage our waste through re-use and recycling wherever possi ANTI CORRUPTION ble. This leads to effective waste management and efficient resource management in all departments.  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION  We have put initiatives in place to ensure supply chain transparency and accountability through out our operations.  We conduct regular Environmental Audits to determine and monitor the effects of our operations on the environment. These include air and water quality analyses among others.  We have re-opened the seasonal River Balesa in Marereni and brought it back to its original course. The stream is now cutting through our salt works.  We participate in the revitalization of the Mangrove area at Robinson Island by planting more mangrove seedlings and conserving the existing. These mangroves are used by marine animals for breeding grounds hence a way of conserving life below water.  We have invested in rain water harvesting and storage facilities to curb water shortage during dry seasons.  We are maintaining a 20 meters buffer zone between our operations and the neighbouring communities in order to minimize the impacts of dust that might result from our operations. The buffer zone also incorporates a drainage system to prevent flooding of the surrounding areas during rainy seasons. The buffer zone has a total area of 84,000 square meters.  We continue to invest in environmentally sustainable electricity options and infrastructure that have advanced reduced carbon usage. We gave energy saving gift hampers to our employees. In 2014, our staff received Solar lamps and in 2015 Tree planting exercise at the buffer zone in they received energy saving jikos which use only 6 piece of charcoal all day and Marereni do not create any fumes. 10 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 10101011101010101010 We embarked on planting of trees since 2012. We have since then planted over 1.2 million trees in our farms in Gongoni and Marereni. The tree planting project is meant to supply our bio thermal boilers. Since wood fuel has reduced carbon footprint, it is a source of clean, affordable, reliable and sustainable energy. As a result the project will eventually combat climate change and its impacts. The wood lots have proved to be a new biodiversity hotspot in the locality where seasonal birds and other animals inhabits. This is because of the conducive microclimate created by the plantation. The trophy and Certificate of recognition We have planted trees within Marereni Primary and Secondary schools. This was done with the students and parents, it was a great opportunity to introduce the importance of growing trees. We received the Certificate of recognition for our efforts in Tree Growing and CONTENTS Forest Conservation from Kenya Forest Service in June 2017. This was presented by Her Excellency the First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. We were awarded as 1st  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Runners-up in the category of Best Industry Players.  INTRODUCTION  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOR We were then honored to host the KFS Board of Management and other relevant  ENVIRONMENT stakeholders who visited our plantation.  ANTI CORRUPTION  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION KSL Chairman with Her excellency the First Lady, Cabinet Secretary and Permanent Secretary for Environment during the KFS Award Ceremony K 11 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 11111111111111111111 CONTENTS  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The solar hybrid systems in Gongoni  INTRODUCTION  HUMAN RIGHTS We have commissioned one of Kenya’s largest solar hybrid systems in Malindi, in East Africa. The 991kWp system is a PV-diesel hybrid project. The system will  LABOR generate 1.6GWh of clean electricity annually, saving Krystalline around 22% of  ENVIRONMENT its electricity costs.  ANTI CORRUPTION The project was developed in collaboration with SMA subsidiary SMA Sunbelt,  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY using its Fuel Save Controller which complements the diesel generator and works to offset solar’s fluctuating energy source for a harmonised delivery of power. The  CONCLUSION project was installed by local Kenyan installers Harmonic Systems, who managed to commission the project two months ahead of schedule. In terms of funding, the project was made possible through the government of Japan’s Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM) financing programme that facilitates low-carbon technologies in developing countries. The solar component of the system allows for a fossil fuel reduction of around 24,000 litres of diesel each year and at the same time a low maintenance solution. It will displace 1,268 tonnes of carbon dioxide and benefit the surrounding Kenyan communities due to job creation during construction phase. We recently hosted a team of experts representing companies under the membership of Kenya Association of Manufacturers for an exchange program on our solar project. The exercise was meant to encourage more investors to consider using solar systems as an alternative source of energy. Experts who attended the exchange program 12 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 12121211121212121212  Moreover, we have constituted Energy Committee that works towards improving the efficiency of physical facilities and processes at the refinery to minimize energy loss and maximize on utilization.  The Employee Satisfaction Survey also covered environmental matters, the findings are as presented below: CONTENTS  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT  INTRODUCTION  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOR  ENVIRONMENT  ANTI CORRUPTION  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION A section of mangrove forest planted at Robinson Island 13 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 13131311131313131313 ANTI CORRUPTION Krystalline is committed to conduct our business fairly, honestly and without improper influence. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are guided by our code of conduct and our core values. Integrity being our first and most important core value. “Corruption hurts the poor disproportionately by diverting funds intended for development, undermining a government’s ability to provide basic services, feeding inequality and injustice and discouraging foreign investment and aid.” – Kofi Annan (former UN CONTENTS Secretary General) during the adoption by the General Assembly of the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, October 2003  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Over the years we have identified areas that we need to manage and monitor to curb  INTRODUCTION corruption and bribery.  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOR We have tried to eliminate parallel systems of decision making. Key decision makers are identified and each have their specific areas of expertise that she/he is qualified to  ENVIRONMENT make decisions. Decisions follow standard operating procedures and have approval  ANTI CORRUPTION process in built. We continue to discover new decisions and continue to document the  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY correct process to be followed.  CONCLUSION Efficient resource allocation helps control and monitor corruption, hence our project under the Human Resource Department, namely “to hire the right persons, right number of personnel per department, with the right experience and qualification”, continues to help us to curb corruption. Improved governance and accountability, has helped management and all staff take responsibility for their role and their timely deliverables. We have recently done an employment satisfaction survey, which has helped us understand the areas that our efforts have already borne fruits and areas that require improvement. We strongly believe that if we win the loyalty of our team then they will ensure that they and their colleagues will not engage in any corruption and bribery activities. Corruption undermines socio-economic growth and increases poverty and exclusion thus becoming a threat to the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals. As we are very serious about our SDGs we have ensured that we continue to manage our teams expectations by annually increasing their salaries to mitigate the poverty levels and also reward them annually with bonus for their improved ethical behavior and quality deliverables. 14 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 14141411141414141414 CONTENTS Further, we are: STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT  INTRODUCTION  Holding regular meetings with employees and clients to warn them against  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOR giving any bribe in order to be promoted or served. We have put systems in  ENVIRONMENT place through which such fraud can be reported for actions.  ANTI CORRUPTION  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We will continue to maintain the systems, monitor, take corrective and preventive  CONCLUSION actions based on the reports. We have also initiated and participated in the below programs:  GRI and UNGC Workshop In June this year, we were privileged to be invited by GRI Africa and Global Compact Network Kenya with support from The Department for International Development (DFID) – UK, to a complimentary half-day workshop on AntiCorruption and Sustainability Reporting. During the workshop, we discussed the role of transparency in tackling corruption and how GRI Standards and UNGC Principles can be used to support and communicate anti-corruption efforts.  Siemens Integrity Initiative Krystalline Salt is also a member and a participant of the Advisory Committee for the Anti-Corruption Collective Action project, under the Siemens Integrity Initiative . Under the Siemens Integrity Initiative, the UN Global compact is working in collaboration with the Basel Institute on Governance to strengthen the capacity and knowledge of Anti-Corruption Collective Action in four Global Compact Local Networks: Brazil, Japan, Nigeria and Kenya. The project is to A signage displayed within the company premises provide a framework for LNs and its business participants to advance meaningful collective action efforts that prevent corruption, increase transparency, and improve the local business environment. 15 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 15151511151515151515 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We continue to pride ourselves in giving back to various communities through our CSR program. We recognize our social, economic, and environmental responsibilities to the communities are integral to our business. This is demonstrated through our actions. The importance of corporate responsibility continues to be recognized by our board of directors and it has established policies. These policies cover ethics, health and safety, environment, human resources and employees, community and continuity planning for all the markets in which we operate. We strive to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) with our CSR programs as discussed below:We are committed to ensuring healthy lives and promoting well being for all, a vision described in SDG 3-Good health and well-being. We therefore engage in various activities as discussed below. We have achieved many of the activities through partnerships with various organizations and government department as per SDG 17– Partnership for CONTENTS goals;  We built Marereni Dispensary in 1988, it holds the first and only maternity  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT ward in the district. In 2005, we added to the ward a second block currently  INTRODUCTION used as an out-patient block, and a third block for storage of drugs and administration in 2015. The services provided by the ward include –  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOR  1. Maternity/Labor/Post-natal care (PNC)  ENVIRONMENT  2. Anti-natal care services (ANC)  ANTI CORRUPTION  3. Family planning (F/P)  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION  4. Prevention of mother to child transmission (PMTCT)  5. Diagnostic Testing & counseling (DTC)  6. HIV testing and counseling (HTC)  7. Anti-retroviral therapy (ART)  8. Child Growth Monitoring, Deliveries and Immunization  9. Nutritional Counseling  10. Voluntary Counseling and testing (VCT)  Public Health Services , Laboratory Services and Curative and Diagnostic services. Currently, the ward delivers an average of 25 babies per month.Since it’s construction the ward has achieved many milestones such as –  The dispensary was awarded the best dispensary in record keeping in 2015  It was also recognized for having the best drug store in Kilifi County. Drugs and medical kits donated to Marereni Dispensary and a new block for storing drugs and administration offices 16 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 16161611161616161616  They have a scheduled outreach program every Thursday which has enhanced a strong bond with the community.  Their services have extended outside their jurisdiction into the isolated areas of Bora Imani and Kanagoni.  Since 2013 , Krystalline Salt Ltd and Nairobi Hindu temple donate medical kits to the clinic for the value of Ksh 500,000 on every Christmas eve.  We have been internationally recognized for iodization of salt in Kenya. This has helped in prevention of goitre and promoted brain development among children  With partnership with the Lions Club of Mombasa, we have held eye camps where members of the public get the opportunity to benefit from the service. CONTENTS  In December 2014, we partnered with Girl Child Network, Ministry of Health and County Government of Nyeri and conducted a medical camp where 762 people were screened and treated for various illnesses. 572 persons with disability also attended the medical camp.  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT  INTRODUCTION  We participated and supported the Launch of the Fistula Repair Camp in 2017, at Gongoni, in partnership with Kilifi County and Ministry of  HUMAN RIGHTS health. The affected women in the county got the opportunity to get their  LABOR condition corrected at no cost.  ENVIRONMENT  In November 2016, we liaised with Public Health Office and obtained  ANTI CORRUPTION vaccines against elephantiasis for our employees and their families. We had a 75% turn out for the vaccination. We plan to do regular fumigation  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of our premises to eliminate mosquitoes which are media for transmission  CONCLUSION of the disease. To ensure availability of clean water and promote its sustainable management and sanitation as provided for in SDG 6;  We invested in a water mineral plant in 2013. The plant provides mineral water to all our staff and the local community. Over 12,000 community members collect drinking water per month for free.  We constructed a dam in February 2012 in Dodoni area. One of our staff donated two acres of his farm for the construction of the dam. This dam serves about 10,000 villagers in nine villages namely Midodoni A and B, Mandokeni, Kadzuhoni, Dodoma, Msambweni, Karimapaka and Mbuyu wa Kombo. Animals also quench their thirst from the dam.  In 1993, we constructed three boreholes in Muyu wa kae and one at Zhogato. These areas face challenges in accessing clean water. These boreholes are their only source of water. 17 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 17171711171717171717 We engage in various CSR activities with the aim of ensuring an all inclusive, quality, equitable and lifelong learning for all. These activities have reduced inequality within and among communities by promoting social mobility through increased diversity as covered in SDG 4– Quality Education, 10– Reduced Inequality and 11– Sustainable cities and Communities. Below are some of these activities:  We continue to absorb more students into our bursary program every year. The program was initiated in 2014 and we give priority to bright students from disadvantaged backgrounds. We give them the opportunity to have 15 classrooms and Administration block conquality secondary school education. We currently have 5 students in the structed at Marereni Primary School program.  In 1988, Marereni primary school was built in Marereni, in our neighbouring community to boost the levels of basic education. In 2003 an additional Administration block and 15 more classrooms were built to accommodate 1000 students. Krystalline provided desks for all classrooms and a water tank was also installed. Currently the school educates 1780 students.  In 2015, we donated furniture and books to the neighbouring primary CONTENTS schools in Gongoni and Marereni to improve learning and infrastructure at the schools  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT  1000s of students from schools have continually visited our factory over  INTRODUCTION the years to learn about salt manufacturing processes. We see this initiative as an opportunity to give the students empowerment and further in HUMAN RIGHTS sight in their studies.  LABOR  In 2017, we have supported the Ministry of Education, Department of  ENVIRONMENT Adult Education and Continued Learning in organizing for the World Lit ANTI CORRUPTION eracy Day Event. The event was meant to promote learning and education among the community members.  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION  We also managed to fence Marereni Primary school in 2016 for safety and security reasons. This was to achieve a safe and resilient environment for the children and teachers while in school a goal covered under SDG 11Sustainable cities and communities.  We also partnered with the County Government of Kilifi and donated 1800 packets of sanitary towels to all the girls in secondary schools within Magarini Sub-county  In 2017 February, we partnered with the Hare Krishna Temple and joined them during the Food For life Program. The event is aimed at giving students from impoverished backgrounds food. Krystalline Salt provided the students with solar lamps at the event, seeing as how most of the families did not have sufficient lighting at home making it harder for students to do homework or study. The event was an eye opener for us as there were a very large number of students who came from very impoverished backgrounds lacking many basic necessities. This endeavor additionally contributed to furthering our agendas with SDG 2– Zero Hunger, and SDG 7– Affordable and Clean Energy. Students receiving solar lamps during Food for Life Program 18 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 18181811181818181818 We also participate and support various events like games and fun days that bring people from all walks of life together. Through the interactions, SDG 5– Gender Equality has been improved while combating SDG 1-No Poverty and SDG 2– Zero Hunger. Below are such activities:  We promote sports and games activities through sponsoring teams and tournaments. We have also donated footballs and uniforms for the local community football teams.  To achieve reduced equality within and among communities as in SDG 10, we are committed to promoting social mobility through various programs that enable those from disadvantaged backgrounds an opportunity to mingle and have a normal life. In 2013 the ‘Watoto Pamoja’ event was held by Therapies for Kids. Krystalline Salt sponsored the event which was a great success. Over 350 families with children with disabilities came to the event. The kids were given an opportunity to play and exCONTENTS press themselves without being subjected to stigma as they normally do in society.  Since 2013, we have been partnering with Talanta Kenya who organizes  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT a Christmas event for almost 3000 orphaned and less fortunate children  INTRODUCTION from different Children’s Homes and Orphanages in Mombasa. Children are brought together in an open and conducive environment, to enjoy  HUMAN RIGHTS nature, play and share a meal as they are entertained.  LABOR  We have continually supported the Women of Magarini Sub-county by  ENVIRONMENT funding them on the International Women's day, a celebration that brings  ANTI CORRUPTION many of them together to learn from each other, have fun and have a sense of belonging.  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CONCLUSION Magarini and Adu Football teams with KSL Management during a tournament 19 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 19191911191919191919 We embarked on tree planting project in 2012. An out-grower program with local farmers to grow trees also commenced in the same year and we are engaging over 100 local farmers who have grown over 10,000 trees for us. Through the project, we have protected life on land by conserving the habitats and creating conducive environment for growth and development as provided for in SDG 15– Life on land. Migratory birds have inhabited the plantations. The project further addresses our aims towards achieving SDG 1– No Poverty, SDG 2 – Zero Hunger, SDG 5– Gender Equality, SDG 7– Affordable and Clean Energy, SDG 10– Reduced Inequality and SDG 13-Climate Action.  We provide the farmers with seeds, seedlings, labour and expertise they need to maintain the tree lots. The farmers are then to sell the trees to us when they mature. This has been a source of sustainable livelihood for the local farmers and thus helped in eliminating poverty among them.  The farmers are encouraged to plant other food crops within the trees in order to attain some level of food security, end hunger and improve nutriCONTENTS tion whilst waiting for the trees to mature.  We have encourage more women and the less advantaged in the society  STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT to participate either through their groups or individually in the program. Some of them maintain nurseries where we buy seedlings from and oth INTRODUCTION ers are planting trees in their farms. This has helped achieve gender  HUMAN RIGHTS equality by empowering the women and also to reduce inequality within  LABOR the community.  ENVIRONMENT  The tree planning project is meant to supply our bio thermal boilers.  ANTI CORRUPTION Since wood fuel has reduced carbon foot prints, it is a source of clean, affordable, reliable and sustainable energy. The project eventually com CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY bats climate change and its impacts.  CONCLUSION As goals covered under SDG 16– Peace Justice and Strong institutions and SDG 17– Partnership for shared goals and sustainable development, we believe in peace, justice and development of strong institutions that are effective and accountable. We also engage business coalitions to strengthen implementation and achieve development.  Through our membership with KAM, a CSR committee and KAM Liaison office for the salt sub-sector was created. Peace and justice have been enhanced with the local community through regular meetings.  We continue to engage policy makers and provide them with relevant information and expertise to enable them pass meaningful and practical regulations. This has been improved through the advocacy of KAM. We have taken the responsibility as corporate body to support the local community by addressing the infrastructure challenges faced in sectors of education, health, and water services. By establishment of these infrastructure, two satellite towns have developed in Gongoni and Marereni where we operate. The settlements have grown as locals are attracted by the infrastructure. They also get to practise the skills they have acquired over the years from our operations. This has further our goals of promoting sustainable industrialization and innovation as given in SDG 9– Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. Decent work and economic growth for the community members have been created hence enhancing sustainable growth a goal under SDG 8. An out-grower farmer showing KSL team a section of his tree plantation 20 Krystalline Salt Ltd UNGC COP 2016—2017 20202011202020202020 CONCLUSION Krystalline Salt will continue to develop the initiatives it has launched to introduce new measures in the coming reporting period and will report annually and publicly on the progress made. We care about the impact we make on the environment and this concern is aligned to the strategic objectives. This report shows our commitment to communicate our actions with credibility and authenticity with hope that the reward will be a better world for today and tomorrow for our children. Krystalline Salt Ltd Contact Us P.O. Box 43114, 00100, GPO, Nairobi, Kenya. Tel+254202328294 www.kaysalt.com. 21212111212121212121
