Sustainability that is innovative, inclusive and circular Sustainable Development Report 2016 Paper | Packaging | Solutions Overview Our vision and operations Our five strategic sustainability priorities Our business in numbers We are a global company whose work creates value for our customers, employees, investors, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. 49 103,000 Forest At the end of 2016 we sold 90.1% of our packaging as hectares of forest plantation certified by FSC ® or PEFCTM standards. Recovered fibre/wood procurement facilities 36 €196m Climate change We have reduced fossil CO2 emissions per produced income and other taxes tonne of paper by 22.9% since 2005. Paper and board mills 249 36% Water We have reduced 31.9% of the chemical oxygen €166m of dividends demand (COD) in the water on a net profit of €458m discharge per produced Converting plants tonne of paper since 2005. 33 >300 Waste We have reduced waste sent to landfill per produced strategic and important tonne by 13.3% since 2013. suppliers worldwide Other production plants 60% 45,000 People We employ 45,000 men and women in 34 countries in people employed Europe and the Americas. worldwide Safety and Health is a core of customers in the value to SK, and we have FMCG segments reduced the Lost-Time Accident (LTA) frequency rate by 10% in 2016. Smur�t Kappa (‘SKG’), a FTSE 100 company, is one of the leading providers of paper-based packaging solutions in the world, with approximately 45,000 employees in 367 production sites across 34 countries and with revenue of €8.2 billion in 2016. We are located in 21 countries in Europe, and 13 in the Americas. We are the only large-scale pan-regional player in Latin America. Our global sales Sales Europe Volumes (Million Tonnes) Kraftliner 1.6 Recycled Containerboard 3.0 Other Paper & Board 0.8 Corrugated 4.4 Solidboard Packaging 0.1 Sales The Americas Volumes (Million Tonnes) Containerboard 1.3 Other Paper & Board 0.3 Corrugated 1.4 Other Paper-based Packaging 0.1 Group Operations Smurﬁt Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Overview Our Vision and operations As one of the world’s largest paper-based packaging businesses, Smurfit Kappa maintains a relentless commitment to sustainable business that underlies everything we do. We use sustainability as a lens through 100% sustainably sourced new fibre from which to focus our innovation, our forests where biodiversity and human strategy and our processes. The rights are assured to the highest globally transparency and detail we offer our recognised standards. stakeholders is industry leading. Our customers have unrivalled visibility For many years we have focused on of the environmental impact of the designing our operations around a circular products they buy from us, helping economy model – a truly closed-loop them in turn to realise their own system in which the productivity of the sustainability strategies and better resources we use is maximised and waste, manage their impact. including CO2 emissions, generated This is how we do business. It is what through our products is minimised. drives our success, our competitive Simultaneously, we endeavour to energy, our appetite for fresh challenges. promote sustainable use of renewable Every day, we prove how our way of raw materials, to reduce the use of and working contributes to a better world to replace non-renewable raw materials and a brighter future. with renewable ones where feasible and ultimately to reuse resources we take out. That is why we are proud to say that running through our people, our Our innovative, right-weighted, recyclable processes and our products, we have packaging delivers real savings in cost Sustainability in every ﬁbre. and carbon for our customers and for consumers. It is an approach that has From the production line through delivered consistent business growth and to the consumer, packaging can make long-term partnerships with some of the a difference: through new ideas, world’s most respected brands as well as it has the potential to shape the way with local customers. you do business. But current technology means paper For more information visit: cannot be recycled indefinitely; new wood openthefuture.info fibre must be introduced into the system, creating an impact for which we must take responsibility. True closed-loop thinking starts in the forest, which is why we are unique among our peers in committing to Sustainability in every fibre 1 Sustainable Development Report 2016 We drive innovation and sustainability for long-term success This report contains an overview Overview of our 2016 performance, a focus on Our vision and operations inside cover Overview our strategic direction, and a review Our year in highlights 02 of the businesses underpinning our A letter from our Group Chief Executive Oﬃcer 04 strategy. Our approach to sustainable business Our approach to How we create sustainable value 10 Delivering sustainable value 14 Our stakeholders and sustainable value 19 Corporate governance 22 sustainable business Our priorities and performance Our priorities Materiality 28 Forest 30 Climate change 40 and performance Water 48 Waste 54 This picture shows how People 58 our forests and plantations blend naturally into the Colombian landscape. Supporting data Supporting data Input/output 2016 74 Environmental data 2016 76 Management systems and social data 2016 82 Supplementary information Supplementary About this report 86 GRI-index 87 information Business in the Community Ireland 99 UN Global Compact 100 Glossary 101 Assurance report of the independent auditor 104 Our vision and operations 2 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Overview Our year in highlights Vision into action: what we are doing Business Forest Climate change Listings in investor rating systems Promoting sustainable forests Progress with our CO2 As well as being listed in the FTSE 100, Our target is to ensure a transparent emission reduction target Smurfit Kappa was listed by the supply chain to sustainably sourced fibres We are on track to achieve our 2020 FTSE4Good, Euronext Vigeo Europe through Chain of Custody certified target of reducing 25% of the fossil CO2 production and purchase of the papers emissions per tonne of produced paper, 120, Ethibel and STOXX® Global ESG used in our products, communicating this Leaders investor rating systems compared to the 2005 base line. to consumers through product labelling. recognising sustainability Achievement achievements. Achievement At the end of 2016 we reached our target By the end of 2016 we achieved 22.9% Ecovadis Gold to deliver 90% of our packaging solutions reduction in our specific paper as Chain of Custody certified. This allows production fossil CO2 emissions. The Group achieved the golden status our customers’ packaging to be labelled in Ecovadis sustainability benchmark for as certified. the third year running. Winning in awards In recognition of its cutting-edge and Improved internal audits sustainable packaging solutions in Following the implementation of among others, electronics, transit and a companywide certified Chain of food and drink, Smurfit Kappa has won Custody management system, our five 2017 WorldStar Awards, one of the aim is to increase the effectiveness world’s most prestigious packaging of these audits. honours. We also received five Red Dot Achievement Awards 2017 for excellent design. We instituted a more robust, and Acquisitions standardised FSC/PEFC internal audit Sound Packaging, Arizona, USA process by introducing the new digital “Audit Control Tool”. Corrugated Professionals, Arizona, USA Empire Packaging, California, USA Scope Packaging, California, USA Saxon Packaging, Suffolk, UK Investments in more efficient energy production We make investments throughout our paper mill network to increase the efficiency of energy production and use. Achievements New Combined Heat and Power plants have been built at our Ania (Italy) and Barbosa (Colombia) mills and an improved paper production system was created through the newly rebuilt paper machine at Townsend Hook (UK). 3 Overview Water Waste People Progress with mill water risk Approaching our 2020 waste MyVoice – Employee engagement assessments reduction target The engagement of our 45,000 Our approach to As part of our commitment to We set ourselves a new target in 2015 to employees is of utmost importance to us. understand the risks related to water, reduce waste sent to landfill by 30% per Our first ever company-wide employee we have a programme to assess the tonne of paper compared with the 2013 engagement survey 'MyVoice' was sustainable business water risks of individual mills. baseline. launched to listen to our employees and Achievement Achievement aiming to make Smurfit Kappa an even Five more sites have been audited, In 2016 we achieved a reduction of better place to work. The next MyVoice during 2016, so 11 of our 36 paper mills 13.3% compared to 2013. survey will be conducted in 2017. have a provable ‘well managed risk’ Achievement outcome. Over 1,200 actions taken across the Group in response of the MyVoice survey. Our priorities Participation in water working groups Health and Safety and performance We want to understand and promote We are committed to promoting and better water management throughout ensuring safe environments and our industry and beyond by wellbeing for all our employees. We have a collaborating within different structured and systematic approach to working groups. Health and Safety, through which we aim Achievement to continuously improve our performance We are now members of the WBCSD in this area. Water Re-Use working group. Achievement Supporting data Compared to 2015, the Group has recorded a reduction in LTA frequency of 10%. 189 operations reported zero LTAs in 2016. Circular economy Social investments We continually search for opportunities in local communities to decrease waste sent to landfill, and We continue to engage with, and find alternative uses for residual actively support, local communities Supplementary materials from our production through our Smurfit Kappa Foundation processes. and local operations. information Achievement Achievement Five of our 36 paper mills do not send Smurfit Kappa and its related waste to landfill. Many paper mills now foundations donated over €5 million in have initiatives to supply our residual 2016, with noteworthy projects in Italy, material as input materials to other Mexico and Colombia, among others. industries. 4 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Overview A letter from our Group Chief Executive Officer Welcome to Smurfit Kappa’s 10th annual Sustainable Development Report Once again, 2016 was a year of significant change both — Promoting healthy and sustainable forests for our Company and for corporate sustainability. We — Contributing to curb climate change joined the FTSE 100, the Paris Agreement on Climate — Securing water availability Change was ratified and we saw the UN 2030 Agenda — Reducing waste to a minimum for Sustainable development taken up by a growing — Engaging with people and communities. community of businesses around the world. Our priorities include sustainable sourcing of raw materials, minimising operational impact and helping customers and As Smurfit Kappa’s CEO, I am determined consumers shrink their environmental that our Company will play its part in footprints. As we mark 10 years of creating a sustainable future by building a progress in corporate sustainability, this profitable business based on sustainable report sums up how we performed in each principles. Profitability is the engine that of these areas in 2016. propels a company forward, and it is clearly linked to the prosperity of customers, Our progress in 2016 employees and communities around the A highlight this year was achieving our world. The profitable companies of the sustainable forestry goal that over 90% of future will be the ones that align business packaging supplied to customers would be goals with the needs of the world around Chain of Custody certified at the end of them. 2016. This provides customers with assurance and traceability and helps A 10-year milestone them meet their own sustainability and Since Smurfit Kappa first started trading environmental targets, while enabling more than 80 years ago, sustainability end-to-end transparency across the principles have been an important part of supply chain. our business model. And over the past ten In line with our climate goal, we achieved Summary years, we have made sustainability an explicit element of our business strategy. a reduction of 22.9% in relative CO2 For us this makes perfect sense – we see it emissions compared to 2005, bringing us as a key differentiator for our Company, closer to our target of a 25% reduction by — We celebrate 10 years of and directly linked to our profitability. 2020. Beyond our 2020 target, we plan to sustainability progress set new, challenging reduction targets to Our objective today is to be a globally help deliver against the global climate — We reached the target of selling admired business, dynamically delivering commitments agreed in Paris. over 90% of our packaging secure and superior returns for all solutions Chain of Custody stakeholders. As a customer-oriented, Sustainable water management is vital for certified market-led company, customer our business and we are committed to satisfaction, personal development deploying industry-leading, best available — We are on track for 2020 CO2 and technology. During 2016 we reached a of employees and respect for local Chemical Oxygen Demand targets reduction of 31.9% of our relative COD communities and the environment go — Smurfit Kappa is included in the hand-in-hand with our goal of creating (Chemical Oxygen Demand) discharge STOXX© Global ESG Leaders index value for shareholders. compared to 2005, against a target of a as well as FTSE4Good, Euronext 33% reduction by 2020. In addition, we With a presence in 34 countries, across continued our investment programme in Vigeo 120 Europe and Ethibel 367 production sites and with 45,000 world-class water treatment facilities. sustainable investment register employees in Europe and the Americas, — In Health and Safety, Lost-Time we can have positive impacts throughout Preventing waste is a guiding principle of Accidents frequency decreased the packaged goods value chain. the circular economy and one that by 10% Our sustainability vision is to lead in continues to be a strong focus for Smurfit transforming the paper-based packaging Kappa. Our goal is to remove all avoidable industry in five key ways: production waste and limit waste sent to landfill by closing loops at an individual mill level. This is a continual theme in our mill system. 5 Circularity, Circularity Follow this icon for case stories on circularity innovation & Innovation Follow this icon for case stories on innovation inclusiveness Inclusiveness Follow this icon for case stories on inclusiveness Overview Nature is both our source of raw In our view, this circular business model People are at the heart of our operations. materials and our inspiration for gives us a competitive advantage, and is We want to take an inclusive approach to a circular economy. We aim to essential to our future success. all those whose lives we impact, from the replace the natural resources Seeking innovative solutions to people we employ directly or indirectly to the communities where we are located. we need in production, reuse evolving customer needs and tough This means fostering a company culture materials wherever possible environmental and social challenges Our approach to ensures that we, and our customers, that supports and rewards proactivity, and involve stakeholders as we creates a healthier and safer workplace, develop a closed loop system. operate at the cutting edge. Our strategy is to link data, engineering and creative supports local communities and sustainable business thinking to innovate in every part of the encourages transparency in all our value chain, from packaging to our supply interaction with stakeholders. chain and processes. Our objective is to be an employer of Looking ahead I hope you will find the content of our Our priorities choice and to attract and retain the best There is no doubt in my mind that Sustainable Development Report 2016 and performance people. In 2016, we progressed with our environmental stewardship, circular interesting and informative and look follow-up on the MyVoice programme business models and social responsibility forward to your feedback. and in Health and Safety, Lost-Time are becoming core business imperatives. (sustainability@smurfitkappa.com) Accidents frequency decreased by 10%. So I am immensely proud that these three Further positive sustainability notes in the elements have been at the heart of our year included our continued listing on the business model since our Company FTSE4Good index, Euronext Vigeo Europe started more than 80 years ago. 120 index and inclusion in Ethibel’s Supporting data In the future, they will continue to be at the sustainable investment register. We centre of what we do. Our ‘Open the were also included for the first time in the Future’ brand promise means we are STOXX® Global ESG Leaders indices – an committed to working with customers to innovative series of environmental, social, Tony Smurfit find new solutions to their sustainability and governance (ESG) equity indices. Group Chief Executive Officer challenges. This includes using the circular 18 May 2017 Challenges economy as a trigger for innovation and actively looking for opportunities to We also faced some challenges. When we embed sustainability in every fibre, welcome new partners into our business right along the value chain. through acquisition, we aim to align these My goal is to create the right leadership Supplementary businesses with our sustainability principles and practices, but this can take culture so our Company – and sector as a whole – can embrace the vision of a circular information time. In 2015 we added seven companies comprising 18 operating sites – a relatively economy and work with others to realise large number compared to previous years the shared benefits a sustainable future – to our Group. Aligning each one to our can bring. principles and practices is a continuing effort as we move forward in 2017. 6 Smurﬁt Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Overview Product highlights of 2016 We offer more than just packaging Winners of the Red Dot Design Awards 2016 For more innovative packaging solutions that Smurfit Kappa can offer, please visit: www.smurfitkappa.com Products Filemon is the name of a handy travel box for cats that also doubles as a cosy cathouse. Cats love to hide in boxes. Smurfit Kappa Poland designed this stress-free habitat, with a changeable front and back, out of a simple sheet of corrugated cardboard. Customised sustainable paper packaging protects eggs and catches the eye. Consumers always open egg boxes to check the contents. Smurfit Kappa Germany found an alluring way to present eggs in an open panoramic display. 7 Overview Fruit is fun when Our approach to packaging turns into a toy fire department or sustainable business princess castle. This 3 kg apple basket, designed by Smurfit Kappa Germany, makes healthy fruit more attractive and offers kids a creative Our priorities cardboard playground that can be personalised. and performance Appealing eco-style Supporting data berry punnets fit into special collective trays for transportation. SoFruPack brands and protects berries. The design by Smurfit Kappa Poland makes palletisation easier and the open bottom allows for better ventilation to keep the contents fresh. Supplementary information 8 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our approach to sustainable business Our approach to Our priorities Supplementary Overview sustainable business and performance Supporting data information 9 Sascha Kruppa (L), Carsten Bielen (M) and Michael Stratmann (R) from Smurfit Kappa Zulpich, Germany. 10 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Approach to sustainable business How we create sustainable value Sustainability creates long-term business value As one of the world’s largest paper-based packaging manufacturers we are keenly aware of our responsibilities. Sustainability is not an add-on to our way of doing business, it is in every fibre. Why packaging matters Sustainable value-chain is our business Summary People need food, clothing and household goods for their daily life. Consumers and We believe that sustainability creates business value: sustainability is part of businesses need their goods to be our competitive advantage. To continue — Fit-for-purpose packaging helps to delivered securely, safe from damage or operating, we must ensure that our create material efficiency theft, and this demands robust packaging current strategy is not only sustainable throughout our customers' supply solutions. A package is also a medium to for Smurfit Kappa, but for all our chains communicate its contents to the stakeholders. consumer. Active collaboration with our customers — We demonstrate sustainability by being the industry leader in Paper-based packaging offers a and suppliers can grow businesses transparency and detail versatile and responsible solution for sustainably throughout the supply chain. manufacturers, retailers and consumers. By reducing the use of raw materials and — We work with our customers to In comparison to alternative recyclable designing innovative packaging solutions, develop sustainability through packaging materials, paper-based we offer a more sustainable package to our innovation, strategy and processes packaging has the highest recycling rate. customers, helping them to deliver their — Paper-based packaging has the Wood fibre is a renewable raw material and sustainability targets. highest recycling rate of all the same fibres can be recycled up to eight Our investors are interested in long-term recyclable packaging times before new virgin fibre is needed. profitable businesses. Diligence in Our packaging helps to reduce waste. corporate environmental and social According to FAO 20-50% of food in responsibility are key elements of the developing countries becomes waste in its decision making process when selecting supply chain simply because of no or poor companies for investment. packaging. The figure is only 3-5% in Increased consumer demand will stimulate developed countries due to fit-for-purpose the growth of paper-based packaging’s packaging which ensures products are market share. Surveys (CEPI) show a transported safely to consumers and growing awareness of environmental businesses. issues among consumers. For instance, It is our responsibility to use resources more than 80% of European consumers efficiently and produce our packaging prefer paper-based packaging. solutions as sustainably as we can, not only in our own operations, but in those of our customers and suppliers. We achieve this through continuous research, putting facts and data into practice and delivering innovative packaging solutions, ensuring sustainability is integral to our strategy and operations. 11 Eco-Design fit for purpose We work with our customers to produce innovatively designed and sustainably sound packaging solutions. Overview Our approach to sustainable business Our priorities and performance Supporting data Supplementary information 12 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our approach to sustainable business How we create sustainable value continued Structuring safety during a rebuild Furthermore, we put a lot of effort into During the rebuild of a paper machine at Smurfit Kappa the daily Toolbox meeting to keep Roermond, at least 25 external contracting parties per everyone involved and focused. day worked on site, represented by 350 highly-skilled 160,000 hours of labour workers with 14 nationalities. In combination with Special attention was given to working at continuing production at the site and employees from height, on-site collaboration and fire hazards. To ensure safety, a team of 24 Smurfit Kappa itself, this situation presented a significant scaffolders was appointed to service all challenge from a safety perspective. contractors. Having to first dismantle the old paper machine was a major complicating factor, as it meant that order and tidiness were the number one priorities for safety. Two huge cranes in the hall produced over 10,000 crane movements during the rebuild that lasted seven weeks and involved 160,000 hours of labour. The total investment in the new paper machine was €40 million. Safe and sound The rebuild of the PM1 was successful in many ways, including safety. Van Cruchten states ‘At the start someone dropped a hammer on his little finger and another person bumped his nose, but we are proud to say that no serious accidents occurred. Our daily meetings were a key contributor. Every day we went around the contractors, looking back at the previous day and forward to the upcoming 24 hours.’ Oitmann concludes: ‘Thanks to our integral planning, we managed to Jos van Cruchten and Henk Oitmann Involved and focused create a great team spirit and felt in knew what they were getting into. Prior Working with 25 external contractors, 15 control throughout the project. We are to the rebuild in February 2016, they of whom had never worked on-site, was a very proud of all the people involved who contacted other Smurfit Kappa locations challenge in itself. ‘Most people had never managed to complete the rebuild in just that had coordinated rebuilds in recent worked at our site, so did not know the 49 days in such a safe manner!’ years. Once informed, they formulated rules or risks of our continuing their own set of specifications to ensure production’, adds QHSE Manager Van safety, dubbing the project Aethon. ‘To Cruchten. ‘We formulated instructions to be in complete control we decided to raise awareness of potentially unsafe formulate an all-encompassing integral situations, and provided insight into their plan stating in detail who does what and temporary working environment. A Code when coupled with related safety issues,’ of Conduct was created specifically for says Oitmann, Head of Maintenance & the contractors and all people involved Energy. received a Safety Guide. 13 The global impact of climate change is Integral part of business strategy more and more apparent, and the efforts of companies and governments to Overview minimise and even reverse its effect is becoming more explicit. It is our duty to constantly evolve to meet this challenge. We want to maximise efficiency in resource-use and thereby reduce the tomer Collabo pressure we put on the environment. The Cus alue ratio V n transparency and detail we offer to our Pa stakeholders is industry leading, it guides nd e so ck lu the way we do business throughout our B Va ra u t ing l ag ons i own operations, and those of our suppliers th D Our approach to whilst advancing sustainability in the Busine businesses of our customers. Long-t iency ource Eﬃc e ss G Res iency proﬁtab rm Our most fundamental operational ing c sustainable business resources – wood based fibres – inspire a ility ro eﬃ w riv circular business model. When managed sustainably they enable global carbon Sustainability in O p p o rt t business strategy impPrcoes management; from the forests that capture atmospheric carbon, to increased beneﬁts through efficiency in bio-based energy. When we u n it multiple layers rove s balance the use of virgin and recovered m en ies fibres as our raw material, we maintain a Op Our priorities e ra i ty positive balance of raw material circulation. ti o n al co n ti n u m an sk Ri s Co i en t em ag cy Holistic approach to sustainability c and performance en eﬃ Smurfit Kappa does not view sustainability t Com e rabl as ‘nice-to-have’. In our integrated p li a n c e Me a s u ts targe approach, sustainability is seen as the future of our business. We strive to be ■ Circularity among the most sustainable paper■ Inclusiveness based packaging companies globally. ■ Innovation Sustainability stimulates innovation and creates new customer demands. Supporting data We use sustainability as a lens through which to focus our innovation, strategy and processes. Instead of merely mitigating According to the UN Global CompactSmurfit Kappa has integrated sustainability the risks of climate change and resource Accenture CEO Study on Sustainability, metrics into its business strategy and inefficiency in our business, our ambition is CEOs believe sustainability is essential to aligned them throughout its global to be a sustainability leader and partner of their business strategy, and 88% of operations. As a result, we know the choice to our customers. investors see sustainability as a route effects of our sustainability strategy to competitive advantage. For customers communicate the facts and figures stated and investors, it is vital we demonstrate a in this report. This enables investors to tangible link between sustainable business understand Smurfit Kappa’s sustainability Supplementary and corporate value. Our sustainability accelerators and forecast the effects of efforts drive competitive differentiation sustainable performance on our business. information which in turn boosts brand value and growth. CIRCULARITY 14 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Approach to sustainable business Smarter sustainable solutions Sustainability drives what we do and how we do it, creating value for our business and the communities in which we operate. Holistic approach Summary By examining the entire supply chain including packaging, transport, storage Circular Business Model and product presentation, we can find LOGISTICS — Our circular business model is significant sustainable improvements TO RETAILER RETAIL inspired by our renewable, more effectively than when each step is recyclable raw material considered in isolation. Sustainability runs across all aspects of our operations in — We offer our experience to our three ways: driving innovation, embedding PRODUCTS customers developing solutions CUSTOMERS circularity and doing it inclusively. CONSUMERS with us, in adding value by using our Innotools Our holistic approach starts with our business model, which itself is circular. The — Innovation is used to minimise raw material used to make our products is CORRUGATED & waste and optimise use of materials CONVERTING renewable, and returned to the process PLANTS — We promote sustainable forest after it has been used. We work closely PRODUCT PROCESS SERVICE management through our fibre with our customers and are not just INNOVATION supply chains interested in selling packaging to them. Rather, our business lies in the solutions we can offer, adding value to their supply €7m chains. Finally, our people provide a wealth RECOVERED PAPER REELS of expertise, innovative ideas and links to PAPER €499m FACILITIES the world outside Smurfit Kappa. When our employees thrive, Smurfit Kappa and its stakeholders thrive with them. RECOVERED FIBRES PAPER MILLS VIRGIN FIBRES Understanding our business environment enables us to increasingly integrate in circular economy and driving sustainability in all areas of our value chain. 15 Smarter sustainable solutions Overview Innovation in — Fit-for-purpose solutions paper-based packaging — Performance packaging — Optimised, fully recyclable materials — Understanding customers' markets — Innotools®: Paper-to-Box Innovation through — Fully Chain of Custody certified the supply chain products (FSC, PEFC or SFI) Our approach to — Understanding customers' supply chains via our Innotools®: Innovation drives SupplySmart and PackExpert our sustainability sustainable business — Smurfit Kappa’s sustainable sourcing programme Innovation — Focus on circularity in processes — Sustainability Scorecard to follow up progress related to customers' products Our priorities — Innotools® to help customers' to see through the new solution from an innovative idea to and performance implementation Driving innovation markets. This inspires creative Offering tailored packaging fit for purpose Innovation drives how we operate – approaches, which are put into practice is the core of our eco-design. We begin by from analysing customer challenges through packaging solutions, processes, examining the entire packaging concept of to understanding specific markets and and supply chain solutions. our customer’s product and aim to Supporting data finding the right solutions. Fundamentally, We help our customers use new solutions, optimise primary and secondary packaging to link engineering-based thinking with delivering shared value from an innovative delivering efficiency savings in transport, creative solutions to deliver flexible idea to implementation. We do this storage and display. Throughout, our innovation throughout our operations. through our web-based suite of design objective is to drive solutions through Innovation is needed in product and software, Innotools: Innobook, Paper to the supply chain, such as understanding process development, and is also vital Box, Pack Expert and Shelf Viewer. These changing customer preferences, when analysing a customer’s supply chain. tools are available for customers, allowing demographics, regulatory developments, We examine the total impact of our a robust evaluation of their supply chains. and changes across our competitive customer’s value chain, and instil In addition, our sustainable virgin and landscape. sustainability. recovered fibre packaging minimises Supplementary Innovation at Smurfit Kappa starts with resource use, and reduces the facts. For a decade now, we have collected environmental footprint of our information and published sustainability data from our customer’s product. own operations. This information gives us transparency which we combine with continuous research, analysing customer challenges and understanding specific 16 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Ensuring that resources are maximised We intend to use renewable energy and waste materials minimised by wherever it is economically feasible. offering fit-for-purpose packaging This will involve additional use of solutions that optimise packaging biomass and scaling up methods materials. Where possible, we produce which use our organic waste to lighter grammage papers which require generate energy. It will also involve less fibres. investment in measures to reduce fossil CO2 emissions and investment in further energy efficiency. Ensuring that we reuse resources in our production wherever possible. For example, using the organic by-product of our production process as biomass fuel, or reusing materials separated in the paper-making process. We also reuse water in our paper-making processes multiple times, before treating it for discharge. Ensuring all paper-based packaging We continually find ways to recycle the manufactured by Smurfit Kappa can metals, plastics, wood and other be recycled. non-paper components separated from the recovered paper that is delivered to our mills. 75% of the raw material we use consists We close loops and create circularity of recovered fibres. in our energy production through recovering the high energy value of any by-products wherever possible. We promote sustainable forest management in our own forests and plantations as well as throughout our supply chain and demand deliveries of fibrous materials to be Chain of Custody certified by an internationally accepted forest management standard such as, FSC, PEFC or SFI. 17 Closing loops Forests themselves are a closed loop, from We make it our responsibility to engage in Our ambition is to use a circular economy which we can positively benefit when using the communities in which we are located business model – a closed-loop system. them sustainably. They are fundamental and strive to be viewed by them as a good Overview This means ensuring our operations are for both local climate and water cycles and, corporate citizen. For example, through restorative. It involves replacing the natural when managed sustainably, they provide our foundations, we promote and support resources our production needs as well as raw materials for industry and initiatives in areas such as equal reusing those resources in the best way employment. Within our industry we opportunities, education, basic care for possible, whilst collaborating with our have pioneered full Chain of Custody disadvantaged children, health, safety and stakeholders to find synergies. Increasing certification, enabling us to drive a economic development. These activities resource productivity through a circular sustainable loop for our raw materials. empower people and help them improve model of production and consumption is their lives. Inclusiveness an important contributor to economic We are transparent about our activities, competitiveness. People are at the heart of our operations. and our mills and plants have an open door This includes the people we directly or Our approach to Ultimately, operating a closed-loop system policy for different stakeholder groups. indirectly employ and other people whose is good business practice. For Smurfit Alongside our commitment to making lives we impact. As an employer we want to Kappa, this means working with 100% social and community investments, sustainable business be authentic and foster a company culture renewable, sustainable primary raw we also support scientific studies on that supports proactivity in, for example materials which are then recovered for environmental and biodiversity issues. customer satisfaction, innovation, recycling. It also involves innovating to find improving processes and a healthier new and alternative uses for non-paper and safer workplace. materials that we receive unwantedly with the recovered paper. Of these materials – We include our employees as follows: for example metal, plastic, textiles, wood — Align: We want to align our employees and sand – approximately 42% are behind a strategic focus to maximise currently recovered elsewhere, with the value and innovation for our customers Our priorities remaining material still sent to landfill. We and to deliver operational excellence and performance also use organic by-products of our and results. We do this through training, production process as biofuel, or use globally aligned approaches such as material separated in the water treatment Innotools, a focus on capabilities, and for the paper-making process. health and safety We also close the loop by partnering with — Empower: We empower and develop other sectors. For example, our virgin our people; we also inspire and engage paper mills extract turpentine and tall oil our people in change, and value during the virgin paper production process diversity Supporting data which can be used as raw material in the — Inspire: We are authentic and chemical, medical and pharmaceutical consistent across our global and local industries. activities. We always support our people to embrace a culture of learning. Supplementary information 18 Smurﬁt Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Embracing Local cultures We embrace local cultures and prefer to employ from the local community at all levels where feasible. 19 Approach to sustainable business Our stakeholders and sustainable value Stakeholder engagement in sustainable development As a responsible organisation we provide opportunities for stakeholders to learn about and influence the way we do Overview business at each stage of the value chain. Stakeholder engagement This multi-level engagement includes: Summary We seek stakeholders’ opinions to assist our decision-making, and help us organising meetings and round table discussions with our stakeholders on Our approach to continually improve and innovate. The level sustainability; participating in discussions of stakeholder engagement is based on within our industry as well as cross-sectors — To improve and innovate, we through our memberships at CEPI and sustainable business engage our customers, investors, the materiality of the issues important to them. Our key stakeholders are: WBCSD; participating in CDP, DJSI and employees, communities and customers, investors, employees, FTSE4Good surveys and benchmarking suppliers communities and suppliers. against UN Sustainable Development — We engage by: discussion, our 16 Goals. global experience centres, work Our sustainable value dimensions with local industries and Our holistic approach ensures: We have a unique place in the papercommunities, and memberships of, based packaging value chain. As a large — Relevance: We remain in constant for example, WBCSD conversation with our stakeholders to Our priorities consumer of raw materials, including wood fibre, we have a responsibility to influence ensure we understand their sustainable — Sharing knowledge and how sustainable value is created through business drivers and support them to understanding stakeholders' and performance our value chain as well as create expand their capabilities sustainability goals keeps us relevant, and leads to lower sustainable value for our stakeholders. — Influence: We value and listen to the environmental impact We support stakeholders in meeting their opinion of our stakeholders and share sustainability commitments by, for our experience and best practice from — Through teamwork, safe working example, ensuring that our packaging working with the wide range of suppliers conditions, and awards for is Chain of Custody certified (which helps and customers in our value chain sustainable solutions, we ensure our employees are aligned with our to manage supply chain risks), or by — Value: To ensure we are delivering the goals innovations in reporting that better maximum sustainability value for all our Supporting data measure environmental footprint or stakeholders, it is paramount that we social impact, and making them understand the sustainability drivers transparent for our stakeholders. throughout our value chain Creating sustainable value benefits for our — Affect: We share knowledge and stakeholders means we must enable these expertise with our stakeholders to benefits to flow – from requiring high increase our understanding and find standards of sustainability in our supply sustainable solutions. We do this chain to supporting customers in reducing through training courses, round-table their carbon footprint through rightdiscussions, and gatherings including weighted packaging. awards and events such as partnership debates. Supplementary Our engagement deliverables information Through continual multi-level engagement In the table overleaf, we introduce the with our customers, investors and ways in which we collaborate with our employees, as well as other stakeholders, stakeholders in our three focus areas: we can determine which issues are most circularity, innovation and inclusiveness. important to them. 20 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Approach to sustainable business Our stakeholders and sustainable value continued Our stakeholder engagement Customers Investors Smurfit Kappa’s customers can benefit The effects of our circular sustainability from our circular integrated business strategy can often be directly shown in model which helps us develop fully terms of lower costs, better efficiency, recyclable packaging reducing the total less waste, and increased revenue. Circularity environmental impact of the final product delivered to the consumer. Furthermore, Smurfit Kappa’s sustainable approach to business helps Working in a circular business Increasingly, our customers' objective is us reduce a range of environmental, model means involving our to use packaging solutions that help them regulatory, and health and safety risks stakeholders at all stages and to reduce waste throughout their supply to our operations. adding value to each one. chain. Smurfit Kappa collaborates with its The practical impact of this ranges customers to understand their packaging from reduction in our exposure to needs, supply chain challenges and an increasing price of carbon, to logistics issues to find the best packaging minimising time lost to safety incidents. solution for each situation. We offer holistic ‘fit for purpose’ ecoA truly integrated sustainability design packaging with a low environmental approach makes it possible to quantify footprint. This is accomplished by the results that arise from sustainable collaborating with our customers and innovations. Innovation being innovative to add value. This means developing optimised packaging solutions This is crucial to be able to continually invest in further improvements, to Creating a business by working with measured data and latest attract outside investments, and to environment that enables research insights. Our Innotools such as prove that sustainable innovations do Paper-to-Box and PackExpert help us to innovation ensures that we use this data. not only require substantial capital, but can also deliver a very attractive and our customers operate at It also means that we need dialogue with return on investment. the cutting edge. customers to fully understand their challenges. More about solutions originating from these discussions can be found on pages 14 – 15. Every two years our innovations are judged by stakeholders at awards ceremonies in Europe and The Americas. To successfully drive sustainability For example, we partner with means ensuring our packaging, and customers and suppliers to streamline packaging innovation, becomes available supply chains, reducing fossil CO2 to our customers. emissions and general waste. We also, Inclusiveness We share our collective knowledge use our technology leadership in the industry to drive sustainable innovation. through a network of 16 experience Our approach is to be inclusive centres, and make our expertise available Ensuring we comply with the highest to all of our stakeholders, from for our customers so that we are able to sustainability standards minimises the people we employ to the help them with their sustainability strategy reputational risk to our business, communities where we are and goals. our customers and our investors. located and from suppliers to Our organisation leverages global our customers to deliver expertise to local customers and scales up local insights to a global level. innovative and circular solutions. 21 Employees Communities Suppliers Overview The continuous development of our To promote sustainable societies, we are Sharing knowledge, experience and employees illustrates how we evolve guided by two principles: research and expertise on sustainability strategies as a company. creating win-win solutions. with our suppliers, including our We support them to fulfil their potential Through both approaches we can customers’ strategies, we increase and widen their career prospects in our understand or close loops, develop local the sustainability of our complete global, culturally diverse organisation. business environments, and so positively value chain. This helps employees to anticipate impact the well-being of our surrounding This helps us identify opportunities to and meet changing market demands communities. further increase circularity and add value and deliver exceptional and sustainable in both directions in the supply chain. performance. We offer a possibility to transfer roles, Our approach to responsibilities and geographies, enabling sustainable business a circulation of talent, skill and ideas. Smurfit Kappa is an industry leading We work with other local industries seeking We encourage our suppliers business where capable people can make win-win solutions for our waste and to continually develop their a real impact. This is the reason why we by-products. products and processes. want to attract the best talents and This pan-industrial cooperation has An important area for innovation is give them the opportunity to develop delivered both financial and environmental where materials used by our suppliers themselves and help shape the future. benefits when these side-streams were can be more efficient and of Our priorities The fundamentals – health and safety, previously going to landfill. sustainable origin. For example printing rights and fair treatment, training and inks, starch and glue are food safe, personal development, diversity, easily soluble and highly efficient in use. and performance balance between performance, pay and By testing new products from our participation – allow a working environment suppliers before they come to market in which our people feel free to innovate, we contribute to optimisation of our perform to their best capabilities and shape suppliers’ product developments. sustainable future. Supporting data At every level of our organisation we want We involve people through local initiatives Where possible, we endeavour to our employees to be part of a team and and high impact social programmes, procure our products and services fully engaged as a valued team member. encourage employee volunteering, from local suppliers. These Outstanding performances of employees and also make appropriate charitable interactions between our operations are rewarded through Innovation and donations. Across all our operations we and the local operations of suppliers Sustainability Awards. strive to share value from our business provide support for local economies. Our Group health and safety policies align growth with the communities in which we with the internationally recognised OHSAS operate. 18001 occupational health and safety Communities also help us with valuable Supplementary system application. We aim for zero local knowledge to optimise our operations. fatalities. In achieving this the entire workforce is involved from home to the workplace. information 22 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Approach to sustainable business Ethically and responsibly We believe that sustainability must come from every part of our business. We have instilled our commitment from the boardroom to the factory floor, and throughout our operations. Lead from the top Demonstrating leadership Summary The Board and management of Smurfit Kappa support and strive for the highest Our goal is to be the most sustainable paper-based packaging solutions standards of corporate governance and company globally. The Board has overall — We aim for the highest ethical and ethical business conduct. We believe this responsibility for ensuring Smurfit Kappa legal business conduct should be promoted from the most senior demonstrates leadership within the levels of the business, and must be paper-based packaging sector, promoting — Sustainability experience is shared fostered through the whole organisation. an actionable sustainable development with industry associations, such as agenda. To this end, our Group CEO CEPI, affecting public policy Complying regulations and guidelines sponsors the development and — Policies on, for example, ethical It is Group policy to comply, as a minimum, implementation of Smurfit Kappa’s business (the Code of Business with the relevant laws and regulations in sustainability policies. Conduct), govern everyone each country in which we operate, and Along with sharing our sustainability working with us ensure that our employees are aware experience with customers and suppliers, — We contribute to environmental of this and conduct themselves we believe it is important to share these reporting organisations, for appropriately. Reflecting this, during 2016 and potential challenges within our example CDP, and are signatories no material fines were imposed on the industry and even our competitors. to UN Global Compact Group for any breaches of such laws and To be an example to our peers and regulations. — Our sustainable sourcing competitors but most importantly our own programme has a scope of seven To demonstrate our commitment employees, we have created policy key pillars from quality to continual wherever we can, we go above and beyond statements in key areas of sustainability development compliance with relevant regulations, that are integral to improving Smurfit adhering to the highest standards of Kappa’s performance. These policy reporting. Our sustainable development statements cover Environment, report is assured using GRI, currently the Sustainable Forestry, Sustainable G4, standard. Sourcing, Social Citizenship, and Health In addition, each significant business unit is and Safety issues. the subject of an external and independent financial audit conducted annually by the Group’s external auditors. Most of our other business units are the subject of local statutory financial audits. We also have our own Internal Audit department which, during 2016, performed 88 detailed internal financial and IT audits. This includes the completion of financial risk assessments of the Group’s facilities which are carried out by accredited professionals within each country. 23 Code of Business Conduct The Code is supplemented by policies Our products meet all food safety and corporate policies covering areas relating to our operational standards, including OECD guidelines for The Smurfit Kappa Code of Business and managerial practices. Multinational Enterprises. Overview Conduct (the ‘Code’) applies to the We have also created specific policy Influencing public policy for good Group’s Board of Directors, officers and statements in key areas of sustainability, employees worldwide. We require all As a multinational organisation, our which we believe are integral to improving individuals, entities, agents, or anyone businesses are subject to the legislation Smurfit Kappa’s performance. All our acting on the Group’s behalf, to comply and rules of the jurisdictions in which they codes and policies are available on our with the Code, which has been translated operate. In that context, Smurfit Kappa website: www.smurfitkappa.com. into 17 languages to ensure full adopts positions on a variety of matters accessibility. Benchmarking our performance material to our business, representing our We are involved with many trade bodies to positions to the parties concerned, either The Code takes account of the following directly or through industry bodies such as international conventions and codes: influence understanding and share the Confederation of European Paper Our approach to knowledge on embedding sustainability 1. International Labour Organisation (ILO) throughout operations, including: Industries (CEPI), the European Federation Declaration on Fundamental Principles of Corrugated Board Manufacturers — Confederation of European Paper sustainable business and Rights at Work (core conventions). (FEFCO) and the European Round Table of Industries (CEPI) – Group and National Industrialists (ERT). We also work closely 2. UN Declaration on Fundamental level membership. Smurfit Kappa’s with the Irish Business and Employers’ Human Rights. Group CEO is currently a board Confederation (IBEC) and equivalent 3. OECD Guidelines for Multinational member bodies in other countries. Enterprises. — European Corrugated Packaging At all times the people representing the 4. UN Global Compact. Association (FEFCO) – Group and views of Smurfit Kappa do so with national level membership reference to the Code of Business The Code provides accessible and Our priorities understandable guidance for each — International Corrugated Cases Conduct, and the local laws and employee in every jurisdiction. It sets out Association (ICCA). Smurfit Kappa’s regulations applying to the Group’s and performance our expectations from employees for Group CEO is currently a Board operations. There were no significant compliance with local, regional and member criticisms of the Group in this respect in national law, adherence to ethical 2016. In line with the Group’s Code of — Asociación de Corrugadores del Caribe standards and commitment to quality Business Conduct no financial Centro y Sur América (ACCCSA). and service. contributions were made to political Smurfit Kappa Dominican Republic parties in 2016. No national government Each Group company and its employees is General Manager is currently a is a direct investor in Smurfit Kappa. required to apply the Code and abide by member of the Board of Directors. the laws and practices required for their In addition, we are active participants in Modern Slavery Act Supporting data industry by the jurisdiction in which they and signatories to many environmental Smurfit Kappa is subject to the provisions operate. The Code makes it clear that reporting and sustainability organisations: of the UK Modern Slavery Act. In personal and professional integrity is recognition of the nature and concern essential to conduct business in an ethical — CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure about modern slavery we are currently manner. Project) updating our principles and policies with During 2016, there was one significant — The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) respect to our employees and suppliers to incident reported, which the Group — The Programme for the Endorsement ensure compliance. See also our Annual considered to be non-compliant with the of Forest Certification (PEFC) Report page 49. Code of Business Conduct. — The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) — The UN Global Compact Supplementary information — The Water Footprint Network (WFN) — The European Round Table of Industrialists — World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). 24 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Approach to sustainable business Corporate Governance continued Supplier compliance — Meet food safety requirements. In 2016, we carried out a case study about Sustainable sourcing is an integral part of Our risk mapping shows that nearly all our using a rating tool to assess our suppliers Smurfit Kappa’s sustainability vision and strategic or important suppliers of key with an ambition to widen the scope of our strategy. Our approach to sustainable materials, goods and services are in the supplier assessment from strategic and sourcing goes beyond regulatory moderate to low-risk area. important suppliers to cover the whole requirements. By working towards more supplier base. The case study result shows sustainable supply chains in collaboration Minimising risk of non-compliance that our own audit programme reaches the with our suppliers we can manage risks, cut Our sustainable sourcing programme best coverage of issues for us and costs, find innovations and sources of new started in 2010, and we have audited 100% achieves a more credible assurance of the revenues as well as add value to the of our strategic suppliers. Auditing of risk level in our supply chains. Smurfit Kappa brand and the brands of our suppliers ensures that the materials, customers. goods and services we source are Sourcing of materials, goods and services sustainable and meet our standards. In represents the single largest cost item for 2016, a total of 75 supplier audits were Smurfit Kappa. In 2016, we purchased performed including both first time and Total sourcing costs products and services such as raw re-approval audits. Of these audits, 60% €4.9bn materials, energy, transportation, were performed at strategic suppliers and maintenance and repairs, and investment 67% of the audits were performed at suppliers delivering key materials for our 403 goods, to the value of €4.9 billion. Our sourcing network includes suppliers products (paper, starch, chemicals, glues 404 ranging from small-scale local companies and inks). 33% concerned important goods to large multinationals. In total, and services needed to produce and 476 approximately 74% of our suppliers’ deliver our products. deliveries can be classified as local. Following an initial audit, we work with each To ensure we meet our commitments, supplier in identified continuous 634 a robust sustainable sourcing policy is improvement opportunities. During 2016, required. Smurfit Kappa’s Sustainable 10 more suppliers delivering key materials 2,959 Sourcing programme includes a risk as well as important goods and services assessment of suppliers across the have been audited for the first time under following areas relevant for delivering the sustainable sourcing scheme. 89% Raw materials and consumables Logistics Maintenance and repairs sustainable packaging solutions to our (92% in 2015) of all suppliers audited during Energy Capital equipment customers: 2016 scored satisfactorily, the remaining 11% (8% in 2015) will be compliant once — Quality they complete their defined improvement — Hygiene and safety plans. Only 8% of suppliers audited in 2016 operate in the areas of high risk to us, and — Order processing 2016 Suppliers audited by country despite passing the audit, a closer — Manufacturing monitoring programme is being 4% — Continuous improvement implemented with these suppliers. 7% 23% — Service and technical support Improvement opportunities for these 7% suppliers include hygiene and — Environment and sustainable environmental management systems. The 8% development. supplier audits also include questions on By focusing on these seven areas, social governance covering UNGC, Sedex, 9% we are able to mitigate risks and find CDP and GRI. We aim to increase the 20% opportunities in our five strategic number of suppliers of key raw materials, sustainability areas – forest, climate goods and services who commit to the ten 10% principles of the UNGC and report on 12% change, water, waste and people – which enable us to: social data to Sedex. 100 of our suppliers, mostly strategic, are currently listed as BNL UK ES/PT — Deliver sustainability credentials DE SKTA FR members of Sedex. NEE CCE IRL — Understand business continuity — Focus on suppliers' processes 25 Il Gioco, inclusiveness is the name of the game Overview On May 21, 2016 the grand opening of a beautifully renovated and refurbished Italian school in Mantova drew a large crowd. The smiles on the faces of the children, their families, people from the non-profit organisation Fior di Loto and representatives from the local community and Smurfit Kappa could only mean one thing: Project Il Gioco is a success. Our approach to Literally translated ‘Il Gioco’ means ‘the Supporting children and families sustainable business game’ the name of Fiori di Loto’s very Elena Franzosi, Human Resource successful new method to stimulate the manager SK Corrugated Italy, elaborates: development of special needs children ‘It is so touching to see all the happy faces with game based therapy. The therapy is and to know that our help has really offered to children with developmental made a difference in the community issues, like autism and Down’s syndrome. A special ‘soft room’ full of colourful surrounding us. The facility takes care The advantages of the therapy were clear, mattresses for severely handicapped of children after school hours. These but a suitable location was missing. children has been provided. The new vulnerable children and their families can Our priorities set-up brings out their talents and Local donation really use our help. It is not only important minimises developmental delays. It fills to aid the kids in their development, but Through one of the employees at Smurfit the youngsters with pride and stimulates and performance also to support their families who devote Kappa Mantova, the management of SK social contact.’ so much time and effort to empower their Corrugated Italy came in contact with Fior special needs children. Now parents can A future for all di Loto and learned about their special also enjoy some extra time to socialise, project. Cinzia Baù, director Fior di Loto, relax or work. It benefits everyone.’ A request for financial support was concludes: ‘The Smurfit Kappa submitted at the Smurfit Kappa Very special youngsters Foundation has made it possible to Foundation. After several visits and imagine a future for the children and The modernised location of Fior di Loto meetings with Fior di Loto, the Smurfit families involved in our special not only provides the new therapy, but it Supporting data Kappa committee was very impressed programme. At the same time, the also expands the number of children who with the approach and professionalism foundation has helped to create a can be helped. ‘Il Gioco is now a place behind the Il Gioco project and provided rehabilitation centre in close cooperation where 25 special needs children can enjoy a donation of €90,000. with different organisations that help themselves and learn’, says Elena. ‘In the special-needs children.’ renovated building older kids can also be helped, expanding services from 6 to 11 year olds to teenagers. Supplementary information 26 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Our approach to Our priorities Supplementary Overview sustainable business and performance Supporting data information 27 Manfred Hofer and Daniela Kremsmayer, Smurfit Kappa Swisswell, Switzerland 28 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Materiality Materiality Taking a strategic approach to understand the material vision and mission, vision on sustainability, long-term strategy and the Code of sustainability issues for our business helps us to better Business Conduct, which governs Group understand how to identify opportunities, mitigate behaviours and activities. risks and influence the areas that impact the most. We review these material aspects and processes against external developments such as emerging regulation, environmental To assess the sustainability factors within Our process has three stages: standards and approaches to certification. the business environment we operate in, we 1. Assessing internal and external factors Additionally, we extend and refresh our identify the most relevant environmental material to our business knowledge by working with peers on and social elements within our value chain, collaborative projects. How we do this is and consider the impact we have on them, 2. Benchmarking factors material to our explained in Ethically and responsibly or they have on us. These impacts can be stakeholders (pages 22 – 24). financial as well as social and environmental, 3. Stress testing issues identified with and can affect all our stakeholders stakeholders. Stakeholder benchmarking including our communities, as well as The material aspects identified as a result of This way we are able to limit the issues we ourselves through e.g. regulations, and our the above analysis are then benchmarked report and measure only those on which we environment. against the views of customers, investors, have a direct impact through our activities. Following the steps below, we carry out a suppliers and corporate peers. Using thorough materiality assessment every Internal and external factors sustainability reports and websites, we three years. The most recent was When identifying the most material aspects identified 82 of the most relevant of these conducted in 2016. arising from our operations, we take account stakeholders. We review the materiality of internal and external factors. These assessments undertaken by each of them, include the issues identified in our overall and test how frequently the material aspects they have identified match our own. Material aspects facing Smurfit Kappa Environmental 01 02 Energy use 02 04 Water intake and discharge 05 Waste 25 06 06 Sustainable packaging 12 07 09 04 10 Sustainable product development 11 Biodiversity 08 12 Climate change Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions 05 14 13 Environmental awareness 15 Sustainable agriculture 21 Natural raw material sourcing 13 22 Transport and distribution 03 25 Sustainable forestry 10 18 Social 24 21 01 Health and safety 07 Diversity 08 Community involvement 09 Human rights 16 Career development and employee training 20 17 Well-being of employees 11 16 19 17 19 Employee benefits and remuneration 23 20 Labour relations 22 Governance and compliance 03 Governance, business ethics and value 14 Responsible sourcing 15 18 Compliance and transparency 23 Quality management 24 Food safety Significance of economic, environmental and social impacts 29 Smurfit Kappa sustainability impact through value chain Company Product Raw materials Suppliers Distribution Product use Operations end life — Forest — Governance: — Climate — Governance: — Forest — Forest — Sustainable Change Sustainable — Climate — Climate Overview Sourcing — Water Sourcing Change Change — — Waste — Climate — Waste — Waste Change — People — — — — Material topics in italics Sustainable Development Goals (SDG): Our approach to 1. No Poverty 8. Decent Work and Economic 12. Responsible Consumption and 2. Zero Hunger Growth Production sustainable business 3. Good Health and Well-Being 9. Industry, Innovation and 13. Climate Action Infrastructure 14. Life Below Water 4. Quality Education 10. Reduced Inequalities 15. Life on land 5. Gender Equality 11. Sustainable Cities and 16. Peace, Justice and Strong 6. Clean Water and Sanitation Communities Institutions 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 17. Partnerships for the Goals Our priorities This enables us to establish which aspects Although not all aspects highlighted in the — People, including health and safety, and performance are the most important to our key matrix are of equal importance to Smurfit diversity, human rights, career stakeholders. Kappa, they were considered in determining development and employee training, issues material to our business and our well-being of employees, labour Stress testing sector. For transparency, they are plotted in relations and community involvement. Material aspects vary across countries and accordance with GRI guidelines. regions. For example, in Europe we found To demonstrate the global context of the In conclusion, five key strategic sustainability issues and their impacts we have matched environmental aspects to have a higher priorities emerge from the materiality those UN Sustainable Development Goals priority, whereas in the Americas social analysis which provide the focus for our daily relevant to us with our material priorities aspects are considered more important. Supporting data operations and reporting. Four of these throughout our value chain. This approach Acknowledging these regional differences, topics are environmental, and one is social. helps us to show where our risks and the final phase of our materiality All are relevant for compliance. Our five opportunities lie. assessment involves stress testing each strategic priorities are: material aspect for its relevance and The material relevance of each priority is — Forestry, including sustainable forestry, explained in the following sections. The priority to our national and international biodiversity and natural material topics directly related to governance or stakeholders. We use a variety of sourcing sustainable sourcing we have discussed in techniques, described in Stakeholder engagement in sustainable development — Climate change, including energy use, Ethically and responsibly (pages 22 – 24). (pages 19 – 21), to gather feedback from our climate change and transport and stakeholders, and use qualitative analysis to distribution determine the significance and priority of — Water, including water intake, use and Supplementary each material aspect. information discharge The materiality matrix on the previous page shows the outcome of our three— Waste, including discussions on step assessment. To aid understanding, avoiding waste to landfill and hazardous the aspects are grouped under three key waste categories: environmental, social and governance and compliance. 30 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Forest Forest At Smurfit Kappa, we produce paper from virgin and recycled fibres. In this chapter, we discuss our approach to sustainably sourcing them both in fibre sourcing and forest management at our own plantations and forestry operations. Smurfit Kappa produces paper and We believe forests can supply sufficient Summary paper-based packaging solutions for its customers. It is material to us and our quantities of sustainable, renewable sources of fibre when managed well. stakeholders that the raw materials we use By putting an emphasis on sustainable — We achieved our target to sell over are of sustainable origin and that we management at our plantations and 90% of our packaging solutions as communicate this in a transparent and forests, as well as demanding it from our Chain of Custody certified credible manner. The forest sector is one suppliers, we can positively contribute to of the major users of wood as a raw realising the following UN Sustainable — All our operations are Chain of material and has a significant impact in Development Goals: decent work and Custody certified supporting driving sustainable forest management. economic growth (No 8), responsible transparency in fibre supply chains Therefore, both the industry and Smurfit consumption and production (No 12), — Balanced use of virgin and recycled Kappa play a key role in ensuring resources climate action (No 13) and life on land fibres are vital for a circular paper are used in a responsible way. This means (No 15). packaging industry using virgin fibres from sustainably Smurfit Kappa manages its own managed forests in combination with eucalyptus, gmelina and pine plantations in — We promote fibre recyclability, and recovered fibres from recycled paper as Colombia and Venezuela, and a smaller material use (inks and glues) that efficiently as possible. number of hectares of forest in Spain and supports this Throughout the paper production process France. We also procure wood for pulp — Our forests preserve biodiversity, there will always be a need for virgin wood through certified Chains of Custody from and the starting point of our fibre fibres. Fibre can only be recycled suppliers throughout Europe, including sourcing is sustainable forest approximately eight times before its from Austria, the Baltic countries, France, management certified by FSC, quality becomes too poor to produce Germany, Spain and Sweden. PEFC or SFI paper from. As a result, we must source Everything we do is subject to strict virgin raw material from forests. We use principles of sustainability and the both fresh wood fibres and recovered highest standards of practice, to ensure paper to produce virgin and recycled paper sustainable forest management. We globally at a ratio of 25% to 75% believe that this is best achieved through respectively. Efficient use of our raw implementing sustainable forest materials makes us a contributor to the management certification, and related circular economy, and to UN Sustainable Chain of Custody systems throughout the Development Goal 12, Responsible value chain from forest to end product. We consumption and production. hold our suppliers to the same standards. 31 Chain of Custody certified proof Over 90% of our products are sold as certified according to FSC® or PEFC™ standards. Overview Our approach to sustainable business Our priorities and performance Supporting data Supplementary information 32 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Forest continued Albert Heijn partnership optimises paper recycling Van der Spek adds: ‘Our collaboration has Every year Smurfit Kappa Recycling Benelux supplies significantly reduced transport some 1.2 million tonnes of recovered paper to Smurfit movements of the recovered paper and Kappa and other paper mills. A major part of this volume offers easy insight into the paper recycling route. It allows us to demonstrate that our is collected from retailers, Smurfit Kappa’s corrugating discarded packaging comes back to life at and converting operations, printers, households and or near our own shops.’ other large scale users of paper. The collected paper is Transparency increases credibility mainly recirculated at our paper mills which produce Albert Heijn started the paper collection optimisation pilot with Smurfit Kappa in paper from the recovered fibres so the source material November 2015. Even though it took some gets a new life. effort convincing the whole shop system to implement a new way of working, the ‘Our task is to make sure that our recycled business. The retailer wants to be a good ultimate test came during the Christmas paper mills have a continuous supply of and responsible corporate citizen. period and convinced the last doubters. quality raw material from the so-called Avoiding waste is one of the key focus There was not a single hiccough, so, during urban forest’, explains Ard de Haas, areas in its environmental programme. the first quarter of 2017 the complete Manager Recycling Netherlands. ‘For ‘Efficiently recycling our packaging Albert Heijn Netherlands shop & DC retailers, the collection of their waste materials and being part of the circular network will implement the system. ‘Our paper should be as effortless as possible. economy are important to us’, partnership results in happy customers at Our challenge is to reliably facilitate this in emphasises Henk van der Spek, Senior both ends of the supply chain and in synergy with delivering recovered paper. Manager Returning Albert Heijn transparency which increases credibility. To be able to produce good quality paper Replenishment. That is key when working towards from recycled fibres, contamination of ambitious sustainability targets!’, recovered paper needs to be minimised. Focus and efficiency Van der Spek concludes. The longer the fibres that we can dissolve Albert Heijn used to utilise a rather from the paper, the better the quality of complicated system involving an array of the paper produced by the paper mills.’ general recycling companies. ‘Smurfit Kappa offered an alternative solution Albert Heijn’s circular economy solely dedicated to paper’, says De Haas. Albert Heijn, the leading retailer in the ‘It enables us to focus efficiently on best Netherlands (with also stores in Belgium) practices in paper collection and at the with over 950 locations, has the wellsame time manage an optimised raw being of its clientele at the core of its material delivery to the paper mills. 33 Risks, challenges and opportunities The challenge comes with an opportunity Regulation and certification to find innovative solutions. We need to The EU and US have implemented Sustainable balance of fibre use move away from basic packaging, to legislation to tackle illegal timber in their Overview Consumers and public sector solutions that consider the full packaged marketplaces. As a company operating organisations are increasingly aware of product’s supply chain demands, and across European and American countries, sustainable consumption and recycling optimise use of recycled and virgin fibres in we are subject to managing our wood of materials. The global demand for the most efficient manner. Smurfit Kappa’s sourcing in a manner that is traceable to sustainably sourced wood fibres increases innovative tools help our customers to legal sources, applying a due diligence in step with paper recycling. Both offer take full value of this opportunity. system in our wood-based material risks and opportunities for the paperCommunicating about the use of sourcing. We believe that this is the based packaging industry. sustainably sourced, certified fibres, helps minimum requirement for wood sourcing, As consumption increases, more paper us to submit tenders and maintain, if not and we place emphasis on voluntary forest and paper-based packaging is needed, even expand, our customer base to include certification, adding sustainable forest Our approach to especially in developing and emerging large, demanding, market leaders. management requirements to the legal economies. Increased paper recycling has Finally, finding solutions to improve the origin requirement. a positive impact on the fibre supply. quality of recovered fibres, strengthens For us, the best way to meet these sustainable business However, using recycled fibre also reduces the circular loop between paper-based requirements is to implement forest the quality of recovered paper and hence packaging producers and the final users of certification and Chain of Custody that of newly-made recycled paper. The the packaging. This means that the certification, providing traceability to the use of wood resources therefore remains responsibility for keeping the fibres in the origin of the wood source. We believe that an imperative to guarantee ultimately the recycling loop is not only in hands of the the three international forest availability and the quality of paper, which paper industry but in all who participate in management certification schemes – creates its own set of obligations. it. Smurfit Kappa’s recycling operations Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC), The opportunity for the sector is to find a have found new partnerships in retailers Programme for Endorsement of Forest Our priorities balance between sustainable use of virgin who are conscious of their waste and strive CertificationTM (PEFC), and Sustainable and recovered fibres. Sustainable forest to find win-win practices, such as the Forestry InitiativeTM (SFI) – give the best and performance management practices and only using collection of used packaging from assurance of sustainable wood material. material from sustainable origin/Chain of their locations. However, FSC and PEFC have also faced Custody certified material, is the key to Wood-based subsidies and their effects issues with the integrity of their Chain of striking and maintaining that balance. The on wood markets Custody systems. To tackle this, both forest sector can still do much to improve The 2020 EU Renewable Energy Policy schemes have made efforts to improve its situation, as, according to the UNECE/ targets are supported by subsidy schemes; their systems including revising their FAO Forest Products Annual Market these increase the price and affect the Chain of Custody and Controlled Wood Review, only 29% of industrial roundwood availability of our raw materials. For the standards, and creating platforms that Supporting data is certified to internationally accepted 2020-2030 period the target for renewable increase transparency for certificate forest management standards. energy has been increased – participants holders’ data. As an active member of FSC The paper-based product industry can are expected to procure 27% of their International and PEFC International, also work to improve the quality and life energy from renewable sources by 2030. Smurfit Kappa has been supporting these span of fibres. The World Economic Forum The EU has called for an improved biomass processes. Project Mainstream published a set of policy to allow for fair competition guidelines for improving the recyclability of Our commitment to sustainable fibre between the various uses of biomass paper in 2015, including guidance on the resources in, for example, the paper and Our target is to source virgin fibres from use of inks and glues that can be more pulp industries. This, in effect, supports certified, well-managed forests or at easily removed from the recovered fibre, our favoured concept of resource least of non-controversial origin, so that Supplementary thus improving the fibre quality and hierarchy, with policy support for the recycled fibres are traceable to the increasing the recycling of paper. highest added value applications for fibre, collection point. We require all the material to be delivered through a third-party information such as producing paper, over lower added value applications, such as verified, Chain of Custody certified supply energy generation. chain. We accept FSC, PEFC and SFI certified wood, and the Chain of Custody systems at our mills and plants also cover recycled fibre sourcing. 34 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Forest continued Credibility through third party certification One of Smurfit Kappa’s key focus areas is to assure customers that the fibres used in our packaging solutions come from sustainable sources. Currently, the most credible way to do this is to participate in Forest Management and related Chain of Custody certification. We take third-party certification very seriously, and examine it closely. Forest Management and Chain of Quality Assurance Custody certification are voluntary, Through independent third party audits, market-driven mechanisms. Both sufficient assurance is given to safeguard promote sustainable forest management a level playing field for all organisations in commercial forests and plantations, pursuing certification. In simple terms, then follow up the material trail through third party involvement eliminates the documentation to its origin. However, possibility of corruption in a system, and what does a voluntary, market-driven functions as quality assurance to all mechanism mean? It means that the stakeholders. Smurfit Kappa has been forest and plantation owners commit working with Control Union since themselves to implement practices that launching its forest certification are stricter than required by law, and programme in 2008. This includes James Schadenberg utilise a third party to verify it. The system certifying Smurfit Kappa’s operations to is market-driven because customers can To illustrate the latest advancements, FSC and PEFC standards in Austria, require materials from certified forests, Smurfit Kappa has developed an internal Belgium, Czechia, France, Germany, Italy, and they are able to follow this up through audit tool, which helps to follow up on audits The Netherlands and Spain. a certified Chain of Custody. alongside its sites. This new tool will benefit Company-wide Commitment the third party auditor as well. ‘This is a great Impartial Certification way to promote good practices throughout ‘The results of our periodic audits have Control Union Certifications is one of the shown good development through the a company, show the commitment to your auditing bodies certifying Smurfit Kappa’s years’, says Schadenberg. ‘Smurfit Kappa own targets and, as in this case, promote Chain of Custody management systems. stands out in their technical sustainable forest management in general’, James Schadenberg, Program Manager understanding of their standards, and in concludes Schadenberg. of their global network of certification their corresponding internal progress. experts and auditors, explains what the The company has been quick to adapt its role of a third party verifier entails: ‘Our systems to changes in the standards, task is to be an independent party that facilitated by a solid-functioning inspects and verifies whether an management system. Smurfit Kappa organisation complies with a certification always tries to be ahead of standard. We are not part of the scheme developments.’ owner, nor the certified organisation. Our role is to be impartial, and to adhere to the specific requirements of the standard.’ 35 Chain of Custody model Purchased Recycled Purchased Overview Pulp wood paper paper Pulp Paper Converting Forestry Wood Pulp Paper Packaging solutions production production operations to customers Our approach to sustainable business Smurfit Kappa operation Smurfit Kappa wood-based product External wood-based product The packaging products we deliver to our Smurfit Kappa’s recycling operations During 2016 the availability of certified Our priorities customers should, therefore, not only handle some 4.7 million tonnes of fibres at our paper mills reached a level that and performance meet the above requirement, but also recovered paper annually in Europe, and enabled us to produce some 91% of our meet the commitments we make in our 1.8 million tonnes in the Americas. We paper as Chain of Custody certified, various policy statements (Forestry Policy, have a network of 14 recycled paper according to FSC, PEFC or SFI. The Code of Business Conduct, Social depots in Europe, and 33 in the Americas, remaining 9% are non-controversial fibres, Citizenship, among others). Most of our that supply recovered paper from managed through the mills’ Chain of commitments have been covered by the municipalities, retailers, industries, Custody certified risk assessment Chain of Custody certification standards. and our own corrugating and converting systems. These concern all fibres and fibre-based operations. The complete Smurfit Kappa paper and Supporting data products we use or manufacture, whatever board mill system in Europe is Chain of the origin or form of the fibres. Chain of Custody certification Custody certified, under either one or both Transparency throughout our supply A total of 59% of the wood used in the schemes we support in Europe (FSC and chain vital to delivery of our sustainability Smurfit Kappa mill system for producing PEFC) since 2010. Since January 2015, all commitments. We are committed to virgin paper or pulp currently originates of our paper mills in the Americas are maintaining robust monitoring and from forests that are certified under the certified by FSC and/or SFI standards. third-party auditing of our supply chain, FSC, PEFC and/or SFI schemes, and the This means we have reached a 100% ensuring sourced fibre is compliant with remaining 41% is wood from nonproduction capacity with Chain of Custody our sustainability principles. While Smurfit controversial origin. This status has been certification for our paper and board Kappa does not source wood fibre from risk assessed through our FSC and/or production. areas where the risk of deforestation is Supplementary PEFC Chain of Custody system, and high, it is nevertheless an important issue verified by a third party. that affects the reputation of the whole information industry. The best practice to deliver our commitment is through forest certification, and related Chain of Custody certification. 36 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Forest continued Effectively all our converting operations Venezuela Fibre origin 2016 are Chain of Custody certified. With this Our forests in Venezuela are situated in All operations* complete coverage of both certified paper the three western states. Totalling some and board produced, and converting 35,000 ha of forest and plantations, they operations under Chain of Custody include: 17% certification, we are reaching the highest possible level of packaging sold as Chain of — 21,000 ha of commercial plantations Custody certified. We reached our target — 13,000 ha of natural forest 7% to sell over 90% of our packaging products — 1,000 ha for infrastructure. 57% as Chain of Custody certified at the end of 2016, a year behind target. We reached In our commercial plantations, 64% of the 74% at the end of 2015 and 90.1% at the land is planted with short fibre species 18% end of 2016. The reasons for this delay (eucalyptus and gmelina) and 30% with were insufficient certified material supply long fibre pine. The remaining 6% is used from external suppliers and the necessary for research and development, including adaptation of internal IT systems. silviculture, plantation management, and Recycled pulp produced internally forest protection activities. Wood pulp produced internally Forest and plantation management Market virgin pulp Certification Virgin papers purchased The Americas Recycled paper purchased Our Colombian forest management Smurfit Kappa owns and manages 103,000 programmes have been certified by FSC * All operations include paper and board mills, corrugated hectares (ha) of forests and plantations in since 2003. board converters, sack plants. Colombia and Venezuela, which provide almost all the virgin wood fibre we require Also our Venezuelan forests and in those countries. They are all subject to plantations are managed to the highest protection programmes managed by standards. 31% of the plantations are Smurfit Kappa based on the best certified to the FSC Forest Management sustainable development principles, standard, and 45% of the area is certified in promoting responsible use of natural compliance with FSC Controlled Wood resources alongside economic standard. development and social inclusiveness. Europe We also conform to comprehensive legal, In Europe we offer forest management technical and environmental regulations services through our wood supply set by local governments and international companies in Spain and France. We also bodies, which are subject to annual review. own some 600 hectares of forest in France and Spain. In both countries we follow local Colombia best practices for forest management, as Our largest forest plantation area is in certified by PEFC. Colombia. In total we own or manage approximately 68,000 ha, including: Our wood handling operations are Chain of Custody certified to FSC and PEFC — 43,000 ha of commercial plantations, standards, while our complete paper and of which 5,000 ha are partnerships with board mill system has been certified since private land owners the end of 2010. — 22,000 ha of protected natural forest Conservation — Just over 3,100 ha for infrastructure. Of the forest land owned by Smurfit Kappa In our commercial plantations 59% of the in Colombia and Venezuela, 32% and 37% land is occupied by pine trees and 36% by respectively is dedicated to protecting the eucalyptus trees, while 3% is in process of sustainability of forests. This land helps to replanting and 2% is dedicated to research. maintain the rich biodiversity of the area, preserving watersheds and conserving habitats and ecosystems. 37 Contributing to responsible forest Overview management worldwide ‘Through training we can make sure our ‘Sustainable forest management is a prerequisite for our people’s knowledge is up-to-date, and business’, says Lena Sammeli-Johansson, sustainability they can stay on top of new manager at Sveaskog, a Swedish company that supplies developments regarding best practices in forest management,’ says Sammelitimber to the Smurfit Kappa Piteå paper mill. ‘We work Johansson. ‘We work with our own with a renewable natural resource and want to take good employees, but also with many individual Our approach to entrepreneurs. Our training system care of the terrestrial system and biodiversity, to conduct caters to both, providing them with the our business responsibly.’ skills and know-how to complete sustainable business certification requirements for FSC and PEFC standards. Our educational approach consists of web-based training, and in-depth training in the field.’ Positive effects of certification ‘Even though the Swedish Forest Act already has strict criteria, forest Our priorities certification results in a higher sustainability level. In 1998 we were one and performance of the first companies here to obtain a FSC-certificate. Since then, the state of our forests has improved significantly, and this development is visible all over the world. The extended framework that forest certification offers beyond legislation, helps us to focus on all three aspects of sustainability: ecological, social and economic. Certification stimulates us Supporting data to talk about forest management with our stakeholders, and helps facilitate the multiple uses of forests. For us, forest certification and related CoC-certification, Lena Sammeli-Johansson are of great relevance – they make us a Forests are renewable resources. Proper To broaden its offerings, the company part of the global story of improving forest management enables harvested also imports wood from the Baltic States forest management’, concludes forests to grow back, and continue to play and Finland. Through strict Chain of Sammeli-Johansson. a vital role in global carbon and water Custody requirements, clients are cycles. Besides the environmental informed of the origin of their sourced aspects, forests are also important for wood raw materials. Supplementary people in terms of income, recreation information and well-being. Responsible forest Skills and Know-How management has many important The focus of Sveaskog on nature’s dimensions, and Sveaskog, which owns continuity is in the DNA of the company, some 14% of the Swedish forests, is and great attention is given to training keenly aware of this. and procedures. 38 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Forest continued To maintain the biodiversity and During the past four years, studies In addition to our work in biodiversity sustainability of forests in these areas, developed by Smurfit Kappa identified and nature protection, we work in close our guiding principles are to: 1,132 species in our forests. This includes cooperation with the communities — Conserve natural forests under our 582 trees, 480 birds, and 70 mammals, of neighbouring our plantations. In these stewardship, protecting and promoting which 41 species are to some extent communities we endeavour to engage species diversity, thereby sustaining endangered. It is clear to us that our local people in the decision-making ecosystems and contributing to the plantations and the neighbouring processes. This is especially important in protection of water sources and protected natural forests form important Latin America, where indigenous people habitats for flora and fauna wildlife corridors that contribute to species may have rights to the land and local conservation in the Andean ecosystem, communities’ livelihoods are often — Identify appropriate species and and therefore need careful management. dependent on the forests. practices which increase plantation yields while protecting the environment — Continuously and systematically Forest develop research programmes to Scope Our perspective preserve and enhance soil productivity. This strategic priority covers forest Independent third-party certification is the Plantation forestry offers a means to management, biodiversity, fibre sourcing and most reliable means to promote sustainable produce sustainable fibres for paper the communication of how we use sustainable forest management and combat deforestation. production in an efficient manner. In our fibres through certified Chains of Custody. We manage our forest holdings based on the Our reporting encompasses all our own following three sustainable development Colombian and Venezuelan holdings this is operations and products. principles: done in carefully selected areas, avoiding 1. To promote economic growth valuable ecosystems and protected forest Commitment #1 areas. All fibre produced and/or purchased is Chain of 2. To use natural resources responsibly Protecting and promoting biodiversity and Custody certified under FSC, PEFC or SFI. 3. To foster social citizenship initiatives Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2015 wherever our plantations and forests are natural habitats is an important part of our located. We have certified all our approach. To achieve this, we work with Progress made: We reached the target in 2014 plantations and forest holdings to FSC and/ third-party institutions and through our and continued to produce and purchase 99.7% or PEFC standards where practical. own research centre in Colombia. of our fibres under fibre origin management systems that are Chain of Custody Certified in We certify our own Chains of Custody In Colombia we have worked with three 2016. This is within our margin of 1% variation. according to FSC and PEFC standards, covering local universities – Cauca, Valle and both virgin and recycled fibres. We expect our Commitment #2 suppliers to be able to deliver fibrous raw Quindío – since 2009, studying the flora Over 90% of our packaging is labelled as Chain materials through complete FSC, PEFC or SFI and fauna populations in and around our of Custody certified under FSC, PEFC or SFI. certified Chains of Custody. protected and planted forests. Examples Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2015 The recyclability of paper fibres is an important of our work include: contributor to the sustainable nature of our Progress made: We fulfilled the commitment — A partnership with the Biology at the end of quarter 4 2016. The delay was products. Recovery of used paper is a global Programme of the Natural Science caused by having an insufficient supply of necessity, and policies should stimulate certified material from external suppliers and effective paper recovery systems. For Smurfit School of Universidad del Valle, started the necessity to adapt internal IT systems. Kappa, communicating the sustainable nature in 2013 to study the ‘diversity of birds, of our products is important. This is why we mammals and plants in the natural included the sourcing of recovered paper in the forests of the forestry nucleus in Sevilla’ scope of our Chain of Custody certifications. — A literature review, carried out in 2014, FSC, PEFC and SFI currently offer the most which aimed to inform conservation reliable standards that deliver credible, sustainable, fibrous raw materials. planning by identifying areas of special biodiversity close to the company’s plantations and natural forests in the Santa Rosa-Pereira core areas. 39 Right-weighted paper packaging Our approach to virgin and recycled paper offers quality, performance, and product safety without compromising sustainability. Overview Our approach to sustainable business Our priorities and performance Supporting data Supplementary information 40 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Climate Change Climate Change Climate action remains the key topic within environmental sustainability for civil society and business. Smurfit Kappa is contributing towards curbing climate change, aiming at low carbon, efficient energy production. Paper production is energy intensive and government incentives encouraging the Summary the cost and supply of energy are key decision factors for our sector. Our use of biomass, could create a competitive disadvantage compared to less energyindustry’s challenge is to reduce the energy intensive packaging materials. — From 2005-2016 we achieved a intensity of production and move, where Tackling climate change through reduction of 22.9% of our relative economically feasible, from fossil fuels to encouraging the circular economy is an CO2 emissions from paper and renewable sources, including biomass. opportunity for our business. Smurfit Kappa board mills Use of energy, carbon footprint and GHG continually seeks ways to utilise its resources — Paper production is energyemissions are all material to Smurfit Kappa’s more efficiently, and welcomes synergies intensive, but use of by-products, business. We also recognise that these with stakeholders. One of the fields where makes us an efficient user of caloric issues are also significant to wider society, circular thinking has advanced our efficiency resources and, indeed, a factor closely followed by our is energy production, either from our side stakeholders. The UN has singled out the streams or in the form of more efficient use — In 2016, the fuel mix of our paper issue by giving Climate Action a Sustainable of different forms of energy. mills was 48.5% biofuel based, an Development Goal (No 13) of its own. Our increase from 37.3% in 2005 Smurfit Kappa supports efforts to curb industry can contribute to this goal in climate change whilst maintaining a global — Energy efficiency is supported by multiple strategic ways. level playing field for business. Following Combined Heat and Power plants, As a company we strike a balance between the ‘Paris Agreement’, the business sector energy reduction by investment, using wood (and recovered) fibres for the needs governments to design stable, new technologies, and shifting to paper production, and using residual wood predictable, long-term policies ensuring a CO2-friendlier fuels fibres such as sawdust, bark, black liquor, smooth, coherent and effective transition and fibre containing sludge, for bioenergy to a low-carbon society. These policies will production. By the nature of its processes, create greater certainty for innovation and the paper producing industry is one of the investment decisions. most efficient users of both wood and Specifically for Europe, where we do 75% of energy. For energy generation, we only use our business, we are closely monitoring how wood biomass that cannot be used in any the follow-up of the COP 21 has an effect higher value production. In addition, we on the EU ETS and how EU can avoid the reuse as much as possible the by-products so-called ‘carbon leakage’ – the transfer of of bioenergy production, including black business operations to countries with less liquor, as fuel in our own production robust environmental targets. The EU processes. approved its policy framework on climate Risks, challenges and opportunities change for the period of 2020-2030, but its implementation has not yet been decided. In the global drive to decrease fossil CO2 For the paper industry it is fundamental that emissions a shift towards the use of the region remains competitive, and avoids renewable energy is needed. This shift costs that hinder global competitiveness. could be achieved by using energy from biomass, but this may limit the availability of wood fibres for paper production. Cost is also a risk and a challenge. Increased cost of raw materials, possibly because of 41 Efficient energy production in focus Overview Smurfit Kappa reduces its CO2 emissions through a systematic approach that includes increasing resource efficiency through implementation of best practices in energy production in its paper mills. With correct technologies in place, we can reach an energy efficiency of over 85%, by, for example, installing Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plants in our mills. Our approach to sustainable business Our priorities and performance Massimiliano Listi and Hugo Castillo Garcia with their teams During 2016 two new CHP plants started Coal related CO2 emissions dropped from itself and others stem from applying for in Smurfit Kappa’s mills. In Ania (Italy), the 120 to 78 tonnes with the finalisation of permits, executing impact assessments, natural gas powered CHP started on the this project.’ An efficient CHP also lowers and other related issues.’ first of January and in Barbosa (Colombia), the discharge of other emissions into the part of the coal-produced energy was air when the best available technologies Effects on the big picture replaced with a natural gas powered CHP are utilised. For example, in Ania, the ‘I think a project like this is a good learning in July. In both cases, the mill replaced specific NOX emission per unit of energy process for a mill’, says Listi. ‘Part of the Supporting data purchased electricity with an improved produced, was reduced by 18%, and in project was an extensive environmental system, enabling more efficient electricity Barbosa nitrogen oxide emissions were impact assessment that looked not just at production and total self-sufficiency – halved by the project. direct and indirect emissions from the they now generate 100% of their own mill, but also focussed on the future of the electricity. Prerequisites environment where the mill is located.’ ‘It What makes a successful CHP project? urged us to really think about the big CHP plants generate vast gains Good planning is a prerequisite say both picture and to formulate a clear goal: why ‘Nowadays, the mill runs with 86% energy Listi and Castillo Garcia. ‘When you do we need this project? Our main reason efficiency’, explains Massimo Listi, completely alter the production was to reduce our energy consumption, General Manager of the Smurfit Kappa method of electricity and heat, a pile of have an integrated energy source less Supplementary Ania mill. ‘On top of that, energy supply administrative work will come your way,’ prone to disturbances and, of course, assurance, as well as the security of our says Listi. ‘This makes it extremely to reduce our emissions’, information employees, have increased as a result of important to plan carefully, design a concludes Castillo Garcia. this project.’ ‘We notice similar impacts’, well-thought-out system, and make says Hugo Castillo Garcia, General proper calculations that get you through Manager of the Smurfit Kappa Barbosa the process.’ ‘It is a costly investment’, mill. ‘The coal deliveries to our site have continues Castillo Garcia. ‘Some of the reduced by twenty truckloads a month. costs come from building the system 42 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Climate Change continued Smurfit Kappa supports the EU initiative Gas under the for an Energy Union. We believe it will enable European companies to deliver magnifying glass innovative, efficient products and technologies to tackle climate change, provided it is established correctly. With the majority of our business based in Natural gas will continue to increase its share of the global Europe, we are affected by the enduring energy mix, growing at 2% per year until 2020, according relative high energy costs in the region. The Energy Union aims, among other to the International Energy Agency. Although natural gas things, to address this issue. is less carbon intensive relative to other fossil fuels it is still Looking further ahead, the CEPI Forest a natural resource. A consumption reduction not only Fibre Industry 2050 Roadmap (2011) to a low-carbon bio-economy showed that a favours the environment, it is also an economic incentive CO2 reduction for our sector of 50%-60%, to produce more efficiently. Several Smurfit Kappa plants compared to 1990 levels, is possible based on available and emerging technologies. across Europe found new ways to significantly reduce To reach a reduction of 80% by 2050, their natural gas intake and CO2 emissions. the development and availability of breakthrough technologies are necessary, Benelux is getting up to steam As a consequence, the annual gas and must be available by 2030. In the Benelux, Smurfit Kappa focused on consumption decreased by 9.5 %, CO2 emissions decreased by 308 tonnes on a Progress in 2016 the main consumer of energy and water at its plants, namely the corrugator. yearly basis. To tackle climate change we are moving to Energy scans were conducted to get a a lower fossil-fuel, less CO2 – intensive Well-made improvements in the UK detailed overview, and new ways to energy mix, promoting renewable sources significantly decrease use of energy and In West Auckland (UK) Smurfit Kappa uses where economically feasible and closing water were identified. The solution that gas in steam-generation for the corrugator loops to create circularity in our production bore fruit consisted of several elements, and heating systems. Three main areas process. We do this through a threeincluding insulation of industrial pipes and were targeted for improvements, including pronged approach: re-use of steam. Insulating the pipes also the boiler control, steam pipework — Investing in efficient energy generation improved the safety of employees as it insulation,and a constant hot well reduces the risk of burn injuries. To temperature. Installation of an advanced • Efficient energy generation by efficiently re-use steam, a modification eco-controller for the boiler resulted in investing in highly efficient of the steam valve was necessary. These estimated savings of 10% and a drop in CO2 Combined Heat and Power (CHP) measures resulted in an annual of 308 tonnes per year. E-watch software systems. Our industrial need for corrugator gas consumption decrease of with input from thermal cameras detected both electricity and heat means we 10% – equivalent to 9,500 m3 of gas. focus areas for insulation. This upgrade are well suited to scale up our use of Re-use of consended steam delivered up produced annual cost savings of £27,000, CHP generated power to 20% lower water consumption. and a yearly reduction of 149 tonnes of • Improving the efficiency of our CO2. Achieving a constant temperature of current boiler houses, minimising Re-insulation in Denmark the hot well added £14,000 in savings, and a heat losses Research conducted by Smurfit Kappa drop of 145 tonnes of CO2. Overall gas usage was lowered by a stunning 33%. — Investing in energy reduction Denmark showed that heat loss from programmes technical installations offered potential for improvements. The focus was on the boiler • Reducing our absolute use of energy which produces steam to transfer energy through investments in research to paper and board, module facers, pipes, and new replacement technologies and fan heaters and the hot water — Investing in fossil CO2 reductions installation in the technical room. The solution applied consisted of re-insulating • Reducing carbon emissions through technical installations using special a shift to CO2 friendlier fuels, such as insulation pipes and bags. biomass and natural gas. 43 from baseline year 2005 to reporting year Renewable energy Direct fossil (scope 1) CO2 emission 2016, we have improved the energy To become less dependent on fossil fuels, European mills efficiency of our paper mills by 11%. a shift to renewable, CO2 friendly fuels is Overview kg/tonne 1,000 2,000 This has been achieved by combining required. For Smurfit Kappa this means 900 1,800 investments in more efficient energy creating circularity in our energy 800 1,600 generation with investing in technologies production through fully utilising, where that reduce use of energy in our processes. possible, any by-products that have an 700 1,400 The key events during 2016, resulting in attractive energy value. This is in addition 600 1,200 the 22.9% reduction of relative CO2 to traditional bioenergy usage at pulp and 500 1,000 emissions in comparison to 2005, were: paper mills – burning black liquor at 400 800 integrated pulp and paper mills and utilising — The new paper machine in our 300 600 the biogas produced during the anaerobic Townsend Hook mill achieved higher 200 400 water treatment at our recycled paper mills energy efficiency in 2016 compared to Our approach to as fuel. 100 200 2015. The mill achieved a 38% emission 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 ktonnes reduction in comparison to 2015 To be able to reach our relative CO2 target, we have a programme to move from fossil sustainable business — We successfully started the CHP at our Absolute emission (ktonnes) fuels to renewable sources. Since 2005 we Specific (kg/tonne) Ania mill at the beginning of January have shifted to biofuels where possible and 2016, producing all the electricity needs reached a fuel mix at our paper mills of for the mill compared to only 45% Direct fossil (scope 1) CO2 emission 48.5% biofuels, compared to 37.3% in 2005. previously. This improvement in the The Americas mills efficiency of energy production Working with our customers kg/tonne 1,000 2,000 reduced fossil CO2 emissions by 4% Using a suite of tools, including our Paper — At our Roermond mill, emissions to Box and Pack Expert, we continue to Our priorities 900 1,800 800 1,600 decreased after the rebuild of PM1, work with customers to determine the which was finished at the end of the first carbon footprint of their packaging. These and performance 700 1,400 quarter of 2016 tools give access to CO2 emissions data 600 1,200 — The three Brazilian paper mills, acquired and other information to optimise 500 1,000 at the end of 2015, had a positive packaging solutions. 400 800 impact on the Group’s CO2 emissions In 2016, Paper to Box was used over 8,000 300 600 as they mainly run on bioenergy times per day and Pack Expert almost 200 400 — Our Bernal mill in Argentina optimised 1,200 times per day on average. The 100 200 its energy production in 2016, which has application of Paper to Box increased led to a more efficient boiler house and from 2015 due to increased interest from Supporting data 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 ktonnes a reduction of CO2 emissions by 5.5% customers in using our insights based on Absolute emission (ktonnes) measured data and research. Another Specific (kg/tonne) — At the Coronel Suarez mill in Argentina contributing factor was the expanding use in 2015 a vacuum fan was installed, of the tools in the Americas. As we work replacing the vacuum pumps. The towards our 2020 target of 25% reduction Between 2005 and 2016 we achieved a effect of this can be seen in 2016 in a of our specific CO2 emissions, these tools reduction of 22.9% of our relative CO2 reduction of 3.8% in CO2 emissions help capture this data for our customers’ emissions for our paper and board mills, — In our Cali mill in Colombia an analysis of own calculations and benefit. which is slightly ahead of the relative reduction already achieved in 2015. We have the mill's energy system and balance Our Innotools suite of design software included the data from our three Brazilian was completed to optimise its heat features options for customers, not only to Supplementary mills that were acquired at the end of 2015 in balance of the mill. First results showed determine the carbon footprint for each the baseline and 2016 result. a decrease in less efficient electricity packaging unit, but also to track its information generation and a decrease in heat development over the years. Energy Efficiency usage per tonne of paper produced, by While our climate change target is to making use of waste heat. reduce our relative CO2 emissions, it cannot be achieved without progress in energy efficiency. During the eleven years 44 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Climate Change continued Direct fuel consumption Biofuels and fossil fuels All operations European mills PJ GJ/tonne 32 16 28 14 24 12 45% 20 10 46% 16 8 12 6 8 4 3% 6% 4 2 Natural gas Other fossil fuels 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 Coal Biofuels Biofuels absolute consumption (PJ) Fossil fuels absolute consumption (PJ) Biofuels specific consumption (GJ/tonne) Fossil fuels specific consumption (GJ/tonne) Emissions from transport Biofuels and fossil fuels The vast majority of our CO2 emissions The Americas mills stem from our manufacturing activities at PJ GJ/tonne our production locations. Of the remaining 32 16 CO2 emissions, those caused by the 28 14 transport of raw materials, intermediate, and final products, to and from our 24 12 production locations are also significant. 20 10 We currently report our transport 16 8 emissions from our European operations which represent 75% of our business and 12 6 have expanded the scope of this for 2016. 8 4 The transport and scope of our reporting are described in the diagram below. 4 2 Our aim is to include transport emissions 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 from our American operations in the future. Biofuels absolute consumption (PJ) Fossil fuels absolute consumption (PJ) In the CO2 emissions reported we include Biofuels specific consumption (GJ/tonne) Fossil fuels specific consumption (GJ/tonne) the transport of wood, recovered papers and market pulp used in our mills. We also take into account CO2 emissions from the transport of intermediate products to The total of these transport related Transportation for the above activities paper mills and/or converting plants (reels emissions in 2016 represented 385,000 represents approximately 10 billion of paper, corrugated board sheets, solid tonnes of CO2 equivalent. so-called tonne-kilometres. 54% of our board sheets, etc.). In 2016 these transport needs are carried out by road, While the calculation of CO2 emissions for emissions were 275,000 CO2 equivalent. 28% by sea with the balance carried out the transport of paper reels between our We also report CO2 emissions of the by train. own mills and the converting plants is transport of finished products to our accurate (representing 75% of the total customers, which mainly focuses on volume), we believe we have made a good packaging solutions. The latter transports estimate of emissions for the transport of have all been delivered by road and the remaining reels of paper supplied to represent in total CO2 emissions of our corrugated plants by third parties. 110,000 tonnes. 45 The road to CO2 reductions in transport Smart network Overview Dominik Dohr, manager Smurfit Kappa Distribution Dominik Dohr: ‘Well over 300 transport Services, is convinced that digitalisation of transport suppliers are connected to our logistical management will open the door to further sustainability platform as are our paper and corrugated Smurfit Kappa locations. This enables us gains, especially a reduction in CO2 output. ‘The cloudto optimise our freight movements. based transportation platform we introduced has yielded Routes are divided up into legs, and freight loads are combined to utilise cost savings of €1 million during 2016. The improved transport capacity efficiently. We view network visibility helps to better leverage and prioritise Our approach to routes as loops – not the individual A to B alternative transport solutions through which we already sections that are characterised by trucks returning empty. Trucks are no longer the reduced GHG emissions by eight percent.’ sustainable business only option. Trains and vessels are valuable additions to our network. Nowadays, eight percent of our transport volume is covered by multimodal transportation while the clear objective is to increase the share of alternative transport solutions.’ Our priorities Open platform ‘The new visibility gained from the cloudbased transport platform, and our sustainability KPI’s, provide focus to and performance continuously improve our logistics. The platform makes alternative options visible, enables us to evaluate our performance and quantify our efforts, promotes multimodal and combined solutions, multistops, and, finally, significantly reduces costs and footprint’, Supporting data Dominik Dohr concludes. So far, the road to CO2 reductions in transport has been based on smart collaboration between Smurfit Kappa and the transport sector, but we plan to open the platform to other freight Dominik Dohr sourcing companies, reducing GHG emissions on an even larger scale. This Smurfit Kappa utilises a dense Smurfit Kappa Distribution Services took enables Smurfit Kappa to provide the best transportation network in Europe. In the on the challenge of analysing where possible service to clients at minimal costs, past transport was sourced and managed improvements would result in improved with the smallest environmental footprint. Supplementary with a local focus, using different tools cost and sustainability. The solution came and applications. A new approach was in the form of an online cloud-based information initiated within the Recycled Paper transport platform which focused on Europe cluster, to further advance the bringing together freight demand, transport management approach and utilising alternative modes of benefit from the synergies within our transportation, and combining network. freight loads. 46 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Climate Change continued We have adopted a calculation method in Transport streams which we collect actual data every second year and use this to extrapolate and adjust the following year’s transport emissions, unless the acquisitions and divestments EXTERNAL RECOVERED EXTERNAL EXTERNAL PAPER DEPOT PAPER MILLS CORRUGATED PLANT made by the group create a material change to the situation. The data for 2016 is actual 2016 data. The CO2 emission RECOVERED PAPER factors by transport mode are extracted COLLECTION POINTS from the European Reference Life Cycle Database version II (ELCD). SMURFIT KAPPA SMURFIT KAPPA SMURFIT KAPPA CUSTOMERS’ We are increasing our focus on transport RECOVERED PAPER DEPOT PAPER MILL CORRUGATED PLANT MANUFACTURING SITES environmental impacts in many ways. During 2016 several pilot cases focused SMURFIT KAPPA on reducing traffic from roads and MANAGED WOOD SOURCE simultaneously reducing CO2 emissions. This has had a positive impact on the communities where we operate; reducing MARKET PULP BIB AND OTHER NON-CORRUGATED OPERATIONS noise and increasing safety on the road. EXTERNAL WOOD SOURCE The transport streams pictured with bold arrows represent transports included in the calculations. Climate change Scope Progress made: We have developed a suite of tools that help to This priority area covers energy use, climate change and greenhouse gas determine the carbon footprint of our customers’ packaging (Paper to emissions. Our reporting covers our operations from gate to gate. Box and Pack Expert). In 2016 these tools were used on average more All CO2 emissions from our paper and board mills (directly or indirectly than 9,200 times a day. through buying secondary energy) relate to the production of paper. Only Our perspective paper production is taken into account given its relative fuel use Climate change drives change in society, and in our case it: compared to our converting operations (90%) and its subsequent — Stimulates product design improvements to lower our customers’ contribution to fossil fuel CO2 emissions. carbon footprints Commitment #1 — Encourages production efficiency A 25% reduction in relative total fossil CO2 emissions (compared to 2005) — Informs how we invest for the long term (scope 1 and 2) in our mill system by 2020. Our stakeholders, notably customers and investors, expect us to approach Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2020 climate change responsibly and to provide detailed progress reports. Progress made: In 2016 we reached a reduction of 22.9% of relative fossil Our use of energy, carbon footprint and GHG emissions are an integral CO2 emissions (compared to 2005). As expected, our progress against part of Smurfit Kappa’s business. We therefore need to find ways to this target is becoming slower as we are reaching the final stages, with fundamentally re-engineer our operations to be less fossil-fuel intensive. some investments still to come to fruition. In our case it means reducing energy use, and increasing energy efficiency Commitment #2 and the use of renewable sources where feasible. Collaborate with customers to calculate the carbon footprint of the By focusing our targets on reducing our carbon footprint we packaging life cycle. simultaneously steer our energy savings in the direction of lower Timeframe: Continuous greenhouse gas emissions. 47 Product-specific carbon Footprints Our carbon footprint calculations help customers track their product and packaging CO2 reduction targets. Overview Our approach to sustainable business Our priorities and performance Supporting data Supplementary information 48 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Water Water Water is an important element in everybody’s life and it is involved in nearly all natural cycles. For us water is vital when creating paper from fibres and therefore we want to take the best possible care of this resource. Clean and accessible water is an essential Risks, challenges and opportunities Summary element of the world we want to live in, and is of the UN Sustainable Development A significant decrease in the availability of water, or an increase in the cost, will Goals (SDG No 6 and 14). There is materially impact the ability of our — We process rather than consume sufficient fresh water on the planet to business to operate. water – in 2016, of 119 million m3 of achieve this, if we use it responsibly and create the necessary infrastructure. Incorrect use and treatment of water water used, 109 million m3 was poses risks to the ecosystems or discharged in good condition Only 9% of our paper and board environments in which we operate. Water — Since 2005 we invested €60 million production takes place in areas with water that is being returned to the environment in water treatment plants, scarcity. Nevertheless, sustainable use of by an industry can impact an ecosystem by decreasing COD by 31.9% water is of key importance to us, and of creating a nutrition imbalance, polluting material concern to our stakeholders. For the water, or changing its temperature. — During 2016, five additional mills instance, if customers are in a business were in depth water risk assessed, where water is highly relevant they require Regulatory requirements and continued confirming no material risk on site good water stewardship, or need scrutiny means that the quality and safety compliance from their stakeholders. of the treated water we return to the — Over 90% of our mill production public water bodies must always remain uses best practice water treatment We use water to process our raw materials, high, to mitigate any impact on and for cooling purposes. Our 33 paper biodiversity. To achieve this, we have and board operations under review used invested €60 million since 2005 in 119 million m3 of water in 2016, of which the development of our process water 109 million m3 was discharged in good treatment plants. condition. The supply of good quality water is therefore of material concern The challenge for Smurfit Kappa is to to our business. maintain and demonstrate our responsible approach to water use, as a low consumer The figures above indicate we are more a of water. We must ensure that companies processor of water than a consumer. Apart within our sector and more broadly, do not from returning over 90% of the water we tolerate water waste even when they take in, we also reuse water several times operate in areas with no water scarcity. at various production stages before it is Indeed, customers whose production processed in our water treatment facilities processes are water intensive have and returned to public water bodies. Of the demonstrated an interest in sharing water discharged, 77 million m3 was used knowledge with Smurfit Kappa on for processing purposes and 34 million m3 water management practices. for cooling. Since 2014 we perform water risk assessments across We have set ourselves a clear target of all our sites. reducing the organic content of water (COD) by one-third by 2020, including the mills that directly discharge to surface water. We are also performing water impact assessments at our mills. 49 Smurfit Kappa Piteå halves COD-emissions Overview improve oxygen-control in the different Smurfit Kappa Piteå, in the northern part of Sweden, is aeration basins by installing automatic situated in an area known for its rich water surroundings. control valves and online oxygen readThe city is located at the mouth of the Pite River at the outs. Following that, the team aimed to distribute return sludge from the shore of the Bay of Bothnia. To protect the popular secondary clarifier to one better tourist archipelago in which Smurfit Kappa operates, positioned in the WWTP aeration basin. Finally, they sought ways to reduce waste much attention is given to the Waste Water Treatment water volumes to the WWTP. Plant (WWTP) as Ingemar Lundstrom, Environmental Our approach to Support from authorities Manager, points out. ‘It was essential for the project to get sustainable business approval from the Environmental Court’, says Ingemar. ‘We received a four-year temporary permit with less strict conditions, allowing us to implement the action plan. After four years, we have to return to the conditions stipulated in the old permit. Once we acquired the permit we proceeded as planned. Some optimisation Our priorities trials are still to be completed.’ COD-emissions halved and performance The WWTP process in Piteå is back under control. Achieving good sludge properties by controlling the share of filamentous bacteria is a key factor. Emissions of COD, suspended solids and nitrogen are now well below the maximum values in the permit and even below the ranges in the new BAT-AEL, the Best Available Supporting data Techniques and Associated Emission Levels. Phosphorus is also well below the permitted values and within the BAT-AEL range. Final optimisation is still in progress but, COD-emissions during 2013-2014 were 3,400 tonnes/year, which has Ingemar Lundström decreased to 1,500 tonnes during 2016. ‘We have been improving our WWTP visited mills with similar WWTP-facilities, since 2013’, explains Ingemar. ‘Back then and received valuable input that we could our mill exceeded the limit values for use for our own operations.’ COD-emissions. The reason was Supplementary uncontrolled abundant growth of Action plan information filamentous bacteria resulting in an The team in Piteå developed an action overload of the secondary clarifier. To plan with four main points. The first was to solve the issue, we conducted a detailed improve dosage and control of nitrogen investigation with the assistance of and phosphorous by using an online internal and external experts. We also TOC-device. Secondly, they intended to 50 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Water continued Water sources Water intake Water released All operations European mills European mills m3 tonne 36 90 m3 tonne 36 90 3% 32 80 32 80 11% 28 70 28 70 24 60 24 60 20 50 20 50 16 40 16 40 84% 12 30 12 30 8 20 8 20 4 10 4 10 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 Mm3 0 0 Mm3 Surface Ground Grid Other Absolute (Mm ) 3 Specific (m /tonne) 3 Cooling (Mm ) 3 Specific (m /tonne) 3 Process (Mm3) Water intake Water released The Americas mills The Americas mills m3 tonne 36 90 m3 tonne 36 90 32 80 32 80 28 70 28 70 24 60 24 60 20 50 20 50 16 40 16 40 12 30 12 30 8 20 8 20 4 10 4 10 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 Mm3 0 0 Mm3 Absolute (Mm3) Specific (m3/tonne) Cooling (Mm3) Specific (m3/tonne) Process (Mm3) Progress in 2016 the way we operate, and influence our Understanding our relationship with water working environment as well. is crucial. It comprises our impact on the In light of the above we continually water we use as well as understanding the implement best practices in our mills’ environment in which we operate. For us water treatment. In 2016, over 90% of there are two material approaches to paper and board was produced at mills water: improving the quality of water we where best practice water treatment discharge (for which we have set a relative systems are in place. This involves treating target), and understanding the risks process water to decrease the organic associated with water availability and use. charge of effluent, through anaerobic and/ Focusing our actions in these areas will or aerobic treatments, before returning it enable us to positively change to public water bodies. 51 Process water discharges Process water discharges Process water discharges European mills:* COD European mills:* TSS European mills:* BOD Overview ktonnes 20 20 ktonnes 6 6 ktonnes 8 8 16 16 6 6 4 4 12 12 4 4 8 8 2 2 2 2 4 4 Our approach to 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 kg/tonne 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 kg/tonne 0 0 kg/tonne sustainable business Absolute (ktonnes) Specific (kg/tonne) Absolute (ktonnes) Specific (kg/tonne) Absolute (ktonnes) Specific (kg/tonne) Process water discharges Process water discharges Process water discharges The Americas mills:* COD The Americas mills:* TSS The Americas mills:* BOD ktonnes Our priorities 20 20 ktonnes 6 6 ktonnes 8 8 16 16 and performance 6 6 4 4 12 12 4 4 8 8 2 2 2 2 4 4 Supporting data 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 kg/tonne 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 0 kg/tonne 0 0 kg/tonne Absolute (ktonnes) Specific (kg/tonne) Absolute (ktonnes) Specific (kg/tonne) Absolute (ktonnes) Specific (kg/tonne) * figures of mills releasing to environment (mills that released water to external WWTP are not reported) In 2016, we continued our water risk they are located. We expect to be able to assessment programme, aiming to assess approximately six mills each investigate the impact our water use has calendar year. on regions where we are located, and the Supplementary The significantly expanded water global water risks for our mills. During 2016 treatment plant at our Saillat paper mill and early 2017 we carried out in-depth started in January 2016. Since then the information assessments at our paper mills in Ania COD levels have decreased by 76%, and (Italy), Barbosa and Barranquilla (Colombia), TSS levels by 84% compared to previous Bernal (Argentina), Forney (USA) and SSK years. We expect these levels to decrease (UK). All confirmed that our mills’ use of further once the facility reaches its optimal water has no material impact on the operating level. availability of water to the region where 52 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Water continued Cleaner water in Italy and Spain Smurfit Kappa plants across the globe devote much attention to their water consumption and seek continuous improvements. In 2016 our production facilities in Italy and Spain implemented new ways to improve the quality of discharged water by enabling more effective removal or re-use of ejected ink and glue. A bucket full of ideas in Italy In the past, each cycle of fresh water used The glue used in the corrugator process is Smurfit Kappa Susegana is located close for cleaning buckets went to the waste composed of water, corn starch, borax, to an Italian city famous for its waterways: water treatment. Now twelve times less soda, and biocide. When the corrugator Venice. To improve its water water is needed, which means less water process is finished, the glue water management the plant had to create a to clean and less use of chemicals to do resulting from corrugator cleaning goes more efficient and eco-friendly way to so. In 2016, water savings totalled 66% to to the treatment plant. The water in the clean ink buckets used in the flexo printing 92%, annually saving 95m. On top of that treatment plant is composed of 20% glue process. These buckets need to be the new approach saves 575 operator water and 80% ink water. The newly cleaned with detergent and water after hours per year. installed method reduces water each use to avoid contamination with consumption from the grid by 53% or 778 COD reduction of 78% in Spain m3 per year, use of additives by 20% or other inks in printing. Smurfit Kappa Canovelles, near 3.9 tonnes annually, and organic load in Usually this involves high water volumes, Barcelona, is committed to optimising the treatment process, dubbed COD or intensive labour, and production natural resources, reducing auxiliary BOD, by 78%. interruption issues. To solve all these materials, and preventing pollution, based issues the team came up with a machine on Smurfit Kappa sustainability values. In that can wash six buckets at a time with their search for further improvements hot water. This not only improves speed they developed an approach that enables and continuity, but it creates a closed loop the plant to re-use glue from water by which saves water, and opens up the returning it to the corrugating process. possibility of washing without a detergent. 53 Performance in 2016 Between 2005 and 2016 the COD content Water of processed water returned to the Overview environment has decreased by 31.9% Scope Progress made: Overall environmental impact This priority area covers the water intake assessment of water use at our sites was relative to production. This had decreased and discharge to and from our processes. carried out during 2014. As a result, a tool to by 29.4% in 2015, representing an Reporting covers all Smurfit Kappa paper mills assess mill-specific risks related to water was incremental improvement of 2.5% year on discharging process water directly to water created, and we aim to assess each mill by the year. These figures are exclusive of the bodies. Mills that have their process water end of 2020. Eleven mills have been assessed three paper mills in Brazil acquired in treated externally are not included. Only paper using this tool since 2014. We expect to assess December 2015. These are being production is taken into account because this approximately six mills per year, completing contributes to 95% of all organic discharges the programme by 2020. The assessment integrated into the Smurfit Kappa and 98% of the total water intake. programme on high water stress areas was reporting system, and are implementing completed in early 2017. our measurement and reporting Our target is set against chemical oxygen demand (COD) in water which an indicator of Our approach to frequency. Our perspective the organic content in water. In 2016, water intake of all our operations Water lies at the core of sustainable Commitment #1 development. Ensuring the global availability increased to 121 Mm3 from 120 Mm3 in sustainable business A reduction of COD in water returned to the and sustainable management of water and 2015, including the Brazilian mills. The sanitation for all could transform the UN 2030 minimal water intake increase after this environment from our mill plants by one-third compared to 2005 levels. Agenda. Sustainable water management is also acquisition is mainly due to stabilised of utmost importance for Smurfit Kappa, production after start-up in Townsend Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2020 because our business needs ample water Hook. Calculating the water intake without Progress made: At the end of 2016, we availability. As we rely on natural raw materials, the Brazilian acquisitions, we continued to achieved 31.9% of COD reduction per tonne of water is vital for the ecosystems and paper produced compared to 2005 for mills environments where we operate. decrease our water intake from 120 Mm3 in discharging directly to surface. Over 90% of the water we use is returned to 2015 to 119Mm3 in 2016. For 2016, Our priorities Commitment #2 nature and we also focus on improving the compared to 2015, the average water Perform environmental impact assessments of quality of water we discharge, as well as intake by our paper and board mills understanding the risks associated with water and performance water use at our sites (where relevant), and decreased to 17.4 m3 per tonne of paper develop water usage measurements. availability and use in the areas where we produced from 17.5 m3, but remained operate. This strategy positions us to deliver Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2017 above the 2014 17.2 m3 level. This positive change to the environment and our represents a 0.6% improvement processes. year on year. To make an ongoing difference, we will continue to invest in water treatment facilities that improve the quality of water released to nature, and perform water assessments of our paper and board mills. The findings will Supporting data guide appropriate actions to reduce the impact our operations have on the water balance in their region. Supplementary information 54 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Waste Waste Resource availability and the efficient use of resources are two key global challenges alongside climate change. As the global population is expected to reach 9 billion, with a parallel increase in consumption, we must find innovative ways of using our materials to their maximum. At the same time, reducing waste going to elements from the production process by Summary landfill is increasingly important. The UN calls for responsible consumption and using water. Some of this water is retained by the non-usable materials and therefore production through its SDG No 12, and contributes as much as 50% to the waste — Reducing waste begins at product more and more businesses seek we ‘generate’. design, using methods like ‘right opportunities from the circular economy. To minimise the amounts of waste we weighting’ Smurfit Kappa’s aim is to contribute to send to landfill, we reuse our waste as far — Our target is to reduce waste sent a world without waste, supporting the as is economically and technically feasible. to landfill by 30% by 2020, and have concept of circularity. Avoiding waste is a Currently, approximately 42% of our waste achieved 13.3% so far material issue for our stakeholders, and is already being recovered. Our short term many of our customers have stated ambition is to reduce the waste produced — We create circularity within our objectives to reduce waste. Food waste, at our paper and board mills which we send operations, and links with other damaged products, and packaging waste, to landfill on a per tonne basis by 30% industries, and 75% of our raw are important sources of waste sent to compared to 2013 by 2020. material is recycled fibres landfill, and our packaging solutions help avoid that. Packaging protects food and Risks, challenges and opportunities — We support and contribute to initiatives to reduce waste and other products from being damaged or One concerning risk is that our principal increase material efficiency spoiled, and, after use, our products are raw material, recovered paper, can be recyclable. In addition to protecting the ‘wasted’, either by being discarded instead contents, our packaging is reducing its of being recovered for recycling, or used as own impact by employing the concept fuel for heating or electricity production. of being ‘right-weighted’. Our challenge is to prevent that from happening. We are committed to working It seems paradoxical that the products we with not only the recycling and paper produce are 100% recyclable, but at the producing industries to achieve this, same time we generate over 100 kg of but also welcome initiatives from other non-hazardous waste per tonne of paper stakeholders in this area. Furthermore we and board, of which approximately 58% is support legislation that promotes using sent to landfill. There is a simple the value of materials in the economy as explanation for this. The recovered paper long as possible. bales we receive, from which we produce our recycled paper, contain unwanted Fortunately, we have ample opportunities plastic, metals, glass, textiles, sand, and to reduce the amounts we send to landfill other non-usable that have not been ourselves either through partnerships with separated from the recovered paper third parties or by developing our own stream by recycling companies before solutions. One example of this is our UK SSK being delivered to our mills. On average mill’s project concerning the sludge from we need 1.070 kg of recovered paper to water treatment. The sludge is being sent produce one tonne of paper and board. To to other water treatment plants, to function reuse as much of the recovered materials as ‘starters’ in biological water treatment. as possible, we separate these unwanted 55 Paper and paper-based packaging are After finalising a group-wide assessment in Packaging recycling rate in EU 28 (%) highly recyclable materials and currently 2015, we set a target to reduce waste sent Source Eurostat the most recycled packaging materials to landfill from our paper and board mills by Overview worldwide. While the overall paper industry 30% per tonne of paper by 2020. 85 82 in Europe generally achieves 71.5% Over 90% of our waste is generated in our 74 74 75 73 recycling rates (which is lower than the paper mills. Most of it is generated by the 82% recycling rate for paper based recovered paper pulping and screening packaging shown in the graph alongside), in process, including reject materials. Other the US and in Latin America 66.8% and waste sources include sludge from the 45% recycling rates respectively have clear process water treated in our water 37 40 upward potential. cleaning facilities, calcium carbonate Progress in 2016 residues from lime kilns and ashes from biomass boilers. A large part We approach the issue of waste from a Our approach to of what is registered as waste actually has pragmatic perspective, which defines the a water content of approximately 50%. Paper and board Glass Metallic Plastic materiality of challenges we want to tackle sustainable business around different wastes and waste 2013 2014 generation. Therefore, our starting point is to look at the waste sent to landfill generated at our paper mills. 60% less sludge sent to landfill in Monterrey Our priorities In an important industrial region in the northeast of Mexico, at and performance the foothills of the Sierra Madre Oriental, Smurfit Kappa operates a mill near the city of Monterrey. Monterrey is considered one of the most developed cities in the entire country. Rapid industrial development places even more focus on environmental issues and Smurfit Kappa is keen to continually look for ways to improve and contribute positively Supporting data to the environment surrounding the operations. Ricardo García, General Manager of the enabled us to use chemicals in a more mill, explains how the mill has recently efficient way, to implement a drainage improved its waste streams: ‘It all began system with formation wire, start data with the actual environmental situation, collection for analysis, and devote which inspired us to further reduce landfill development time. We invested three Ricardo García waste. We made it a top priority, and months in research and planning, and committed ourselves to look for a more another three months in implementing the had to make an inversion in our pipe lines, efficient way to handle our waste. In our new set-up.’ and we reconfigured our equipment. The Supplementary case the waste consists mainly of sludge, What were the biggest bottlenecks of the sludge now goes directly to the so we looked into new ways to improve our project? Ricardo: ‘We started the hydrapulper. Our perseverance paid off information forming section and implement a drainage optimisation by testing the sludge from and we managed a reduction of 60% in and retention system.’ the flotation tank. Looking back, the sludge waste sent to landfill.’ ‘We found out that the primary sludge hardest part was finding the delicate generated in our waste water treatment equilibrium that allowed us to incorporate facilities could also be used in the this sludge in our system without reducing production process without compromising our machine efficiency. To recover all the our efficiency. We allocated resources that sludge from our water treatment plant we 56 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance Waste continued Trimming the trim in France and Russia The team discovered that the paper reel In a corrugated plant, one of the main causes of paper widths was not always optimally used on waste is caused by the trimming of paper. Trim is the the corrugator, that there was a possibility edge of the board that needs to be cut away to prevent to cut back on the technological trim, and that design changes in sheet optimisation issues with the alignment of the three or five paper could also have an impact. layers. To reduce trim waste, Smurfit Kappa plants in Manufacturing corrugated sheets France and Russia screened their production process normally requires an edge trimming of 15-20 mm of the blank sheet, but and came up with improvements that significantly sometimes this ‘rule’ can be omitted reduce paper waste at their plants. since edge quality does not matter for the die-cut press. Design improvements further contributed to the solution. Annual paper waste drop of 630 tonnes The second step optimised the trim by Examples include decreasing internal in France improving good practices, followed by a dimensions of boxes with flexible pouches Smurfit Kappa Vernon in France decided third step of stabilising the process and and making gluing flaps smaller. In just six to take up trim reduction on their reducing the minimum trim. All the efforts months Vsevolozhsk and Kommunar corrugator, because it accounts for about paid off, resulting in a significant reduction were able to reduce trim waste by 480 half of the total waste from this machine. in paper waste at Smurfit Kappa Vernon tonnes in just six months. In 2015, the trim waste totalled 3.8% of of 630 tonnes per year. By the end of total plant paper consumption. The team October 2016 the trim waste had already wanted to reduce that to 2.5%. dropped to 2.7%. The first step was to improve the paper Russia saves 480 tonnes trim waste in alignment between flute and liner paper. six months A newly-innovated sensor was installed Smurfit Kappa plants in Vsevolozhsk and on a motorised carriage to exactly Kommunar joined forces to reduce their determine the position of the cover trim waste. This was an urgent matter, paper’s edge and to compare it to the as is easily understood considering that fluting paper. The value of misalignment is only 1% of trim waste translates into over communicated to the splicers, to realign 500 tonnes of discharged paper for the the paper. two operations. 57 The amount of non-hazardous waste Our converting operations send their The collected waste and by-products generated per tonne of paper and board in paper clippings directly back to our paper from our industry can become new raw our mills decreased by 2% in 2016, in mills, thereby delivering high-quality materials. A central challenge for our Overview comparison to 2015, not including the recovered fibre. This helps us keep sector is finding a means to process the newly acquired mills in Brazil. Since 2013 recovered fibre at maximum quality. The many auxiliary materials added to paper by this figure has decreased by 10%. recycled paper from our corrugating and downstream industries. Although paper is The total amount sent to landfill from our converting operations comes with minimal recyclable, these materials cannot be paper and board mills decreased slightly in auxiliary materials, which decreases the sorted from paper in the dry-sorting steps 2016, compared to 2015. From 2013 until amount of waste generated in the before they reach paper mills. the end of 2016, our mills reduction of recovered fibre pulping process. In collaboration with the World Economic waste sent to landfill was 13.3% per tonne Our virgin and recycled paper production Forum Project Mainstream, we developed of produced paper and board. This figure processes produce various side streams, guidelines for the paper-based industry to does not include the new Brazilian mills, most of which are being utilised in a improve the recyclability of paper. This Our approach to which are being integrated into the Group’s productive way. We continually look for ranges from the specifying of paper-based reporting structures. new uses for those side streams, which products, and using easily soluble inks and Less than one percent of our waste is would otherwise be our waste. glues to improving opportunities to sustainable business classified as hazardous, most of which is ink Other uses of our side streams increase already high recycling rates. sludge from printing and converting include agriculture, cement, food and operations and some irregular hazardous pharmaceutical industries, and we wastes generated during mill and plant continually collaborate with other sectors maintenance. Per operation, the amount to find more outlets for our side streams. of hazardous waste is fairly small. Through our hazardous waste assessment, we Waste Our priorities learned that the key issue we must address is the correct classification of waste. Many materials are being treated as hazardous Scope Our products are designed to prevent loss and and performance even if they do not meet the criteria or This priority area covers non-hazardous waste damage to the consumer goods they protect. concentration, and thus should be (recovered and landfilled) and hazardous waste Our packaging is produced efficiently and is regarded as non-hazardous. We are generated from Smurfit Kappa’s manufacturing ‘right-weighted’ to optimise resource use and processes. Our target is set against waste sent minimise waste. As fibres are made from 100% working on addressing this issue. to landfill from our paper and board mills per renewable and recyclable materials, our The amount of hazardous waste has produced tonne of paper. packaging can be recycled up to approximately decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 eight times. Once fibres are depleted the from 7,100 tonnes to 6,800 tonnes for Commitment #1 remaining material is typically used for energy Reduce waste generated at our paper and board generation or in agriculture. the Group in total. Supporting data mills and sent to landfill by 30% per produced Given that paper production itself generates Work towards optimised use of tonne of paper by 2020 in comparison to the almost no waste, it is interesting to consider why raw materials baseline year 2013. waste is so important for our industry. Put Timeframe: Target to be reached by 2020 simply, our principal raw material – bales of Paper recycling is fundamental for our raw recovered paper – contains unwanted materials material sourcing, and globally, 75% of our Progress made: We reached a reduction of such as plastic, metal, textile, wood and sand. raw material comes from recycled sources. 13.3% waste sent to landfill from our paper These are separated and removed during the and board mills in 2016. Projects to avoid water-intensive pulping of recovered paper Producing paper from recycled raw unnecessary waste sent to landfill have been fibres. material converts our customers’ waste started within the Group. One example is a into valuable raw material, creating a project to reuse ashes in other industries in Cali, Our goal is to abolish all avoidable waste from circular loop at a macro level. Colombia, which has a relatively high level of our production system and limit the waste sent to landfill of materials that can no longer be Supplementary waste per tonne of paper produced. recycled or recovered. Our perspective We believe the circular economy is the business information model for the future, and that we have an important role to play in it. Avoiding waste is a material issue for our stakeholders, and many of our customers have stated objectives to reduce waste. 58 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance People People To be one of the world’s leading paper-based packaging businesses, our global production and services must go hand in hand with strong sustainability and corporate social responsibility performance. The success of all these elements principles and conditions are maintained in Summary depends on our own people, and the people that we interact with or have an impact upon, directly or indirectly. We every country in which we have a presence. Respect strive not only to be well-respected by our We value the contribution our employees — We are a good corporate citizen to make to the business. Smurfit Kappa is employees and customers, but also to employees and communities, in committed to creating and maintaining a earn the respect of the people and accordance with UN guidelines working environment which is safe, communities where we are active. In this — The People Strategy offers work way, we contribute to the following SDGs: respects individuality, is nonsatisfaction, engagement and No poverty (No 1), Quality education (No discriminatory, appoints and promotes development in a meritocratic, safe 4). Gender Equality (No 5), Decent work people on suitability, rewards fairly, environment of respect and and Economic Growth (No 8), Reduced encourages personal and professional diversity, ensuring gender equality Inequalities (No 10), and Sustainable cities development, and has effective and communities (No 11). It is of great mechanisms of communication. — On an annual basis we provide numerous training programmes to importance to us to act as a good Higher participation of women our people in the countries where corporate citizen. Smurfit Kappa’s policy is to strive for an we operate including the 'Open People Values increasing level of participation of women in Leadership' programme developed To achieve sustainable long-term success, management roles within the Group. We with the INSEAD business school our aim is to attract and retain the best reviewed the areas and roles where the (France) people by being a leading and attractive retention and further advancement of — We consult our employees through employer. Smurfit Kappa unites some women has the greatest potential for the MyVoice survey, which inspired 45,000 people around the globe, and success. We promote female participation in 1,200 local actions and three global together our employees make a difference our management training programmes – in commitments for our customers. At Smurfit Kappa we our Graduate Programme, for instance, — Consultation with our workers has are committed to make a difference for our female participation is 57% and in the improved safety; Lost-Time team, and actively support them to realise Advanced Management Development Accident frequency has decreased their personal goals and full professional programme, the participation rate of women by 10% since 2015 potential. has increased and is stable at 30% since 2015. We also pay extra attention to female — During 2016 we donated over €5 Smurfit Kappa is committed to managing managers and people with high potential million to community projects, its business in accordance with its declared when reviewing our succession plans. especially for disadvantaged values. We recognise that good social children citizenship, reflected in how we interact Working fairly with our employees, business partners and We prohibit child labour. We will not host communities, is an essential employ, in any capacity, anyone who has ingredient in creating and maintaining a not reached the minimum school leaving sustainable future. age or the minimum age for employment Smurfit Kappa fosters meritocracy and in any country in which we operate. No respect, in a safe and open work issues under this heading were identified in environment. In keeping with the United 2016. We do not approve or tolerate forced Nations Declaration of Human Rights and labour or physical abuse, from ourselves or the Fundamental Principles and Rights at from those with whom we do business. Work developed by the International Labour Organisation, the following 59 Fair pay, compensation and benefits part of the remuneration package provided If any potentially serious issue arises, such We compensate fairly, and review wage by Smurfit Kappa in various countries. as child labour, the acquisition will be and salary levels at regular intervals. reconsidered. There were five acquisitions Overview No discrimination during 2016, and no such issues arose. Smurfit Kappa does not discriminate between genders in terms of salary, Smurfit Kappa prohibits discrimination on the grounds of race, gender, sexual Inclusiveness benefits or any other consideration. We apply the policy of ‘same job, same pay’. orientation, age, religion, national origin, We include our employees in three ways: disability or other legally protected status — Align: We want to align our employees We reward employees based on market in the countries in which we conduct best practice. When the salary of an behind a strategic focus to maximise business. One significant incident value and innovation for our customers, individual employee differs from a occurred in 2016, and corrective actions colleague’s in a similar role, this will be and to deliver operational excellence were immediately taken in collaboration and results. We do this through training, because of, for example, differences in with employees and their representatives. responsibility, size of job, experience, globally aligned approaches such as Our approach to performance and country of residence. Compliant acquisition practices Innotools, a focus on capabilities, and health and safety In common with many large businesses, Due diligence, in any acquisition process involving Smurfit Kappa, involves an — Empower: We empower and develop sustainable business Smurfit Kappa provides a range of employee benefits. Some, such as examination of the target organisation’s our people; we also inspire and engage maternity and paternity leave, are provided human resource policies and practices. them in change, and we value diversity under the legislation of specific countries. This will be in terms of their compliance — Inspire: We are authentic and Other employee benefits, such as Pension with local, national and international laws, consistent across our global and local Plans and Life Insurance, form an integral and these laws’ day-to-day interpretation activities, and we always support our and application within the organisation. people to embrace a culture of learning. Our priorities Helping women return to work in Portugal and performance Changed my life around A project to help women who have been absent from ‘I was relieved that after a very insecure working life for a long period of time, earned the Smurfit time working as a beautician, I now had Kappa plant in Sorpel, Portugal, not only much local the chance to turn things around. My first day on the job proved to be extremely recognition, but also the compliments of fellow Smurfit Supporting data busy. I did not have any experience, but Kappa managers across Europe. gave it my best and worked as hard as possible to keep up. At the end of my shift Smurfit Kappa Sorpel employs temporary getting worse. The job was vital to the shift leader approached me, and staff, many of whom work on the shop floor, overcome our financial difficulties, but the smilingly congratulated me for my and these jobs were part of this project. truth is that it was more than a financial excellent work. It made me feel very One of the women whose life was greatly problem as it also took a huge toll on us proud, and earned the respect of my impacted by the project is Susana Maria emotionally. I will always fight for my family, colleagues who are keen to team up with Dias Ferreira. She is 41 years old, married, and do my utmost to keep financial stress at me. I take my job as I take life one day at a and has two children aged 16 and 14. Both bay. In March of 2016 I joined the Smurfit time and full of energy to make the best of Susana and her husband work, but financial Kappa Sorpel plant‘, says Susana. ‘I work in it!’, Susana adds. pressure forced her to find a job with better the finishing sector of displays, mostly Supplementary pay and prospects. manual work. I like the position. It offers me information a very pleasant work environment and is a Overcome financial difficulties well-respected job.’ ‘I got in contact with Smurfit Kappa through a friend. It offered me the opportunity to solve a tough financial situation that was 60 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance People continued Freedom of association and collective Total employees Total employees representation by age by length of service We support the right of our employees to join trade unions, and the right of 4% 9% representatives to negotiate on their behalf. 17% 30% If freedom of association and collective 23% 17% bargaining are restricted, or employees do not want trade union membership, we will work with them to establish alternative means of representation that are mutually 25% acceptable. 24% We provide good access for employee 20% 29% representatives, ensuring they do not suffer any disadvantage or discrimination because of their role. We have not had a confirmed 2130 years 5 to 10 yrs 20 years -5 yrs case where either the association or 3140 years 4150 years 11 to 20 yrs 21 to 30 yrs bargaining rights of any individual or group of 5160 years 60+ years +30yrs employees have been denied to them in 2016. Collective agreements, currently applicable in some 90% of the Group’s sites and covering 74% of our employees, are the result of either local or national negotiations Total Employees Management by Gender by Gender in the countries concerned. Local Works Councils and the European 18% Works Council 19% In many countries, Smurfit Kappa conducts formal employee consultations with local Works Councils (WC), and by far the largest representative group in our European 82% operations is the European Works Council (EWC). The EWC, which covers the entire workforce of the Group in the European 81% Union, was created to develop an open two-way communication process with all employees in line with European Male Female Male Female regulations. An agreement, renewed in January 2017, governs the functioning, rights and duties of the EWC, and will remain in place for four years. During 2016, COOs, and assisted by HR representatives When a local operation ceases, any negative we had two regular EWC forums and two (Group VP Human Resources and Europe VP economic effect on its host community is Select Committee meetings. Human Resources). mitigated by actions agreed with local and, if When changes are proposed, employee applicable, country, Works Councils. The The council currently consists of 28 outcome, reflecting local and national members representing all employees. The consultation takes place promptly, and the impact, along with implementation plans, custom, practice, or legislation, will result in procedure for selection, nomination, and one or more of the following: severance pay, election of the various members is is discussed with employees and their representatives. Experts, who may be career counselling, job search workshops, determined by national regulations or financial advice, and early retirement practices. The EWC is not a negotiating full-time trade union officials, may attend a pre-EWC meeting at the request of the schemes. forum, but complements existing local structures where information dissemination relevant EWC members. When employees Where the change has transnational and consultation take place. Management is or representatives have queries or implications, or significantly affects represented by the Chief Executive Officer meeting requests, our policy is to respond employees in two or more EU member Europe, appropriate European Divisional in a timely manner. states, a consultation process with the EWC 61 Management Gender Top 10 countries 2016 Employee Profile 350 At the end of 2016, Smurfit Kappa had some 45,000 employees, including our own Overview 300 employees as well as contracted labour. 250 200 Around 43% of our own employees are 40 years old or under, and a third of the total 150 workforce is between 41 and 50. 50% of our 100 employees have been with us for 11 years or 50 more, and 9% have been with Smurfit Kappa UK France Mexico Germany Spain Italy Netherlands Colombia Venezuela Brazil 0 for over 30 years. Approximately 6% of our Male Female employees are on temporary contracts. In 2016, 18% of all Smurfit Kappa employees were female, 82% were male, and 37% of Our approach to Total Employee Gender Top 10 countries 2016 indirect labour positions are held by women. 7,000 In the same year, 1% of our workforce took parental leave, of which nearly 80% returned sustainable business 6,000 to work after their parental leave period. 5,000 Almost 70% of our permanent workforce is 4,000 involved in production and manufacturing 3,000 activities categorised as direct labour. 2,000 Employees engaged in management, 1,000 administrative or clerical activities – such as 0 Mexico Germany France UK Netherlands Spain Colombia Italy Venezuela Brazil sales and marketing, finance, human Our priorities Male Female resources and procurement – are categorised as indirect labour. Of our total direct workforce, 75% are employed in ten countries (Mexico, Germany, France, United and performance Top 10 countries headcount 2016 Kingdom, The Netherlands, Spain, Colombia, 7,000 Italy, Venezuela, and Brazil), with the 6,000 remaining 25% distributed between the 5,000 other 24 countries where we have a 4,000 production presence. 3,000 During 2016, some seventeen nationalities 2,000 were represented at the most senior levels in Supporting data 1,000 the organisation. While our policy is to select Mexico Germany France UK Netherlands Spain Colombia Italy Venezuela Brazil 0 the best person for a position, in practice by far the greater proportion of senior operational positions are held by managers must take place prior to any decision being Retired employees of local nationality, which is appropriate to made. Our retirees have a special relationship with our business needs. In general, the This is in addition to local and country actions Smurfit Kappa, and we are grateful for their composition of Smurfit Kappa’s workforce and consultations. contribution to our success over so many typically reflects local ethnic diversity, years. Today there are approximately 13,000 thereby enhancing the bond with local These actions ensure the concerns of our Smurfit Kappa pensioners, and there are a communities. Supplementary employees are considered whenever an variety of different associations in various Employee turnover in 2016 was stable at operation is discontinued, without countries that manage a host of social 4.1%. Retirement, and the pursuit of other compromising our ability to act appropriately information activities. Such events help to maintain the careers or interests, were the main in protecting commercial interests. The bonds the pensioners enjoyed as working reasons for over 64% of departures of period of notice, between initial colleagues, and provide a social platform. employees, while rationalisation and communications to the employees While most of the activities are managed by redundancies accounted for less than concerned and introduction of the changes, the pensioner associations themselves, 20%. For further detail, please see Social ranges from 6-24 weeks. there is also Group support at local level. Data table on page 83. 62 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance People continued People Vision and Strategy 2020 typically for 6-8 months. The aim is to attract — Career Opportunities: career As part of our overall business vision, we top talent in various disciplines, and offer the progression opportunities for all have developed a People Strategy to candidates the prospect of a long-term employees at all levels in the attract, engage, develop and retain career at Smurfit Kappa. organisation, through internal talented people, offering both employees We always place importance on helping employment opportunities across and potential employees the opportunity employees develop their diverse talents, to the Group. to become high-performers and achieve drive the company’s success. The next MyVoice survey will be conducted their full potential. in 2017 as part of a continuous effort to Employee Engagement The People Strategy is a key facilitator for make Smurfit Kappa an even more achieving our shortand long-term business We believe that a company with engaged engaging work environment. targets, and is based on six major pillars: employees shows better results, higher growth, faster innovation, greater An employee said: ‘I really like the fact — Talent attraction customer satisfaction, and that employees that, through MyVoice, the opinion of a — Employee engagement thrive in a working environment they have regular operator is valued, not only that contributed to. These are the reasons why of management. The employee is — Training and leadership development we launched MyVoice in 2014, our first provided with the opportunity to — Safety and well-being global employee engagement survey, express an opinion and to actively — Performance review building on similar surveys already in place participate in the solution. That way we across the Group. can achieve an appealing working — Diversity MyVoice had an excellent response rate of atmosphere at all levels.’ Talent Attraction 80%, or over 34,000 employees, voicing Another said: ‘MyVoice shows a very Smurfit Kappa aims to get the right person in their opinions on their work experience, good and representative picture of the the right position at the right time, every managers, and working environment, as engagement of all the employees at our time. The underlying process is two-fold: well as suggesting areas for improvement. plant. With this important information, ensuring our existing talent is properly From the survey information, we have we can identify the right activities to developed, and that the company attracts designed and implemented over 1,200 improve engagement and to become a new talent with the correct skill set. actions across the Group, showing that the better place to work.’ In terms of talent attraction, recruitment is survey results have led to tangible improvements. A manager said: ‘MyVoice is important done in a decentralised fashion by our HR because it gives the opportunity to all and recruitment teams in each country. They These local actions are in addition to three our people to express what they think are very familiar with local markets and Group-wide actions, relating to areas that about the company, about their job and sources of talent, for example particular emerged from the survey as main priorities: their managers. MyVoice puts our schools and universities with which they build — Communication: regular employees ‘at the centre’. I like the fact long-term, fruitful relationships. communication meetings with that MyVoice enables me as a manager The Group offers many graduate employees on the overall performance to improve my role, helping me to programmes. Some, for example in of the organisation, and any other understand where I was successful and Colombia, Ireland, Germany and the UK, are relevant social issues where I should focus my attention to well-established, while others are more improve.’ recent – for example in the Benelux — Recognition: recognition given to countries, Mexico and Poland. These individual employees, or teams at programmes typically last two years and various levels of the organisation, for offer challenging assignments and real jobs, excellent performance above and beyond their daily role and normal job The People strategy is a key facilitator for achieving Smurfit Kappa's business targets, and is based on six pillars 1 2 3 4 5 6 Talent Employee Training and Safety and Performance Diversity Attraction Engagement Leadership well-being management Development 63 Training and Leadership Development During 2015/2016, we launched our new management in the country. It has We believe strongly in offering people, at leadership model, ‘Open Leadership’, been extended to Austria, Switzerland helping to identify the leadership qualities and The Netherlands (Roermond). We Overview all levels of the organisation, the chance to increase their skillsets and knowledge, we expect our managers to develop, so plan ten workshops per year in 2017 helping them fulfil their potential and we can continue to improve performance and 2018 widen their career prospects. To achieve and anticipate the changing demands of — In the Netherlands: We have this, a broad range of training and the markets we serve. implemented a leadership training development initiatives are driven Our leadership model is based on four programme aligned with the Open centrally and at local levels. Overall in main areas: Leading Self, Leading People, Leadership model. It is called SKYPE 2016, each employee spent on average Leading the Organisation and Leading – Smurfit Kappa Young Professional 20 hours in training. the Market. Nine key capabilities are Expedition, and supports the 400 high-potential talents across the identified as essential components of the leadership evolution of local general Group have successfully finished our open leadership style we wish to foster in managers and recently-appointed mill Our approach to Advanced Management Development our managers. These enable them to managers. It covers the areas of Programme (AMD) since 2000, and 134 become true leaders, and promote Leading Self, Leading People and managers have completed our General employee engagement. Leading the Organisation, in three sustainable business Manager and Mill Manager Programme The Open Leadership training modules of two to three days each. (GMMP) since its inception in 2012. programme was initiated in partnership Training in the classroom is supported with INSEAD, the prestigious by external coaching and company Furthermore, in line with our Brand visits. We run one session per year, Strategy, we also embarked on a journey Fontainebleau business school (France), one of the world’s largest executive and ten participants attended in 2016 to deliver sales excellence throughout Smurfit Kappa. The strategic objective education providers with a top spot in the — In Colombia and Central America: was to create, communicate and capture Financial Times rankings for MBA a full set of leadership and training Our priorities value for our customers, who want to see programmes during 2016 and 2017. More programmes have been implemented measurable proof of value. One of the key than 60 managers have already started to support the personal and the programme during 2016, and two professional development of local and performance components of this initiative is the “Smurfit Kappa Value Selling Process” new groups will join in 2017. The managers. Areas covered include: (VSP). We have completed over 150 programme will continue over the a) How to be recognised as a good training sessions across Europe, training following years, until we achieve coverage manager from direct reports more than 2,000 sales executives of our entire global management population of over 400 managers. b) How to build and lead high in VSP and over 350 in Value Management performing teams and Coaching. In addition to that, many countries are also designing and implementing similar c) How to develop Open Leadership The Graduate Workshop for young capabilities and promote effective leadership programmes for local middle Supporting data talented graduates was successfully leadership piloted in 2016 in Europe. 47 graduates managers, supervisors and shift leaders completed this workshop in Europe and – for example, in Colombia, the UK, the More than 200 managers attended the same programme will be launched in Netherlands and Germany. these programmes in 2016 across the the Americas in 2017. — In Germany: We implemented a region, including Costa Rica, Ecuador, comprehensive programme on Open El Salvador and the Dominican Our business language is English. We Republic. work with a leading language school to Leadership that covers the areas of Leading Self and Leading People. The run up to seven programmes a year to Performance Management improve the English language skills of programme familiarises local managers with the Smurfit Kappa Smurfit Kappa is committed to the non-native English speaking employees, continuous personal and professional Open Leadership Model, and will Supplementary and we offer an e-learning tool. Since development of all its people. To deliver 2007, over 500 employees have improved encourage them to reflect on their current leadership skills to improve on this commitment there is a continual their English with an immersive learning information their leadership behaviour. It consists dialogue between employees and experience, while 1,300 employees have managers, focusing on the skills, completed the online training. There are of a three-day workshop, with a follow-up day several months later, to capabilities, strengths and areas of also many additional locally delivered improvement of each employee. programmes which are often the first reflect on experience and progress. step in developing new language skills. Each workshop includes fifteen We recently reviewed our Performance participants, from all levels of Appraisal practices, renaming them as 64 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance People continued INSEAD and equivalent leadership training Smurfit Kappa implements INSEAD and equivalent leadership training programmes at a local level for alignment purposes, and to support the personal and professional development of local managers. The goal is to Plant and mill managers were the first to Leadership training equips our leaders to teach Open Leadership participate in the programme directly at thrive in difficult and changing capabilities to managers so INSEAD business school (France), circumstances.’ followed by country and cluster CEO’s. that everyone is on the Smurfit Kappa country organisations Financial Director Argentina & Chile, Pablo Luque, agrees and adds: ‘It is valuable to same page and talks the have started to design and implement interact with a wide variety of colleagues same language. Smurfit similar leadership programmes for local middle managers, supervisors and shift from different cultures, both professionally and personally. The course Kappa helps managers leaders. is the best training I have experienced, reflect on the way they lead Jennifer Victory is Group Compliance and promotes our Open Leadership their teams, and shows Manager, and participated in two Open model by teaching us skills to create a Leadership modules. ‘The first module better overview of difficult situations, plan how they can improve their focused on Leading Self and Leading effectively, and to deal with group leadership behaviours even People, and the second on Leading the dynamics. It addresses feelings, being Organisation and the Market’, says authentic, inspiration and understanding further. Two participants Jennifer. ‘They offered us an opportunity to be able to develop yourself and the reflect on their experiences to learn from and interact with colleagues team in a continuous process. Alignment from across operations in an open of all these aspects enables me to with the programme. learning environment. The course successfully grow in my interaction with provided me with new insights, and employees and customers. combined theory with experiential learning very effectively. In a changing environment, it is important to understand yourself and embrace learning on a continual basis. It is not just what you say, but how you say it. Open 65 ‘Performance Dialogue’, and stressing the Through our engagement survey accidents and injury rate by 5% annually two-way nature of this communication ‘MyVoice’, we are aware of the over 2013-17, and achieving zero fatalities. between managers and employees. Among perspectives of our entire 45,000-person We have an unwavering commitment to the Overview the outcomes is an agreed-upon workforce on diversity and inclusion, with Health and Safety of our workforce. development plan for employee progression. specific questions on this subject. Key to our approach are the following Appraisal is a key element in our Although within Smurfit Kappa diversity is principles and measures: performance-management process, and approached in a broad sense, including all — Educating and engaging safe behaviour its main objective is to enable every common forms of diversity, a specific focus through training, briefings, sharing employee to reach their performance is ensured on gender gaps. We want to incident information, and having Health potential, contribute to their team, and accomplish an equal gender balance in our and Safety regularly on the meeting meet Smurfit Kappa’s overall objectives. graduate programmes, and aim to have at agendas of management and We aim to increase the number of least 30% women as shortlisted external employees employees engaging in Performance candidates in management vacancies. All Our approach to vacancies and job descriptions are — Rewarding Health and Safety through Dialogue, with the long-term goal of all our our annual ‘Excellence in Health and employees taking part. formulated to demonstrate that we are an equal opportunity company, embracing a Safety’ awards programme sustainable business To participants in our Open Leadership diverse workforce. — Promoting technical and engineering programme and GMMP programme, we also improvements, and benchmarking offer the opportunity to be part of a 360 Our company is continuously progressing in this area, and, under the current policy, performance internally degree feedback exercise. In this, not only their managers, but also their colleagues and we believe we are establishing a number of — Conducting cross audits in Health and peers assess their leadership styles, and good practices. We keep our eyes open for Safety with our panel of trained internal identify areas for improvement. successful diversity practices in other Health and Safety coordinators. companies, and continually take on board The management of critical hazards with Our priorities Diversity new information from research in this potentially severe or fatal consequence Smurfit Kappa promotes all forms of important area. continues to be a key priority. All serious diversity at all levels in the organisation, as we and performance Health and Safety accidents undergo a detailed accident strongly believe it enriches our company’s investigation where deeper underlying perspective, improves corporate The well-being of our employees is of the utmost importance to Smurfit Kappa. Our causes are identified. It is established performance, increases shareholder value practice that Group management and aids achieving our objectives. top management is committed to more comprehensive accident reporting across immediately receives a preliminary serious There are three main areas of interest we the Group, improving awareness of precise accident notification. A safety incident have identified in relation with diversity: reporting requirements within plant bulletin is prepared and shared across all management, and closer monitoring by divisions. — Attracting and retaining people who Supporting data enrich diversity within the company divisional and group management of the When compared with 2015, the Group has Health and Safety of our people. recorded the following Health and Safety — Ensuring our culture and management Smurfit Kappa has a structured and performance changes in 2016: systems are aligned with, and promote, the attainment of diversity systematic approach to Health and Safety, Europe: through which we aim to continuously — Monitoring, reviewing and reporting on — We restructured the business by improve our safety performance. The the achievement of diversity within the product stream, and took this as an commitments described in our updated company, with a specific focus on opportunity to strengthen Health and Group Health and Safety policies are gender diversity. Safety by recruiting a European VP for consistent with those of the internationally Diversity is now embedded in our ‘Open Health and Safety recognised OHSAS 18001 occupational Supplementary Leadership’ model as one of the nine Health and Safety system application. — The new business structure was used leadership capabilities: ‘Open up and make to set up a new European Health and We are committed to promote and ensure the most of diversity’. Our leaders value Safety forum, to promote consistency information safe behaviour and well-being: reporting diversity, appreciating and utilising the range and share good practice near-misses and taking pre-emptive action of ideas that come from a diverse team. to prevent accidents, reducing lost-time 66 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance People continued — We embarked on a journey of making Number of accidents Days lost due to accidents safety one of our core operational Full year 2015 vs 2016 Full year 2015 vs 2016 values, rather than just a priority 364 11,166 — We focused on ensuring we learn from 352 our mistakes, with a stronger culture of 9,924 accident investigation — During the April 28th Safety Day, we involved employees and contractors in 6,149 activities on all of our sites 180 173 5,382 — We conducted the Safety Opinion 140 137 3,942 Survey. Our employees’ feedback on 3,088 safety improvement rose by 11.18%, from 49.2% in 2014 to 54.7% in 2016. 44 42 1,454 1,075 The safety perception of our Corrugated Paper The Americas Group Corrugated Paper The Americas Group employees has therefore improved, Europe Europe despite the inclusion of new 2015 2015 acquisitions 2016 2016 — The frequency of lost time accidents decreased by 3.8% from 0.52 in 2015 to Lost time accident severity rate Lost time accident frequency rate 0.50 in 2016 in the European region Full year 2015 vs 2016 Full year 2015 vs 2016 — The number of lost time accidents 18.15 0.56 decreased by 4% from 224 in 2015 to 17.49 0.52 0.54 215 in 2016 15.86 0.49 0.47 — Of our 252 operations, a total of 134 14.36 13 13.43 0.41 0.42 reported zero lost time accidents 0.34 — Regrettably, one contractor at our Ibi 8.91 9.72 site in Spain suffered a fatal injury whilst using a mobile work platform. The Americas: — All our operations continued to update and improve Risk Assessments and Corrugated Paper The Americas Group Corrugated Paper The Americas Group accident investigations at all our sites Europe Europe 2015 2015 — We continued to work on creating a 2016 2016 Safety Culture among all our employees by promoting self-awareness, leading by example and providing the — The number of lost time accidents — Regrettably, one employee at Los necessary resources for their decreased by 2% Reyes Mill in Mexico had a fatal injury daily duties — The frequency of lost time accidents when a paper bale collapsed over him. — During the April 28th Safety Day we decreased by 17% in The Americas We have revised our material handling involved employees, their families and region procedures at our sites and adjusted all contractors in activities at all our sites our mills' operations. — Of our 117 operations, a total of 55 — We conducted the Safety Opinion reported zero lost time accidents Survey, and 74% of our employees gave us feedback for improvement. Results indicated that the safety perception of our employees has improved, despite the inclusion of new acquisitions 67 Walk the walk with BOSS Safety Talks training day and coached the plant safety Overview Claudio Costa works as EHS manager for Smurfit Kappa coordinators of our 22 plants throughout Italy. He is passionate about his job and is continuously Italy. We provided them with supporting looking for ways to further improve health and safety. materials such as an instructional video, and the necessary checklists. In a pilot, He joined forces with a specialised consulting firm and two plants now also have received access together they developed their own system dubbed BOSS to a BOSS IT-platform to better document and monitor behaviour.’ Safety Talks. Significant Results Our approach to Employees are usually monitored three times a year. BOSS Safety Talks meetings are short, usually lasting only 15 minutes. sustainable business Widespread use in Italy was initiated after three years of experience with the system at the Smurfit Kappa plants in Lunata and Massa Lombarda. Claudio continues: ‘The implementation at those locations resulted in a 60% drop in LTA. In general, 90% of work related accidents are linked Our priorities to behaviour. The combination of employee involvement and sharing best practice, fuels the success of BOSS and performance Safety Talks. BOSS is an acronym for Behaviour Observation Safety System.’ Safety roll-out Now that over 2,000 Smurfit Kappa employees in Italy work with BOSS Safety Talks, it is time to focus attention on temporary personnel and people from Supporting data on-site contractors. Claudio concludes: Marco Perciballi, Supervisor converting department, leads a BOSS talk ‘We have managed a 30% reduction in with Marco Pompei, Operator Martin Line 618. accidents since we introduced the methodology in January 2016 for all Talk the talk, walk the walk. Back up your dialogue. Not in the office, but right at the Smurfit Kappa locations in Italy. I am words with actions, that is exactly what spot where the person operates.’ convinced that we can further improve in BOSS Safety Talks promotes. During the coming years, as the system 2016 Smurfit Kappa Italy performed over Involve & Share becomes even better integrated and the 4,000 observations, resulting in 1,000 BOSS Safety Talks does not require much attitude of our people will be positively hours of managers, supervisors and investment in terms of money, but does influenced in the long-term.’ operators talking about safety. ‘The require personal attention. ‘The next step method is easy and effective’, says is observations not only conducted by Supplementary Claudio. ‘The goal is to change unsafe Health and Safety people, but that information behaviour and reinforce safe behaviour. I employees take turns in evaluating each found the most effective way to confront other, and addressing unsafe behaviour. a person with behaviour at work is to That requires proper training, just like 160 speak to him/her personally. A short supervisors were trained at the start of observation by a colleague, followed by a the project. We organised an intensive 68 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance People continued A true game-changer in Brazilian health and safety knowledge for an effective safety culture In December 2015 Smurfit Kappa acquired operations in and embedding the 4P´s in the day-to-day Brazil opening the door to a huge market for paper-based activities of employees at work and home. packaging solutions. The acquisition provided an An all-day “train the trainers” session was organised in Rio de Janeiro in April with integration challenge, as our Health and Safety standards Health and Safety teams from Brazil, differed from those of the previous owners. Our goal was Argentina and Chile. The objective and methodology was explained, tools were to offer the new 1,700 Brazilian Smurfit Kappa colleagues shared, and all attendees played the game the protection that is standard at all our plants. A creative and had a turn at conducting it as well. Just one month later 1,033 people from training approach enabled us to quickly create a new and the operations in Brazil had been trained lasting safety culture, which was enthusiastically in the 4P´s. embraced by employees from all factory levels. Part of our daily actions Deize Martins, HR manager for Smurfit Kappa INPA, shares: ‘Safety became part of our daily actions, mostly after the 4P’s training day. With the use of this simple game Smurfit Kappa reached every employee. Once they understood the message, we had taken the first step! Nowadays, the 4P’s training is part of the integration process, and taught to all new employees. They learn why safety is a core value, and how to identify unsafe acts and conditions.’ Importance of taking care Januária de Vita, print process technician, received the training and states: ‘One day, my husband was waiting for me at home with my nine-month old son in his arms, but it was in vain because I had an accident at work. Today, my son is five years old and it was only after the 4P´s training that I realised how my behaviour affected the Januária de Vita and Deize Martins accident. Now, I think of my safety first, how I can work in a safe way and how Throughout the region, we developed a co-workers. He has been working for important my safety is for my colleagues series of initiatives to support the Smurfit Kappa Colombia for 25 years and and myself. I have my part, and my implementation of four words that we is currently employed as a maintenance colleagues should do theirs, so we can go consider vital for safety: STOP, ASK, assistant. His high impact game approach home and be with our beloved families. I THINK, and ACT. Regionally the terms are teaches employees safe and unsafe keep myself safe for my husband and son.’ known as the 4P´s because the words actions and conditions and the start with the letter P in Spanish and importance of always applying the 4P´s. Portuguese (Pare, Pergunte-se, Pense, Prossiga). The most successful 1,033 trainees in 1 month awareness initiative was a game The HR leaders in Brazil embraced the developed by John J. Lozano and his safety game to promote fundamental 69 Challenges The health and safety of every member of Community Involvement One of the most important challenges for our workforce is a daily challenge for us. Smurfit Kappa invests significantly in its Smurfit Kappa is attracting top talent, to Our health and safety performance host communities, contributing to their Overview ensure a strong and endurable talent improved in 2016 with a reduction in the economic and social development. We pipeline for internal succession planning number of accidents compared to also consider the concerns of wider and leadership continuity. Due to the previous years, due to health and safety communities at national and international nature of our industry, and the businessactions and initiatives implemented during level. Community involvement builds trust, to-business environment in which we the year. The continual challenge is the and serves as a link to issues important to operate, competition with companies with pursuit of zero accidents globally, to make us. Local general managers are expected stronger brand awareness means Smurfit Smurfit Kappa the safest company to work to represent the company as part of the Kappa needs to identify new ways to for in our industry. We strive to position local community, and play a positive part in recruit talent, with specific focus on Health and Safety as a value, to be its development. We focus on self-help younger people and ‘Millennials’. In continually reinforced in the hearts and initiatives, education and health Our approach to addition, many of our operations are in minds of all our managers and employees. programmes, and contribute through rural areas with relatively low population We use our social investment initiatives to financial donations and volunteering by density, making it a daily challenge to make a positive contribution towards the local employees. sustainable business recruit people with the professional economic and social development of the qualifications we need for certain jobs. Due Smurfit Kappa Foundation communities in which we are active. The to the nature of our industry, attracting challenge is to keep generating well-being The Smurfit Kappa Foundation supports female applicants is a specific challenge and improvement through our core projects in countries where we operate, and there we have dedicated programmes business in areas that are vital for the with focus on disadvantaged children’s to promote recruitment of female talent, future, such as education, income health and nutrition, basic care, and early making sure we get the best people for our generation, collaboration, and education. Currently, the Foundation company. participation. This way we can make supports many such projects in Colombia, Our priorities positive and lasting changes in the Germany, Ireland, The Netherlands, Italy Since the launch of our first company-wide communities with which we are and the UK. engagement survey ‘MyVoice’ in and performance September 2014, employee engagement privileged to work. Although no central record is kept of has become one of the pillars of our charitable donations by our operations, we Communities business strategy wherever we operate. estimate that as a Group, including our Increasing the level of engagement in the We engage with, and actively support, local Smurfit Kappa Foundation, over €5 million company, and maintaining good workplace communities through our Smurfit Kappa was donated in cash and kind in 2016. This environments is one of our main Foundations and local operations. was for a wide range of activities, including challenges, and specific programmes and Internally and externally we adhere to high children’s education, health and social processes are in place to ensure progress ethical and professional standards, making inclusiveness projects, and research into the well-being of people a priority Supporting data in this area. We strongly believe that a areas such as biodiversity. company with engaged employees can throughout our organisation. show better results, higher growth, faster innovation and greater customer satisfaction, in line with our values of respect and authenticity as good employer towards all our 45,000 employees. Supplementary information 70 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Our priorities and performance People continued People Health and Safety Citizenship Community involvement Boundary: Health and Safety reporting applies Boundary: All Smurfit Kappa operations Boundary: The local communities or regions to our own employees. When applicable to both in Europe and the Americas where we have the privilege to operate subcontracted labour workers this is specifically indicated. Commitment: Commitment: Commitment: — Zero fatalities — Strive to offer employees at all levels of the Smurfit Kappa and our related Foundations aim organisation the chance to increase and to contribute to end the cycle of poverty and — Injuries: reduce the lost-time and injury rate broaden their skillsets and knowledge, dependence that exist in some of the by 5% annually for the period of 2013-2017 helping them to fulfil their potential and communities and countries in which we operate — Provide regular Health and Safety training widen their career prospects by investing in social and research projects. to employees and sub-contractors — Strive to stimulate and encourage — Focus on the education of (disadvantaged) — Promote and ensure safe behaviour of our employee engagement by regularly youth employees and sub-contractors surveying our employees company-wide, — Focus on (scientific) research in areas — Embed process safety in the way we and following up appropriately related to our business, for example design, develop and operate all our sites — Maintain a good faith reporting policy forestry and biodiversity Timeframe: Continuous (“Whistle blower Code”), where employees — Benefit the local communities in which we can safely report any unethical or illegal operate Progress made: Regrettably, there was one conduct they perceive within the Group fatal accident within the Group at our Los Reyes Timeframe: Continuous mill (Mexico) and another with our contractor in — Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Progress made: Our management teams in Ibi (Spain). The LTA frequency rate decreased by sites throughout the Group and its related 10% compared to 2015, however the LTA — Not engage in child labour, and disengage Foundations have undertaken local community severity rate increased by 3.3%. from suppliers that do initiatives and supported voluntary work, — Support freedom of association, and the ranging from charity fundraising and social Our perspective: We believe that a safe and recognition of the right to collective inclusiveness investments to volunteering healthy workplace is the fundamental right of bargaining activities in local projects and activities. We every person, and also a business imperative. contributed over €5 million in 2016. We are committed to maintaining a productive — Not engage in forced and compulsory and safe workplace in every part of our company labour, or employment discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, gender, sexual Our perspective: We believe that a company by minimising the risk of accidents, injuries and orientation, age, religion, disability or can only prosper when it is an integral part of the exposure to health hazards for all our national origin society it operates in. Therefore, investing in employees and sub-contractors. these communities and helping them flourish is — Work against corruption in all its forms, important to us, with a particular focus on including extortion and bribery people who have less opportunity to succeed. Timeframe: Continuous By supporting our communities we help to focus their resources to stay vital and Progress made: Progress in these areas have flourishing. been discussed in the chapters People and Ethically and responsibly. Our perspective: We believe that everyone at Smurfit Kappa, the employees and the employer, is committed to reach our business objectives through expertise, innovation and performance. We want to be recognised as a great place to work by our current employees and as one of the employers of choice by our prospective employees. 71 Community Inclusivity Our operations and our related foundations supported projects that help young people to remain involved in society with funding of some €5million. Overview Our approach to sustainable business Our priorities and performance Supporting data Supplementary information 72 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supporting data Luis Fernandez, Smurfit Kappa Dominican Republic Our approach to Our priorities Supplementary Overview sustainable business and performance Supporting data information 73 74 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supporting data Input/Output 2016 Europe Input Output Wood and fibre Production Wood (1) 5,038 ktonnes ar Papers (all grades) 4,788 ktonnes Market virgin pulp 94 ktonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 4,802 ktonnes Other pulp 28 ktonnes ar Board and laminated Boards * 567 ktonnes Recovered Paper 4,110 ktonnes ar Converted Board * 128 ktonnes Paper or Board purchased 1,658 ktonnes ar Sacks * – ktonnes Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 23 ktonnes Other packaging 22 ktonnes Starch (all types) 262 ktonnes ar Inorganic raw materials 225 ktonnes ar Direct emissions to air Other organic raw materials 178 ktonnes ar CO2 fossil 1,651 ktonnes CO2 biogenic 3,199 ktonnes Dust from fuels 0.45 ktonnes SOx from processes 0.9 ktonnes NOx from processes 3.7 ktonnes Energy Energy output Energy from fossil fuels 27,784 TJ Electricity to third party 307 GWh Energy from purchased biofuels 4,363 TJ Thermal energy to third party 202 TJ Electricity from grid 1,757 GWh Biomass sold 1,465 TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 5.6 ktonnes Non Hazardous Wastes sent to landfill 220 ktonnes Non Hazardous wastes recovered 302 ktonnes Other Non Hazardous wastes 8.1 ktonnes Water Discharges to water Water intake (2) 88 Mm3 Water released 81 Mm3 COD 21 ktonnes BOD 7.7 ktonnes Total Suspended Solids 3.8 ktonnes N 0.52 ktonnes P 0.08 ktonnes Notes (1) wood & sawmill chips as delivered to the mill (2) water intake includes rainwater and waste water from another operation ktonnes ar: kilotonnes as received * partly produced with SKG paper or board The table reports total energy consumption of the site, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 76 – 78. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. 75 Supporting data Input/Output 2016 The Americas Input Output Wood and fibre Production Overview Wood (1) 951 ktonnes ar Papers (all grades) 1,438 ktonnes Market virgin pulp 5.8 ktonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 1,497 ktonnes Other pulp 21.35 ktonnes ar Board and laminated Boards * 140 ktonnes Recovered Paper 1,397 ktonnes ar Converted Board * 66 ktonnes Paper or Board purchased 492 ktonnes ar Sacks * 45 ktonnes Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 2.1 ktonnes Other packaging 2.1 ktonnes Starch (all types) 55 ktonnes ar Inorganic raw materials 76 ktonnes ar Direct emissions to air Other organic raw materials 55 ktonnes ar CO2 fossil 1,066 ktonnes CO2 biogenic 762 ktonnes Dust from fuels 0.14 ktonnes SOx from processes 2.2 ktonnes Our approach to NOx from processes 1.7 ktonnes Energy Energy output sustainable business Energy from fossil fuels 16,605 TJ Electricity to third party – GWh Energy from purchased biofuels 2,304 TJ Thermal energy to third party – TJ Electricity from grid 863 GWh Biomass sold – TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 1.3 ktonnes Non Hazardous Wastes sent to landfill 267 ktonnes Non Hazardous wastes recovered 37 ktonnes Other Non Hazardous wastes 4.9 ktonnes Our priorities Water Discharges to water and performance Water intake (2) 34 Mm3 Water released 31 Mm3 COD 20 ktonnes BOD 6.6 ktonnes Total Suspended Solids 4.8 ktonnes N 0.46 ktonnes P 0.05 ktonnes Notes (1) wood & sawmill chips as delivered to the mill (2) water intake includes rainwater and waste water from another operation ktonnes ar: kilotonnes as received Supporting data * partly produced with SKG paper or board The table reports total energy consumption of the site, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 79 – 80. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. Supplementary information 76 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supporting data Environmental data 2016 Paper and board mills Europe Morava, Czech Piteå, Sweden Nettingsdorf, Cellulose du Sangüesa, Wrexen, Hoya, Zülpich, Mengibar, Austria Spain Pin, France republic Germany(5) Germany(5) Germany Spain klbkl, tl mg paper, tl bkl, wtkl, wttl bkl, wtkl tl, fl wttl, sb, tl, fl fl, tl, cart fl, tl fl, tl, wttl Production ktonnes 442 61 479 692 65 317 442 494 205 Energy Electricity Co Generated GWh 156 56 320 (1) 323 70 85 180 103 Self generated GWh Hydro power GWh 1.6 0.2 Net Grid supply GWh 121 79 59 265 21 27 89 13 (2) Total electricity GWh 277 134 379 587 23 97 174 193 103 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 3,592 2,225 8,611 10,113 15 55 69 264 41 Fossil fuels TJ 1,135 176 670 160 321 1,541 2,236 3,147 1,491 Total fuels TJ 4,727 2,401 9,281 10,273 (3) 336 1,596 2,305 3,411 1,533 Water withdrawal Surface Mm³ 12.5 4.8 8.6 33.3 0.4 0.6 1.5 1.6 Ground Mm³ 0.8 0.0 0.8 2.2 0.4 Grid Mm³ 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 Total water(4) Mm³ 12.7 5.0 9.5 33.8 0.4 1.4 2.3 2.0 1.6 Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 65 12 38 15 18 87 126 246 84 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 20 19 4 3 11 13 43 6 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 396 241 1,017 1,091 1 4 7 29 6 Dust tonnes 31.0 8.1 29.3 314.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 1.1 NOX as NO2 tonnes 252 125 622 696 10 43 88 209 415 SOX as SO2 tonnes 22 145 109 56 7 0 5 90 48 To water Process water Mm³ 4.86 4.55 9.96 12.00 0.26 0.41 1.78 1.22 Cooling water Mm³ 7.34 21.93 0.56 0.02 0.87 COD tonnes 7,513 308 4,025 2,032 24 91 283 306 BOD tonnes 4,535 57 1,046 397 1 5 16 14 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 665 145 603 249 5 3 56 104 Total N tonnes 41.9 28.2 90.7 40.4 6.4 0.4 17.4 49.3 Total P tonnes 3.6 4.8 20.8 14.4 0.5 0.2 1.6 2.4 Wastes Total Non hazardous wastes tonnes 21,934 20,303 44,942 34,794 7,859 15,374 33,399 21,340 25,982 Landfill tonnes 3,663 13,427 10,454 2,480 4,314 11,301 25,895 Recovery tonnes 18,268 6,876 34,488 32,314 3,544 15,374 32,051 10,039 87 Other tonnes 2 1,347 Hazardous wastes tonnes 297 83 571 220 2 57 70 49 41 Notes (1) CHP partly or totally outsourced (2) electricity exported by CHP (3) part of heat exported outside the Group (4) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (5) Both Hoya and Wrexen consist of two mills on one site. Data are aggregated data per site. Water discharges: in italic mills that do not discharge their process water to surface 77 Rethel, France Baden Karton, Saillat, France Roermond, Townsend Alfa SSK, United Herzberger, Total mills Overview Ania, Italy the Hook, United Nervión, Germany D’Avignon, France Netherlands Kingdom Kingdom Germany Spain tl tl fl, tl fl, tl tl, fl tl, fl fl, tl cart sb sack paper, kl 72 63 261 220 566 213 208 144 259 153 5,356 Our approach to 19 73 120 61 76 (1) 63 73 120 1,897 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.6 1.3 0.8 5.4 sustainable business 28 24 92 (2) 36 (2) 4 (2) 17 65 938 28 24 113 73 155 61 80 64 90 185 2,841 32 29 24 160 50 40 2,900 28,220 374 314 1,336 1,397 2,718 1,291 1,726 1,082 1,621 108 22,844 374 346 1,365 1,421 2,878 1,341 1,767 1,082 1,621 3,008 51,064 0.7 1.9 1.9 0.9 1.5 4.3 2.4 76.8 Our priorities 0.4 1.6 1.0 0.0 7.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.7 0.5 1.9 1.6 2.1 1.1 0.9 1.5 4.3 2.6 85.8 and performance 21 18 76 79 154 73 97 61 92 7 1,367 2 2 6 16 2 1 8 16 173 2 3 4 2 13 5 5 332 3,160 0.4 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.0 53.4 443.1 36 29 73 60 132 134 216 24 35 374 3,572 8 1 2 1 12 1 3 1 18 301 830 Supporting data 0.55 0.37 1.56 1.38 1.51 0.89 0.62 1.24 1.36 1.83 46.36 0.09 2.79 33.61 24 28 202 124 238 2,624 101 137 124 1,560 19,743 2 2 13 18 6 754 6 6 8 371 7,256 2 6 73 13 23 1,144 25 14 25 145 3,298 27.3 3.5 20.6 15.6 21.5 103.5 17.7 2.8 1.8 1.2 490.3 1.8 0.6 1.2 1.0 2.3 19.1 0.6 0.2 0.3 0.3 75.8 4,387 3,294 16,512 25,828 34,968 22,741 30,848 16,677 24,164 79,667 485,011 4,314 992 16,459 6,797 2,266 12,038 23,286 199 76,401 214,287 72 2,302 54 19,031 32,517 10,702 7,562 16,677 23,965 3,266 269,189 185 1,535 Supplementary 15 2 11 26 23 27 10 32 21 13 1,569 information bkl: brown kraftliner mg paper: machine glazed paper wtkl: white top kraftliner cart: carton board sb: solid board wttl: white top testliner fl: recycled fluting tl: testliner N/A: not available 78 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supporting data Environmental data 2016 Operations total Europe Integrated Other Paper & corrugated packaging Other Total Board mills operations operations operations operations Production ktonnes 5,356 4,492 461 2,416 Energy Electricity Co-Generated GWh 1,897 1,897 Self-generated GWh 0 0 Hydro power GWh 5 5 Net Grid supply GWh 938 526 91 3 1,559 Total electricity GWh 2,841 526 91 3 3,462 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 28,220 129 28,350 Fossil fuels TJ 22,844 4,087 167 79 27,176 Total fuels TJ 51,064 4,216 167 79 55,526 Water withdrawal Surface Mm³ 76.8 0.0 76.8 Ground Mm³ 7.2 0.3 0.0 7.5 Grid Mm³ 0.7 1.3 0.1 0.0 2.1 Total water(1) Mm³ 85.8 1.7 0.1 0.0 87.6 Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 1,367 233 10 6 1,616 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 173 171 32 1 377 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 3,160 14 3,174 Dust tonnes 443 3 0 0 447 NOX as NO2 tonnes 3,572 82 4 4 3,661 SOX as SO2 tonnes 830 36 1 4 871 To water Process water Mm³ 46.4 0.6 0.0 47.0 Cooling water Mm³ 33.6 0.1 0.0 0.0 33.7 COD(2) tonnes 19,743 1,766 21,499 BOD(2) tonnes 7,256 464 7,719 Total Suspended Solids(2) tonnes 3,298 460 3,758 Total N(2) tonnes 490 30 520 Total P(2) tonnes 76 1 77 Wastes Total Non hazardous wastes tonnes 485,011 29,578 5,889 8,893 529,370 Landfill tonnes 214,287 4,174 607 567 219,635 Recovery tonnes 269,189 19,634 4,711 8,104 301,637 Other tonnes 1,535 5,770 571 222 8,098 Hazardous wastes tonnes 1,569 3,424 510 47 5,551 Notes (1) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (2) Sum of available data (for mills details are reported in individual tables) 79 Supporting data Environmental data 2016 Paper and board mills the Americas carton Valencia, Venezuela carton, tl Caracas, Venezuela fl, tl Barbosa, Colombia fl, tl Monterrey, Mexico fl, tl, carton Los Reyes, Mexico tl, fl Uberaba, Brazil (2) Pirapetinga, Brazil fl, tl Bernal, Argentina Coronel Suárez, fl Bento, Brazil (2) p&w, sack p, bkl, Overview Cerro Gordo, Barranquilla, tl, fl Forney, USA San Felipe, Total mills fl, tl Argentina tl, fl, wttl (2) carton, sc fl, tl, tl, fl Colombia sc fl, bkl Venezuela tl, carton, fl Mexico pulp, wtkl Cali, Colombia Production ktonnes 73 48 38 130 46 267 65 78 81 308 33 8 20 74 311 1,579 Our approach to Energy Electricity Co Generated GWh 221 35 23 9 81 30 399 sustainable business Self generated GWh 0 24 8 33 Hydro power GWh Net Grid supply GWh 34 15 16 61 29 108 3 16 50 163 19 5 4 16 115 656 Total electricity GWh 34 15 16 61 29 329 38 39 50 163 19 6 37 105 145 1,088 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 233 1,011 472 4,536 632 560 7,445 Fossil fuels TJ 401 214 0 42 6 5,207 671 559 582 1,397 246 125 953 3,346 1,268 15,016 Total fuels TJ 401 214 233 1,053 478 9,743 671 559 582 1,397 246 125 953 3,978 1,829 22,461 Water withdrawal Our priorities Surface Mm³ 0.2 0.1 1.5 0.4 21.1 1.2 0.7 0.2 25.2 Ground Mm³ 0.7 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.3 1.6 0.1 0.2 2.5 5.9 Grid Mm³ 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.1 1.0 1.4 and performance Total water(1) Mm³ 0.9 0.2 0.1 1.5 0.5 21.3 1.2 0.7 0.4 1.6 0.2 0.4 0.3 2.5 1.0 32.7 Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 22.6 12.1 0.0 3.0 0.4 403.0 37.7 38.9 32.7 78.6 13.8 7.0 54.1 192.5 71.2 967.4 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 12.6 5.6 2.2 8.2 3.9 19.6 0.6 3.1 25.3 82.5 9.8 1.3 1.0 3.9 56.4 236.1 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 0.9 20.1 104.6 48.3 414.2 0.2 87.3 64.4 740.2 Dust tonnes 0.0 0.1 38.3 34.1 4.6 27.1 1.7 2.9 0.0 5.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 23.3 4.1 141.2 NOX as NO2 tonnes 22.2 13.9 22.5 30.0 12.5 987.5 53.1 36.6 28.0 68.6 5.6 3.3 80.9 188.8 60.2 1,613.6 SOX as SO2 tonnes 7.4 0.1 0.0 22.4 0.0 1,982.6 0.1 84.5 0.0 0.7 0.7 0.0 2.5 6.4 18.6 2,126.1 Supporting data To water Process water Mm³ 0.6 0.1 1.4 0.3 22.3 1.0 0.5 0.2 1.2 0.1 0.4 0.2 1.0 0.5 29.9 Cooling water Mm³ 0.2 0.2 COD tonnes 43.6 30.8 3,882.5 1,380.0 7,303.1 2,634.4 2,309.9 31.4 851.5 14.3 531.0 60.1 497.5 633.1 20,203.3 BOD tonnes 14.1 5.0 1,487.8 76.6 2,022.1 1,441.8 1,026.4 2.0 48.0 2.1 234.1 6.8 62.8 137.0 6,566.5 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 6.0 10.1 141.4 24.5 2,247.9 1,508.4 264.3 1.8 95.5 7.2 391.2 12.9 56.3 57.0 4,824.7 Total N tonnes 4.9 3.2 2.6 0.6 354.8 16.9 6.8 1.1 6.7 1.0 15.1 1.6 13.6 33.5 462.4 Total P tonnes 0.2 0.1 1.7 37.4 0.1 0.8 0.4 3.3 0.1 0.6 0.1 1.0 3.7 49.5 Wastes Total Non hazardous wastes tonnes 7,288 3,134 6,668 21,540 9,574 128,652 2,236 7,960 5,817 41,281 4,376 452 6,816 6,822 35,053 287,669 Landfill tonnes 7,037 3,123 5,883 20,464 5,784 126,748 2,198 6,460 1,613 18,098 4,292 419 6,718 3,464 34,920 247,220 Supplementary Recovery tonnes 29 11 865 36 125 1,712 38 1,500 4,183 23,183 84 33 98 28 134 32,058 Other tonnes 222 192 21 3,330 3,766 information Hazardous wastes tonnes 8 12 7 2 131 20 8 14 24 5 5 23 0 259 bkl: brown kraftliner P&W: printing and writing grade wtkl: white top kraftliner pulp: virgin pulp sold externally cart: carton board sack p: sack paper sc fl: semi-chemical fluting fl: recycled fluting tl: testliner Notes (1) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (2) We have obtained data from the Brazil mills for Q4 only for water intake, water discharges and wastes. This data has been multiplied by four for this report and not included in result against the targets for accuracy reasons. Water discharges: in italic mills that do not discharge their process water to surface 80 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supporting data Environmental data 2016 Operations total the Americas Paper & Other Total Board mills operations operations Production ktonnes 1,579 3,451 Energy Electricity Co-Generated GWh 399 399 Self-generated GWh 33 0 33 Hydro power GWh Net Grid supply GWh 656 207 863 Total electricity GWh 1,088 208 1,295 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 7,445 219 7,663 Fossil fuels TJ 15,016 1,589 16,605 Total fuels TJ 22,461 1,807 24,268 Water withdrawal Surface Mm³ 25.2 0.1 25.3 Ground Mm³ 5.9 0.3 6.2 Grid Mm³ 1.4 0.5 1.9 Total water(1) Mm³ 32.7 0.9 33.6 Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 967 99 1,066 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 236 78 314 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 740 22 762 Dust tonnes 141 3 144 NOX as NO2 tonnes 1,614 38 1,652 SOX as SO2 tonnes 2,126 37 2,163 To water Process water Mm³ 29.9 0.2 30.1 Cooling water Mm³ 0.2 0.2 COD(2) tonnes 20,203.3 91.6 20,294.9 BOD(2) tonnes 6,566.5 40.3 6,606.8 Total Suspended Solids(2) tonnes 4,824.7 13.0 4,837.7 Total N(2) tonnes 462.4 0.9 463.3 Total P(2) tonnes 49.5 0.1 49.6 Wastes Total Non hazardous wastes tonnes 283,043 26,156 309,199 Landfill tonnes 247,220 19,738 266,958 Recovery tonnes 32,058 5,256 37,313 Other tonnes 3,766 1,162 4,927 Hazardous wastes tonnes 259 1,017 1,276 Notes (1) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (2) Sum of available data (for mills details are reported in individual tables) We have obtained data from the Brazil mills for Q4 only for water intake, water discharges and wastes. This data has been multiplied by four for this report and not included in result against the targets for accuracy reasons. 81 Supporting data Environmental data 2016 Total Group operations All operations 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Energy Overview Electricity Co-Generated GWh 2,297 2,239 2,308 2,350 2,405 Self-generated GWh 33 26 44 33 Hydro power GWh 5 6 6 7 5 Grid supply GWh 2,422 2,379 2,333 2,330 2,081 Total electricity GWh 4,757 4,651 4,692 4,720 4,491 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 36,013 35,232 34,545 34,461 31,936 Fossil fuels TJ 43,781 42,700 43,320 43,868 44,723 Total fuels TJ 79,794 77,931 77,865 78,329 76,659 Water withdrawal Surface Mm³ 102 101 101 106 104 Our approach to Ground Mm³ 14 14 16 15 16 Grid Mm³ 4 4 3 3 3 Total water(1) Mm³ 121 120 121 125 126 sustainable business Discharges To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 2,683 2,607 2,647 2,681 2,775 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 691 678 659 683 584 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 3,936 3,764 3,698 3,716 3,622 Dust tonnes 590 442 562 561 665 NOX as NO2 tonnes 5,313 5,239 4,887 4,367 4,688 SOX as SO2 tonnes 3,034 2,951 2,728 2,411 3,334 To water Our priorities Process water Mm³ 77 79 80 81 79 Cooling water Mm³ 34 32 33 34 34 and performance COD(2) tonnes 41,794 37,690 39,116 38,188 35,665 BOD(2) tonnes 14,326 14,072 12,100 12,253 11,473 Total Suspended Solids(2) tonnes 8,596 9,205 9,840 9,526 7,752 Total N(2) tonnes 983 877 796 888 711 Total P(2) tonnes 126 139 114 86 91 Wastes Total Non hazardous wastes tonnes 838,569 819,448 836,816 906,764 919,084 Landfill tonnes 486,593 450,107 444,604 512,101 565,346 Recovery tonnes 338,950 362,165 365,411 363,976 322,712 Other tonnes 13,025 7,175 26,801 30,686 31,026 Supporting data Hazardous wastes tonnes 6,827 7,112 8,767 9,523 12,813 Notes (1) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation (2) Sum of available data (for mills details are reported in individual tables) We have obtained data from the Brazil mills for Q4 only for water intake, water discharges and wastes. This data has been multiplied by four for this report and not included in result against the targets for accuracy reasons. Supplementary information 82 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supporting data Management systems and social data 2016 Management system certifications Forestry, wood sourcing and mills Europe Quality Environmental Health and Hygiene Energy Chain of custody management management Safety management management system system system for foodstuffs system packaging ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 EN 15593 ISO 50001 FSC PEFC SFI Wood Sourcing ES Central Forestal l l l FR Comptoir du Pin Aquitaine l l l Virgin mills AT Nettingsdorf l l l l l l ES Nervión l l l l l l l Sangüesa l l l l l l FR Cellulose du Pin l l l l l l SE Piteå l l l l (1) l l l CZ Morava l l l l l l l ES Mengibar l l l l l l FR Alfa D’Avignon l l l l l Rethel l l l l l Saillat l l l l l l DE Badenkarton l l l l l l l CD Haupt l l l l l l l Herzberger l l l l l l l Hoya l l l l l l l Zülpich l l l l l l l IT Ania l l l l l l Recycled mills NL Roermond l l l l l l l UK SSK l l l l (2) l l l Townsend Hook l l l l l l The Americas Forestry CO Colombian Forest l VE Venezuela Forest l Virgin mills CO Cali l l VE San Felipe l l Recycled mills AR Bernal l l Coronel Suarez l l BR Bento l Pirapetinga l l Uberaba l l CO Barbosa l l Barranquilla l l ME Cerro Gordo l l l Los Reyes l l l Monterrey l l l USA Forney l l l l VE Caracas l l Valencia l l l (1): FSSC 22000 (2): re-certification audit passed in March 2017 83 Social data 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Social citizenship Total number of employees (1) 45,314 44,599 41,816 40,654 37,757 Overview of whom female (%) (2) 18% 17% 17% 17% 16% Employees leaving the company (3) 1,687 1,971 1,675 1,598 1,596 of whom resignation and retirement (%) 64% 62% 62% 59% 53% Employees joining the company (3) 2,054 2,217 1,826 1,743 1,890 Age distribution (%) <20 years 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 21-30 years 17% 17% 16% 16% 16% 31-40 years 25% 25% 25% 26% 26% 41-50 years 29% 30% 31% 31% 32% 51-60 years 24% 23% 23% 22% 22% >60 years 4% 4% 4% 4% 3% Employees turnover (%) (3) 4.1% 4.9% 4.4% 4.3% 4.7% Our approach to Length of service, above 11 years (%) 50% 50% 51% 52% 54% Females in management (%) 19% 17% 17% 16% 16% sustainable business Health and safety Lost time accidents (LTA) 352 364 414 405 440 Contractor lost time accidents (CLTA) 45 62 227 na na Days lost due to accidents (DLA) 11,166 9,924 11,460 10,211 10,362 Accident severity rate (ASR) (%) 13.43 13% 15% 14% 15% Frequency rate (FR)* 0.42 0.47 0.55 0.55 0.65 Fatalities Own employees 1 0 0 1 0 (Sub)contractors 1 1 1 1 2 Our priorities Sourcing data and performance Number of audits Strategic suppliers 20 26 22 23 26 Important suppliers 7 23 21 31 9 Satisfactory scores Strategic suppliers 19 21 19 22 26 Important suppliers 4 18 18 28 8 (1): Based on full time equivalent number of employees and contractors. (2): Based on Smurfit Kappa employees only (excluding contractors). Supporting data (3): This data has been derived from the Hyperion Financial Management data system (HFM). Most of the countries in the American region have not yet registered the information on this indicator in HFM. We aim to have this information about joiners and leavers for all countries included in near future. Supplementary information 84 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information Our approach to Our priorities Supplementary Overview sustainable business and performance Supporting data information 85 Geremías Aguilar and Luis García, Smurfit Kappa Tijana, Mexico 86 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information About this report The information in this report covers the 2016 as per Smurfit Kappa’s reporting Reporting guidelines, data collection international activities of the Smurfit rules. However, the sites weren’t fully Among the various references used for the Kappa Group for the calendar year 2016 compliant with the Group reporting development and identification of baseline and also includes some information for protocol before the last quarter of 2016. data included in this report are the G4 early 2017, where mentioned specifically. Therefore certain conversions and Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued In this report, we cover the business, assumptions explained by the data by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). GRI environmental and social activities at our have been used for the full year data. is an international independent own operations, as well as our approach to Smurfit Kappa applies a two-year organisation that helps businesses, sourcing and how we support our integration policy to the acquired governments and other organisations customers’ sustainability targets. operations. The new operations have to understand and communicate the impact The report also describes Smurfit Kappa’s obtain certified management systems of business on critical sustainability issues vision and approach to sustainability. required by the Group within this period. such as climate change, human rights, The operations start to report about the corruption and many others. At the end of 2016, our operations comprised 367 facilities in 34 countries management systems immediately after Every effort has been made to provide data across Europe and the Americas. obtaining the certificate, issued by a that is as accurate as possible. Data Information from all these operations is third-party. This has the greatest effect on relating to environmental factors is included in this report excluding the the certified Chain of Custody related gathered through a Group-wide IT-based operations acquired in 2016 (see below). reporting. reporting system implemented in all For these companies, 2016 data is only Apart from the impact on the baseline and Smurfit Kappa operations. included when specifically mentioned in reporting of the data of the mills acquired This tool is integrated into the Group’s the relevant section of the report. in Brazil, no significant changes in the intranet, enabling sites to report their Employee demographics covers our own scope, boundary and measurement environmental data online according to employees. Contract labour is only methods were applied to the report GRI guidelines. As the information is included if specifically indicated. compared to previous years. For the stored centrally, this allows for easier and indicators related to the targets, the faster processing. Acquisitions, divestitures and closures Brazilian mills have only been included in 2016 the CO2 emissions and Energy data in 2016 We make continuous efforts to increase reporting. our data quality. This includes improving During 2016, Smurfit Kappa acquired the the user friendliness of our data collection following companies and/or activities: The reporting of employee data reflects and developing mill individual reporting — Acquisitions are covered on page 2, the situation at the end of 2016. protocols, a project completed in 2015. Our year in highlights. Topics, issues and targets For the most part, data is based on There were two closures of recovered fibre Smurfit Kappa fully recognises that measured or metered quantities, or on plants in Venezuela: Guatire (Caracas) and sustainable development embraces social best estimates based on industry Ciudad Barinas. and business issues as well as knowledge and established calculation environmental ones. These issues have factors. CO2 emission calculations have Environmental data on the acquired and been selected on the basis of input from been based on established fuel closed sites is not included in the 2016 data various stakeholder groups. Smurfit Kappa consumption and specific CO2 emission presented in this report. The acquisitions collected data from all its manufacturing factors. Definitions and calculations for and closures do not significantly impact operations that were operational at the the performance indicators can be found our targets that are being measured on end of 2016 with the exception of the in the glossary on pages 102 – 104. specific volume performance. mentioned acquired and closed Ongoing initiatives continue to further The acquisition of the three paper mills in operations. standardise the data gathering system at Brazil (2015) instead has a significant Our targets are measured against Smurfit Kappa to improve data quality and impact on the baseline of the targets that produced tonnes of paper rather than consistency in the use of Group definitions are being measured on specific volume absolute values as the company is in and scope requirements of our key performance. With the purchase of these dynamic growth and also subject to indicators. sites, we have added their data to the 2005 baseline as well as the 2016 data and the opening and closing facilities. Other We appointed an external assurance 2015 data to which it is compared. Since information is reported in absolute figures, provider, KPMG, to provide limited the mills were acquired at the end of unless otherwise stated. assurance on the data and the text December 2015, they were added to the of the report. KPMG’s assurance Group reporting system as of 1 January report can be found on page 104. 87 Supplementary information GRI-index GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) Strategy and Analysis Overview 1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the SDR 4-5 organisation (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability 2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Organisational profile 3 Name of the organisation SDR Cover 4 Primary brands, products, and/or services SDR Cover flap page, 5 Location of organisation’s headquarters SDR Outside back cover 6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, SDR Cover flap page and names of countries where either the organisation has AR 10-11 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the Our approach to sustainability topics covered in the report 7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 55-85 8 Markets served Website sustainable business 9 Report the scale of the organisation, including: SDR Cover flap page Total number of employees AR 4-5, 10-11 Total number of operations Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector organisations) Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations) Quantity of products or services provided 10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract SDR 60-62 Our priorities and gender b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and performance and by gender d. Report the total workforce by region and gender e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognised as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) Supporting data 11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective SDR 60 bargaining agreements 12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain SDR 14, 24, 30-38 13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period SDR 86 regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply AR 140 chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and Supplementary termination 14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is AR 60, 142 information addressed by the organisation 15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social SDR 22-23 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses 88 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information GRI-index GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) 16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) SDR 33 and national or international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: Holds a position on the governance body Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Participates in projects or committees Views membership as strategic This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organisational level 17 a. List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated SDR 86 financial statements or equivalent documents 156 b. Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s AR consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report The organisation can report on this Standard Disclosure by referencing the information in publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the SDR 28-29 Aspect Boundaries b. Explain how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content 19 a. List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining SDR 28-29 report content 20 a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the SDR 38, 46, 53, 57, 70 organisation, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organisation. If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organisation 21 a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside SDR 28-29, 38, 46, 53, 57, 70 the organisation, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organisation. If the Aspect is material outside of the organisation, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation 22 a. Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in SDR 86 previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the SDR 86 Scope and Aspect Boundaries 24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation SDR 20-21 25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with SDR 19 whom to engage 26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, SDR 19-21 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process 27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through SDR 19-21, 30, 40, 48, 54, 58 stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns 89 GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) Report profile Overview 28 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided SDR 86 29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) SDR/ 30 May 2016 30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) SDR: Annual 86 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents SDR Back cover 32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen SDR 86 33 a. Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided c. Report the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers Our approach to d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report 34 Report the governance structure of the organisation AR 55-85 sustainable business 35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, SDR 22-24 environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees 36 Report whether the organisation has appointed an executive-level SDR 22 position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether postholders report directly to the highest governance body 37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the SDR 19-21 Our priorities highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body and performance 38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its AR 55-85 committees by: Executive or non-executive/Independence/Tenure on the governance body/Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments/ Gender/Membership of under-represented social groups/ Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts/Stakeholder representation 39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an AR 56 executive officer Supporting data 40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest AR 55-85 governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: Whether and how diversity is considered Whether and how independence is considered Whether and how expertise and experience related to economic, environmental and social topics are considered Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved 41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure AR 60 conflicts of interest are avoided and managed Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, Supplementary including, as a minimum: Cross-board membership/Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders/Existence of controlling shareholder/Related information party disclosures 42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles AR 56-58 in the development, approval and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts 90 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information GRI-index GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) 43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest AR 61 governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics 44 a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance AR 62 body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organisational practice 45 a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification SDR 22-24 and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the AR 60-64 effectiveness of the organisation’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics 47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of AR 62 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities 48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and SDR 22 approves the organisation’s sustainability report and ensures that all AR 60 material Aspects are covered. Website 49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the SDR 22 highest governance body AR 60-64 50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were SDR 22-23 communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them 51 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance AR 71-84 body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: Fixed pay and variable pay: Performance-based pay/ Equitybased pay/ Bonuses/ Deferred or vested shares Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments Termination payments Clawbacks Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives 52 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether AR 71-84 remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organisation 53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account AR 71 regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable 54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the AR 78-79 organisation’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country 91 GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) 55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total AR 79 compensation for the organisation’s highest-paid individual in each Overview country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country 56 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms SDR 22-23 of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics AR 63 57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on SDR 22-23 ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational Website: integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Whistleblower policy 58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns SDR 22-23 about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to Website: organisational integrity, such as escalation through line Whistleblower policy management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Our approach to DMA a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make SDR 28-29 this Aspect material AR 89 b. Report how the organisation manages the material Aspect or its impacts sustainable business c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach The results of the evaluation of the management approach Any related adjustments to the management approach Economic indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 4-5, 94-101 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the SDR 40-46 organisation’s activities due to climate change CDP 2015 Climate Module: risks and opportunities Our priorities Change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations AR 133: Note 24 and performance EC4 Financial assistance received from government AR 109 a. Report the total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organisation from governments during the reporting period, including, as a minimum: Tax relief and tax credits/Subsidies/Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grants/ Awards/ Royalty holidays/Financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs)/Financial incentives/Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation b. Report the information above by country c. Report whether, and the extent to which, the government is Supporting data present in the shareholding structure EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local SDR 59 minimum wage at significant locations of operations a. When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage b. Report whether a local minimum wage is absent or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums could be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used c. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’ EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from local community at SDR 60-61 Supplementary significant locations of operation a. Report the percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation that are hired from the local community information b. Report the definition of ‘senior management’ used c. Report the organisation’s geographical definition of ‘local’ d. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’ 92 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information GRI-index GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and SDR 42-43, 48 services supported AR 100-101, 140 a. Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported b. Report the current or expected impacts on communities and local economies. Report positive and negative impacts where relevant c. Report whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of AR 30-35 impacts a. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organisation has. These may include: Changing the productivity of organisations, sectors, or the whole economy/Economic development in areas of high poverty/ Economic impact of improving or deteriorating social or environmental conditions/ Availability of products and services for those on low incomes/Enhancing skills and knowledge amongst a professional community or in a geographical region/ Jobs supported in the supply chain or distribution chain/Stimulating, enabling, or limiting foreign direct investment/Economic impact of change in location of operations or activities/Economic impact of the use of products and services b. Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations SDR 24 of operations a. Report the percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of operation spent on suppliers local to that operation (such as percentage of products and services purchased locally) b. Report the organisation’s geographical definition of ‘local’ c. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’ Environmental indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SDR 74-75 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials SDR 36 EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation SDR 43-44, 76-77, 79-80 EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation SDR 44 EN5 Energy intensity SDR 43-44, 76-77, 79 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption SDR 42-44, 76-77, 79 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services SDR 14-17, 42-44 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SDR 50-51, 76-77, 79 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water SDR 51, 53 a. Report the total number of water sources significantly affected by withdrawal by type: Size of water source/ Whether or not the source is designated as a protected area (nationally or internationally)/Biodiversity value (such as species diversity and endemism, total number of protected species)/ Value or importance of water source to local communities and indigenous peoples b. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused SDR 16, 48 EN11 Location and size of land by protected areas and areas of high SDR 36-38 biodiversity value Website EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and SDR 36-38 services on biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored SDR 36-38 Website 93 GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list SDR 36-38 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of Website Overview extinction risk EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) SDR 76-77, 79 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) SDR 76-77, 79 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SDR 44 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions SDR 40-47 achieved EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions SDR Cover flap page, 2, 4, 40, 43, 47 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight SDR 76-77, 79 EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions by type and weight SDR 76-77, 79 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination SDR 76-77, 79 Our approach to EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SDR 76-77, 79 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills SDR No significant spills in 2016 EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste SDR 76-77, 79 sustainable business deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel convention 2 Annex I, II, III and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN26 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies Website and related habitats significantly affected by the organisation's discharges of water and runoff a. Report water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges based on the criteria described in the Compilation section below, adding information on: Size of water body and related habitat Our priorities Whether the water body and related habitat is designated as a protected area (nationally or internationally) Biodiversity value (such as total number of protected species) and performance EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products SDR 30-38 and services EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are SDR Smurfit Kappa produces packaging materials reclaimed by category for other industries EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSDR 21-22 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and SDR 44 other goods and materials for the organisation's operations, and Supporting data transporting members of the workforce EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by SDR 48 type a. Report total environmental protection expenditures by: Waste disposal, emissions treatment, and remediation costs Prevention and environmental management costs EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using SDR 24, 83 environmental criteria a. Report the percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supplementary information 94 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information GRI-index GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in SDR 24, 83 the supply chain and actions taken a. Report the number of suppliers subject to environmental impact assessments b. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts c. Report the significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified in the supply chain d. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment e. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, SDR 22-23 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Respecting the environment we operate in, is a. Report the total number of grievances about environmental part of our Code of Business Conduct. We impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the collect grievances about environmental reporting period impacts filed, addressed and resolved through b. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: our environmental questionnaire (See About Addressed during the reporting period this report, page 86). We record all nonResolved during the reporting period compliances with our permits regardless of a c. Report the total number of grievances about environmental form of grievance mechanism. In 2016, no impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved significant grievances were reported. during the reporting period Labour practice indicators LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee SDR 60-69, 83 turnover LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to SDR 60-69 temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation a. Report the benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organisation but are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: Life insurance/Health care/Disability and invalidity coverage/ Parental leave/Retirement provision/ Stock ownership/Others b. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’ LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender SDR Parental leave is entitled to any employee a. Report the total number of employees that were entitled to within the national legislation and agreements, parental leave, by gender paid and/or unpaid. Smurfit Kappa had 490 b. Report the total number of employees that took parental leave, employees on parental leave during 2016 (of by gender which 332 men and 158 women). In 2016, 401 c. Report the total number of employees who returned to work employees returned from parental leave, of after parental leave ended, by gender which 289 men, and 112 women. d. Report the total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended who were still employed twelve months after their return to work, by gender. e. Report the return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave, by gender LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes SDR 60 LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint SDR 60 management / worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs a. Report the level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organisation b. Report the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees 95 GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, SDR 67-68, 70 Overview absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their SDR 67-68, 70, 83 occupation a. Report whether there are workers who are involved in occupational activities who have a high incidence or high risk of specific diseases LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade SDR 60 unions a. Report whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and safety b. If yes, report the extent, as a percentage, to which various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements Our approach to LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by SDR 65 employee category LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support SDR 21, 60 the continued employability of employees and assist them in sustainable business managing career endings LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career SDR 63, 65-66 development reviews, by gender and by employee category LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees SDR 58-70 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category SDR 59 LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour SDR 24 Our priorities practices criteria LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices SDR 24 in the supply chain and actions taken and performance a. Report the number of suppliers subject to impact assessments for labour practices b. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices c. Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices identified in the supply chain d. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment e. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices with Supporting data which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and SDR 23, 59 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms a. Report the total number of grievances about labour practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period b. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: Addressed during the reporting period Resolved during the reporting period c. Report the total number of grievances about labour practices filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period Supplementary information 96 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information GRI-index GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) Human rights indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements SDR 59 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or SDR Employees have received training on Group's procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Code of Business Conduct which covers operations, including the percentage of employees trained human rights in 2013-2014 when the latest a. Report the total number of hours in the reporting period devoted code was published. New employees receive to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning training and information when beginning their aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations employment. See SDR 2014 p. 26. b. Report the percentage of employees in the reporting period trained in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SDR 23, 59 HR4 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to SDR 24 exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR5 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour, and SDR 24, 58-59 measures taken to eliminate HR6 Operations with significant risk of forced or compulsory labour, and SDR 59 measures to eliminate HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation's N/A policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR8 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and SDR 58-59 actions taken HR9 Percentage and number of operations subject to human rights SDR 58-59 reviews HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights SDR 24, 83 criteria HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the SDR 24, 83 supply chain and actions taken HR12 Number of grievances related to human rights addressed and SDR 23, 58-59 resolved Social SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community SDR 21, 69 engagement, impact assessments and development programmes SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks SDR 22-23 related to corruption SO4 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption SDR 22-23 policies and procedures SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SDR 22-23 a. Report the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption a. Report the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption b. Report the total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption c. Report the total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with business partners were terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption d. Report public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organisation or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases 97 GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ SDR 23 beneficiary Overview a. Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by the organisation by country and recipient/beneficiary b. Report how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated, if applicable SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, SDR 23 anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSDR 23 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for SDR 24, 83 impacts on society SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on SDR Flap cover page, 21, 69 Our approach to local communities Report operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities, including: The location of the operations sustainable business The significant actual and potential negative impacts of operations SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the SDR 24 supply chain and actions taken a. Report the number of suppliers subject to assessments for impacts on society b. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society c. Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts on society identified in the supply chain Our priorities d. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment and performance e. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why SO11 Total number of grievances about impacts on society filed through SDR 23 formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period Product responsibility indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and SDR 10-17 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such Supporting data procedures PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes SDR 22-23 on health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, SDR Not applicable. Our products are business to and percentage of significant products and services subject to such business and in general no such information is information requirements required. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and SDR Not applicable. Our products are business to voluntary codes concerning product and service information and business and in general no such information is labelling, by type of outcomes required. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of SDR 14-15, 19-20 surveys that measure customer satisfaction Supplementary information 98 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information GRI-index GRI-G4 Description Source/comment Page(s) PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products SDR Not applicable. Our products are not under a. Report whether the organisation sells products that are: such regulations or public debate. Banned in certain markets The subject of stakeholder questions or public debate b. Report how the organisation has responded to questions or concerns regarding these products PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and SDR 22-23 voluntary codes on marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of No substantiated customer privacy and losses of customer data complaints identified. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and No material fines regulations concerning the provision and use of products and and/or substantiated services claims for noncompliance with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were identified 99 Business in the community Ireland Commentary on the Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Smurfit Kappa Group’s tenth annual From this report, Smurfit Kappa is well Even with a relentless focus on health & Sustainable Development Report is an on its way to achieving many of its 2020 safety, it still presents a challenge with a important milestone for a company targets. 90.1% of packaging is Chain of fatality of an employee at a mill in Mexico Overview with 45,000 employees in 34 countries, Custody Certified. Per tonne of paper and a contractor in Spain. 367 production sites, 300 global since 2005, Smurfit Kappa has achieved a Smurfit Kappa’s commitment to strategic suppliers and revenue in reduction of 22.9% of fossil CO2 emissions sustainability is its key differentiator in the 2016 of €8.2 billion. and 31.9% of the COD (Chemical Oxygen marketplace. Now a FTSE 100 company, It is evident that sustainability is embedded Demand) in their water discharge. Since Smurfit Kappa also holds an impressive in the fabric of Smurfit Kappa operations. 2013, the amount of waste sent to landfill array of sustainability credentials, most The company’s commitment to has reduced by 13.3%. Biofuels now recently, being added to the STOXX Global transparency, stakeholder engagement, account for 48.5% of the paper mills ESG Leaders Index. the circular economy, innovation and fuel mix. Over the last 10 years, Smurfit Kappa has continuous improvement is palpable We were impressed by the initiative to made massive strides on its sustainability Our approach to throughout. digitalise transport management to journey. Further to the intensive materiality We were particularly interested this year reduce CO2 emissions, by examining assessment conducted in 2016, we look to see the organisation map its strategy freight demand, combining freight loads forward to seeing what Smurfit Kappa is sustainable business against the UN Sustainable Development and using alternative modes of transport. capable of achieving over the next decade Goals. As noted by Tony Smurfit in his In 2016, this yielded cost savings for with its continued focus on sustainable introduction, “the profitable companies Smurfit Kappa of €1 million. The potential forest management, the circular economy, of the future will be the ones that align of this cloud-based transportation tailored solutions for customers and a business goals with the needs of the platform is immense when made available strong emphasis on leadership world around them”. to other freight sourcing companies. development. Seeking to be ever resource efficient, Sourcing of materials, goods and services Our priorities Smurfit Kappa is producing packaging is the single largest cost item for Smurfit solutions with a closed loop focus, not just Kappa which in 2016 was €4.9 billion. Worth noting, considering the company’s size and and performance in their own operations but in collaboration with customers and suppliers. reach, is that 74% of supplier deliveries are classified as local. Risk mapping of For customers striving to integrate the suppliers continues and in 2016, 75 Tina Roche, goals of sustainability into their own supplier audits were performed. Chief Executive, operations, Smurfit Kappa must surely Business in the Community Ireland be the supplier of choice. As a leading With regard to employee consultation, we provider of paper-based packaging were interested to see that the Groupsolutions, they use a 100% renewable, wide actions are to 1) enhance internal communications; 2) increase recognition Supporting data primary raw material that is fully recoverable for recycling. Organic for excellent performance; and 3) increase by-products of production processes career opportunities for staff. These three are used as biofuel. areas of focus are common in leading companies continuously striving to In analysing customer packaging needs, improve every facet of operations. supply chain challenges and logistic issues, Smurfit Kappa delivers a tailored solution We noted the company policy to strive for that calculates the carbon footprint of the an increasing level of participation of packaging life cycle. The result is increased women in management roles across the efficiency, reduced waste and most group and that a broad range of training and development initiatives are driven Supplementary importantly, reduced cost. both centrally and locally. The Open Leadership training programme (run in information partnership with INSEAD in France) is likely to pay dividends in the long term. 100 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information UN Global Compact Smurfit Kappa became a supporter of the corporate responsibility activities and feasible. In particular, GRI performance United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’), performance in an annual Communication indicators relating to human rights, labour a worldwide corporate citizenship initiative, on Progress (COP), using the annual and anti-corruption principles are in 2010. Sustainable Development Report as the presented in the Social Development platform for this communication. section while environmental performance As a network of more than 12,000 indicators reported in the Environment corporate participants and other The Sustainable Development Report section. A complete GRI index can be stakeholders in some 170 countries, it is the provides a number of examples of ongoing found on pages [91] to [95] of the Report. largest voluntary corporate responsibility activities, as well as relevant key initiative in the world. Supporters of the performance indicators, which illustrate The following table shows how our UNGC promote ten core principles in the Smurfit Kappa’s support for the ten Global performance in relation to each UN Global areas of human rights, labour, environment Compact principles in its everyday Compact principle can be reported using a and anti-corruption. These principles are business. Measurements of performance number of GRI performance indicators. listed in the table below. related to the Global Compact principles This is based on guidance documents are given using indicators provided by the published by the UN Global Compact. As a part of this commitment, Smurfit Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), wherever Kappa will report on the Company’s UNGC principles GRI indicators Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human HR1-11, LA5, LA7-8, LA13-15, PR8 rights; and 2 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1-11 Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right LA4-5 to collective bargaining; 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; HR7 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; HR6 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment EC7, LA2, LA13-15, HR4 and occupation. Environment 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; EC2, EN18-19, EN26-27 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and EN1-30, PR3-4 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN2, EN5-7, EN10, EN18-19, EN26-28 technologies. Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO2-4 101 Glossary Climate change, energy and air emissions Biofuels Fuels coming from biomass: wood rejects, bark, black liquor, pitch oil, certain parts of mixed wastes and biogas produced during the anaerobic treatment of water. Overview Black liquor Residue from pulping containing organic compounds (like lignin). This residue is burnt to produce energy and to recover the chemicals. Carbon dioxide equivalent A measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases based upon their climate change potential (CCP). CO2-eq The CO2-eq carbon dioxide equivalent for other emissions is derived by multiplying the amount of the emission by the associated CCP factor. Carbon Footprint Carbon released to the atmosphere during the life cycle of a product from cradle to grave. CDP CDP (formerly the «Carbon Disclosure Project») is an organisation based in the United Kingdom which encourages large corporations from the world’s major economies to disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies. In 2014, nearly 2,000 businesses reported climate change data to CDP. CHP Combined Heat and Power: a combination of a boiler and a gas and/or steam turbine that simultaneously produces electricity and thermal energy (steam) by burning fuels. This system is considered to be the most efficient technology in industries using both steam and electricity. When mills sell part of their produced steam to an external party or have net electricity export Our approach to (selling more to an external party than purchasing), the consumption of fuel and emissions reported for these mills is adjusted to report only that part used to produce paper. This adjustment is based on a reference heat boiler with an efficiency of 90%, which is also used by CEPI and the European Commission for EU ETS benchmark calculations. sustainable business CHP (outsourced) A CHP installation, belonging to an external party, located at or near a Smurfit Kappa site for delivering electricity and steam to the Smurfit Kappa production facility. All fuel and electricity used for the production of paper as well as emissions related to that are included in the figures for the Smurfit Kappa production facility. Co-generated electricity Electricity generated by a CHP system belonging to Smurfit Kappa or from an outsourced CHP system. CO2 biogenic Carbon dioxide emitted when burning biofuels. This CO2 is considered to be carbon neutral as it is removed from the atmosphere and stored in biomass within a short period of time. CO2 fossil Carbon dioxide emitted when burning fossil fuels for the production of paper. The calculation is made according to international guidelines from the carbon content of each fuel (WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol). CO2 indirect Fossil carbon dioxide generated externally in the production of electricity purchased from the grid. Source: International Our priorities Energy Agency Data Services for year 2012. ‘CO2 emissions from fuel combustion – 2014 Edition’. European Union Emissions EU ETS, also known as the European Union Emissions Trading Schemes, is the most extensive greenhouse gas emissions Trading System – EU ETS trading scheme in the world. It was launched in 2005 to combat global warming and is a major pillar of EU climate policy. As of and performance 2013, the EU ETS covers more than 11,000 large factories, power stations and other installations in 31 countries. Dust Particles coming from the combustion of fuels. Dust emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where dust is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. Ecoinvent is a life cycle inventory database for energy systems, materials, transports and chemicals. Fossil fuels Fuels originating from non-renewable resources (gas, oil, coal, peat and lignite). GJ Gigajoule, a unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 gigajoule (GJ) = one billion joules = 109 joules. Grid supply Electricity purchased from a national distribution network. GWh Unit of energy, generally applies to electricity – 1 GWh (GigaWatt hour) = 1 million kWh (kiloWatt hour). Supporting data NOX Mix of nitrogen oxides (NO and NO2) calculated as NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) coming from combustion of fuels. They can contribute to the acidification of soil and water. NOX emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where NOX is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. Paris agreement Agreement within the framework of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change dealing with greenhouse gases, emissions mitigation, adaptation and finance starting in the year 2020. An agreement on the language of the treaty was negotiated by representatives of 195 countries during COP21. Self-generated electricity Electricity generated by an electricity generator without recovery of steam. Sequestration Carbon sequestration describes the long-term storage of carbon dioxide or other forms of carbon to either mitigate or defer global warming and avoid dangerous climate change. SOX Mix of sulphur oxides calculated as SO2 coming from combustion of fuels. Sulphur dioxide contributes to the acidification of soil and water. SOX emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where SOX is not measured (converting plants), emissions are Supplementary calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. PJ Petajoule, a unit of energy. 1 petajoule = 1,000 terajoules = 1015 joules. information TJ Terajoule, a unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 terajoule = 1,000 gigajoules = 1012 joules. 21st Conference of the The 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference was held in Paris, France from 30 November to 12 December 2015. It Parties – COP 21 was the 21st yearly session of the Conference of the Parties to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the 11th session of the Meeting of the Parties to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. 102 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information Glossary Organisations CEPI CEPI, the Confederation of European Paper Industries. It is a non-profit organisation representing the European pulp and paper industry. ELCD European Reference Life Cycle Database. The ELCD has been developed within the ‘European Platform on Life Cycle Assessment’ by the Commission’s Joint Research Centre, Institute for Environment and Sustainability (JRC-IES). DJSI The Dow Jones Sustainability Index tracks the stock performance of the world’s leading companies in terms of economic, environmental and social criteria. Ethibel The Ethibel Sustainability Index Excellence Europe lists 200 European companies that display the best performance in terms of corporate social responsibility. Euronext Vigeo The Euronext Vigeo indices comprise the highest-ranking listed companies as evaluated in terms of their performance in corporate social responsibility. FTSE4Good The FTSE4Good Index series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and governances practices. SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) define global sustainable development priorities and aspirations for 2030 and seek to mobilise global efforts around a common set of goals and targets. The SDGs call for worldwide actions among governments, business and civil society to end poverty and create a life of dignity and opportunity for all, within the boundaries of the planet. The Supplier Ethical Data As the largest collaborative platform for sharing ethical supply chain data, Sedex is an innovative and effective supply chain Exchange – Sedex management solution, helping companies to reduce risk, protect company reputation and improve supply chain practices. Water Footprint The Water Footprint Network is a non-profit international network whose mission is to promote the sustainable, fair and Network – WFN efficient use of fresh water resources worldwide. World Business The World Business Council for Sustainable Development is a CEO-led organisation of forward-thinking companies that Council for Sustainable galvanises the global business community to create a sustainable future for business, society and the environment. Development – WBCSD Certifications: forest and other Certified wood product Certification is given to companies and landowners to verify that their forestry practices are consistent with requirements laid down in these standards. Only certified wood product may carry a label. The label on wood products guarantees that consumers can trust the sources. Actual certification is carried out by independent certification organisations that are accredited by FSC or PEFC or SFI to carry out audits. CoC Chain of Custody certification applying to wood/fibre material and products. Chain of Custody is an information trail about the path taken by products from the forest or, in the case of recycled materials, from the reclamation site to the consumer including each stage of processing, transformation, manufacturing and distribution where progress to the next stage of the supply chain involves a change of ownership. FSC The Forestry Stewardship Council is an independent, non-governmental organisation established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests through independent third-party certification. FSSC 22000 These standards specify requirements for a food safety management system where an organisation in the food chain needs to demonstrate its ability to control food safety hazards in order to ensure that food is safe at the time of human consumption. ISO 9001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of quality management. ISO 14001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of environmental management. ISO 50001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of energy usage: improvement of efficiency, reduction of consumption and energy security. Non-controversial origin Virgin wood or wood fibre which has been verified as having a low probability of including wood from any of the following categories, in line with FSC and PEFC schemes: a) Illegally harvested wood; b) Wood harvested in violation of traditional and civil rights; c) Wood harvested in forests in which high conservation values are threatened by management activities; d) Wood harvested in forests being converted from natural and semi-natural forests to plantations or non-forest use; e) Wood from forests in which genetically modified tress are planted. OHSAS 18001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of occupational health and safety management. PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification. PEFC is an independent, non-governmental organisation that promotes sustainably managed forests through independent third-party certification. SFI SFI Inc. (Sustainable Forest Initiative) is an independent, non-profit organisation dedicated to promoting sustainable forest management. Companies are certified Chain of Custody according to the SFI standard through independent third-party certification. 103 Water AOX Absorbable Organic Halogens: amount of organic compounds containing chlorine and other halogens. AOX can be produced during bleaching of pulp when using halogenated bleaching agents. Overview BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand (one element of the COD, unit: mg O2/litre) refers to the level of oxygen uptake by microorganisms in a sample of water measured over a period of five days. COD Chemical Oxygen Demand is the most commonly used test to measure the amount of organic compounds in water (unit: mg O2/litre). The result indicates the level of all organic compounds that can be oxidised by a strong oxidising agent. Process water Quantity of water containing organic compounds released into the environment (river, sea) after internal water treatment or released to an external treatment plant (municipal water treatment). In all cases, levels of pollutants released are reported as outputs of the company even in the case of operations that send process water to external treatment Total N (nitrogen) Sum of organic nitrogen, ammonia (NH3) and ammonium (NH4+) discharged with the process water. Total P (phosphorous) Sum of phosphorous compounds discharged with the process water. Total suspended solids (TSS) Refers to the level of small solid particles discharged with the process water. Water impact assessment Assessing potential risk from water availability and quantity, covering multiple aspects specific to each geographical locations. Products and raw materials Our approach to Containerboard Papers and boards mainly used in the manufacture of corrugated board. They are made from virgin or recovered fibres. Included are kraftliner, testliner, semi-chemical fluting and recycled fluting. Corrugated board Structured board made by a corrugator usually formed by gluing one wave-formed liner (called fluting) in the middle to two sustainable business flat-facing sheets of containerboard (kraftliner or testliner). Fluting The wav-formed formed middle layer in corrugated board. Kraftliner Paper manufactured mainly from virgin wood fibres Testliner Paper manufactured from recycled fibres. Inorganic raw materials Raw material used for manufacturing our products that are not organic such as: fillers, sodium hydroxide, sodium sulphate and calcium oxide. Other organic raw materials Raw materials used for manufacturing our products that are organic excluding fibres, starch or plastic raw materials which are reported individually. This category includes oil, lubricant and organic additives such as colourant or dyes. Raggers In the beginning of repulping process in which recovered paper is returned into pulp, non-fibrous materials are being removed Our priorities from the recovered paper. Plastics, strapping and other floating materials are collected from the mass with a rope called a ‘ragger’. Recovered paper Recovered paper refers to used paper and board separately collected and classified for the purpose of recycling which is then and performance used as raw material in the manufacture of new paper and paperboard. Recovery Recovery refers to extracting selected materials for a specific use. In the paper industry this means recovery of fibres in recycled paper or the recovery of energy value in the final stage of the material life cycle. Recycling Converting material into new materials and products. In the paper industry this refers to converting recovered fibres back to paper and finding new uses for other raw materials produced alongside recovered paper instead of sending them to landfill. Reduction This can either mean finding the most materially efficient ways to use raw materials or replacing a more harmful raw material with a less harmful one and thus reducing its harmful impact. Renewing Using renewable raw materials in a sustainable manner and maintaining the natural ability of the material to be renewed. Reuse Using a product or raw material again without changing its form in between. Supporting data Virgin fibre Pulp obtained through a chemical process used to remove lignin from wood. As a result, the fibre can be used to produce paper. The lignin residue and other organic compounds are subsequently collected and used in the formation of black liquor. Health and Safety Lost time accident Refers to a work-related injury incident sustained by a Smurfit Kappa employee while performing their work duties that results in their absence from their scheduled work after the day of the incident Lost time accident Refers to the number of lost time accidents per 100,000 hours worked. [LTA frequency rate = number of LTA x 100,000/total frequency rate number of hours worked]. Lost time accident severity Refers to the total number of days lost per 100,000 hours worked. [LTA severity rate = number of days lost x 100,000/total rate number of hours worked]. We refer to LTA severity rate when speaking about our target to reduce the injury rate by 5% annually during 2013-2017. Number of days lost Refers to the number of days lost arising from any lost time accident. When counting the number of days lost due to an accident, the day of the accident is not counted as a lost day. Supplementary Wastes Wastes Wastes are classified as non-hazardous wastes or hazardous wastes and are reported separately. Wood wastes and corrugated board shavings are excluded. All amounts of wastes are reported in mass as disposed. information Total non-hazardous wastes Sum of all non-hazardous waste whatever its destination. Each category of non-hazardous wastes is defined and reported. Non-hazardous wastes Part of the non-hazardous wastes that are disposed of in either internal or external landfill in accordance with national landfill legislation. Non-hazardous wastes Part of non-hazardous wastes that are reused or recycled or composted or used in agriculture or incinerated with energy recovery recovery. The incineration facility is classified as a recovery operation if the efficiency of the plant complies with the definition laid down In Annex II of the Directive 2008/98/EC on waste. Non-hazardous wastes Part of non-hazardous wastes that does not belong to the two previous categories. This includes wastes incinerated without other energy recovery or wastes for which the final disposal is uncertain. Hazardous wastes Residues of oils and other hazardous wastes (building wastes containing asbestos, ink residues, etc.). 104 Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2016 Supplementary information Assurance report of the independent auditor To the readers of the Sustainable Development Report 2016 of Smurfit Kappa Group plc. Our conclusion relevant independence regulations in the Misstatements can arise from fraud or We have reviewed (limited assurance) the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have errors and are considered material if, Sustainable Development Report 2016 complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsindividually or in the aggregate, they could (hereafter: the Report) of Smurfit Kappa en beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, reasonably be expected to influence the Group plc (hereafter: Smurfit Kappa) based Dutch Code of Ethics). decisions of users taken on the basis of the in Dublin, Ireland. We believe that the assurance evidence we Report. The materiality affects the nature, have obtained is sufficient and appropriate timing and extent of our review procedures The Report comprises a representation of and the evaluation of the effect of the policy of Smurfit Kappa with regard to to provide a basis for our conclusion. identified misstatements on our corporate social responsibility and the Responsibilities of the Board conclusion. thereto related business operations, of Directors for the Report events and achievements during the We have exercised professional judgement reporting year. The Board of Directors of Smurfit Kappa is and have maintained professional responsible for the preparation of the scepticism throughout the review, in Based on our review, nothing has come to Report in accordance with the GRI accordance with the Dutch Standard our attention to indicate that the Report is Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version 3810N, ethical requirements and not prepared, in all material respects, in G4. independence requirements. accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version G4. The Board of Directors is also responsible Our main procedures consisted of: for such internal control as it determines is The Report includes prospective — Performing an analysis of the external necessary to enable the preparation of the information such as ambitions, strategy, environment, obtaining an Report that is free from material plans, expectations and estimates. understanding of relevant social trends misstatement, whether due to fraud or Inherently the actual future results may and issues, and of the organisation’s error. differ from these and are therefore business; uncertain. We do not provide any Our responsibilities for the review — Evaluating the design and assurance on the assumptions and of the Report implementation of the reporting achievability of prospective information in Our responsibility is to plan and perform systems and processes related to the the Report. the review assignment in a manner that information in the Report; allows us to obtain sufficient and — Interviewing relevant staff responsible Basis for our conclusion appropriate assurance evidence for our for providing the information in the We have performed our review on the conclusion. Report in accordance with Dutch law, Report; including Dutch Standard 3810N: A review is aimed to obtain a limited level of — Visits to production sites in Alicante ‘Assurance-opdrachten inzake assurance. Procedures performed to (Spain), Atlas (Mexico), Cerro Gordo maatschappelijke verslagen’ (Assurance obtain a limited level of assurance are (Mexico), Lunata (Italy), Pitea (Sweden) engagements relating to sustainability aimed at determining the plausibility of and Roermond (the Netherlands), to reports), which is a specified Dutch information and are less extensive than a review the source data and the design standard that is based on the International reasonable assurance engagement. The and implementation of internal controls Standard on Assurance Engagements level of assurance obtained in review and validation procedures at local level; (ISAE) 3000: “Assurance Engagements engagements is therefore substantially less than the level of assurance obtained in — An analytical review of the data and other than Audits or Reviews of Historical trends submitted for consolidation at Financial Information”. an audit engagement. corporate level; This review engagement is aimed to obtain We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften accountantskantoren ter zake van — Reviewing relevant data and evaluating limited assurance. Our responsibilities internal and external documentation, under this standard are further described assurance opdrachten (RA)’ (Regulations for Audit Firms Regarding Assurance based on limited sampling, to assess in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the the accuracy of the information in the review of the Report‘ below. Engagements) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control Report. We are independent of Smurfit Kappa including documented policies and Amsterdam, 18 May 2017 Group plc in accordance with the procedures regarding compliance with KPMG Sustainability, ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid ethical requirements, professional Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. van accountants bij assurancestandards and applicable legal and opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for M.A.S. Boekhold-Miltenburg RA regulatory requirements. Professional Accountants, a regulation Director with respect to independence) and other Confirmation of rights to use the trademarks: Smurfit Kappa Group plc Beech Hill Clonskeagh Dublin 4 Ireland T +353 (0)1 202 7000 F +353 (0)1 269 4481 sustainability@smurfitkappa.com www.smurfitkappa.com This report is printed on FSC-certified Multi Offset paper. The raw material for the paper originates from certified, sustainably managed forests in the Northern part of Scandinavia and are traceable back to their origin. The ink used is free of mineral oil and based on renewable base materials.
