United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress 1 Welcome Welcome to PMP Recruitments' third annual Communication of Progress which describes our approach to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 Principles, including our performance in 2016/7 and our future commitments. The United Nations Global Compact was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Global Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. 2 Welcome Cordant Group are evolving Building a genuine global social enterprise Drive fundamental change Inspire within our organisation Inspires other organisations Our Group is changing from a conventional organisation Delight Delight colleagues, clients and society at large Provide an environment where people are given the autonomy and support to to a Social Enterprise make a difference to our clients and the lives of others in society. with a social mission Capped shareholder dividends Executive salaries stay in touch with lowest paid colleagues Explore productivity related profit share arrangements for our workforce Cordant will have a more meaningful purpose Provide a blueprint for social interaction. Create a sustainable reinvesting its profits, Unite futureproof model Build IT platforms to transform healthcare, education and recruitment giving back and having a positive impact on wider In addition to our core values we will follow 3 guiding principles Respect respect yourself, respect others, and give of yourself society Video 3 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Businesses should support a internationally proclaimed human rights; and precautionary approach to environmental Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights challenges; abuses. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Labour Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Anti-Corruption Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment corruption in all its forms, including extortion and and occupation. bribery. 4 Contents ● Statement of Support ● About PMP Recruitment ● Protect, Respect Remedy ○ Who We Are ● Mission, Vision, Values ○ The Cordant Values ○ The 5P Strategy ○ Who We Work With ■ People ○ Where We Are ■ Progression ○ The National Resource Centre ■ Productivity ● Principle Alignment ■ Promotion ○ Human Rights ■ Performance ○ Labour ○ Ethical Management and Compliance ○ Environment ○ Fundraising and Charity Partnerships ○ Anti-Corruption ○ Investors in People ● Achievements and Targets ○ Case Study ● 2017 COP Feedback 5 Statement of Support for the UNGC It’s been an exciting year for PMP PMP are proud to deliver their third Communication of Progress (COP) and the rest of the Cordant Group which details the advances our business has made since joining the this year we launched our plans to Nations Global Compact on 22nd September 2014. become a Social Enterprise with a social mission. Cordant will now This document reaffirms our support of the 10 Principles of the UN Global have a more meaningful purpose Compact; Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. reinvesting its profits, giving back and having a positive impact on These Principles have been embedded into our business and we are committed wider society. to ensuring that they are influence our strategy, culture and daily operations. In the words of our Chief Energiser, Kind regards Phillip Ullmann; “Our dream of building a genuine Social Enterprise that can delight people and improve the lives of thousands if not millions is now being realised.” Jamie Reynolds, Managing Director PMP Recruitment 6 Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework This framework was developed resting on three pillars: In 2011, the UN Human Rights Council implemented 1. Government’s duty to protect against all human rights abuse their 'Protect, Respect and within their territory and control by third parties, including Remedy Framework'. business enterprises. 2. Businesses responsibility to respect human rights regardless This framework was proposed by of the size, sector and location of business, and address Professor John Ruggie, Special adverse human rights impacts which they may be involved in Representative of the United through undertaking a risk assessment. Nations Secretary General on Business and Human Rights. 3. The Government must take appropriate action to provide a remedy to protect those abused by human rights. 7 Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework We feel our successful relationship with this client is based on aligned PMP are proud to have been values, ethics, culture and business strategies, especially in respect of chosen supplier and ethical Human Rights. labour provider for a major PMP have therefore engaged with the Community Union and recently international logistics completed a Partnership Recognition Agreement that specifically covers company for 4 years. the temporary workers that we supply to this site. On behalf of this client, PMP now Having never before entered into such an Agreement with a recognised manage several sites and have trade union, and for such a large workforce at one site, this is an exciting more recently won the contract to new arrangement, and forms part of Principle 3; the right to Freedom of supply a new site in excess of Association. As the Agreement is implemented it will allow PMP to hear 1,000 warehouse operatives. and act on representations made by workers. 8 Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework Part of the risk assessment was to ensure the multitude of working practices, such shift patterns, break times, security procedures and In 2017 PMP undertook a payment of wages at our client locations were all lawful, compliant and major risk assessment of complicit with the UN guiding principles for business on human rights. National Minimum and Living The assessment report is a working document which will be continually Wage compliance throughout reviewed and altered where necessary with relevant points being raised the entire business. to our clients. PMP accepts its own misgivings and takes full responsibility of any outcome under this framework, including the less palatable The risk assessments were measures of remedy. rolled out across PMP‘s 250+ We have introduced a new weekly working time report for all our workers client sites which we supply to monitor any excessive hours and we are also driving good H&S temporary labour to. practice at our client’s sites as we develop and implement a new user friendly app for audit purposes more information in our 5Ps programme! 9 Mission, Vision, Values 10 The 5P Strategy People Progressive Principled Productive Performance Focused Promoters Driven PMP have developed the 5P strategy which aligns our key objectives as a brand. We want to be thought leaders and changemakers inspiring colleagues, clients and candidates. The 5P initiative has been developed with the objective of positioning PMP as industry experts and managed service supplier of choice. Our sustainability wheel highlights the areas which have been the focus of transformation in 2017. 11 5P People People Development PMP Recruitment has set up The programme called PMP Fundamentals is an eight week programme an onboarding programme available to new managers, head office support, site consultants and to support inductions and in-branch colleagues, covering multiple subjects including compliance, health help with workplace skills. and safety, policies and procedures, and business acumen. Designed by PMP’s senior management, operations and the internal Learning The programme ensures all new & Development team, the programme delivers a host of online resources and starters receive a thorough is supported by regular personal development reviews by their line managers. induction as well as giving them access to learning, wellbeing and We’ve had fantastic feedback from the employees who have already development support. completed Fundamentals, which has allowed them to hit the ground running. 12 5P Progression Apprenticeships PMP have fully supported With members of our own senior team having paved their careers through the government's campaign apprenticeship type schemes, the business as a whole is a true advocate of to create three million new helping people of all ages grow, develop and explore their potential through work apprenticeships by 2020. based learning. Apprenticeships have been offered throughout our business and external hires One of PMP’s key objectives for have been brought into the business in areas such as sales and marketing. 2017 have been the investment in people, and the apprenticeship The levy has allowed us to train a workforce at all ages and all levels, and have scheme helps us in delivering given us the opportunity to upskill our workforce which benefits both the and achieving this. business, and the employees. 13 5P Productivity Innovation Up until now the job seeker registration process has been predominantly paper PMP have invested heavily on based. A candidates file included up to 100 sheets of paper, such as; application a new web based app which forms, photocopies of ID and signed policies. will move branch locations Cordant Connect moves this entire process online, meaning no printing is closer to becoming paperless. required. Passports are uploaded as a photo or scan, then checked in person at the branch, all forms are complete digitally, and policies are accepted and Quick, efficient and easy to use, emailed directly to the candidate. Cordant Connect can be used anywhere and on any device. The online system means that a our Having gone through a thorough penetration test, the app has been approved branches are one step closer to and certified. Already in use by all PMP locations, the next stage is to introduce becoming paperless environments. Connect to all Cordant’s brands, before introducing further add ons in 2018 to manage scheduling of hours, time and attendance and compliance 14 5P Promotion Modern Slavery We recognise that we have an obligation to prevent modern slavery and have We adopt a zero-tolerance implemented effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not approach to modern slavery taking place anywhere in our own business or supply chain. and are committed to acting Our candidates, colleagues and clients are at the heart of everything we do, and ethically and with integrity in we take their welfare very seriously. We have created an e-learning module on all our business dealings. Modern Slavery to support and educate our people to ensure they understand and can recognise any signs of exploitation. As a Stronger Together business partner we are committed to In 2018 we also hope to partner with Modern Slavery charity Unseen to help upholding and developing a duty promote their initiatives and give focus to the challenges within the warehousing of care to our people. industry. Unseen have been our charity of choice for fundraising throughout 2017 to date we have raised over £10,000 for them as a brand. 15 5P Performance Communication We have hired two apprentices to focus on the delivery of organic social media content to engage, inform and educate our large audience of job seeker. The PMP are huge advocates of campaigns include career tools, business news and job opportunities. the ‘one team’ mentality, and good communication In January 2017 we launched the PMP For the Re:CORD, an internal newsletter plays a huge part in this. for all permanent members of staff. This highly informative newsletter includes news from across our brand, introductions to teams from across the UK and a With such a widespread personalised message from the Managing Director. colleague network we rely heavily on communications to keep our Our marketing team also communicate through eshots regular emails to inspire teams up to date with activity encourage site teams to get involved and promote their own activity. across our brand. As a business we also have a dedicated Google+ page where all colleagues can promote themselves, their sites and lead by example to inspire others. 16 Ethical Management and Compliance Stage 1 takes approximately 30 minutes to complete and consists Part of PMP’s 5Ps project of questions which identify potential risks and resolutions on site, was a focus on compliance as well as ensuring that the site team has access to the relevant tools and learning to safeguard clients and colleagues. processes across all sites. To ensure absolute compliance Stage 2 is a full site audit, taking approximately two hours, and at all times PMP have built a covering all aspects of compliance; from processes to candidate new, user-friendly app for packs, insurance certification to SHEQ systems. directors and site managers to audit on site health, safety and The information gathered is stored in a central database to be welfare areas which are of reviewed by senior management. Potential risks, and all recorded paramount importance to PMP. evidence, will be fed back to the client and site manager, whilst action is taken to deal with, and prevent further threats. 17 Fundraising and Charity Partnerships PMP have a dedicated charity event calendar which all our sites engage with In 2017 PMP Recruitment hosting their own on site activities to do their bit for special causes. have encouraged more Our Milton Keynes branch are very active fundraisers in their community, in involvement in local and February this year the team set themselves the goal of raising £1,000 for local national charity fundraising and national causes. Having already hit their target they have set themselves a new challenge of raising £2,000 by April 2017. This year, as a brand, we, have raised in the region of £15,000 for Our family fun day and football tournament, held in July-17, was an opportunity charities close to our hearts. With for all PMP colleagues to come together and raise much needed funds for Marie more events scheduled for the Curie and Modern Slavery Charity Unseen. Through silent auctions, activities on remainder of the year. the day, tournament entry and an opportunity to gunge our Managing Director, we raised a total of £11,550. 18 Investors In People An IIP assessor spent 5 days in our business, interviewing 68 In 2017 Cordant Recruitment people, observing training sessions and reviewing information on successfully passed their processes that support people development. reaccreditation for Investors in People. The assessors said, “I found Cordant Recruitment to be an exciting and fast paced employer ready to continually evolve for sustainability. There were many areas of strength identified in The IIP Standard defines what it terms of learning and development, most notably the coaching takes to for a business to lead, programme. support and manage people well. Something which PMP feel Cordant is a positive employer who empowers employees and strongly about about delivering. recognises opportunities for progression both for its workforce and for the business”. 19 About PMP Recruitment 20 Who We Are As part of the Cordant Group, PMP operate alongside our other recruitment and facilities services brands. The Cordant Group family business was founded in 1957. In the early years it was the security service which generated significant success together with integrated cleaning solutions and, as a consequence, allowed the company to acquire a number of businesses over a period of fifty years expanding its offering into integrated facilities management and recruitment services. Now the Cordant Group operate in excess of 2,300 locations throughout the UK. It is our Group mission to transform the way recruitment and facilities services are delivered around the globe, offering customers a unique and superior service, by utilising leading technology and creating an environment where talented leaders and game-changers who share our passion for disruptive innovation are given the opportunity to succeed and change their lives. 21 The Cordant Values Candour Opportunity Relentlessness Disruptive Innovation We value and respect candour, We will inspire, support and invest We are driven to be the best. We We will continually challenge the encouraging open and honest in our people who will share in our have a relentless desire to succeed, status quo, push boundaries and feedback recognising that our success. We will provide the be the best, and deliver superior utilise leading edge technology, to reputation and the trust people place in us depends on being opportunity, inspiration, investment services which create long-term optimise how we work, to deliver honest with ourselves and others. and support to enable our people to value for the business and our superior value-added services. realise their full potential because customers. Collaboration they belong to our family and are We put the needs of the team above core to our success. our own, respect the role others play and work collaboratively to ensure we achieve our vision. 22 Who We Work With Our commitment to exceed the expectations of both our clients and candidates starts at every front desk and reaches across to our entire network. With over 25 years experience in the temporary recruitment market PMP Recruitment work with an impressive client portfolio across many sectors including; logistics, retail, automotive, food and manufacturing. 23 Where We Are PMP Recruitment have an extensive presence across the UK with over 250 managed locations. Our national network includes 20 high street branches and our new National Resource Centres the beating heart of our business. We are a proud employer to tens of thousands of temporary colleagues, as well as a permanent complement of 330 staff supported by a similar number of assignment based colleagues at our client sites. 24 The National Resource Centre This year PMP launched a state-of-the-art national recruitment hub and data centre to support the growing demand and client portfolio. The National Resource Centre is home to over 100 candidate experience agents in peak managing the company’s candidate pool to meet increasing client demand. PMP’s technology platforms and data analysis will also help to mitigate the uncertainties surrounding Brexit, and the changing recruitment landscape. Based in Media City in Salford Quays, the NRC is responsible for analysing client operational needs and forecasting headcounts and placing candidates in roles which best suits their situation. It will also enable the team to measure aspects such as demographics, conversion, absence and attrition increasing business efficiencies through the centralisation of all recruitment campaigns. 25 Principle Alignment 26 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should PMP continue to be supporters of the Stronger Together initiative after becoming support and respect the qualified Business Partners in January 2015 and renewed in 2017. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Stronger Together is a multi-stakeholder collaboration aiming to reduce the occurrence of forced labour, labour trafficking and other forms of hidden third party labour exploitation. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human The Cordant Group, including PMP, Modern Slavery Statement now commits all rights abuses its trading companies to become business Partners of Stronger Together. This is largely through PMP’s dedication to, and communication of, human rights in particularly this issue of modern slavery. This year over 400 PMP staff have undertaken an e-learning module on Modern Slavery the results of which were monitored by PMP’s S2G Project Team. 27 Human Rights We seek to influence clients at an operational site level, right up to senior Our Human Rights strategy is management. An example of this is a recent case with a major retail giant. to influence and collaborate with clients who have a shared Despite entering their peak period the client have invited PMP to deliver a half mission, vision and goal. day HR refresher workshop to our operational staff. Our strategic partnerships are This course will arm our associates with essential learning and practical tools in aligned with our own values we areas such as equality and diversity, grievance and fair disciplinary handling would opt out of any contract the main principles of human rights. which did not meet the ethical positioning of our brand. 28 Labour PMP continue to collaborate and communicate with clients on the benefits, to Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of business and all stakeholders, of engaging with a recognised trade union on a association and the effective recognition partnership basis. of the right to collective bargaining; We are seeking to influence the client's decision making on labour standards in Principle 4: relation to ethical supply especially in respect of the NLW. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; On a daily basis our on site teams collaborate and work with client management, supervisors and other stakeholders such as trade union representatives, to uphold Principle 5: these Labour principles. The effective abolition of child labour; and Partnering with clients and workers to improve industrial relations, we have Principle 6: recently strengthened our HR advisory support to operational managers, with the The elimination of discrimination in goal of eliminating discrimination and upholding the requirements of the UK respect of employment and occupation. Equality Act 2010. 29 Environment PMP are continuously looking for ways to make environmental efficiencies and impact reduction. We are committed to regularly reviewing and improving our Principle 7: Businesses should support a operations and activities in order to comply with environmental legislation and precautionary approach to environmental regulations. See page 14 for our latest paperless innovation. challenges; PMP are currently going through a process of auditing external suppliers to ensure Principle 8: they too, are ethical, compliant and environmentally friendly. PMP want to be undertake initiatives to promote confident in saying that we are a fully efficient partner including any service greater environmental responsibility; provision from 3rd parties e.g. stationery, PPE etc. and Internally we continue to ensure that all branch locations are supplied with Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion recycling facilities and energy saving light bulbs where applicable. PMP also insist of environmentally friendly technologies. that all IT equipment is switched off when not in use to prevent energy waste, and as a default all cloud printer settings force double sided print. 30 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: PMP Recruitment are compliant with the Bribery Act and in 2015 developed and Businesses should work against published an Anti-Corruption Policy to ensure all employees do not participate in corruption in all its forms, including corruption, bribery or extortion of any kind. extortion and bribery. The policy states that employees will face disciplinary action where it is deemed that the employee has offered, promised or given a ‘financial or other advantage’ PMP have developed and distributed to another person, where they intend to bring about improper performance or an Anti-Corruption Policy. acquire new business or to personally gain as a consequence. This document has now been To support this policy PMP have a ‘WhistleBlowing’ Policy which is also implemented across all the Cordant communicated to employees. brands. 31 Achievements and Targets Since joining the United Nations Global Compact we have established a GAP Analysis to review ways in which we can improve our processes and procedures ensuring we are doing our utmost to support the United Nations and all other ethical initiatives we support. The GAP analysis is a work in progress document. Target 2015/2016 Achievement 2016/2017 Target 2017/2018 Communicate the Cordant Working Green Part achieved. The implementation of Cordant Connect means we’re Our colleagues will understand becoming a campaign across the business a step closer to becoming a paperless operation. Social Enterprise means to them/clients Communicating PMPs COP to its sister brands to Achieved Through the release of our Group Modern Slavery Policy Develop and implement an internal HR training ensure awareness throughout the integrated & Statement PMP’s membership and COP was communicated to module to focus on disability and mental health service provision the wider business. Communicating Stronger Together to sister brands Staff handbook updated and communicated Achieved All Group brands have now committed to becoming a to ensure awareness throughout the integrated digitally, and via the Employee Portal, to all Stronger Together Business Partner service provision brands Cordant Connect to be fully embedded in the Deliver HR roadshows to Cordant Services Part achieved. Investigation and Grievance roadshows held business Communicate PMP’s ethical achievements/ Part achieved. UN Global Compact is included in client review PMP to support all Cordant Brands in becoming commitment to UN Global Compact to clients meetings. Clients received Social Enterprise launch comms a Stronger Together Business Partner Communicate PMP’s ethical story to clients Communication has been ad-hoc therefore part achieved 32 2017 COP Feedback As a stakeholder of the UNGC PMP Recruitment would appreciate any feedback and comments on its 2017 Communication Of Progress. PMP Recruitment became members of the UNGC in September 2014 therefore this is PMP Recruitment's third annual Communication Of Progress. As part of our commitment to the UNGC we will submit an annual Communication Of Progress to the UN office in New York. 33 HR Department PMP Recruitment | Oriel House | 55-57 Sheep Street Northampton | NN1 2NE | UK | Tel: 01604 602700
