COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 CONTENTS 3 STATEMENT OF ALEX BONGRAIN President of SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy 4 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUP 4 Human Rights 9 Labour 10 Environment 12 Anti-Corruption 13 VERIFICATIONS AND CONCORDANCE CONTACT For any further information about this communication, please contact: Fabienne Boroni – Director of Corporate Communication fabienne.boroni@lalliance.com Please send us your comments and suggestions. They will enable us to improve our next communication. STATEMENT OF ALEX BONGRAIN, PRESIDENT 2016 showed significant progress in the actions conducted to serve the common good. By joining the United Nations Global Compact, we reiterate once again the commitment of our Group to respecting our customers and our suppliers, our wholehearted dedication to reducing our impact on the environment, and our encouraging the professional development of our employees. Thus, beyond the activities, there is the desire to allow each Group member to feel inherently driven by the values that define us, gathered around our vocation, “Leading the way to better food”. At each moment and in each action we illustrate our genuine desire to progress, to undertake together, and to remain mobilized towards profitable growth benefiting all. This approach adds to our very special attachment to the consistent quality of our products and the innovations that have won over consumer loyalty and have demonstrated the respect they inspire in us. 2016 was a milestone to our involvement to honourable people and their culture across the countries in which we operate. United by a shared desire to contribute to this commendable aim, we give ever greater importance to our promise to respect the Global Compact that we joined in 2003, and to which we are confidently renewing our loyalty and our commitment. Alex Bongrain President 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUPE SAVENCIA HUMAN RIGHTS THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. TERMS OF APPLICATION AND This commitment, shared by all our employees, PROGRESS IN 2016 aims at favouring balanced performance combining economic and social development while respecting THE VALUES AND GOALS OF THE GROUP people and the environment. Similarly, the satisfaction of our customers and attentive listening Our Group is made up of companies of a to the stakeholders are the major themes of our human scale, united by a humanist, family and excellence-oriented management approach. entrepreneurial culture. ETHICAL CHARTER OUR VALUES The Ethical Charter “The Group and its Culture” is Tolerance: accepting and understanding others. given to each employee joining the Group. It states Courage: exercising one’s responsibilities fully and the principles and the rules of conduct that apply recognising one’s errors. within all Group companies. Honesty: respecting the truth and not masking it. This Charter underlines the ten fundamental Loyalty: being true to the Group which, in turn, principles of the Global Compact and the duty of supports its members. each employee to alert his direct line manager, and if needed one of the group managers, should he feel Leading the way to better food, securing the ethics of the Group are threatened. quality and respecting nature, developing and promoting our employees, investing to ensure profitable growth and permanence of the Group, contributing to the common good: our Group has always thrived to respect and apply these values deploying its responsible and sustainable strategy. 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUP GOVERNANCE OF THE COMPANY TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The recognition of the personal and collective The Board of Directors decides on the objectives and contributions of our workforce enables us to chooses the Strategy of the Group, in keeping with its celebrate their individual and collective commitment, culture and its values. thus favoring their skills and their employability. Two specialized Committees assist the Board of More than 50% of the permanent workforce Directors in preparing these decisions: the Audit has been with us for more than ten years. Internal and Risks Committee, and the Committee for mobility is systematically encouraged and enables Management and Remunerations, supplemented us to fill half of all management positions. Every year, since 2015 with the Social, Corporate and each subsidiary conducts a careers review, making it Environmental Responsibility Policy. possible to prepare the possible career development of their staff and facilitate internal itineraries between subsidiaries, jobs and countries. THE GROUP’S MEMBERS Training for all has also been put in place: in 2016, The Human Resources policies and the rules and 225,383 hours of practical training were undertaken, regulations of each entity respect the International 16,822 more than in 2015 (+8%). Among these, basic Human Rights Conventions. skills programs have enabled manufacturing people to optimize their employability with training around Trust and respect, associated with the importance of learning written and verbal communication, IT and treating everyone with dignity, are essential bases for maths. relations between employees. Similarly, Tolerance, illustrated by accepting and understanding others, is Practical training, encouraged by Group one of the four founding values of the Group, along management, enables workers to increase their with Courage, Honesty and Loyalty. knowledge and obtain a diploma recognised within their profession. Since 2009, the “Great Place to Work” survey has measured the social climate and worker’s The Group commits to its entire workforce in all expectations in each entity and thus offers an countries, and sets up internal mobility, support inspiring illustration of sharing best practices and or regrading systems so as to “never leave an progress. In early 2017, the results of a survey showed employee confront a problem of employment that 80% of the staff of SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy alone”. Deutschland declared that it is “a great place to work”. SAFETY AT WORK Safety at work is a major value of our Group. For this, we are orchestrating a worldwide mobilization and training program in order to improve safety at work on a sustainable basis. Our published target is to reduce the number of lost time accidents to 5/million hours worked. Under this impulse, the 5th World Health and Safety Week highlighted musculoskeletal problems and healthy living by organizing workshops around muscle stimulation. Our slogan, “Safety is OUR business!”, Profit sharing agreements have been signed to emphasizes the importance of collective and shared involve each individual in the results of his/her responsibility with a zero accidents objective for company, and in the achievement of objectives of 2020. quality, productivity or also safety at work. Similarly, agreements for prevention of hardship have been designed in some subsidiaries, which now offer retirement packages to the individuals concerned. 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUP In 2016, 37 subsidiaries, close to half, showed 0 MILK PRODUCERS accidents, thus giving all the necessary impact to the Charter for Health & Safety at Work, which We collect over 4 billion liters of cow, goat and ewe prevails all as a genuine Group culture. It states that milk, from 12,000 producers all over the world. It is wellbeing, protection of physical integrity and the essential for our Group to promote this partnership health of the people working in the Group must be which develops long-term relations with our everybody’s concern at all levels of the organisation. producers, in a context of shared progress. Similarly, this year the Group put in place an indicator including safety in the workplace of temporary In France, which represents three quarters of our workers: the TFi (rate of frequency of accidents in global milk collection, the Savencia Ressources the workplace, including temporary workers): 10.6 in Laitières teams are the preferred contacts for the 2016. Producers’ Organisations (POs) and the Cooperatives that supply them with milk. The 15 POs represent A Safety Guide reminds all production units of the 2,700 producers of the dairy areas close to our 10 golden rules of safety and circulates prevention dairies and cheese plants. messages. A dedicated program has been established to protect SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy is strongly involved business travellers. in assuring the permanence of the sector. Dairy Resources Coordinators are in daily contact with Each entity defines its specific rules and the producers in order to evolve the milk production formalizes an action plan with defined and controlled practices. Field visits and working groups are objectives. To optimize the benefits, an accident organized, and similarly the establishment of young monitoring and analysis tool and regular reporting producers is assisted through financial support, fixing contribute to progress for these actions. of their margin for 3 years, continuing training, etc. In 2016, all young producers (representing 15% of Behavioral Safety Inspections are concern for all all producers) benefited from a special bonus, in a stakeholders, management, managers and operators, particularly difficult context. educated in detecting all risky situations in order to list them. We are also working in partnership with dairy This careful approach has been rolled out in milk cooperatives, some of which are directly associated collection, using a transport protocol drawn up for with optimizing value of milk: each farm, making it possible to ensure the safety of In France, Agrial is a shareholder of our subsidiary the 120 to 180 annual collections in each of them. Compagnie Laitière Européenne. Union Bressor is a partner in the production of Bleu de Bresse, and the Terra Lacta cooperative is a shareholder in Fromageries Lescure. In Argentina, the cooperative AUT is a shareholder in our subsidiary Milkaut, one of the leaders in the country’s dairy processing. At the heart of our relations with the producers, the Group endeavours to also offer advice, assistance and training in order to improve breeding practices and milk quality, and thus ensure the sustainable performance of the farms. 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUP The Group is dynamically involved in the ECOVADIS is called upon to assess the social and modernization of farms and their management. environmental performances of our main suppliers. Always looking to link the improvement of economic The method used makes it possible to highlight the performance with the reduction in the environmental areas for improvement, which are then shared with impact, 1,200 French farms have committed to our the suppliers concerned. approach of Sustainable Milk Production. Other countries, such as Germany, Spain, Poland and Slovakia, are mobilizing for sustainable farming CONSUMERS practices combining naturalness and profitability. We offer consumers in different countries products that fit them, signed by well-known brands which SUPPLIERS most often belong to the heritage of their country. Each product is designed, manufactured and We have always given preference to sustainable marketed with a flawless quality requirement upon cooperation with our suppliers and have put which is built the unwavering trust of the consumers. everything in place for a dynamic partnership towards mutual progress. We work from common references and use tools that have proved themselves: We evaluate our suppliers according to several criteria: product quality, quality of the partnership A quality policy founded on the principles of ISO and competitiveness, including the ability to offer 9001 and a food safety policy applying ISO 22000 more economical or more sustainable solutions. and, depending on the markets, BRC or IFS Food To enable suppliers to present their new products certifications; and processes, we organize Innovation Forums. High quality of raw materials with, for France, the These meetings emphasize a collaborative approach adhesion of all our producers to the Good Farming and the importance of developing innovative Practices Charter; solutions. Local establishments enabling in-depth knowledge of local usages and tastes; A Procurement Code of Conduct governs our Consumers consultation through consumer panels buyers’ commitments in their relationship with which evaluate all aspects of product quality on an suppliers. It applies to four main areas: ethics ongoing basis; and integrity, communication and collaboration, Natural and nutritionally balanced recipes; performance and progress, and responsible and Full and accurate information about each product. sustainable procurement. Milk contains nutritional benefits essential Similarly, a Charter for Sustainable & Socially at every stage of life: protecting the immune Inclusive Purchasing sets the Group policy system and regulating functions such as growth pertaining to responsible purchases. Buyers are for the young, intake of calcium for all, combating required to identify the appropriate companies of osteoporosis for the elderly. the sector and the social enterprises able to offer the products and services they are seeking. Our Ingredients division endeavours to improve our knowledge of these mechanisms by optimising In France, the Group is a signatory of the “Charte the exclusive extraction processes and highly Relations Fournisseur Responsable de la Médiation effective formulations in order to enhance the active des Entreprises et du Conseil National des Achats”. ingredients of the milk for nutrition and health. Created to the benefit of competitiveness and economic balance of SMEs and ISEs, this charter promotes responsible purchases between small and large companies, favoring long term partnerships. All incoming managers and buyers are trained in the Group’s responsible procurement policy. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUP We also offer low-fat, low-cholesterol, lactoseCITIZENSHIP, SOLIDARITY free and calcium -and vitaminenriched products in order to answer the nutritional priorities of SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy attaches great each consumer. In 2016, a new range of zero lactose importance to its entities and workers encouraging products was launched by Brazilian subsidiary initiatives which promote solidarity, health, Polenghi, and in the Czech Republic, where Lucina education, training and social insertion. offers a lactose-free soft cheese. On its part, Spain has also listened to consumer demand, and offers The French subsidiaries of the Group have a low-lactose cheese (0.03%) through its Burgo de participated for 6 years already in “l’Arrondi sur Arias brand. salaire”. The principle consists of volunteer workers offering from a few cents up to 3 euros of their net In response to the issue of respect for the cold salary each month. The Group undertakes to match chain, we produce and market dairy desserts in this gift and redistribute the total sum in the form aseptic packaging: they benefit from long shelf life of microcredits via four associations: Adie, PlaNet at ambient temperature technology. These products Finance, Planet Urgence and Vaincre Noma. In make it possible to supply consumers in Africa, the Germany, a similar programme called RestcentMiddle East and Asia through circuits that do not Aktion finances solidarity initiatives in the health and require a cold chain. food sectors. Similarly, a number of priorities have been defined to help the consumer adopt a balanced diet: including accurate nutritional information on each product and the development of tools educating about a balanced diet with the concept of portion consumed. Lastly, several subsidiaries have set out to develop reduced-salt, low-fat, lactose-free, vitaminenriched and organic products, and also dairy-free desserts for allergic babies. “Bien nourrir l’Homme” is the name of the Endowment Fund of the Group which supports volunteer workers in socially responsible initiatives in France and all over the world. In 2016 the Endowment Fund sponsored in particular the construction of wells in Niger, training in cheese production to conserve milk in Madagascar and the creation of a vegetable garden and orphanage in Vietnam. The establishment of the “Socially Inclusive Vacation” has also enabled French workers to go and meet populations in Zambia to set up an accounting project, in Benin to help teach children to read and in Madagascar to train the population in the production of cheese to conserve milk. The Group has also decided to promote the transmission of skills by conferring on Great Masters and Experts the mission of passing on and preserving the dairy know-how specific to the Group. 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUP LABOUR THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. The effective abolition of child labour. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. TERMS OF APPLICATION AND desire is illustrated by specific training, mentoring PROGRESS IN 2016 and dedicated positions and missions. Concerning the fundamental topic of the abolition For example, in 2016 Spanish subsidiary Arias of child labour and the elimination of all forms of adapted workstations making it possible to maintain discrimination in the workplace, all Group entities disabled persons in work. apply the conventions of the International Labour In Brazil, Polenghi increased its efforts with 51 jobs for Organization (ILO) relative to the fundamental rights the disabled, as compared with 38 in 2015. and principles in the workplace. In France, the socially responsible procurement Communication and discussions between the program materialized in a new Messageries Laitières different staff representatives take place with contract, conferring the repair of 500 pallets per listening and mutual respect. month on a neighbouring ESAT. Concerning access to employment, pay, skills A look at age shows that the over-55s represent 16.1% of the permanent workforce of the Group. development, professional mobility and personal The youngest, those under 24, 3.4%. Seniors, in the development, the Group endeavours to support second part of their career, thus have a genuine role each person and equal treatment for all. Wishing in transferring skills, which also makes it possible to to train managers in diversity, the Group gives emphasize their knowledge and talents. particular attention to equal opportunity and nondiscrimination. With 40% of the total workforce and almost 39% of the management, women are broadly represented within the Group. The Group takes pride, through a good conduct guide sent to recruitment firms, In 2016, for the 8th consecutive year, France in offering mixed lists of candidates in order to received the “Top Employer France” award, guarantee professional equality between men and rewarding the quality of its managerial practices and women within the social development of the Group. human resources management tools at people’s service. The “Top Employer Europe” award was also The Group takes heart in conducting an active awarded for the 4th consecutive time in Germany, policy concerning the integration of young France, Belgium, Spain and Poland. people, the maintenance of seniors in work and the professional insertion of disabled persons. This firm 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUP ENVIRONMENT THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. TERMS OF APPLICATION AND A monitoring and expertise department PROGRESS IN 2016 has the mission of identifying and transmitting on innovations and best internal and external Environmental protection forms an integral part of practices in environmental protection and life cycle the Group’s industrial policy. Each production unit is management within the subsidiaries. committed to an approach of progress in which the stakeholders participate. A Safety/Environment function, created in 2015, made it possible to organize meetings in 2016 with The operational units implement appropriate the environmental managers of the French sites on prevention and protection policies thanks to an the themes of water, energy, waste and air emissions evaluation system of the safety of industrial sites and in order to pool experience and share good practices. their respect for the rules. All employees are actively engaged and trained in The Industrial Department of the Group works environmental protection, and each site undertakes with the subsidiaries to enable them to apply their to control its consumption, with targets updated environmental prevention and protection plans. It each year. also helps them obtain their ISO 14001 certification, by checking the improvement program put in place We deploy all available resources to reduce the and their results. impact of our activities: We measure the value of every drop of milk and try to reduce loss and waste. Thus, 74.5% of non-dangerous industrial waste is recycled. We save energy and reduce emissions. We optimize transports. We save water, we reduce and process waste. 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUP To demonstrate our commitment, the Group Transport, with the fleets of milk collection trucks, launched an industrial performance improvement is also concerned by the environmental responsibility program based on fighting waste with the objective and energy saving approach. Drivers are trained in of reducing raw materials and packaging losses, eco-driving, grouped collection and delivery trips overconsumption of energy, water and cleaning form an integral part of the optimisation of services products, unnecessary travel, etc. in view of fuel consumption and emissions. Other actions have been developed in order Water consumption in 2016 was 15.8 million cubic to limit food waste, such as development of meters, a fall of 0.9% from 2015. The control over appropriate sizes (portions, cups, etc.). water consumption and waste is attributable to the This is the case, for example, of Bresso, which saved installation of closed circuits for cooling water, the 3.9 tonnes of plastic per year by modifying its lid, and adjustment of cleaning frequencies and rinsing times, P’tit Louis, which reduced its packaging by 80% with a and the use of filtered whey water for washing. 12-portion net. The plants are also assessed according to their energy efficiency. Total energy consumption shows an evolution mainly due to the reduction in consumption of heavy fuel (-17.8% in comparison to 2015). A different approach to prevention of pollution has made it possible to increase the share of nondangerous industrial waste. Concerning the Group’s contribution to combating climate change, this is organized through the establishment of a Responsible Dairy Supplies Policy, a “sustainable dairy production” commitment, and an analysis conducted by independent experts according to 10 indicators, including in particular carbon footprint, animal wellbeing, sustainable management of resources, herd food autonomy, etc. Similarly, in France, around 150,000 tons of carbon equivalent were saved between 2010 and 2016. 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT WITHIN THE GROUP ANTI-CORRUPTION THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. TERMS OF APPLICATION AND On their part, the entities of the Group undertake PROGRESS IN 2016 to: Obey the international provisions against terrorism The fight against all forms of fraud and corruption and money laundering and to combat fraud and is a priority of the business culture of the Group. Its corruption. ethical charter and its internal control system help Behave in compliance with the principles of fair with the prevention and detection of all forms of competition, respecting all applicable laws. corruption. The most vulnerable countries are the Promote their products and services honestly and subject of very careful attention on these essential loyally. points. Fraud prevention is an important subject which Honesty and loyalty are two of the 4 published mobilizes all Management Committees around values of the Group. the Group. With the aim of helping the subsidiaries Trust and mutual interest are at the very foundation reinforce the anti-fraud systems put in place, a guide of the relationships that the Group wishes to build to good prevention practice has been published. with its partners. All prevention systems are subject to controls of relevance by the internal audit department and by For this, suppliers are selected particularly on these external specialists, which test their robustness. principles through open and competitive calls for tenders. A Procurement Code of Conduct makes it possible to display the rules that buyers apply with the suppliers in the four major areas: ethics and integrity, communication and collaboration, performance and progress, and lastly responsible and sustainable procurement. 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 VERIFICATIONS AND CONCORDANCE W ith an ever more assertive wish to work as close as possible to the universal principles on Human Rights, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy has chosen indicators capable of reporting transparently and clearly for the non-financial performance of the CSR actions of the Group. The CSR reporting meets the requirements of the implementing decree of Article 225 of the French “Grenelle II” Law of 10 July 2010 (Articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-104 to R. 225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code). This approach is now fully integrated into the operational processes of the subsidiaries, themselves revised on a voluntary basis by the statutory auditors since 2002. All social, environmental and corporate information was reviewed by one of the statutory auditors in 2016. The 2016 annual Activity and Sustainable Development report of SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy presents the way in which the Group and all its subsidiaries put in place and promote the ten universal principles relative to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. It includes in particular a cross-reference table with the social, environmental and corporate information required in France and that required under the Global Reporting Initiative (p71-72). Listed on Euronext Paris, SAVENCIA Fromage & Dairy is one of the top 10 industry members of the Gaïa socially responsible enterprise Index of mid-caps listed on the Paris Stock Exchange. The selection, made by the ratings agency EthiFinance, is based on transparency and performance in the areas of corporate responsibility: governance, social, environment and relations with stakeholders. 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SEPTEMBER 2017 SAVENCIA SA L’Alliance 42 rue Rieussec 78220 Viroflay France Tél. : +33 (0)1 34 58 63 00
