BIG ON COMMUNITY EASY ON ENVIRONMENT 1 SAMTEC 2016 Social Responsibility Report TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter from the President 3 Company Profile 4 About this Report 6 People Matter 7 Demographics 8 People Matter 9 Training & Hiring 10 Community Involvement 11 Ethics & Supply Chain 12 Health & Safety 13 Environment 14 GRI Content Index 16 2 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT This is our fifth year as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), customs and practices while requiring our employees and our agents, service providers and we are excited to report on the progress we have made over the recent years to and suppliers to also abide by applicable laws and socially and environmentally become a more sustainable global company. We look forward to where the future conscious practices. These standards have been committed to by Samtec and will take us. supported by our employees around the globe. As a global company, Samtec has the privilege of working with many different people The 2016 report will be a transition year for Samtec as we more closely align our report and cultures which gives us unique insights. The GRI Global Reporting Initiative has with the GRI G4 process. Internal stakeholders are identified by the major departments done an excellent job of capturing the need of the global community in maintaining a influencing the data gathering and results. A survey was sent out internally to determine sustainable company. For that reason, we have chosen this platform to build and evolve Materiality Aspects and priorities. Samtec will also informally reference EICC standards our sustainability footprint. so that the questions are more closely aligned and address EICC concerns. This year, we are pleased to report on 25 Specific Standard Disclosures and 17 General The plan is to engage both internal and external stakeholders in the coming years to Disclosures that encompass the UNGC ten principles. At its core, Samtec is a company broaden and expand the scope of the GRI G4 questions answered, as well as improving that values service. We feel to become a more sustainable company, we must continue the depth of those answers. The data presented in this report has been generated by to make service to our employees, our environment and our neighbors a priority. our internal management systems and has not been assured by an external agency. We are fortunate to have employees who share our values and our commitment to be Even as our business and the climate of the electronics industry changes, we will successful in both business and in the community. We are proud that the remodel of stay committed to our UNGC efforts. We plan to annually update our sustainability our headquarters in New Albany, Indiana, along with new facilities and modernization procedures and methods to redefine our mission to do more for the greater good of to manufacturing sites in Malaysia, Taiwan and Vietnam, have created state-of-the-art our employees, our environment, our neighbors and our world. facilities for our employees. We will continue to invest in our employees through our training, continuing education and other personal development programs. Thank you for your continued interest in our company and our efforts to make our business socially and environmentally sustainable for years to come. Please direct any The building remodels also provided us new opportunities to protect our environment. comments or questions about this report to social.responsibility@samtec.com. We have lowered our carbon footprint significantly by lowering power consumption, while expanding the size of our facility. Water is an essential element of life, and Samtec recognizes the importance it serves in our daily lives. We are committed to conserving and protecting this valuable resource by decreasing water waste and by returning it to the community cleaner than it was received. Community outreach is important to us and our employees. We are committed to our involvement within our communities, and enjoy being a part of them. In all of our locations around the world, we encourage our employees to be engaged in local activities. We want to continue to be good neighbors. John Shine, President Samtec is committed to conducting business across the globe and respecting local 3 COMPANY PROFILE Samtec, Inc. is a privately held, debt-free global manufacturer of a Individually, our Technology Centers enable great capabilities, but broad line of electronic interconnect solutions, including IC-to-Board collectively and collaboratively, they create synergy. Integration leads and IC Packaging, High-Speed Board-to-Board, High-Speed Cables, to innovation, and this meshing of capabilities creates the power of Mid-Board and Panel Optics, Flexible Stacking and Micro / Rugged “one Samtec.” components and cables. Samtec is “Sudden Service®” providing an unparalleled customer Samtec Technology Centers, which develop and advance service experience. We recently received the highest overall rating technologies and products that provide both performance and cost in the Bishop + Associates U.S. Customer Survey of the Electronic benefits, ensure complete system optimization from the bare die to Connector Industry. This was the 16th time Samtec has been rated as an interface 100 meters away, and all interconnect points in between. the #1 Connector Company in North America. Samtec is ranked #1 in In 2015, Samtec experienced a tech surge and expanded our Europe and Asia reports as well. Technology Centers by increasing capabilities, resources and partners Much more than just another connector company, Samtec puts around the world. We focused on our Advanced Interconnect people first with a commitment to exceptional service, quality Design, High Speed Cable Plant, Microelectronics / IC Packaging, products and convenient design tools. Our underlying philosophies Optical Group, Signal Integrity Group and Teraspeed® Consulting that we call DNA are Speed, Innovation, Flexibility and Win / Win. Technology Centers. We believe that people matter, and taking care of our customers and In 2016, we added three additional centers: Delaware Design Center our employees is paramount in how we approach our business. This dedicated to Active Systems, South Carolina Design Center focusing belief is deeply ingrained throughout the organization and means on Layout Services, and nMode® / Triton featuring Glass Core that you can expect exceptional service coupled with technologies Technology (GCT). that take the industry further faster. Founded Headquartered in 4,200 2016 Revenue D&B Rating ISO-9001 TS 16949 ISO ITAR in 1976 New Albany, IN Associates $662 Million 5-A1 Certified Certified 14001 Registered 4 COMPANY PROFILE 33 LOCATIONS IN MORE THAN 18 COUNTRIES CUSTOMER SEGMENTS 8.5% 7% 6% 3% 10% 25% 12.5% With more than 23,000 customers in more than 28% Aerospace / Medical 125 countries and spanning all industries, Samtec Defense serves the well-known global tech giants, small Computer / start-ups, and everyone in between. Semiconductor Automotive / Industrial Datacom Instrumentation Transportation Consumer 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT This, our fifth annual Social Responsibility Report, covers activities that have occurred since our last UNGC submission in 2016. Our reports are published on an annual basis and are prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. The guidelines define specific reporting topics and a process for determining the significant economic, environmental and social ENVIRONMENTAL metrics on which an organization should report. Samtec continually strives to reduce our environmental impact by The GRI G4 aspects relevant to Samtec were prioritized by information integrating environmentally-conscious practices into our product design gleaned from various observations and research throughout the year. and manufacturing processes as well as actions of our employees. The final selections of material aspects for this report were validated by a cross-functional team including representatives from Marketing, 60% of our Manufacturing is done in Asia, while 23% is done in Central Human Resources, Quality, Environmental Services, Health and Safety America and 17% in North America. Over 80% of our products are as well as the Learning and Development Departments. manufactured in low cost regions. The boundary of the material aspects identified through the materiality We are proud to report that we have had zero significant environmental assessment process is limited to within the organization, with the breaches nor have we received any fines and/or non-monetary sanctions exception of supply chain impacts, which apply outside of Samtec. for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. 6 5 SOCIAL We care about making our communities better places to live, work, play and go to school by finding ways to lend a hand – both in time and money. Our efforts span philanthropic activities FORTUNE’S 15 BEST WORKPLACES with charities around the world, environmental IN MANUFACTURING & PRODUCTION initiatives, health and safety projects and stringent Samtec was ranked #13 in Fortune’s 2016 survey. ethics and social responsibility policies. “A company that treats the associates with We Hire Locally When We Can respect, trust, and understanding to the point • Within 50 mile radius of a specific location of feeling like an owner in the company, as well as providing excellent pay, benefits, and a family Over 80% of Senior Management Positions environment is ingenious in my opinion. are Local to the Specific Facility The result is a happy and harmonious working environment where the associates actually • Senior management is primarily defined by level of responsibility, and not necessarily WANT to come to work, and actually WANT to by tenure do a good job. • Senior managers have global responsibility If other companies had this same type of mindset in terms of establishing direction or priority and provided the same things… the result could within their area of expertise be a better world and less unemployment. • Senior managers cross-functionally with Samtec sticks to their guns on issues of morality other areas of the company to establish and common core values… and only hires people strategic direction related to the core who fit into that window. If you employ honest elements of the business people who want to work and make an honest living, then the problems that most employers Employee Retention Rate for 2016: 96% face daily become almost a non-issue.” 7 GLOBAL WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS DIRECT LABOR INDIRECT LABOR 4,200 TOTAL WORKFORCE 52.2% 47.8% Gender Breakdown by Region Percentage Length of Service 100% 90% 5% 80% 70% 17% 60% 50% 44% 40% 30% 18% 20% 10% 0% 16% NORTH AMERICA CENTRAL AMERICA EUROPE ASIA MALE FEMALE 0-90 Days 3-12 Months 12-36 Months 36-60 Months 60+ Months OVERALL TURNOVER 2.74% 0.75% D I RE CT LA BOR I N D I RE CT LA BOR 8 PEOPLE MATTER At Samtec, Service isn’t just for our customers. As we seek to Samtec features a relatively flat organization structure which makes service our employees around the globe in every capacity that we global sharing of ideas related to operational processes, work can including career growth opportunities, on-the-job training, environmental improvements, associate recognition methods and education expenses and countless opportunities to improve their global communication tools easy. We treat each other like family. physical and financial well-being. By helping one another, we also help our company, our customers and the communities in which we live, play and operate. Continuing education is important to employees as well as management at Samtec. Tuition reimbursement grew over 300% in 2016 as Samtec gave over $1M to employees around the world for educational purposes. Samtec Huizhou recently updated their Education Aid Program, and employees in our Samtec Cost Rica facility can take advantage of our All Aboard internal education program to complete their studies as well. Samtec also offers grants to employees to assist them in purchasing a new home computer. In 2016, over $175K was distributed in computer grants. The Parental Leave Policy in North America was updated in 2016 to include Paternity Leave. Providing this type of support helps us achieve a very high return to work rate after parental leave with an 100% retention rate in North America and 95% worldwide. 9 TRAINING & HIRING 2016 Total Training Hours by Type 2016 Training Hours by Gender 2016 Training Hours by Job Type (273,754.20) 13,447.20 9,936.40 72,400.80 139,212.50 (5%) (4%) (26%) (51%) 134,541.80 250,370.60 201,353.50 (49%) (91%) (74%) Job Related* Compliance** Professional*** Male Associates Female Associates Hourly Associates Salaried Associates *JOB = training required to perform the functions of the job. **COMPLIANCE = compliance or mandatory training dictated by Samtec policy, industry regulations, customer requirements, or the laws of the countries in which Samtec operates and include our anti-corruption policies and procedures. AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER ASSOCIATE: 54.3 ***PROFESSIONAL = training provided for individual and professional growth. 2016 Hiring Summary 2016 New Hires by Gender 420 Asia Number of Jobs or Positions Filled Internally Over Past 12 Months 19 347 6 Number of New Jobs / Positions Added in Past 12 Months 76 Europe 5 Number of Jobs / Positions Filled Over Past 12 Months* 227 100 Central America 93 Average Number of Applicatants Per Opening 87 112 North America 250 5791 Number of Job Applications in Past 12 Months** (595 non-US) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 Female Male *Excluding current employees. **New and current jobs / positions. 10 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Samtec supports global projects and initiatives that enable economic development and stimulate economic growth around the world like water purification systems in third world countries, alternative energy solutions, advanced agricultural technology, low cost housing refurbishment, life skills development training, support of entrepreneurial start-ups and so much more. SAMTEC NEW ALBANY SAMTEC COSTA RICA Samtec supports the local Big Brothers Big Sisters School to Work Program. Employee In 2016, Samtec Costa Rica supported the Maurilio Soto School in Alajuela with books as volunteers were matched with scholars from a local high school and met once a month at well as with updated school bathrooms and orchestra equipment. Our employees also Samtec to give students exposure to workplace skills and career opportunities. volunteered in beach cleaning projects to protect turtle nests and manage sustainable eggharvesting to ensure Costa Rica’s turtle population does not become endangered. Samtec New Albany also donated $75K to sponsor local schools, teams, programs and charities and supported the following organizations: SAMTEC MALAYSIA • One Southern Indiana – Lead Economic Development Organization and Chamber of Samtec Malaysia supported Pertubuhan Kebajikan Shan De Johor Bahru, a non-profit Commerce for Floyd County which provides connections, resources and services that orphanage providing not only food and shelter, but education to the less fortunate children help businesses innovate and thrive in Southern Indiana. in Johor, Malaysia. They also sponsored a golf tournament supporting their local Sports and Culture Club. • JB Speed School of Engineering – the engineering school at the University of Louisville SAMTEC HUIZHOU • Physio Foundation a non-profit organization designed to engage and mobilize communities Associates of our Samtec Huizhou facility visited the elderly in local nursing homes during the Mid-Autumn Festival and also donated to the Public Security Bureau in Shiwan Tiechang for the advancement of local security needs. • The Optical Society – the leading professional association in optics and photonics that powers achievements in the science of light and supports the next generation of researchers and engineers. Samtec encourages community involvement at all global locations. Being a good corporate citizen of a community carries with it responsibility. Since the majority of Samtec employees are local, Samtec makes a big impact. Throughout the year, Samtec strives to make our communities better places to live, work, play and go to school by finding ways to lend a hand in both time and money. 11 ETHICS & SUPPLY CHAIN Samtec is constantly evaluating factors such as location of operation, types Samtec has a regular audit schedule of its Supplier base, which must allow of products and services provided, child labor avoidance practices, working Samtec and its agents (including third parties) to engage in assessment hour management, pay and compensation practices, as well as ethics activities to confirm compliance with these standards. We reserve the management policies and engagement. We continue to expand awareness right, when the standards are not met and/or corrected in a timely fashion, and understanding across all our global facilities as well as our supply chain. to cancel outstanding orders, suspend future orders or terminate our relationship with the supplier, as circumstances demand. We currently have Since Samtec’s culture reflects, for the most part, a “learning organization,” zero suppliers who have undergone human rights screening, are a significant we have tried to remove many of the barriers of organizational learning. risk for incidents of child labor or are involved in human trafficking. Samtec employees are asked every year to review our Sexual Harassment, Workplace Violence, C-TPAT, Diversity and Company Policy e-learning Our Purchase Orders, Component Prints, Supplier Quality Assurance modules for yearly compliance. Employees are also given the opportunity to Manual and the Terms and Conditions found on our Legal/Compliance area choose their own training courses for the upcoming year. of our website summarize our policies for transparency with our customers and suppliers. Our high standards extend beyond Samtec to include the suppliers we depend on and engage with every day. We rely on a global supply chain Samtec has never been subjected to legal action and/or fined for grievances to support the manufacturing of our products in each of our locations. related to noncompliance with laws and regulations, discrimination, human We survey all our vendors yearly in regards to quality, environmental rights, environmental regulations, child labor, anticompetitive behavior, anticonsciousness and social responsibility. Over 95% of our vendors are in trust or monopolistic practices. compliance of Samtec’s standards, and 100% of new suppliers are screened using human rights criteria. In order to keep up with the demands of our new technologies and design centers, we have recently added a full time senior attorney and full time Samtec employees comply with the limitations of the Foreign Corrupt corporate law paralegal. Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws of the countries where we operate. We require Suppliers to provide information regarding their own suppliers and subcontractors to verify that the extended supply chain related to Samtec products operates in a manner consistent with Samtec’s expected code of conduct and commitment to its environmental and social principles. Samtec will not tolerate Human Trafficking and/or Slavery crimes within Samtec or the suppliers with which we do business. We comply with the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015. 12 HEALTH & SAFETY The safety of our employees is a primary goal, and this is accomplished by providing a safe and secure working environment. Workplace safety rules created in accordance with applicable law are communicated to employees to ensure their well-being. Samtec Associates are expected to perform their duties in a safe manner at all times and to advise a manager of an unsafe situation in the workplace. While there is no formal program in place at Samtec New Albany in regards to serious diseases, we do have a Travel Guide on our intranet where we post awareness to travelers of any particular areas / regions of concern (i.e. Zika Virus) Samtec New Albany has a blood drive once every quarter and hosts a free wellness screening including free flu shots every year. Samtec Huizhou currently has in place a H7N9 Contingency plan for the prevention of viral transmission of bird flu and also purchased Business Insurance (including accident and serious disease) for all their employees. Samtec Malaysia issues health advisories on an as needed basis when there is a high mosquito breakout that can lead to dengue fever and has continued their bi-annual blood drive in 2016. The injury rates for the industry are the average rate for connector manufacturers according to the Bureau of Labor 13 Statistics. This is a rate that OSHA would compare us to. ENVIRONMENT Samtec continually strives to reduce our environmental impact by integrating environmentally-conscious practices into our product design and manufacturing processes as well as the actions of our employees. We are proud to report that we have had zero significant environmental breaches nor have we received any fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Our Environmental Management System (EMS) is an important aspect of manufacturing at Samtec — from the selection of the materials in our products, to the efficient use of natural resources and the careful control of facility wastes. Samtec recognizes the situation that is occurring in various places globally, including the Democratic Republic of Congo, and does not allow the sourcing of any of the following materials that contain 3TG minerals (Tantalum (derived from Columbite-Tantalite), Tungsten (derived from Wolframite), Tin (derived from Cassiterite), and Gold) and/or finished materials originating, sourced, and/or smelted from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. Conflict Resources shall not be used within our products or supply chain. WASTE DISPOSAL WATER USAGE Water at Samtec New Albany is NORTH AMERICA TOTAL WASTE DISPOSAL CENTRAL AMERICA TOTAL WASTE recycled at 131,803 gallons per month, (LBS) DISPOSAL (LBS) and we discharge approximately 458,902.00 280,507.36 406,851.00 1,318,026 gallons per month at our New Albany Waste Water Treatment facility. 286,810.00 Water at our Huizhou facility is recycled at 282,090 gallons per month, and we discharge approximately 252,196 83,809.49 gallons per month. 22,473.92 20,780.00 126.00 3,941.86 Samtec Huizhou has set a target of 16.00 reused water usage to a minimum OF F I CE P A P E R CA RD BOA RD P OLY S T Y RE N E T RA S H H A Z A RD OU S M I S C. P LA S T I C LA N D F I LL T RA S H H A Z A RD OU S W A S T E U N I V E RS A L W A S T E S RE CY CLI N G 40% every year. In 2016, we met our WA S TE M A T E RI A LS goal with a 51.6% reuse water rate. ASIA TOTAL WASTE DISPOSAL Water at Samtec Costa Rica is recycled (LBS) at 242,480 gallons per month, and 367,877.96 305,325.26 we discharge approximately 346,400 gallons per month at our Costa Rica Waste Water Treatment Facility. In 2016, Samtec Costa Rica reduced water consumption by 50%. 108,738.98 We are proud to report that we have 96,457.00 63,742.24 had zero significant volume spills at 49,369.10 22,971.04 22,421.00 each of our facilities. OF F I CE P A P E R / CA RD BOA RD P OLY S T Y RE N E P OLY E T H Y LE N E P LA S T I C BOT T LE S / LA N D F I LL T RA S H H A Z A RD OU S WA S TE M I S C. P LA S T I C M I S C. M E T A LS 14 A LU M I N U M ENVIRONMENT Samtec corporate headquarters in New Albany, Indiana has recently Samtec PRISM system enables a revolutionary level of real-time business completed a significant remodel of our office space. To help with energy intelligence. The scope of PRISM was to globally integrate multiple conservation, nearly every light fixture in the total 328,000 square feet sources of process data in order to increase efficiencies, reduce waste space was replaced with low-energy, ultra-bright LED lighting that use and improve overall quality: only 50 KW per hour. Prior to the new LED lighting installation, we utilized Florescent Fixtures that consumed 150 KW per hour. • Provides real-time process values and alerts from multiple sources, enabling operators the flexibility to quickly address and resolve issues as they arise Given that we operate two shifts per day, both in operations and the office, we estimate that the new LED lights will give us a 66% reduction • Capable of automatically configuring machines and/or processes to address in consumption per year which equates to an annual savings of process variations and faults approximately $32,000. The LED lights throughout the office area are also on timers allowing us to save electricity by lighting only the areas in use. • Provides additional data, previously unavailable, to drive continuous process improvement Also as a part of the HQ remodel, we installed a new HVAC system. The second floor of our office area was originally 152 tons of cooling, and • ACTIONABLE DATA – this has been decreased to 150 tons. Our new Lennox rooftops are much increased 250% more energy efficient than our previous models with VFD drives. The new units have an EER rating of 11.6 versus 9 for the previous ones, and an • OEE – increased 10% IEER rating of 14.3 compared to 9.5 before. • SET-UP WASTE – Other savings with the newly installed HVAC system come from the decreased 50% outside air being brought in through an energy recovery ventilator that • OPPORTUNITY FOR ESCAPES – is 72% or better efficient than before. Our heating efficiency has also decreased 30% improved. It is now rated at 962% compared to 78%. • SCRAP RATE – decreased 2% Samtec’s Carbon Footprint (CF), the total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused directly and indirectly by our manufacturing, decreased Integrated at all Global Plating locations 15% in 2016. 80-90% of our carbon footprint is built around the gas and electricity used at our manufacturing locations. The updates and All stamping presses fully integrated improvements to our infrastructure during our remodel like the LED All vertical molding presses fully integrated lighting and new HVAC system contributed to this decrease. More than 20 automated assembly machines integrated in 3 locations 20 additional automated assembly machines in queue 15 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4.1 Indicator Description Location Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement 3 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 4 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 4 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 2.7 Markets served by the organization 5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period * Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period 6 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 6 3.3 Reporting cycle 6 3.4 Contact point for questions 6 3.5 Process for defining report content 6 3.6 Boundary of the report none 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report none 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, none outsourced operations and other entities 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information none provided in earlier reports, and the reason for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods none 16 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4.1 Indicator Description EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from local community at locations of significant operations EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused EN21 Total water discharge by quantity and EN22 -Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills EN26 Initiative to mitigate environment impacts of products and services and extent of impact mitigation EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor HR11 Number of grievances related to human fights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and LA7 Rates of injury, occupation diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of work related fatalities by region and by gender LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce member, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee category LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age, minority group and other indicators of diversity LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender PR3Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures – SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 17 SUDDEN SERVICE® UNITED STATES • NORTHERN CALIFORNIA • SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA • SOUTH AMERICA • UNITED KINGDOM • GERMANY • FRANCE • ITALY • NORDIC/BALTIC BENELUX • ISRAEL • INDIA • AUSTRALIA / NEW ZEALAND • SINGAPORE • JAPAN • SHANGHAI • SHENZHEN • TAIWAN • HONG KONG • KOREA © 2017 SAMTEC, INC.
