IRAQ – Baghdad Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Time period: September 2016 – September 2017 Page 1 of 10 Content 03 Introduction 0405 Letter from RiTS CEO 06 Human Rights 07 Labour 08 Environment 09 Anti-Corruption Page 2 of 10 Introduction About RiTS (United Ramin for Information Technology Solutions): RiTS is a company providing IT solutions, management consulting and training to a diverse customer base. Our portfolio of Services includes Hardware Supply, software development, Implementation, software maintenance and enhancements, testing and quality assurance, support services and consulting. We possess in-house expertise in developing enterprise business solutions e-business, enterprise, and embedded applications. We aim to provide our clients with a competitive advantage through timely delivery of high quality and cost effective software solutions. Our investment in people, processes, infrastructure and knowledge has enabled us to achieve this goal for our diverse clientele, both domestic and international. Our Vision: To become the premier Information Technology Corporate within Iraq, providing quality, on time client centric solutions. To be delivered affordably and with robust codes of business ethics. Additionally to make significant contribution towards reducing unemployment among Iraqi youth. Our Mission: Provision of turnkey solutions, systems integration & value added services to Major Industries, and Government Agencies. Enhancing the viability of Information Technology Management Systems through local support and technology transfer. Develop cores of Information Technology to improve productivity of industries and businesses. Reduce life cycle costs & increase return on investments. Grow through ownership and long term planning. We aim to focus not only on developing and maintaining the products and services we offer, but also on building long term relationships. So, our services, whether before or after sale, are the most promising that can be found. Our Team: RiTS is backed by a team of committed, experienced and qualified professionals. The team is the company's biggest asset. RiTS certified team assists our clients to gain a competitive edge by continuously improving their business solutions. We can develop and integrate solutions across a broad range of technologies so as to meet our client’s business requirements. Our software development team provides complete software development lifecycle services, including project management, development, design, testing, delivery and support. Page 3 of 10 Letter from RiTS CEO It gives me pleasure to submit our report to UN Global Compact for the year to September 2017. Our company and our team have a burning desire to make positive change to Iraqi society. We spent (wasted) several years developing propositions to combat corruption, improving public sector performance and processes. It was in early 2016 that we changed our direction, having become convinced the Iraqi public sector is an obstacle that is part of the problem and is incapable of being part of the solution. At that point, we doubled our efforts to work on achievable objectives outside the public sector. We believe youth unemployment is the biggest threat to Iraqi society. Hence we focused our efforts to help graduate entrepreneurs own successful projects. Entrepreneurship being a highly neglected aspect of development in Iraq. We gained experience from establishing Iraq’s first business startups incubator in 2016 and at the same time we experimented with establishing social media grouping that brings together Iraqi professionals, scientists, mentors, inventors, academics, business leaders, and investors to work closely with the graduate entrepreneurs. This form of “Crowdsourcing” was hosted on Linked in initially. Now a year later we are pleased to inform you that we released on 3rd August 2017 our flagship initiative under the title “Noah’s Ark”. The Ark is an online incubator providing help and support for ALL Iraqi graduate entrepreneurs and for ALL their startup needs. The platform receives around 1000 visitors per day and is destined to become a unique initiative not only for Iraq, but also globally. We will be happy to report to UNGC about progress from time to time. The Page 4 of 10 Letter from RiTS CEO uniqueness of our approach is that we work on the base of the pyramid rather than the tip. So we are not searching for a few good ideas. Rather we are searching for the entrepreneurs (we found they form 12% of Iraqi graduates). Thereafter the role of the incubator and supporting crowd is to help each entrepreneur choose an idea for his/her startup. Thereafter helping them enrich the idea with the latest in science and technology to maximize its competitiveness. Noah’s Ark works in 2 modes. A quantitative mode whereby every entrepreneur is dealt with and helped to establish his/her/their startup irrespective of the sector or type of project they choose. A qualitative mode, whereby specialized incubators are formed to help generate blueprints of repeatable projects (as with franchised businesses). So far we are working on the following specialized incubators: Agricultural Incubator: To work on creating blueprints for a variety of model farms. River Transportation and Tourism: Dedicated to designing and developing a family of river boats suitable to transport agricultural produce as well as variations for serving tourism as floating hotel rooms. 3D Printed Buildings Incubator: To help rebuild Mosul at 10th of the time and third of cost. Women Incubator: To help young Iraqi female entrepreneurs overcome the extra difficulties they encounter when starting their businesses. Crafts Incubator: This incubator is dedicated to all crafts, both traditional and modern. Finally, it remains to be said that Noah’s Ark is freely available resource, being RiTS’ gift to Iraqi youth. We look forward to solicit involvement of the Iraq Network of UNGC to take part or promote Noah’s Ark. Page 5 of 9 Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals: As a pioneering company in Iraq and for the recognized Iraqi situation, human rights is one of our priorities, and as one of our goals is to rebuild the Iraqi humanity ,we at (RiTS) have a clear and strong policy to ensure a healthy environment for wellbeing and creativity . Implementation:  We make sure that our employees have a safe and healthy workplace.  We follow a flexible timing work hour’s policy.  We value diversity and follow non-discrimination polices in employment and occupation.  We support the freedom of speech, opinions, and sharing ideas.  And most important is that our employees hold the responsibility to respect Human rights in their daily activities.  Human rights are at the heart of our recent voluntary project (Noah’s Ark) platform. Providing a much needed opportunity for the youth to generate wealth and income for themselves and their families and those of their staff. Measurement of outcomes: In our recent projects (Noah’s Ark) which is the first virtual platform for entrepreneurship in Iraq, we strongly prevent any discrimination, racism, or any kind of disrespect for human rights to occur in discussions, posts, and projects and we successfully managing to do that as the numbers of visitors are rising rapidly. Page 6 of 10 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals: We have no instructions or regulations that prevent the freedom of association, or the right of collective bargaining. We hold regular staff general meetings whereby the staff are encouraged to make suggestions to improve the workplace environment. Indeed, we are proud of the garden we planted this summer thanks to a suggestion from a member of staff. We have embedded in our processes a policy for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation , away from any ethnicity, gender, religion, political trends in compliance with the laws governing the country. As an example we never mention gender as a condition of filling a vacancy. On the other hand, RiTS eliminates all forms of forced and compulsory labour, such as child labour. The youngest employee we ever employed was 19 years old. Implementation: We allow staff time off work to engage in community training participation to enhance and develop their social skills. We have implemented a partial staff training and development programme, encouraging employees to develop and build on their existing skills base. All personnel are encouraged to develop their skills by attending appropriate training courses. Measurement of outcomes: We have not been subject to any investigations, legal cases, or other relevant events related to Labour issues. Training program had a large impact on our employees’ skills which is reflecting on their personal and practical life. Page 7 of 10 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals: Due to all the known environmental challenges in Iraq, and their impact on our daily life, RiTS is aware of the importance of accumulated efforts to at least reduce the hazardous results those challenges have on us and on the next generations. And as we proceed in presenting entrepreneurship to the Iraqi community, and from our belief that entrepreneurs can solve 100% of our contemporary problems, we are on the journey of continually encouraging Iraqi youth to embrace sustainable solutions to local and even global environmental challenges. With all the pitfalls and compelling circumstances we face in Iraq, and as hard as it can be, we are always on the search for eco-friendly technologies that may suit the Iraqi situation perfectly. Implementation: So as simple as it may seem, but our efforts in facing environmental challenges varies from when we consider using energy to heat and cool the office, to how we remove our waste. We tend to use a specified amount of energy when it comes to heating and air conditioning systems, so we gather as a team in one office to reduce our electricity consumption to the minimum whenever that is possible. That applies to how we manage lighting, computers, printers and photocopiers which were reduced from 7 to just 1 to be used. We have an eco-friendly employees who have a routine of turning off the lights, and air conditioning systems after the end of a work day and during the holidays, and we are very mindful when it comes to using paper. Measurement of outcomes: Being restricted in some environmental related issues, allowed us to have a small but yet beautiful garden which will affect purity of the air surrounding the office. As we just starting the journey of presenting entrepreneurship to the Iraqi youth, we are expecting to have further significant positive results in upcoming months and years. Page 8 of 10 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals: Iraq is one of the leading countries in corrupt practices. Unfortunately it is not one of the leading countries in fighting corruption. Yet corruption is causing severe hindrance to the expansion of the economy and it almost always led to failed projects. RiTS has devised 4 projects, the first of which deals with petty corruption over citizen transactions. The second project deals with the corruption associated with public sector purchasing. The third and fourth projects deal with a specific corruption type that affects the lives of many Iraqis, namely the ration card system and the handling of crude oil. In implementing these anti-corruption solutions, it is hoped that Iraqis will gain rare and comprehensive knowledge in anti-corruption methodologies and practices. This knowledge can then be positively exploited to sell Iraqi consulting expertise to the rest of the world, thereby turning a difficulty into a positive opportunity. Furthermore, we recently launched the first Iraqi platform for entrepreneurship, which allows young entrepreneurs to invent, share their ideas in public, and find funding opportunities in a new form that will, hopefully, open the door for the youth and investors to participate in a growing Iraqi economy away from corrupt practices. Implementation: RiTS Initiative to implicitly fight corruption (Noah’s Ark), the first virtual platform for entrepreneurship in Iraq was recently launched, and have a rapidly increased numbers of visitors and members, which hopefully will contribute in creating an ecosystem of large numbers of business startups, thus generating a new thriving private sector free from corrupt practices. http://noah-ark.org/ Measurement of outcomes: It is been almost 2 months since we lunched the platform, and it’s making a noise in the entrepreneurship field in Iraq, we have great feedback from specialists for our vision and implementation, although it may take more time to have a concrete effective results. Page 9 of 10 Communication on Progress on the United Nations Global Compact Baghdad, Mansour, Post Code 605-14-69 Email: info@rits-iraq.com Website: www.rits-iraq.com Page 10 of 10
