Bristol-Myers Squibb UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Bristol-Myers Squibb is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, which is the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative. To Our Stakeholders I am proud to submit Bristol-Myers Squibb’s seventh annual Communication on Progress report. We always look forward to this submission, because it provides us an opportunity to reaffirm our unwavering commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which is closely aligned with our own longstanding company “Commitment” – a statement of company principles that places a premium on integrity, ethics, transparency, diversity and economic, social and environmental sustainability. The report also enables us to provide updates on ongoing activities and highlight new initiatives, such as Global HOPE, an innovative program designed to address the need to establish a treatment network for pediatric cancer in southern and east Africa. We are grateful for this opportunity and for the continued leadership and partnership of our UNGC colleagues. Sincerely, Giovanni Caforio Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive Officer Introduction Bristol-Myers Squibb joined the U.N. Global Compact in December 2010 and this year we further integrated its principles encompassing Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption across our company. Our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact is available to all employees and to the public on our company website. We continue to focus on opportunities for improvement. In 2017, Bristol-Myers Squibb was ranked No. 20 overall on Corporate Responsibility magazine’s annual list of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens, a leading benchmark for socially responsible investors and other stakeholders. Bristol-Myers Squibb has ranked among the top 20 overall each of the last nine years. We continue driving progress on our Sustainability 2020 Goals. The company continued to collaborate with Business for Social Responsibility to support the Guiding Principles on Access to Healthcare, which include a principle on respecting human rights. Through a Quick-Start program led by the Clinton Health Initiative, Duke University and AmeriCares, 10,000 hepatitis C patients in six developing countries in Africa and Southeast Asia will be treated with Daklinza (daclatasvir) donated by Bristol-Myers Squibb. Beyond the donation to kick-start the program, sustainability is enabled by the licensing and technology transfer agreement for daclatasvir with the Medicines Patent Pool. The Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation is supporting Access Accelerated African Oncology Programs. In 2017, the Foundation launched eight oncology capacity-building programs in Africa, including: • Global HOPE (Hematology-Oncology Pediatric Excellence), building country and regional capacity for treatment and care of pediatric cancer and blood diseases in southern and east Africa. • The Secure the Future Cancer African Network for Care, Education and Research (CANcer) Program, a Pan-African collaboration to improve community awareness, data and care for unmet needs for prevalent and AIDS-related cancers on the continent. Secure the Future programs addressing breast, cervical and lung cancers were initiated in Kenya, Lesotho, Swaziland, Tanzania and South Africa. • Project ECHO, a telementoring and collaborative care model created at the University of New Mexico, is being applied to cancer services in the Northern Cape of South Africa. Support was also provided to the following developing world oncology capacity-building programs: • Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon, an innovative partnership leveraging public and private investments to combat cervical and breast cancer in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America. • Program of Action on Cancer Therapy (PACT), a partnership launched by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations to contribute towards comprehensive cancer control, with the aim to ensure cancer is a health priority at national and global levels, and supporting stronger health system capacities to ensure overall cancer information and care is available in low and middle income countries. • Virtual University for Cancer Control (VUCCnet), a partnership to strengthen the Virtual University for Cancer Control. The Sickle Cell initiative in Angola mentioned in our 2016 update was terminated, due to a retraction from the Angolan government on their commitment to the partnership. Under a program called Procurement Risk Assessment and Mitigation (PRAM), we increased efforts to mitigate risk in our manufacturing suppliers by collecting information on Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), labor and ethics practices in addition to their ability to provide goods or services in the future. The company continued its collaboration with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), which promotes Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management among our suppliers and capacity building in developing countries. We posted a Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement for the year ending December 2016 addressing measures taken to tackle slavery and human trafficking, which is responsive to the United Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act of 2015 and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010. Our strong emphasis on diversity and inclusion for our workforce has resulted in participation by over 8,000 employees across our eight People and Business Resource Groups representing women, African-American, Latino/Hispanic, Asian-American, Millennial, differently-abled and lesbian/gay/bisexual/transgender employees as well as those who are U.S. Veterans. The Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation in cooperation with Global Sustainable Partnerships completed the clean water project in Tanzania to install additional BioSand filters in schools, clinics and homes to proactively support the health of people in rural villages. An additional 100 filters were installed to support the most vulnerable, including people living with HIV, people with disabilities, the elderly and families with albino members, bringing the total number of filters installed under this program to 680. Annual Earth Day celebrations were held at more than 35 global company sites, as part of our Go Green initiative to engage employees to take action to protect the environment at work and at home. BristolMyers Squibb employees around the world demonstrated their commitment to environmental stewardship by participating in a range of activities from planting trees to recycling materials and building awareness about conservation of energy and water. Several more sites held Treasure Hunts this year to look for opportunities to reduce energy and water. Our Green Labs certification program that recognizes and encourages employees to reduce the environmental impact of their work, including energy, water and waste continued to grow with over 700 labs participating. Bristol-Myers Squibb received a 2017 Energy Star Partner of the Year Award for the third year in a row from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for its comprehensive policies and programs to manage energy use at its facilities worldwide. Our research site in Hopewell, New Jersey was recognized with the 2017 Energy Star Challenge for Industry award. In 2017, we initiated a systematic review of our key pharmaceutical manufacturing and R&D facilities worldwide for potential water and wastewater risks (including resource availability and impact). Separately, we actively support the Intelligent Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (iPiE) program (a cooperative initiative by academia, industry, and the regulatory community) to assess and reduce the potential for environmental impact of medicines. We reported our CO2 emissions and water use through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). As members of the CDP Supply Chain Initiative we assessed our carbon footprint from 45 suppliers. The Principles of Integrity -our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees provide a common framework for how we conduct business, interact with our colleagues and serve our patients. Employee training is required and a section on Anti-Corruption is included. Additionally, we actively participate in many industry associations with the stated goal of enhancing global anti-corruption awareness and improved industry conduct. Examples include IFPMA, EFPIA, and PhRMA. Our website contains additional information about our policies, goals and progress relevant to the U.N. Global Compact, as well as our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility programs. These resources include our Sustainability Report, which follows the format of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), with measurement of outcomes related to various performance indicators and targets. Below is a list of the U.N. Global Compact principles and a table that identifies the relevant content from our website. Human Rights • Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor • Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment • Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption • Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Human AntiBristol-Myers Squibb Website References Labor Environment Rights Corruption Responsibility Message from CEO + + + + Our Mission and Commitment + + + + Our Principles of Integrity: Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics + + + + Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors + + + + Our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers + + + + Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Third Parties + + + + Sustainability Report GRI Index + + + + Workplace Policies (see also Our Principles and Position on Key + + Issues) Our Suppliers + + + Diversity & Inclusion + + Social Progress + + Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation + + Sustainability 2015 Goals + + Sustainability 2020 Goals + + + Achievements + Our Employees + Management Approach + Environment, Health and Safety Policy + EHS Management Systems + + Sustainability Goals and Key Indicators + + Environmental Performance + Go Green + Corporate Governance + Our Compliance and Ethics Code of Conduct for U.S. + Pharmaceuticals Counterfeit Drugs + Human Rights Policy + + Human Rights Statement + + California Transparency in Supply Chains Act + +
