FINAL Communication on progress (COP) The period covered by this COP is from the date of registration 23 September 2016 and up to and including 8 June 2017. 1. Statement of continued support by the Managing Partner and the Head of Sustainabiity 8 June 2017 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that Mannheimer Swartling Advokabyra AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The statement that sustainability today is a core concept for us at Mannheimer Swartling is hardly an exaggeration. In a turbulent era of climate change threats, a refugee crisis, geopolitical conflicts and the rise of populism, sustainability is at the heart of our services. Every day, we do our utmost to use our knowledge, experience and networks to try to contribute – in both small and large ways – to a positive development in the world. By helping our clients understand and manage risks connected to human rights, working conditions, the environment and corruption, we contribute, as a law firm, to making the world a little more sustainable. We view ourselves as part of the solution and not as part of the problem. Mannheimer Swartling’s core values – quality, business focus and team spirit – not only characterise our internal work and relationships with our clients, but we also believe that they can guide us forward towards a more sustainable social development. This belief has made us the market leader in the legal industry regarding sustainability. CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT In 2015, Mannheimer Swartling implemented a whistle blower system policy to handle any reports concerning violation of laws and the firm’s policies. The efforts to develop our internal sustainability initiatives continued in 2016 when Mannheimer Swartling, as the first Swedish law firm, published a Code of Conduct, which summarises the firm’s values and clarifies our expectations in relation to our employees. Last year, we were one of the first law firms in the Nordic region to sign Global Compact’s ten principles n. We welcome the fact that an increasing number of law firms follow our example and integrate sustainability issues into their counselling. The Swedish Bar Association’s decision to draft FINAL 2(3) guidelines on how business and human rights issues should become a natural part of Swedish legal practice is another step in the right direction. The Association has also introduced a new provision in the guidelines for professional conduct relating to business and human rights. For Mannheimer Swartling, sustainability is not just about contributing to positive social development– there is also a commercial aspect. Our sustainability initiatives have always focused on our business, which is to provide our clients with the best legal advice. This does not mean that we are unaware that as a company we also face challenges connected with sustainability. The clearest example of this is the diversity issue, where one of our objectives is to increase the proportion of female partners. We still have a long way to go before we achieve a better balance between male and female partners. In our last Sustainability Report, we formulated targets, strategies and activities for the period 2015–2016. All of these activities have been completed and as a firm we have achieved results and acquired knowledge, taking us further towards our long-term objectives. The 2017 Sustainability Report describes the challenges and opportunities which we face, both short term and long term, in our business and organisation. In 2017, we look forward to continue helping our clients to improve their management of risks and opportunities related to sustainability. By engaging in dialogues and cooperation with various community stakeholders, we want to try and contribute to a more sustainable development, while we strive to achieve our own ambitious targets. As we are simultaneously reporting on our sustainability work as per GRI Standards, at Core Level and partly in our Annual Report 2016 , our more detailed COP will therefore be by reference to those parts of our Sustainability Report 2016 and the Annual Report 2016 that are also relevant for this COP as per Global Compact. The complete Sustainability Report 2016 in English is found at : http://www.mannheimerswartling.se/globalassets/rapporter/sustainability-report-2016 The Annual Report 2016 in English is found at http://www.mannheimerswartling.se/en/aboutthe-firm/ In order to facilitate easy reference to the relevant parts of the Annual Report 2016 (AR) and the Sustainability Report 2016 (SR) in the context of reporting Description of Actions as per Global Compact’s COP we have compiled the attached matrix, Schedule 1. As regards Measurement of Outcomes as per the COP format you will find the relevant indicators on the same pages as those referred to in the matrix. If you have questions or comments about this Sustainability Report, please contact either of Jan Dernestam and Emma Ihre, by email at jan.dernestam@msa.se or emma.ihre@msa.se By phone (Jan Dernestam) +46 8 59506348 or (Emma Ihre) +46 8 595 061 90. Date as above Jan Dernestam Emma Ihre Managing Partner Head of Sustainability FINAL 3(3) Schedule 1 Mannheimer Advisory Internal Pro Bono Swartling / Global Compact (ref to AR pages 16(ref to SR pages 16(ref to AR pages 2317 and SR pages 1623) 24 and SR page 27) 17) Human Rights Practice Group Internal HR ref SR Ref to AR page 23“Corporate pages 16-20 24 and SR page 28 Sustainability & Risk Management” SOS Children’s (CS&RM) Villages Human Rights Tool Box Centre for Justice RAOUL Robota I Labour Practice Group Internal HR ref SR Ref SR page 28 “Employment and pages 16-20 Pensions” as well as RAOUL CS&RM Good Malmoe Open House Environment Practice Group Internal – SR ref Ref SR page 28 “Environment” as pages 23 ff well as CS&RM Race for the Baltics Anti-corruption Practice Group Internal –SR ref. Member of the “Health Care” as pages 21-23 Ethics Committee of well as CS&RM the Swedish Anticorruption Institute
