Communication on Progress 2015 www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Statement of Support As CEO of Forensic Pathways I am pleased to affirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact. As signatories we ensure that all stakeholders are fully aware of the Company ethos and our commitment to the Principles. As a Company we are proud to be associated with the Compact and see the Principles as being an incredible support as we continue to expand globally. DEBORAH LEARY, OBE, D.Univ, FRSA, CCMI Chief Executive Officer Whilst this Statement clearly marks our commitment to the Compact, it is also an opportunity to celebrate the life and work of the Company’s Managing Director, Dr Richard Leary, MBE, LLB (Hons) and whilst this might be unusual, it is fitting to do so. For this reason our Communication on Progress is focused on Leadership and Vision. Richard had both. Driving innovation, anticipating futures, passionate about change, passionate about education. Ultimately what drove Richard was the human capacity to make a positive difference. He succeeded. This Statement is possibly one of the most difficult both personally and professionally I will have to write, but at the same time it is a celebration of inspiration, commitment, passion, dedication and genius. It is also an opportunity to thank our employees, consultants, interns, suppliers, and clients many of whom how become friends over the years for the continued support and commitment to Forensic Pathways. Many thanks go to our employees who despite difficult circumstances ensured the Forensic Pathways engine kept turning. In the 16 years of Forensic Pathways’ history, 2015 proved to be the most challenging of years, filled with great success, but also great sadness. On the 24th May 2015, our Managing Director, Dr Richard Leary, MBE, LLB (Hons), died following a three month battle with cancer. Richard was not only the Managing Director of Forensic Pathways he was also my husband of 32 years and father to Ben Leary, Director of Forensic Pathways and Lizze Leary, Consultant to Forensic Pathways. Richard was the inspiration and driver for many of the technologies that form the success that is Forensic Pathways. Richard joined West Midlands Police as a cadet in the early 1970s. Richard remained in West Midlands Police for 27 years during which time he was a Scientific Support Officer, Detective Chief Inspector, a key contributor to the development of the National DNA database and an author/coauthor of a number of publications including ‘Using Forensic Science Effectively’. During his service he was Commended on 16 occasions for crime investigation. He was invested as a Member of the British Empire (MBE) for services to Forensics and Policing in 2000, presented to him by the Prince of Wales at Buckingham Police. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 During his time as a Police Officer he undertook a part-time Law Degree at Birmingham City University focused on DNA Evidence. He went on to win a Forensic Science Society Scholarship to pursue research into police use of DNA. This was followed by a PhD at University College London entitled “Evidential Reasoning & Analytical Techniques in Criminal Pre-Trial Fact Investigation”, which included the development of ‘FLINTS’Forensic Led Intelligence System which went on to be used successfully by a number of Police Forces within the UK, including West Midlands Police. His roles outside of the Police Force were numerous including:  Deputy Director of “Nature of Evidence Project”, Faculty of Statistical Science, UCL, London  Fellow of University of Edinburgh, Faculty of Law.  Director of the Jill Dando Institute of Crime Science at University College London where he was responsible for investigating new methods for the management and use of evidence in crime and terrorism investigations  Honorary Senior Scientist, University College London  Senior Fellow University College London  A Visiting Professor of the University of Warwick  A Marie Curie Fellow  Chair of the West Midlands ICT Cluster Upon leaving the Police Service Richard started Advanced Forensic Solutions, complementing Forensic Pathways which I had started in 2001 and which focussed on the delivery of innovative crime scene products and forensic training. In 2006 Advanced Forensic Solutions merged with Forensic Pathways and Richard joined the Forensic Pathways team. Forensic Pathways had initially started through the invention of the Transparent Anti-Contamination Stepping Plate, a product which continues to be sold globally and for which the Company won a number of awards. With Richard joining in 2006, our vision was to continue to build a Company focussed on innovation, developing new technologies that would provide global solutions designed to protect the most vulnerable. Richard’s work, inspiration, tenacity, commitment and mind-set cannot be adequately presented on a few pages. Suffice to say the most important thing is that he made a difference, not only to those closest to him, but globally. We are and will always be incredibly proud of him. He had a favourite quote ‘Failure is not an option’. My favourite quote, which I think optimises Richard’s life is: ‘Kites fly highest against the wind’ Winston Churchill This Communication on Progress is dedicated to Richard. Richard Leary, MBE, PhD, LLB (Hons) www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 1 & 2 Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ensure non-complicity of human rights abuses Forensic Pathways’ Stakeholders To date Forensic Pathways is unaware of any incidents in which it could be seen as contributing to human rights abuses, either directly, through its agents, or any other stakeholder. We are committed to ensuring that full due diligence is completed on all stakeholders in order to take reasonable steps to highlight any potential breaches and to ensure that all stakeholders are fully aware that the Company has a zero tolerance policy. During the Company recruitment process all employees and consultants receive a thorough induction process which ensures they are provided with awareness training and are guided through the Principles of the Compact as part of their induction. All employees and interns are in receipt of full contracts and Employment Handbooks outlining their rights and responsibilities and opportunities for negotiation. All stakeholders are provided with copies of the Communication on Progress as part of their contract package. Any stakeholder found to be operating against the Principles will have their contracts withdrawn with immediate effect. Forensic Pathways: The Company The Company has been in existence since 2001 and throughout its time has focused on the development of innovative technologies, products and services for the law enforcement, security, government and the Corporate sector. Forensic Pathways has a range of products and services predominantly focused on child exploitation investigation and counter terror, ballistics analysis, and the management and analysis of digital data, as well as traditional forensic product provision and consultancy. In addition the Company provides Due Diligence and Fraud Investigation services to a variety of organisations. Ultimately our vision is to provide cutting edge globally applicable technologies, products and services all of which focus on protecting the most vulnerable and helping governments create strong, fair and comprehensive investigative processes, ensuring that investigative and legal processes are balanced. This vision and our ability to deliver on it was recognized by the industry through the Forensic Insider Magazine who presented the Company with the Digital Forensic Award 2015, the second time in the Company’s history that we have won the award, originally winning the Award in 2013. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 2015 saw the first major contract with the South Africa Police Service. This contract was to provide 500 Transparent Anti-Contamination Stepping Plate Kits to the region and was secured by our distributor Forensic Data Analyst (FDA), based in Pretoria. This was followed by completion of a successful tender to provide Stepping Plates to France for a four year period, through our distributor Etna Production. Transparent Anti-Contamination Stepping Plates This product, invented by the Company’s CEO, Deborah Leary, is sold globally. Stepping Plates form part of Standard Operating Procedures within Europe. The purpose of the Plates are to prevent cross-contamination, ensuring that investigators can work within a scene whilst reducing the opportunity for contamination. Previous Plates were made from aluminum, but with the invention of the transparent Plate, investigators are able to use these not only to work within the scene, but are also able to still view the scene, and to use the Plates as scene protectors. The ultimate aim is to ensure that the scene is processed correctly. If a scene is cross contaminated this could lead to a miscarriage of justice which damages the life not only the accused, but also the victim and the reputation of the investigator. It has also been shown that where Plates are not used, additional time is spent within an investigation eliminating the footprints of the investigators from that of the perpetrators. In one case alone in the UK, over 1000 footprints had to be eliminated from an investigation. This can delay the conclusion of a case, causing distress to the victim’s family as well as incurring significant cost to the organisation. Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) allows investigators to identify the camera or mobile phone that photographed an image with speed and accuracy, thereby reducing costs and closing investigations faster than previously achievable. Field trials remain ongoing with regard to Forensic Image Analyser, building on the success of its use within the Lee Matthews case in 2014. As a result of the use of Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) Lee Matthews was sentenced to a 9 year prison sentence for a series of child sex offences. As with all Forensic Pathways’ technologies research and development remains ongoing and the Company continues to build on its technical base in order to ensure products are not only relevant to the market but also ahead of the market. It is intended that further client trials will be achieved in 2016 and 2017 www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Forensic Digital Exchange (FDX) is designed to import and store data from mobile phone forensic acquisition tools. Its primary purpose is to act as a management system that normalises data acquired in different formats from multiple forensic tools, and as an automated data analysis platform. Having been successfully trialed with a major security agency FDX has now significantly launched into the market. Confidentiality requires that Forensic Pathways is unable to expand further on the implementation of this technology on behalf of the client; however, we are at liberty to say that the technology has made a significant impact and the Company sees this as significant development in the Company’s growth. ALIAS (Advanced Ballistics Intelligence System) represents the next generation in ballistics analysis, providing exceptional support for Ballistic Examinations, Analysis and Gun Registration Systems. ALIAS enables firearms examiners and technicians to analyze expended cartridge cases and bullets faster and with greater accuracy. 2015 has seen the development of opportunities for ALIAS globally, both from a forensic criminalistics application, but also for its capacity to provide a comprehensive Gun Registration system. The Company continues to work closely with Pyramidal Technologies, with Forensic Pathways providing key algorithms for the correlation of bullets and cartridge cases. It is an interoperable system focused on reducing the time of the investigation and enhancing the capabilities and working conditions of the end user. Negotiations are ongoing within a number of key regions within South America and Africa and these regions will continue to be a focus through 2016 and 2017. The requirement for ALIAS is made evident by studies into firearms related deaths and the correlation between poverty, gun crime and violence in general. Taking a study of just South Africa exemplifies the correlation between poverty, lack of opportunity and education to that of gun crime and general violence. Study 1 https://businesstech.co.za/news/government/91284/south-africa-is-the-second-worst-country-for-gun-deaths-in-the-world/ A study conducted by American medical professionals using data from the World Health organisation and Cambridge University’s Small Arms Survey, found the top countries with the most guns per 100 people and total firearm-related deaths per 100,000. This study found that South Africa has the second highest rate of gun related deaths in the world. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 A more alarming finding for South Africans is that the country was found to have the second highest rate of gun-related deaths in the world at 9.4 deaths per 100,000 people. That statistic is made worse by the finding that South Africa only has the 16th highest number of guns per 100 people at 12.7. Sitting at the top of both lists is the USA, with 88.8 guns per 100 people, and a prevalence of 10.2 fire-arm related deaths per 100,000 people. In 2013, this figure climbed to 10.4 deaths per 100,000. South Africa was recently rated as the 8th most violent country in the world, with a violent murder rate of 31 per 100,000 people. According to the Small Arms Survey, since 1994, homicide rates in South Africa have remained among the highest in the world despite a consistent decline. The group found that there is a positive correlation between the partial implementation of the Firearms Control Act (FCA) of 2000 and a reduction in firearm homicides. “Better implementation of the law could further reduce levels of firearm homicides,” it said. According to the South African Police Service (SAPS) and the Institute for Security Studies, homicides decreased from 66.9 per 100,000 in 1994 to 30.9 in 2011–12. However, rates above 30 per 100,000 are typically observed in countries at war or with serious ongoing crises. SA murder rate In 2000, the SAPS stopped providing data on the percentage of homicides committed with firearms, but pre-2007 data, as well as information from other sources, have corroborated the information published in the study. These other sources include data on fatal injuries from medico-legal laboratories and state forensic laboratories from The National Injury Mortality Surveillance System (NIMSS). One caveat to the data on gun ownership is the unreliability of countries’ capacity to keep record of illegal guns. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 SA Firearm deaths Seeking the roots of South Africa’s high levels of gun-related violence, the Small Arms survey identified challenges in several sectors, namely:  Problems implementing the FCA in terms of legislation and regulation;  Policing practices, where the SAPS have used excessive force and firearms;  Lack of transformation in policing since the fall of apartheid;  Government’s socio-economic policy, in which inequality drives violence;  Other persistent challenges such as high unemployment, poor education, poor infrastructure, low levels of public service and government corruption. “It has been argued that armed violence and systemic poverty and inequality are linked and that countries that experience entrenched forms of armed violence risk getting trapped in cycles of under-development,” the researchers said. “This review suggests that the chances of breaking out of the cycle of armed violence and underdevelopment are improved when efforts are made on both fronts.” www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Study 2: Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP) https://businesstech.co.za/news/government/90808/south-africa-is-one-of-the-most-violent-and-unsafe-countries-in-the-world/ The Study states: ‘Global peace is deteriorating as the economic impact of national and international violence escalates to $14.3 trillion (R178 trillion) – up significantly from a cost of $9.8 trillion in 2014, putting the total cost of violence to the global economy at 13.4% of global GDP (from 11.3% in 2014). The biggest global contributors to this violence bill come from military spending ($3 trillion) and internal security spending ($1.3 trillion), as well as losses from crime and interpersonal violence ($2 trillion) and losses from conflicts ($817 billion). The total economic impact of violence containment in South Africa is $66.7 billion – or $1,258 per person. The IEP data showed that, while the state of global peace remained relatively stable between 2014 and 2015, four out of the nine geographical regions experienced an improvement in peace while five became less peaceful. This is balanced by specific numbers, where 81 countries became more peaceful and 78 countries became less peaceful. The most substantial change in the index was recorded for the Middle East and North Africa — where several countries suffered from an upsurge in violence related to sectarian strife and civil conflicts, as well as a rise in actions by Islamist extremist groups,” the group said. South Africa slipped 14 spots on the global ranking, from 122nd in 2014 to 136th in 2015 with a score of 2.376. This places the country in the lower-end of the region rankings, ranked 37th out of 44 Sub-Saharan African (SSA) nations. According to the IEP, the total economic impact of violence containment in the country is $66.7 billion (R830 billion), or $1,258 (R15, 656) per person, or 10% of the country’s GDP as a whole. This is the 33rd highest cost of all 162 countries covered by the researchers. When it comes to societal safety and security, South Africa ranks as the 15th worst country in the world, and the 8th most violent with a murder rate of 31 per 100,000 people. South Africa’s state of peacefulness – and slip down the rankings – appears to be more due to the increase of peacefulness in other SSA nations, rather than the abject deterioration of peace within the country. In 2014, the country’s GPI score was 2.342, showing a small 0.034 difference. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 In its 2014 report, the IEP singled out South Africa as having conflict driven by poverty, inequality, and the slow pace of reform by government. This, in turn, fuels crime, violent strike action and political confrontation, the group said. The group’s long-term outlook said that, with high unemployment and income inequality – as well as buckling service delivery under the ANC administration – South Africa’s positioning regarding peace and security is unlikely to change.’ South Africa Homicide and safety – South Africa GPI indicators – South Africa Forensic Pathways is committed to the introduction of ALIAS technology into the South American and African market during 2016/17, having already identified key on the ground support agencies to assist in these markets. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Freedom of Association and Trade Unions Employees have the right to join a Trade Union and to take part in collective bargaining. The Company has a positive approach to employees joining professional organisations, and employees are actively encouraged to join organisations that help in their professional and personal development. Fees for joining such organisations are paid in full by the Company where it directly relates to their role within the Company. Social Media Forensic Pathways has a proactive Social Media policy, operating Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn accounts. All employees are also encouraged to develop social media networks and to contribute to discussion forums and posts within the Company social media accounts and to join professional groups within social media platforms such as LinkedIn. This provides a valuable opportunity not only to promote the Company, but also promote the profile of team members and can provide opportunities for learning as well as developing strategic partnerships with potential clients or businesses. Whilst social media is seen as a valuable tool, we also recognize that that each employee must act responsibly. The use of the internet and social media is clearly outlined within our Employee Contracts and the standard Employee Handbook. Anyone found in breach of their contract through misuse of the internet or social media will face a disciplinary procedure and possibly dismissal. Personnel Provider It was the intention of the Company to seek an alternative personnel provider in 2015 as the contract with Citation was due for renewal midway through the year. A number of providers were considered and as at the end of 2015, a decision had yet to be made. It is anticipated the new provider will be established in first quarter of 2016. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 4 & 5 Forced and Compulsory Labour Support Abolition of Child Labour In 16 years of operations, Forensic Pathways has found no evidence of forced or child labour within its global operations. Thorough due diligence is completed on all stakeholders before any partnerships or contracts are implemented. Forensic Pathways provides due diligence services to its client base and therefore applies the same techniques to its own processes. The Company tracks any potential changes with its partners who may impact on Principle 4/5 and should evidence be found of any breach the stakeholder will be contractually removed and if necessary reported. All stakeholders are made aware of our commitment to the Principles and are provided with copies of our latest Communication on Progress and are reminded of these Principles in every communication, through reference to the UNGC on all correspondence. The UNGC support logo appears on all emails, correspondence and presentations, along with the relevant link to our latest Communication on Progress. Employees are reminded of their responsibility to ensure that they report any instances to the CEO where they feel there may be a breach. Any employee, consultant, agent or distributor found in breach of this Principle either through failure to report or through proactively encouraging negative behaviour will have their contract terminated. All stakeholders are aware of the Company’s commitment to the UNGC. Work Experience Forensic Pathways continues to support the wider community by offering work experience placements and internships. Work Experience placements of secondary school age students are only accepted if the Company is approached directly by the School as part of an approved work experience placement or by a parent directly. All work experience students have to complete a full interview prior to being accepted for the placement and a full induction is completed to ensure that all students are fully integrated into the Company and are aware of codes of conduct as well as its commercial focus. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 6 Support the Elimination of Discrimination People Invest Programme Throughout the Company’s 16 years history it has invested significantly in the development of its employees and this in turn has brought great success in the development of our technologies and the Company as a whole. The People Invest Programme continues to grow its alumni of employees and interns whom Forensic Pathways has had the privilege to work with and for whom the journey of working within the Company has in part contributed to their education. As a Company we have benefited greatly from their skills, ideas and enthusiasm and are delighted that we continue to maintain contact with our interns and former employees. The People Invest Programme offers a level playing field for development, so whether you are an intern, recent member of staff, or been with the Company for many years, the opportunity for development is there. All employees and interns are encouraged to seek opportunities for professional and personal development. These opportunities do not necessarily have to be related directly to their work, but can be part of a package of overall personal development. People Invest Programme 2014 Alumni Ben Leary, Director Ben has had an extremely successful academic year, continuing his MBA (Marketing) through Liverpool University. As Director of Forensic Pathways and having worked with the Company since 2002, Ben continues to drive the Company forward internationally, forging strategic partnerships that bring global opportunities for the Company. At a personal level Ben is to be commended for his commitment not only to the Company, but also to his studies. With the loss of Richard Leary, Forensic Pathways MD and Ben’s father, his dedication and commitment to succeed despite such a loss is to be admired. Richard would be proud of his achievements, but not surprised. We look forward to seeing fantastic academic success in 2016. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Nir Tolkovsky, Senior Analyst Having completed his Masters of Science (MSc) in Criminal Investigations from the University of Derby supported by Forensic Pathways, Nir continues his PhD on Corporate Fraud and Computing Science with the University, due for completion 2018. Nir continues as a consultant to the Company in the area of Due Diligence and Fraud Investigation. We continue to wish him well in his academic studies and look forward to his successful completion in 2018. People Invest Alumni – Past Employees The following past employees successfully completed their sponsored PhDs through the People Invest Programme. 2013 Dr Ahmad Ryad Soobhany. Graduated 2013 – Keele University 2011 Dr Jenny Thomas, Senior Analyst. Graduated September 2011 – University of Huddersfield Internships We are incredibly proud of the people that have spent their internships within the Company, who have successfully graduated and either gone on to exciting new careers or have decided to continue their journey with Forensic Pathways. We will continue to follow their journey into 2016. Ryan Patel, Intern, BSc Business and Management with Integrated Industrial/Professional Training We are absolutely delighted to report on Ryan’s success, graduating with a 2:1 BSc from Aston University in June 2015. Having spent a year with the Company Ryan has continued to keep his links with us and we are all extremely proud and happy at his success. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 We are also very proud that he has gone on to become a serving Police Officer with West Midlands Police. We know that Dr Richard Leary, MBE, former Managing Director of Forensic Pathways and a former serving Police Officer of 27 years with West Midlands Police would have been incredibly proud and supportive of Ryan. All the team can now delight in seeing Ryan patrol the streets of Birmingham and those around the Forensic Pathways HQ. We all wish Ryan well in his career and look forward to Forensic Pathways being one of his tea stops! Kelly Ashman Undergraduate Forensic Computing University of Derby Having joined Forensic Pathways in May 2015 on a year’s industrial placement, Kelly had an extremely successful year. Working as part of the Due Diligence and Fraud Investigation Team, Kelly provided support as a digital forensic analyst, focusing on mobile phone data extraction and data analysis, along with computer forensics. Kelly’s skills and knowledge were fundamental to a number of cases for which we achieved successful outcomes. All benefited from the practical application of her skills and knowledge gained as a result of her studies. Studies applied to a real world environment. Kelly remains with Forensic Pathways on a part-time basis whilst continuing with her studies. Alex Blackwell Undergraduate Business & Management Aston University, Birmingham On a year’s industrial placement, Alex continued to develop his knowledge of the Company and its various technologies and market sectors. Initially working within the Sales and Marketing Departments Alex was proactive in supporting the Directors’ vision of developing new international markets and also developing the Company’s social media presence. As a result he has supported the Company’s move into South America and South Africa, providing not only marketing support in those regions but also ensuring delivery of product to client specification. Alex now remains with Forensic Pathways on a part-time basis whilst completing his degree. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Diversity in the Work Place Forensic Pathways has always had an international focus. It was and is a born global company. This commitment to global, our involvement in major international collaborative projects and our association with many universities, has ensured our employees and interns have contributed to cultural diversity within the work place. From Mauritius, China, Taiwan, Pakistan, France, Italy and Greece as example, we have benefited significantly from the diversity of cultures. As an SME, we are proud of this level of connectivity and diversity. As an SME in the technology sector, there is also an awareness of the lack of women in technology and therefore when opportunities arise to recruit we are conscious of the need to recruit from a diverse talent pool. In this regard we have over the years successful provided a PhD internship to Jenny Thomas. Jenny’s focus was on ballistics analysis and technology. On completion of her PhD, Jenny continued to work with Forensic Pathways until 2012. Similarly, Kelly Ashman’s internship as a Digital Forensic Analyst supporting Carol Satchwell, Senior Forensic Analyst has meant that the team is not only culturally diverse, but also has a proactive response to gender balance. However disability and recruitment is an area we need to acknowledge. The fact that too date we have received no applications from any potential employee with a disability leads us to believe that we may be missing out on talent through not posting adequately our available positions or framing our job applications in an appropriate way. Having acknowledged this, we will ensure that in our recruitment process moving forward we will try to address this. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Wider Community Commitment All employees are encouraged to commit time to supporting the Community, whether that is through online support to students requiring information or research assistant, to charitable giving and support on online forums. The Dot Com Children’s Foundation Whilst attending the Superintendents’ Conference in 2015 we were made aware that the Dot Com Children’s Foundation was looking for a main sponsor for their inaugural Dot Com Foundation ‘Inspiring Children’s Award 2016’. As a result of discussions with Lady Dee Orde we were delighted to offer to commit to providing this support and as a consequence are supporting the Foundation both in terms of fundraising and promoting their work globally on an ongoing basis. Left to right: Deborah Leary, OBE, CEO Forensic Pathways, Lady Dee Orde, Dot Com Foundation, Ben Leary, Director, Forensic Pathways Dot Com is a recommended PSHSE resource supported by the Home Office. It is a 'safeguarding tool' to raise awareness and keep pupils safe from the dangers of abuse, sexual exploitation, radicalisation and extremism. It promotes children's rights and fundamental British values. The www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 programme will undoubtedly, help schools comply with the new legislation 'Keeping Children Safe in Education' and will give schools evidence that the children are being taught how to stay safe. The school can use this as part of their statutory risk assessment and as evidence for OFSTED that they are preparing children for life. Since the Dot Com programme’s inception, more than 1,000,000 children have used the programme across the United Kingdom. Forensic Pathways is proud to be supporting the Foundation and looks forward to continuing working with the team to help raise awareness and funds. Anyone wishing to learn more about the fabulous work of the Dot Com Foundation can find further information at http://www.dotcomcf.org/ United Nations Global Compact UK Network Deborah Leary, Forensic Pathways CEO continues to actively participate within the UNGC UK Network. As a member of the Board and Advisory Group, Deborah contributes to the strategic development of the UK Network which forms part of the Company’s ongoing commitment to the UNGC overall and works with the Secretariat to help develop regional UK strategies. The Company also commits to speaking engagements to promote the UNGC overall. In May 2015 Deborah supported Steve Kenzie, Executive Director of the UNGC UK Network at an event to celebrate Staffordshire Chambers of Commerce joining the UNGC and becoming the first Chamber of Commerce in the UK to do so. The event’s focus was also to promote the Compact to Chamber members, promoting the benefits to their businesses of joining. The Company will continue to support the UK Network and the UNGC as a whole, taking a proactive stance to promoting the Network through its marketing and social media campaigns, presentations and wider community interactions. Further details re the United Nations Global Compact UK Network can be found at the following www.globalcompact.org.uk www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Supporting Women’s Economic Empowerment Chair of the Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network (CBW) Strengthening the Commonwealth. Building Businesses. Advancing Women. 52 Countries. One Platform. www.cwbusinesswomen.org Forensic Pathways continues to support debate and lobbying in the area of women’s economic empowerment. Forensic Pathways’ CEO is Chair of the Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network. The Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network (CBW) works with women in business by connecting Governments and the private sector to encourage and enable women’s economic empowerment. This is achieved through delivering activities, initiatives, products and services focused on trade, talent and training. CBW also sits on the main governance body on gender for the 52 Commonwealth Governments. The Network provides an online trading platform to allow women in business across the Commonwealth to trade with each other, promote their businesses, look for strategic partners or mentors. The Network has active in country hubs and regional partners in a number of regions, including South Africa, Malaysia, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Australia. The Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network is an accredited Commonwealth organisation. In March 2015 the Network held its official launch in Birmingham, UK. It was attending by Lorely Burt, MP and a number of High Commissioners, along with many businesswomen from the region. As part of the launch a number of regional partnerships were signed including South Africa, Lesotho, Malaysia, with the event being supported by UK Trade & Investment and Birmingham Commonwealth Trade Association. Signatory meeting with Board Members from CBW, Kimberley Leary, Lizze Bate, Arif Zaman and regional partners. The signing of the regional partnerships was followed by a reception at Opus Restaurant attended by Lorely Burt, MP, international dignitaries and businesswomen www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Institute for Collaborative Working In October 2015, in her role as Chair of Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network and as Forensic Pathways commitment to promoting collaboration and gender diversity Deborah presented at the Institute for Collaborative Working, sponsored by BSI. The conference theme being Collaborative Working and Cultural Diversity. The Commonwealth: Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 2015 http://thecommonwealth.org/chogm The Commonwealth is a voluntary association of 52 independent states with a combined population of 2.2 billion. The association came together in 1949 after the decolonisation of the British Empire. Symbolically headed by HM Queen Elizabeth II, the Commonwealth includes some of the world’s largest, smallest, richest and poorest nations. Countries have no legal obligation to each other yet are all guided by the principles contained in The Charter of the Commonwealth: democracy, human rights, and the rule of law. They are also united through language, history and culture. Leaders of member countries shape Commonwealth policies and priorities. Every two years, they meet to discuss issues affecting the Commonwealth and the wider world at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM). In addition to the meeting of Heads of Government other meetings are traditionally held which include, a Business Forum, Peoples Forum, Youth Forum In November 2015 CHOGM was hosted by Malta. Forensic Pathways has contributed to the last three Commonwealth Heads of Government Meetings. Firstly in Perth, Australia in 2011, followed by Sri Lanka in 2013 and latterly 2015 in Malta. During 2014 the Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network had been approached to assist in developing a Women’s Forum for CHOGM, the first time in the history of CHOGM. As part of Forensic Pathways commitment to the wider community and its CEO’s role as Chair of the Commonwealth Businesswomen’s Network, Forensic Pathways worked with the Maltese Government and CBW to assist in the development of the inaugural Women’s Forum. All images from the Women’s Forum can be found at: https://www.flickr.com/photos/chogm2015mt/albums/72157661457528506/with/22821877537/ In addition CBW used this opportunity to present its Entrepreneur of the Year Award which was presented at a gala dinner to Valerie Grant, Guyana. Further information about The Commonwealth can be found at http://thecommonwealth.org/ The next Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting is scheduled to take place in the UK in 2018 www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Olayan Women Network (OWN) In March 2015, Forensic Pathways was asked by the Foreign & Commonwealth Office to speak to the Olayan Women’s Network and the Women’s Chamber of Commerce in Riyadh. Deborah Leary, CEO attended this trip. Forensic Pathways’ CEO was invited to speak at Olayan Women’s Network Round Table Event on the topic of strategic networking, building support systems and communities that support women empowerment. This was followed by a meeting with the wife of the UK Ambassador Huda Mujarkech and British Council staff, where Deborah then presented at a lunch hosted by the Ambassador comprising of 30 Saudi businesswomen and diplomats, focusing on business networking, economic empowerment and global connectivity, sharing business experiences. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Member of the All Parliamentary Working Party Group on Women and Enterprise Forensic Pathways continues its support of the APPG on Women and Enterprise, continuing to lobby and debate and to draw on global best practice in the area of women’s economic development. Director of European Women in Leadership Forensic Pathways CEO continues to support European Women in Leadership, a joint venture between Microsoft and Orange. WIL provides a platform for executive women for the sharing of best practice, mentoring and lobbying for policy and regulatory changes. Whilst Deborah Leary, CEO of Forensic Pathways remains committed to supporting WIL, as a result of changes as outlined in the CEO Statement, Deborah has had to step back from participation in European events but remains engaged and looks forward to taking a more active role moving forward. www.wileurope.org Funny Women Deborah Leary holds the position of Advisory Board Chair and supports Funny Women providing strategic support to its Managing Director and promoting the organisation through Forensic Pathway’s networks. Funny Woman has been helping people in the UK to find their voice and use humour since 2002. Comedy is more than just entertainment it can be used to break down barriers, improve communication, build confidence and empower. Funny Women has developed a range of key practical strategies and enjoyable workshops that will help your staff utilise the positive effects of humour in the workplace. Funny Women provides corporate training, entertainment for corporate events and one-to-one tutorials, utilising the skills of persons prolific within the comedy industry. For further information www.funnywomen.com Forward Ladies Women in Business Awards 2015 As a result of her commitment to business build and supporting women’s entrepreneurship, Forensic Pathways CEO was presented with the Regional ‘Inspiring Leader Award 2015’, going on to win the National ‘Inspiring Leader Award’ 2015. In addition Forensic Pathways was presented with the ‘STEM Business of the Year Award 2015’. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 It was an exceptional year for the Forward Ladies Women in Business Awards ‘Young Entrepreneur of the Year’ was awarded to Lizze Bate (nee Leary), Managing Director of Kindred Sole. In addition to being Managing Director of Kindred Sole, Lizze continues to provide consultancy and research and development support to Forensic Pathways. Left to Right: Deborah Leary, CEO Forensic Pathways, Lizze Bate, Managing Director of Kindred Sole and Consultant to Forensic Pathways, with latest recruit Eliza Bate! http://forwardladies.com/awards/and-the-winners-of-the-midland-regional-heats-of-the-forwardladies-national-women-in-business-awards-are/ www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principles 7, 8 & 9 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges Initiatives to Promote Environmental responsibility Encourage Environmentally Friendly Green Technology Forensic Pathways headquarters are based in Birmingham, UK. Operating out of fully serviced office, Forensic Pathways made a conscious decision in August 2014 to move to premises that were not only commercially well positioned but also were excellent in relation to environmental design and build. Forming part of the Colmore Business District the offices are ideally placed close to main transportation links, with Snow Hill Station situated five minutes from the office and the main station at Grand Central New Street Station being only ten minutes away. Its close proximity to transport routes has meant that the majority of employees use public transport to travel to work. Two Snow Hill was built following the Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) 2013 and is a BREEAM Excellent Design Building. The Breeam Assessment process evaluates the procurement, design, construction and operation of a development against targets that are based on performance benchmarks. Breeam measures sustainable value in a series of categories, ranging from energy to ecology. Each of these categories addresses the most influential factors, including low impact design and carbon emissions reduction; design durability and resilience; adaption to climate change; and ecological value and biodiversity protection. These categories include: Full information: http://www.breeam.com/ Two Snow Hill is built to high specifications with a commitment to reducing its environmental impact. Internal processes are also designed to limit impact on the environment and ensure all residents are committed to ‘thinking green’.  All glass, card, tin, plastics, paper is recycled  A variety of energy saving schemes already in place such as low lighting in car parks outside of peak hours, and the use of PIR’s and photocells to reduce unneeded lighting www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 INTERNAL/EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Web based technologies are now the first line of contact with potential clients and distributors. All international meetings are initially undertaken via video conference, SKYPE or Powwownow as a commitment to reducing unnecessary travel. Sales and Technical teams also used web based technologies when initially demonstrating products and services and hard copy material is only used for specific events, reverting instead to USB and web based materials. With this shift in communication style the Company had intended to carry out a comparison of marketing spend and resources during 2015. However, due to significant events within the team during 2015, we were unable to undertake the comparison on marketing spend that we had hoped to complete. However, this will be completed in 2016. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Principle 10 Anti-Corruption and Bribery In its 16 year history Forensic Pathways has found no evidence of corruption or bribery within its stakeholder network. However, as part of our commitment to the UNGC we continue to instruct, inform and enforce a zero tolerance stance with all stakeholders. All stakeholders are aware of the Company’s stance on corruption and bribery though the publication of our Communication on Progress, which is promoted via our website and signposted on all contracts, marketing materials, emails, and presentations. All stakeholders are made aware of our Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy. Our policy gives clear guidance as to the employee’s responsibilities and guidance on events that may be working against the Principle and steps to avoid situations that may challenge it. Should an employee be traveling internationally they are required to reacquaint themselves with the policy and to seek advice from a senior member of the team. Any stakeholder found to be in breach of this Principle will automatically have their contract retracted and if necessary reported to the authorities. It is a disciplinary offence for any employee to ignore evidence of potential corruption and bribery. Suppliers, agents and distributors go through a due diligence process upon appointment and monitored on a regular basis. www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920 Communication on Progress 2015 This Communication on Progress is available on www.unglobalcompact.org, along with Forensic Pathways Ltd own website www.forensic-pathways.com and Forensic Pathways Australasia www.forensic-pathways.com.au In addition it will be communicated to all stakeholders directly ie employees, clients, suppliers, agents and distributors and all networks directly associated with Forensic Pathways Ltd. It will also form part of all presentations undertaken by the company in the course of its day to day operations. Creditlines for images: Artistashmita – image 25801327/Stevanovicigor – image 37005494/Anke Van Wyk image 1954842/Aravind Teki – image 53042/David Castillo Dominici – image 34989348/Bibidesign image9597174/Carmenbobo – image 82272624 www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter: @forensicpathway https://www.linkedin.com/company/471920
