CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Polpharma Group 2015-2016 VISION AND Introduction DEVELOPMENT TABLE OF CONTENTS LETTER FROM THE CEO 3 ABOUT POLPHARMA GROUP 5 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT CSR STRATEGY 15 STAKEHOLDERS 17 RAW MATERIAL ETHICS 19 MULTIDIMENSIONAL QUALITY STRATEGY 24 SOURCING SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 25 INNOVATION 27 RAW MATERIAL SOURCING CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS 35 SUPPLIER EDUCATION AND COMMITMENT 35 PRODUCTION PRODUCTION MANUFACTURING QUALITY 41 EMPLOYER OF CHOICE 41 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY 43 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMITMENT 46 A CULTURE OF DIVERSITY 49 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF MANUFACTURING 50 LOCAL COMMUNITIES LIVING NEAR OUR PLANTS 55 DISTRIBUTION TRANSPORT SECURITY 61 DISTRIBUTION LOGISTICS & DISTRIBUTION CENTRE 61 MINIMISING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 62 SALES & MARKETING RESPONSIBLE MARKETING 67 PRODUCT LABELLING 67 Description: ETHICAL ADVERTISING 69 PHARMACOVIGILANCE 70 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE 70 References to Polpharma PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS SALES Group’s Corporate Social COLLABORATION WITH THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY 75 Responsibility Strategy CARING FOR PATIENTS 79 & MARKETING where the status of the WE EDUCATE MEDICAL AND PHARMACEUTICAL COMMUNITIES 85 Company’s commitments is SOCIAL AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 87 described. ABOUT THE REPORT 90 PRINCIPLE 1 DETAILED FIGURES 92 Reference to the 10 Principles PARTNERS AND of the UN Global Compact GRI INDEX TABLE 97 CUSTOMERS Statement from the auditor 101 1 2 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Dear All LE T TER FROM THE CEO I am very pleased to present to you the latest biannual edition of Polpharma Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report. This report was developed based on the value chain model, and it is divided into sections that reflect this. The main idea behind this model is that business activities are grouped into key functions, such as for instance pre-manufacturing, manufacturing and sales. Each chapter starts with a description of the economic, social and environmental impact of a RAW MATERIAL given area of our operations on the environment and key stakeholders. We also SOURCING discuss the identified risks and the steps taken to minimise the negative impact and increase the positive impact of these risks. To implement these measures, we follow our Code of Ethics and the Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy adopted by Polpharma Group. Our CSR Strategy is linked with the company’s business strategy whose vital part is to ensure that patients have access to modern, safe and effective products which are efficiently developed, manufactured and sold with adherence to the PRODUCTION highest standards and with respect towards all of our partners across the value chain. We are the largest Polish pharmaceutical company, an important employer in the regions where we operate, and a leading investor in the healthcare industry. We focus our attention on cutting edge technologies and seek development in the ground-breaking field of biotechnology. Thanks to its success and contribution talents. Therefore, we have taken steps to put agencies, healthcare institutions, industry and to the development of Polish innovative economy, Polpharma is bound to earn in place a dual education model in cooperation non-governmental organisations, the academic its rightful place among national champions.Our position is both an honour and a with local schools to prepare future staff to community, and the company’s suppliers. commitment which we pursue through the initiatives undertaken as part of our do practical jobs in the industry, and to foster corporate social responsibility strategy. We also involved our employees in the intergenerational collaboration in our company. DISTRIBUTION consultation process by asking them to take part This report is an overview of what we have achieved since the announcement of in a survey. the CSR strategy, as well as challenges that we have encountered along the way. Digitalisation is another visible trend that will One of our greatest achievements in the reported period was the establishment have an impact on our organisation. The role of Please take the time to read this report and of the Ethics Programme within Polpharma Group and the implementation of the the pharmaceutical industry is changing – it is learn about our activities in each area of the Sustainable Supply Chain Strategy. These initiatives are not only a declaration of no longer merely to supply drugs, but also to value chain. Also, I encourage you to share your our guiding values but also form a comprehensive system that helps our employees support patients in their efforts to keep in good feedback with us to help Polpharma further and suppliers to understand, follow and improve the standards of ethical health. Our industry is also an active agent in the improve its business operations in line with the conduct. These activities reflect our efforts to accomplish our global Sustainable healthcare system, and this requires a higher level Group’s motto: “People helping people”. Development Goals and to fulfil the commitments undertaken by Polpharma as of cooperation and knowledge sharing between all a member of the United Nations Global Compact. They also address the growing partners. Therefore, we want to implement digital SALES expectations for responsibility and transparency towards the pharmaceutical solutions which would be most effective for the industry both in Poland and globally. company, our customers, and other stakeholders. & MARKETING We believe that digitisation can improve business Our biggest challenge in 2015-2016 was to meet the environmental targets that processes, contribute to the implementation of Markus Sieger we had set for ourselves. Despite our continuous improvement of environmental innovative solutions for patients, and facilitate performance and processes, the scale and level of complexity of our manufacturing collaboration, both internally and externally. operations, as well as the need to use the necessary systems to meet the One of the elements of Polpharma Group’s CSR President of the Management Board stringent requirements in the pharmaceutical industry, have a significant impact on Strategy is dialogue and collaboration. Therefore, of Polpharma SA the status of our environmental ambitions. we invited our stakeholders to prepare this report CEO of Polpharma Group PARTNERS AND with us. To learn about their expectations of In the reported period, we also identified several challenges that may have an this publication, we held a meeting which was impact on our business in the years to come. One of them is the risk of losing attended by representatives of government CUSTOMERS important skills due to demographic and market trends, such as population aging, diminished vocational education or strong competition to attract young 3 4 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT About Polpharma Group Polpharma Group’s locations in Poland Poland’s largest manufacturer of drugs and pharmaceutical substances. One of the largest pharmaceutical groups in Central and Eastern Europe. STAROGARD GDAŃSKI: Head Office Polish pharmaceutical market leader by sales. One of Polish economy champions. WARSAW: Trade Office WARSAW: manufacturing plant RAW MATERIAL GDAŃSK: laboratory, manufacturing plant SIERADZ: manufacturing plant 7,091 DUCHNICE: manufacturing plant NOWA DĘBA: manufacturing plant SOURCING employees (of whom 4,303 are based in Poland*) 7 PRODUCTION R&D centres (of which 4 in Poland) 7 manufacturing plants (of which 5 in Poland) 7,215 DISTRIBUTION Polish and foreign suppliers working with the Polish companies of the Group PLN 2,513 M SALES Revenue** generated by the Polish companies of the Group in 2016 & MARKETING 702 34 % PLN 720 M PLN >867 M products across the Group’s exports share in sales in 2016 estimated state budget revenues invested in fixed assets and R&D in portfolio***, including 429 products in 2016 (direct, indirect and induced Poland in 2015-2016 offered on the domestic market and effects)**** PARTNERS AND exported by Polish companies CUSTOMERS *As at 31 December 2016 *** A product with the same active ingredient content, pharmaceutical form and mode of administration sold on several markets is counted as a separate ** Revenue information was retrieved from Polpharma Group’s consolidated financial statements for 2016. The revenue from Polish operations was determined product in each market as it needs a separate marketing authorisation, and has a different packaging, patient information leaflet and/or name in every country. by eliminating revenue generated by companies operating outside of Poland from the Group’s result and includes revenue from sales of phytopharmaceutical **** Data calculated using the methodology adopted by DELabUW in: “Makroekonomiczne aspekty znaczenia sektora farmaceutycznego dla polskiej gospodarki” products of Herbapol-Lublin. [Macroeconomic aspects of the pharmaceutical sector’s importance for the Polish economy], 2015, by Michał Przybyliński, Agnieszka Pugacewicz and Łukasz Tanajewski. 5 6 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Polpharma Group’s locations worldwide and main markets for medicines Composition of the Management Board of Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma SA* RAW MATERIAL Markus Sieger Bożenna Kozakiewicz Rajmund I. Martyniuk President of the Vice-President of the Vice-President of the SOURCING Management Board Management Board Management Board Tomasz Moys Gertjan Noordermeer Sebastian Szymanek Vice-President of the Vice-President of the Vice-President of the Management Board Management Board Management Board Hannes Teissl Andrzej Dziuban Vice-President of the Member of the ManaManagement Board gement Board PRODUCTION Composition of the Management Board of Polpharma Biuro Handlowe spółka z o.o.* Rajmund I. Martyniuk Grzegorz Chełmicki Bożenna Kozakiewicz President of the Member of the Member of the Management Board Management Board Management Board Polpharma Group in Poland Sebastian Szymanek Geographical range of representative offices Member of the Management Board Akrikhin in Russia Santo Member of Polpharma Group in Kazakhstan Composition of the Management Board of Medana Farmaprojects, a strategic partner in Spain Pharma S.A.* DISTRIBUTION Anna Durdyn Elżbieta Man President of the Management Board Vice-President of the Management Board Sales of pharmaceutical substances by continent Composition of the Management Board of Polfa 49% 22% 24% 3 % 2 % Warszawa S.A.* Tomasz Moys Katarzyna Goławska Europe Asia North America Africa South America President of the Management Board Member of the Management Board Jan Krzewiński Małgorzata Cegielska–Matysiak SALES Member of the Management Board Member of the Management Board Core products and services B2B market »» Prescription drugs »» Licensing of Polpharma Group products & MARKETING »» OTC drugs »» Selling substances to other pharmaceutical companies Since 2014, the initiatives undertaken by Polpharma relating to certain CSR aspects »» Medical devices »» Contract development and manufacturing services are coordinated by two teams: The Ethics Programme Establishment Team at »» Dietary foods for special medical purposes Polpharma Group and the Sustainable Supply Chain Team. Both teams are led by »» Cosmetics a representative of the Supervisory Board. Management Board representatives »» Dietary supplements Polpharma Group’s customers include distributors and top executives sit on the steering committees. Team members represent all »» Biologics of medicines and other finished products (dietary key functions. Overall implementation of the CSR strategy is supervised by the »» Pharmaceutical substances supplements, dietary foods, medical devices, and Corporate Communications and CSR Director reporting to the President of the Management Board. Members of the management bodies are regularly updated PARTNERS AND cosmetics), and other pharmaceutical companies (pharmaceutical and B2B services). Final consumers are on the progress in the implementation of each strategic programme and measures patients and other people using our products. taken as part of the CSR strategy. CUSTOMERS * Status at the end of 2016 7 8 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Most important awards in 2015-2016 RAW MATERIAL Innovation and economic impact: Attractive Employer: SOURCING Polpharma was named Innovation Initiator by Newsweek Polpharma ranked first in the Science category in the Poland (2015), and won the Super Business Golden Laurel Poland’s Most Attractive Employers survey (2015) award for companies bringing benefits to the Polish The company ranked first in the Life Sciences category in economy (2015) the Poland’s Most Attractive Employers survey (2016) The company came third in terms of expenditure on research and development in the Polish Business Patriotism Index published by the Foundation of PRODUCTION Economic Patriotism (FPG) and the Rzeczpospolita daily (2015) “Ambassador of the Polish Economy” in the European Brand category (2015) Partner of the Medical Community: Export Eagle in the Pomerania region in Best Exporter and Polpharma was named “Partner of Polish Cardiology” Innovative Export Product categories (2016) by the Management Board of the Polish Cardiac Society Eagle winner in Pomerania awarded by the Wprost weekly (2015, 2016) (2016) DISTRIBUTION Marketing, sales, PR: Corporate Social Responsibility: The “Get ready for a shock!” campaign won the Golden Polpharma was ranked second and third in the Resource Paper Clip Award (2015) Efficient Entrepreneur national competition (2015) The “Pressure for Life” educational and training The company received a distinction in the Social campaign was named “The Success of the Year 2014 in Campaign of the Year 2014 competition for the “Get Healthcare” (2015) ready for a shock” campaign (2015) and the CSR Golden The “Get ready for a shock!” campaign won the Golden Leaf awarded by the Polityka weekly (2015, 2016) SALES Stevie Award (2015) Responsible Business Ranking: The “Career Laboratory” program won the Golden Paper 1st place in the Pharmacy and Medicine category (2015, & MARKETING Clip Award (2016) 2016) 3rd and 2nd place in the general ranking (2015, 2016) Responsible Business Award in the Outstanding CSR Strategy category awarded by the Executive Club (2016) Distinction in the Eco-responsible competition (2016) Brown Hoopoe Award for engagement in the Ekoaktywni.com programme to protect endangered bird species and support people with disabilities PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 9 10 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT VISION AND DEVELOPMENT RAW MATERIAL SOURCING For any company, business starts with a vision, and its success relies on continuous development. In our business, we are guided by ethical values and standards of conduct. We seek to offer the best possible response to the needs of patients, doctors, pharmacists and our local communities. By PRODUCTION implementing innovative solutions in all our business areas and partnering with scientists, we continuously improve our organisation, respond to key medical challenges, and provide space for the advancement of knowledge. DISTRIBUTION SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 11 12 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Our economic, social and environmental impacts on stakeholders and the business environment Our activities Impact on the economy Impact on the society »» We provide patients with access to cuttingeducate doctors and pharmacists »» We create stable employment for highly»» We ensure pharmaceutical security in Poland edge therapies at affordable prices »» We work with science centres to improve our RAW MATERIAL qualified specialists »» We contribute to the social development »» We develop advanced generics and follow-on products and technologies »» As a business partner and customer of of the regions by supporting cross-sectoral biologics »» We give Polish scientists attractive career growth other companies, we contribute to regional cooperation and educational, cultural and social SOURCING »» We invest in innovative technologies which opportunities in Poland development projects enhance production efficiency, the comfort of »» We implement digital solutions in our organisation »» By making significant investments in research »» We raise health awareness in the society medication delivery and safety of our processes and engage in projects supporting Poland’s digital and development and state-of-the-art plants through education and disease prevention for humans and the environment transformation and laboratories, we foster innovation of the initiatives »» We minimise our impact on the environment »» We actively participate in a dialogue at Polish economy »» We participate in the creation of a dual by eliminating harmful substances from government and industry level regarding key »» We generate direct and indirect revenues to the education model in cooperation with secondary manufacturing, using pollution control devices, regulations for the sector, and monitor changes in national budget schools and universities and increasing recycling and waste recovery our markets PRODUCTION »» We bridge science and business by helping to »» We promote green behaviour among our Impact on the environment implement significant projects and contributing employees, suppliers and the local communities »» We ensure that environmental standards are to commercialisation of scientific discoveries »» We identify risks and prevent failures, and have met »» We raise ethical standards in the relevant mitigation procedures in place »» We have an impact on the environment pharmaceutical market and in our business »» We run patient education campaigns, and help through our manufacturing processes, the environment substances and solvents used, packaging, as well as transportation of raw materials and finished products »» We raise the environmental awareness of our DISTRIBUTION employees, suppliers and the local communities through educational projects Associated risks »» Insufficient identification of patient needs and incomplete knowledge of the evolving market »» Investment risks associated with large outlays, SALES particularly in biotechnology »» Risks associated with regulatory changes in the & MARKETING industry »» Business risks resulting from the geopolitical situation, exchange rate changes, social and armed conflicts »» Quality risks associated with suppliers of raw materials used for production, service providers, as well as technological processes, and potential human errors PARTNERS AND »» Environmental risks associated with manufacturing of chemicals CUSTOMERS 13 14 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT CSR STRATEGY When designing this Strategy, we used the social responsibility guidance provided in the international standard ISO 26000 as a reference. The CSR Strategy is also our response to the challenges faced by the pharmaceutical industry and the entire Polish economy. By implementing this Strategy, we contribute to the accomplishment of For over 80 years, Polpharma has successfully balanced the need to achieve its economic targets with the obligation 6 out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted globally by the international community: to serve the society and care for the environment. In 2014, we put our efforts in this field into a formal framework and created the Polpharma Group Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy, which was developed in close collaboration with our key stakeholders. The Strategy outlines our CSR priorities and the commitments with respect to these priorities. This has allowed us to better respond to the needs of those around us, while developing our business RAW MATERIAL based on a system of values. SOURCING The pillars of the Group’s corporate social responsibility are: patient and community service, ethical business conduct, and innovation and the advancement of knowledge. Within these three areas, we have undertaken 14 priority commitments. We defined the goals for the key risks and opportunities related to sustainable development which we will pursue until 2018. Further on in this report, the status of our commitments is described in sections titled “Reference to the CSR Strategy”. PRODUCTION ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT In our business, we are guided by high ethical standards, consider the needs of our employees, patients and healthcare sector players, and care about the environment. Reference to the CSR Strategy Our commitments DISTRIBUTION 1. We ensure pharmaceutical security in Poland As the largest drug manufacturer in Poland, we play a key role in ensuring the security of drug supplies to the public. SERVING INNOVATION This means that we make sure that patients have uninterrupted access to all the products they need from the key PATIENTS AND AND ADVANCING treatment groups. We are the only company in Poland to manufacture both pharmaceutical substances necessary THE GENERAL PUBLIC KNOWLEDGE to make medicinal products, as well as finished dosage forms on a large scale. Most of our profit goes into the Seeking to improve patient health and We improve our organisation, respond development of new products, modern dosage forms and socially relevant innovations. quality of life, we provide access to important to key medical challenges and provide space for therapies, health education and preventive care. the advancement of knowledge by implementing We respond to the needs of our local innovative solutions and cooperating with scientists. communities through dialogue and partnership. For the domestic market, we supply 256 1 in 8 medications used by Polish patients SALES products used in the treatment of the was made by Polpharma. 1. We ensure pharmaceutical 5. We strengthen corporate ethics 12. We implement innovative solutions most common health problems. With & MARKETING security in Poland 6. We ensure high product quality and 13. We bridge science and business all dosage forms and package sizes, our 2. We promote preventive safe pharmacotherapy 14. We educate medical and Polish portfolio includes 797 SKUs. We maintain the production of 41 medicinal care among patients and 7. We ensure and promote elevated pharmaceutical communities products, including life-saving ones, for employees standards of work safety which there are no substitutes on the 3. We support patient 8. We nurture employee growth and Polish market. We have a 13% share in the Rx drug compliance commitment market in terms of volume and only 4. We are engaged in the 9. We build a culture of diversity 5% in reimbursement payments. development of local 10. We care about the environment We participate in the supply of medications PARTNERS AND communities 11. We build a responsible supply chain for strategic military reserves. CUSTOMERS 15 16 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Stakeholder map STAKEHOLDERS We seek to ensure that the needs and expectations of internal and external stakeholders are reflected in our Pharmacists Competitors Employees business. To identify these needs and expectations, we have been engaged in a long-term dialogue with our stakeholders consisting of wide-ranging activities, such as face-to-face conversations, regular meetings with the Business and industry The media employees, internal discussion fora, employee and customer satisfaction surveys, questionnaire surveys among organisations RAW MATERIAL Social conference and event attendees, focus groups, local community expectations surveys, quality surveys among pharmacists, public discussions, consumer surveys, and industry fairs. Local Patients organisations SOURCING The feedback we seek helps us to improve our operations and implement new solutions to better address the Scientists and communities expectations of our stakeholders. opinion leaders Public administration, Before the Polpharma Group CSR Report 2015-2016 was drawn up, Doctors Suppliers regulators, health care we had conducted an internal survey to explore significant aspects payer of the Group’s impact on its environment, and held a meeting with PRODUCTION representatives of our key stakeholder groups. We identified our key Customers (drug distributors) stakeholder groups in 2014. Based on their importance and impact on the company, we selected the key organisations, social groups, companies and institutions whose representatives were invited to a meeting: »» Responsible Business Forum »» Coalition for Polish Innovations (KPI) »» Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate (GIF) »» Intrograf Lublin SA DISTRIBUTION »» Lyreco »» Ministry of Development »» Polish Chamber of Physicians and Dentists (NIL) »» Polish Pharmaceutical Council (NRA) »» National Centre for Research and Development (NCBR) »» Polish Association of Pharmaceutical Industry Manufacturers (PZPPF) »» Polish Association of Self Medication Industry (PASMI) »» Representatives of the academic community »» Polpharma Scientific Foundation SALES »» UNEP/GRID »» United Nations Global Compact & MARKETING The meeting was an opportunity to discuss the company’s responsibility, and to show how we operate. It was held at Apteka Sztuki, a unique venue in Europe, run by the Otwarte Drzwi Association which is a coffee shop, a contemporary art gallery, and an occupational workshop. We took care of all aspects of the meeting, including catering, which was provided by a social economy organisation. PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 17 18 VISION AND ETHICS Polpharma Group’s Values DEVELOPMENT Strong ethical foundations We believe that ethics should be the foundation of RAW MATERIAL Responsibility Collaboration SOURCING every business, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, due to its exceptional role for the health and lives of patients. Respect Integrity Solidarity At Polpharma Group, ethics is at the core of everything we do. A uniform Code of Ethics is in place at the entire company which was published in hard copy and translated into the local languages. All of the Group’s PRODUCTION employees own a copy of the Code in their native language. The Code of Ethics is based in a system of values shared The other principles described in the Code of By the end of 2016, 92% of Polpharma Group’s employees in Poland had signed a declaration of by all Group’s employees. Ethics shared by our employees are also reflected acknowledgement and compliance with our Code of Ethics. The Code of Ethics is a key element of Polpharma They are our roadmap in every area of our business. in how they do business, conduct themselves Group’s Ethics Programme which has been carried out since the beginning of 2014. in the workplace, and engage with external stakeholders. The other components of the Ethics Programme include: DISTRIBUTION »» Ethics education »» A Code of Ethics violation reporting system »» Institutional arrangements ensuring proper functioning of the regulations »» Ethics-related internal and external communication measures Polpharma Group’s Compliance Officer plays an important role in the Ethics Programme. This person ensures that the employees abide by the law and the rules of conduct described in the Code. In addition to the Code of Ethics, the following procedures PRINCIPLE 1 are in place at Polpharma Group companies in Poland: »» Procedure for Receiving and Examining Notifications of Violations of SALES Polpharma Group’s Code of Ethics & MARKETING PRINCIPLE 2 »» Procedure for Prevention of Mobbing and Discrimination at Work »» Anti-corruption Procedure »» Procedure for Accepting Gifts, Invitations and Other Benefits by Polpharma PRINCIPLE 6 Group Employees »» Conflict of Interest Management Procedure PARTNERS AND In situations where national regulations are either more stringent or more lenient than the Code of Ethics and corporate procedures, we always comply with the more stringent regulations. CUSTOMERS 19 20 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Ethics education and Compliance Officer conducts investigations on own account or in cooperation with Ethics Teams established within Polpharma Group companies. communication Every report of a potential violation of the law, the Code of Ethics or internal regulations is carefully analysed. The steps taken after the investigation depend on the circumstances and the severity of the actions found to be causing We deeply believe that education and communication play a key role in shaping the culture of ethics in an harm to the colleagues or violating the law, as well as the type of the violation. The corrective measures described organisation. To make sure that ethics-related information reaches our employees, we use the communication in the Procedure for Prevention of Mobbing and Discrimination at Work include a conversation with the supervisor, RAW MATERIAL channels and tools available at the company. education, coaching, transfer to a different position, and even termination of the employment contract. In 2016, we worked to implement a new intranet for the Polpharma Group, which now includes an extensive section SOURCING dedicated to our Ethics Programme. It is a platform for sharing knowledge and up-to-date information about business ethics. How to contact Polpharma Group’s Number of grievances about labour Compliance Officer: practices, mobbing and discrimination We have developed an e-learning training course dedicated to ethics which will be implemented in 2017, and will be (including harassment) filed through mandatory for all employees in Poland. The training course contains an additional module for managers reflecting their formal grievance mechanisms in special role in ethics management in the company. Face-to-face Polpharma Group companies in Poland: conversation Ethical concerns are also discussed during direct training and in themed articles published in the company’s internal PRODUCTION magazine “Panaceum”. In 2016, approximately 1500 employees received training during corporate events and educational meetings. Telephone conversation Total number of grievances about labour practices, through a dedicated line mobbing and discrimination (including harassment) filed through formal grievance mechanisms 9 10 Standard letter 2015: 2016: DISTRIBUTION How many complaints were handled Online form 9 10 2015: 2016: Ethics Internal and Code of Ethics Institutional Violation education external arrangements reporting communication system How many cases were solved 5 6 E-mail to a dedicated 2015: 2016: Advice on ethical questions PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 mailbox SALES and whistle-blowing & MARKETING PRINCIPLE 6 Polpharma Group does not have separate grievance Ethics is the most important foundation of our organisation mechanisms in place for the local communities, which is reflected in our continuous efforts to strengthen suppliers, and the remaining stakeholders. However, the company’s culture of ethics. We share the same ethical The general rule in our Ethics Programme is that managers at all levels are engaged in the promotion of ethical they may file complaints to the company’s values: respect, integrity, responsibility, solidarity and conduct and addressing of ethical concerns. Line manager is the first point of contact for an employee with any Management Board or the Head of the company’s collaboration, which guide our activities in every area. ethical issues. If it is difficult or impossible for an employee to contact his/her line manager or if the problem concerns Branch Office by filling out the contact form on the 3 3 the line manager, the employee may contact the Compliance Officer directly. It is important to note that the violation 2015: 2016: company’s website or sending a letter to the head reporting system protects whistle-blowers against any potential retaliation. Polpharma Group’s external stakeholders office of the company or one of its branches. They may also report ethics violations by filling out a form available on our website. PARTNERS AND may also file a complaint with the Compliance Officer using the form on the company’s website or by The Compliance Officer provides counselling regarding ethical concerns and carries out educational activities. The sending a letter by post. CUSTOMERS 21 22 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Reference to the CSR Strategy MULTIDIMENSIONAL QUALITY STRATEGY Our commitments Polpharma Group’s top priority is to ensure quality, safety and efficacy of our products. Group companies, which allows us to meet the quality requirements for all our products, processes, services and All Group employees have the obligation to build quality systems. Our aim is also to build a sense of responsibility 5. We strengthen corporate ethics in the organisation as a key element of our efforts to for quality in the entire value chain at every stage of the RAW MATERIAL Ethics is the most important foundation of our organisation which is reflected in our continuous efforts to serve patients, provide services to our partners, and process, from the selection of our material suppliers and strengthen the company’s culture of ethics. We share the same ethical values: respect, integrity, responsibility, achieve the company’s development goals. We focus on service providers, through manufacturing, to ensuring solidarity and collaboration, which guide our activities in every area. building a strong and consistent culture of quality in all satisfaction of our product users. SOURCING Quality Leaders Team Since 2016, the consistency and direction of measures and legal requirements. The team coordinates and taken to achieve the quality goals are supervised by participates in projects relating to new quality processes By the end of 2016, 3,968 (92%) We have developed and implemented In 2016, approximately 1,500 the Quality Leaders Team composed of employees and audit observations, and provides expert opinions PRODUCTION of Polpharma Group’s employees a system to track ethics compliance employees underwent ethics from different Group companies. Its focus areas include and recommendations. It also actively communicates key in Poland had signed the Code within the company which includes: training. the definition and standardisation of internal quality quality-related information through training, workshops of Ethics acknowledgement requirements, continuous improvement of existing or themed fora. »» Code of Ethics Violation Reporting declaration. processes, and implementation of new guidelines and Investigation Procedure »» Undertaking of investigation »» activities Annual report presented to Reference to the CSR Strategy the Management Board by the Compliance Officer Our commitments DISTRIBUTION In 2015-2016: 6. We ensure high product quality In 2016, we defined the objectives of a programme to increase the commitment of our employees in the continuous improvement of the quality of our products and services which will be implemented as part of our CSR Strategy in the upcoming years. The Compliance Officer reviewed We harmonised the procedure We developed the anti-corruption 19 cases relating to the Group’s for prevention of mobbing and procedure and a procedure related to companies in Poland discrimination at work in the Polish gifts and other benefits SALES part of the organisation & MARKETING We prepared the conflict of interest We implemented the Code of Ethics in the national languages in the Russian, management procedure which Kazakh, Lithuanian, Latvian, Czech, Bulgarian, and Belorussian markets, and became effective in 2017 prepared the Code for implementation on 1 January 2017 on the Ukrainian and PARTNERS AND Uzbek markets. CUSTOMERS 23 24 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABLE PRINCIPLE 10 SUPPLY Reference to the CSR SUPPLY CHAIN CHAIN Manufacturers of machinery, equipment, Strategy input materials and packaging We meet internationally recognized standards for human rights, employee rights, environmental protection and Our commitments RAW MATERIAL anti-corruption compliance. We strive to ensure that the same rules of conduct are followed by all suppliers and partners in our supply chain. 11. We build a responsible supply chain SOURCING To ensure a consistent compliance policy and its Transport companies Logistics centres continuous improvement, the Sustainable Supply Chain Strategy was announced in 2015 as part of our CSR We are consciously building our supply chain in a Strategy. A vital part of the Strategy is Polpharma sustainable and ethical way. Our suppliers are engaged in Group’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers. It was developed defining how we work together, invited to participate in based on an analysis of the best global practices and our educational initiatives, and encouraged to promote our PRODUCTION industry-specific challenges. The work on the Code ethical principles among their stakeholders. included preliminary evaluation of 1572 suppliers from Providers of non-manufacturing, Trade Office Poland and abroad for the existing and potential CSR marketing and engineering risks. Our suppliers, including our partners from Asia, 100% services participated in the Code consultation. of our suppliers received the Polpharma Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers DISTRIBUTION The Code of Conduct for Polpharma Transport companies Manufacturing facilities Group Suppliers outlines the most important requirements for suppliers in the following areas: »» »» Management and ethics Employment conditions and employee rights 82% of the suppliers concerned signed the Code »» Occupational health and safety acknowledgement declaration »» Product safety and quality Transport companies Pharmaceutical wholesalers »» Tests on humans and animals »» Impact on the environment SALES Our suppliers sign an acknowledgement that they have read and understood the Code and that they intend to respect its provisions. 70% & MARKETING Our goal is to ensure that 70% of our Patients Pharmacies and hospital pharmacies key suppliers meet all the requirements described in the Code of Conduct by 2018. PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS Transport companies Waste treatment companies 25 26 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT INNOVATION In 2015-2016: Innovation is the basis for development in the pharmaceutical industry. For us, innovation means not only investment in state-of-the-art laboratories or development of new molecules, but also the neverending everyday improvement of therapies provided to our patients. We enhance technological, marketing, organisational and improvement innovations. This helps us improve the form of our products to better We invested over PLN We developed 10 inventions relating to In this period, we obtained 14 RAW MATERIAL meet patient needs, as well as increase operational efficiency, hone our production processes and substance 474 million in R&D in our API manufacturing for which we requested patents protecting 2 API production synthesis methods, reduce our environmental impact, and communicate with patients and doctors more Polish locations. protection by filing 16 patent applications. technologies and 1 formulation effectively. SOURCING Our R&D efforts also resulted in 13 patent. inventions relating to finished dosage We are continuously developing our R&D facilities and implement innovative technology and scientific forms for which 15 patent applications solutions. As stated by the report of the European Patent Office, we ranked first among Polish companies were filed. Another undeniable success in 2016 in terms of the number of European patent applications. We strengthen the culture of innovation was requesting patent protection for 3 where employees share their ideas and are not afraid of taking the risks inherent in the innovation process. inventions relating to biologicals developed We develop cooperation with universities and scientific institutions, and support the most talented Polish at Polpharma Biologics R&D centre. scientists. We also contribute to the education of the medical and pharmaceutical communities and develop PRODUCTION innovative tools based on new technologies to make doctors’ and pharmacists’ work easier. Reference to the CSR Strategy Polpharma Group runs about 240 Polpharma’s four R&D facilities in Our Biotechnology Division in the We strengthen our internal DISTRIBUTION R&D projects. Poland employ 466 highly qualified Gdańsk Science and Technology culture which fosters innovation, Our commitments specialists, including 74 with a PhD degree, who come up with 30 to 40 Park (Polpharma Biologics) is one of the most advanced research knowledge sharing, mutual inspiration and rewarding of the 12. We implement innovative solutions new solutions every year. centres of this kind in Europe. best ideas put forward by our Polpharma’s 5 R&D projects employees. Our strategy is to reinvest profits from the sale of medicines involving follow-on biologics are in the development of products to address patient needs. We currently being conducted there. develop generics based on nanoand microparticles, patientIn 2015-2016, our employees put friendly drug delivery systems, innovative formulations and forward: new technologies. Biologics and follow-on drugs are one of SALES our priorities, offering hope to patients suffering from serious illnesses. »» 49 ideas to the Innovation & MARKETING Programme, of which 38 were We give our employees upskilling opportunities, and reward implemented. This represents a The financial value of the employee The resources obtained by the We establish partnerships with out-of-the-box thinking, independence, and initiatives that help nearly 20% increase in employee innovations implemented in the company to implement innovative other operators in Poland and us maximize our innovation and competitiveness. Since 2007, we suggested innovations company is approx. 31 million PLN projects are put to effective use. abroad to successfully implement have been giving “Innovation Awards” to employees who put compared to 2013-2014 per year, and the value of the In 2015-2016, we received financial innovative solutions and advanced forward ground-breaking initiatives for the organisation. Since »» 3,452 ideas were put forward Kaizen Programme ideas is about 3 support from EU funds of more therapies, including biologics. 2001, we have also rewarded small improvements suggested by to the Kaizen Programme, of million PLN per year. than 27.5 million PLN for R&D the employees as part of the Kaizen Programme. which 2,826 were adopted. projects on follow-on drugs. PARTNERS AND This represents a 59% increase compared to the 2012/13 and CUSTOMERS 2013/14 editions. 27 28 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Investment projects Most important investment projects We are the leader in the Polish healthcare industry in terms of investment. In addition to bringing value to the initiated in 2015-2016: company, our investment projects also contribute to the development of the Polish economy and the regions where we operate, as well as our suppliers and partners. Our investment projects support technological progress, allow us to Biologics Manufacturing Centre in New manufacturing facility in Sieradz create new jobs, and reflect the concept of reindustrialisation presented in the Strategy for Responsible Development Duchnice This investment project will allow us to double our RAW MATERIAL adopted by the Polish government in 2016. This is one of the most modern biotech plants in capabilities for manufacturing liquids, syrups and Europe and the largest greenfield investment project suspensions, including medicines for children. The new In 2015-2016, we invested more than 392 million PLN in the purchase of fixed assets for our plants and laboratories in SOURCING in the Polish pharmaceutical industry in recent years. site will be equipped with 4 modern production lines for Poland. It is an opportunity for the company to commercialize manufacturing non-sterile liquid drug forms, together its biologicals on a global scale. The facility will be with the necessary infrastructure, including a sewage equipped with six 2,000-litre bioreactors, with a pre-treatment plant. An extension of the logistics and possible extension to twelve 2,000-litre bioreactors and warehousing facilities will also be necessary. The entire installation for manufacturing finished dosage forms. investment project will result in the creation of approx. Approximately 500 members of staff are planned to be 100 new jobs. The facility will start operations in 2019. employed at the centre. The launch of the new site is PRODUCTION scheduled for the end of 2019. A new factory in Duchnice. Facade designed by Dante O. Benini & Partners Architects. DISTRIBUTION SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 29 30 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT R AW MATER I AL S O UR C IN G RAW MATERIAL SOURCING Our products are manufactured using a variety of raw materials, including chemical substances and solvents, active pharmaceutical ingredients and excipients, packaging materials and other components. The environmental impact of raw materials is analysed already at the R&D stage. We look for raw materials that are safer for humans and the environment, eliminate or minimise the use of toxic solvents and substances, and optimise the use of PRODUCTION utilities in our processes. We have stringent requirements for our suppliers to ensure that all materials are of adequate quality. All our suppliers undergo a qualification process coordinated by the Quality Assurance Department and regular quality audits. In addition to quality requirements in our supply chain, we also use ethical DISTRIBUTION conduct standards set out in the Polpharma Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Our goal is to build relationships with suppliers based on partnership by sharing our knowledge and best practices and encouraging suppliers to implement advanced solutions, and we contribute to their growth by granting long-term contracts. We also engage in a variety of internal activities to support implementation of the Sustainable Supply Chain Strategy. All these efforts translate into better management and minimised risks in the Group’s supply chain. SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 31 32 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Our economic, social and environmental Associated risks Our activities impacts on stakeholders and the business »» The risk of disruption to continuity of manufacturing »» Suppliers of production inputs are qualified in environment operations due to lack of access to raw materials accordance with the Good Manufacturing Practice and production inputs »» We diversify our procurement sources to reduce the »» Risk of violation of human rights or employee rights risk of being dependent on a single supplier RAW MATERIAL during raw material extraction or manufacturing »» We modify our manufacturing technologies to use Impact on the economy Impact on the society »» Risk of air pollution, road accidents and release raw materials, solvents, and packaging that are safer »» We have been a long-standing customer of raw »» We develop our suppliers through regular of dangerous substances during transport of raw for the environment SOURCING materials, packaging and other production materials cooperation, quality improvement and joint materials »» We raise awareness of ethical standards among our suppliers implementation of innovations suppliers »» We engage Polish suppliers and contractors in many »» We inspire and encourage others to share their »» We purchase raw materials collectively using the international projects knowledge, experience and tools synergy effect, thus reducing the Group’s carbon »» We encourage suppliers to put in place measures footprint relating to human rights, ethics and safety Impact on the environment »» We use raw materials and natural resources PRODUCTION »» We release pollution into the air during transport of raw materials DISTRIBUTION SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 33 34 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF CONDUCT We expect our suppliers to have measures in place ensuring: FOR SUPPLIERS Compliance Enforcing the rules We expect all our suppliers, regardless of their country taking an online questionnaire, they receive feedback among their employees of origin, to adhere to the rules of conduct laid down on their level of compliance with the requirements set and sub-suppliers RAW MATERIAL in Polpharma Group’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers. A out in the Code, together with recommended changes. reference to the Code is an integral part of our purchase The questionnaire is used for preliminary evaluation of orders, and clauses on ethical conduct mentioning the suppliers, and its results are confidential and accessible SOURCING Code are included in all our contracts. The Code of to Polpharma’s Purchasing Department only. If a supplier Conduct addresses issues pertaining to ethics, human finds that he is unable to meet our expectations at this Review and Sustainable rights, occupational health and safety, product quality, initial stage, he may contact us so that we can work out supervision development environmental protection and research. It’s the first step a recovery plan together. awareness to continuous development of Polpharma Group’s supply chain, and adherence to its provisions is an essential criterion in the supplier assessment and selection PRODUCTION process. We expect every employee representing the supplier SUPPLIER to comply with Polpharma Group’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers, both in interactions with our company and any EDUCATION AND other entity. We are convinced that the Code’s principles help suppliers to effectively manage and strengthen COMMITMENT the ethics culture in their organisations. We are aware that our suppliers may need to make organisational changes to meet the expectations described in the DISTRIBUTION Code. Since some of those changes need time to be Since its founding, Polpharma has strived to improve implemented, the processes may be adapted gradually quality management of its suppliers, and minimise the where necessary. We monitor the level of our suppliers’ risks in its supply chain. We choose to build awareness adherence to the Code’s principles, and offer support and educate our partners, and the standards required by inviting our suppliers to share any comments or from our suppliers are implemented through agreement1 doubts regarding compliance with the Code in their and collaboration. organisations. We are also happy to share our experience and best practices in building a culture of ethics in a We engage in supplier education. To make this easier, company. We intend to launch a supplier ethics audit we have launched a dedicated platform, www.dostawca. programme as part of the Sustainable Supply Chain polpharma.pl, which is our main supplier communication SALES Strategy. A pilot audit programme is scheduled for 2018. tool. & MARKETING Our suppliers are also encouraged to take a selfIn 2015-2016, we organised 4 workshops dedicated to our assessment survey to determine if they meet the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which were attended by basic corporate social responsibility and sustainable a total of 148 suppliers. We also prepared an e-learning development criteria, as required by the Code. After course in two language versions. Our suppliers are encouraged to share their solutions with us. Based on their input, we published a guidebook on best practices in a sustainable supply chain. PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 35 36 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT PRODUCT I O N Pharmaceutical production involves many crucial processes RAW MATERIAL in the company. These include product quality assurance, minimising environmental impacts of the manufacturing SOURCING processes, as well as safety, development and commitment of all our employees. Occupational health and safety, employee upskilling, and intergenerational management are also extremely important to us. As our production sites are part of the local communities, we engage in numerous PRODUCTION initiatives dedicated to local residents and development of the regions where we operate. DISTRIBUTION SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 37 38 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Our economic, social and environmental impacts on stakeholders and the business environment RAW MATERIAL Impact on the economy Impact on the society SOURCING »» Our production sites are significant employers and »» We provide patients with high quality, safe and contribute to economic development in the regions effective medicinal products »» We bring highly advanced technologies to our »» We manufacture drug forms that improve treatment regions, bridge business and science, and create jobs comfort and efficacy for highly qualified specialists »» We provide education and training to our staff to meet the needs of modern industry Impact on the environment PRODUCTION »» Our production processes cause environmental emissions which are monitored and minimised »» We raise environmental awareness through various initiatives which we promote among our employees and the local communities (e.g. cycling to work, tree planting) Associated risks Our activities »» Failures causing disruptions to the continuity of »» We have an advanced quality assurance and control manufacturing operations and drug supply system in place DISTRIBUTION »» Risk of environmental pollution during »» We use cutting-edge price-efficient technologies manufacturing and product transportation which are safe for our employees and the »» Risk of accidents at work environment »» Regulatory changes which may lead to increased »» We continuously modernise and upgrade our production costs, and ultimately higher product machinery and have a policy of duplication of prices paid by patients manufacturing locations for strategic medicines »» Insufficient number of qualified employees »» We implement employee development and »» Inappropriate disposal of unsold or unused products commitment building programmes »» We offer dual education to secondary school students to provide practical training to future staff for the industry SALES »» We develop OHS awareness programmes for our employees & MARKETING »» We run an employee innovation programme and other initiatives to reward ideas shared by the employees »» We monitor and manage our impact on the environment »» We implement advanced solutions to help protect the environment, and invest in environmental education of our employees PARTNERS AND »» We have increased recycling and waste disposal CUSTOMERS 39 40 VISION AND We also have 5 state-of-the-art production facilities and 4 R&D laboratories in Poland. With over 4,300 staff DEVELOPMENT members, we are the largest employer in the pharmaceutical industry in Poland. Apart from being a significant 2015 2016 employer in the regions where our facilities are located, we are also an important buyer of products and services. We are also fully aware of the impact that manufacturing operations have on the environment and the local women men women men communities. In addition to ensuring ongoing monitoring, we are also committed to reducing our environmental AGE ≤ 29 30-50 51 ≤ ≤ 29 30-50 51 ≤ ≤ 29 30-50 51 ≤ ≤ 29 30-50 51 ≤ impact, and we engage with the local communities. Turnover 35 107 42 22 78 31 39 128 51 37 132 48 Turnover rate 0.8% 2.5% 1.0% 0.5% 1.8% 0.7% 0.9% 3.0% 1.2% 0.9% 3.1% 1.1% RAW MATERIAL New employee 112 125 5 69 96 12 113 123 4 104 141 8 MANUFACTURING hires Percentage of SOURCING new employee 2.6% 2.9% 0.1% 1.6% 2.3% 0.3% 2.6% 2.9% 0.1% 2.4% 3.3% 0.2% QUALITY hires Reproducible top quality necessitates not only of the continuous quality system improvement advanced technologies and comprehensive quality process in an organisation is the cooperation control systems, but also responsible employee with pharmaceutical supervisory authorities and attitudes. Fully aware of our responsibility for patient customers. We undergo regular audits by the Chief PRODUCTION health and life, we do not compromise on the quality Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, and supervisory The same wage setting rules apply to all Polpharma Personal and professional development of our and safety of our products. authorities in countries where our products are employees. We have a fair and transparent wage policy employees is of great importance to us. We promote distributed, as well as by certification bodies, and the in place, as well as a job evaluation committee, a rating practical use of the skills acquired at work and foster Our operations fully meet the requirements set out Chief Sanitary Inspectorate, while the API plant where system and a bonus scheme, and employee pay is a dialogue between our hires and their managers. Joint in the Pharmaceutical Law and Good Manufacturing active pharmaceutical ingredients are manufactured is determined based on the employee’s qualifications and development planning is a key element of an annual Practice, as well as European and international audited by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). grade. Base salary rates are listed in the wage tariff. review conversation between an employee and his/ regulations on the manufacturing of medicinal On average, approximately 50 audits and inspections her manager. Our development philosophy is based products and medical devices. An integral part take place at our pharmaceutical plant in Starogard All employees with employment contracts, whether on on the 70/20/10 rule, which means that 70% of the Gdański each year. a full-time or part-time basis, enjoy the same access to development is through experience, 20% through benefits and allowances arising from generally applicable learning from others, and 10% through formal learning, DISTRIBUTION provisions in place in each of the Group companies. such as workshops and training sessions. EMPLOYER OF Employment We subsidise employee holidays, sport activities and participation in cultural events, and offer benefits, such CHOICE Women as MultiSport cards and extended medical insurance packages. Our employees have access to preferential life insurance, regardless of their working time arrangements. 2,306 2,334 The qualities that we are looking for in our team 2015 r.: 2016 r.: members are knowledge, experience, passion, and commitment. We have a carefully designed and fair HR policy in place based on transparent procedures to attract and fully use employee potential. We ensure objectivity of periodic performance reviews, maintain a Men Employees covered by SALES 1,950 1,969 collective agreements continuous dialogue with our employees, and address 2015 r.: 2016 r.: & MARKETING their needs and expectations. Our guiding principles are equal opportunity and equal treatment. We want to be the employer of choice for our employees. Collective bargaining agreements covering all workforce (except the management boards) are in place at the It’s their commitment and competencies that allow us Pharmaceutical Plant in Starogard Gdański, the Biotechnology Division in Gdańsk, Polfa Warszawa, and Medana to run and continue growing our business. Therefore, Total Pharma. In the remaining companies and divisions of the Polpharma Group (Manufacturing Division in Duchnice, we provide a friendly work place, competitive Manufacturing Division in Nowa Dęba and the Trade Office in Warsaw) remuneration policies are in place. In 2015 and 4,256 4,303 remuneration, broad opportunities for professional 2015 r.: 2016 r.: 2016, collective agreements covered a total of 66.1% and 66.3% of Polpharma Group employees in Poland, respectively. development and a comprehensive employee benefit PARTNERS AND scheme. CUSTOMERS 41 42 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Reference to the CSR Strategy Employee health and safety are a top priority in our daily work. We are continuously looking for ways to make the work environment, tools and conditions even safer, more comfortable and friendly. Both Polpharma and third-party Our commitments employees working at our facilities must undergo mandatory OHS training. 7. We ensure and promote elevated standards of work safety RAW MATERIAL We are very serious about employee safety. Despite a significant increase in production volumes, more staff, the Safety in 2015-2016: need for shift work, and implementation of new machines and technologies, we have maintained a high safety level SOURCING and prevented serious injuries at work. In 2015-2016, we only saw 3 minor incidents more than in the previous period 0 0 75 Fatal accidents at Serious accidents Minor accidents with respect to accidents caused by human factors. Each year, we undertake relevant educational activities to reduce work at work at work, including the number of work accidents. Our efforts include additional training sessions and disciplinary conversations, Safety accidents equated with Partners meetings in each business area, articles in the employee magazines, OHS incidents alerts, and information occupational accidents resources, such as leaflets or posters. Total number of accidents at work*: OHS training in 2015-2016: 2015: 21 Women 2016 r.: 22 Women 1,307 New employee hires, trainees, and students initiating internships underwent OHS training PRODUCTION Zero serious accidents at In 2015-2016, no serious work Through education activities, we will reduce 14 18 work by 2018 accidents were reported the contribution of the human factor to work 4,394 Subcontractors’ employees underwent OHS training accidents relating to industrial operations by 50%. Men Men * These data do not include subcontractors DISTRIBUTION We have a certified Integrated Environmental and OSH Management System in place under which the Occupational Health and Safety Policy was implemented. It enables us to actively identify safety issues. To effectively communicate safety messages to our employees, we use the Safety Info website, our employee magazines “Panaceum” and “Remedium”, as well as Corporate OHS Service notifications describing the steps to take to mitigate the identified risks. Selected OHS initiatives: »» Regular campaigns “Healthy and safe workplace” »» First aid training: We want first aid to be an instinct conducted by the Corporate OHS Service in for our employees and associates. The events collaboration with the Central Institute for Labour organised in our companies as part of the OHS Week Protection (CIOP). In 2016, the campaign slogan was contribute to our educational efforts in this field. SALES “Safe at the start line, healthy at the finish line”. For many years now, first aid has also been part of & MARKETING »» The “Stop Accidents” prevention programme the Polpharma Open Days event where we educate promoting and rewarding employee engagement in the attendees in this respect. work safety. As part of this initiative, our employees can also report subcontractors attempting to dangerously perform onsite work. In 2015 and 2016, 894 and 1039 near-misses were recorded, respectively, which allowed us to implement corrective measures and eliminate the risks. PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 43 44 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMITMENT We offer an extensive training programme to our employees, tailored to individual needs and development pathway based on their performance and competency assessment. We support employee development with dedicated tools. RAW MATERIAL These include the HR Portal available on the intranet, which is a source of hands-on and up-to-date HR knowledge, including training and development opportunities. Another important tool is the Training Curriculum which is a list of recommended training for each role. Each employee may decide in consultation with his/her line manager which skills he/she wants to develop and strengthen by attending external training from the list. Since 2015, these tools SOURCING have been available to all employees, and in 2016 e-learning and audiobook catalogues were added to the Training Curriculum. Additionally, we co-finance our employees’ postgraduate courses and training, as well as foreign language courses (English and Russian). Hours of training (not including OHS training) PRODUCTION 2015 2016 women men women men Total number of employees 2,306 1,950 2,334 1,969 Managers and executives 255 316 271 329 Individual contributors 2,051 1,634 2,063 1,640 HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Managers and executives 9,884 13,333 7,090 7,532 Individual contributors 33,626 20,753 26,587 20,705 Total hours of training 43,510 34,086 33,677 28,237 DISTRIBUTION AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY Managers and executives 39 42 26 23 Individual contributors 16 13 13 13 Total hours of training 19 17 14 14 Career pathways is another solution available to all employees. Providing information about the requirements for SALES promotion within the company, it helps our staff plan their career and accomplish their long-term career goals in a structured way. & MARKETING We also continue running our management skills improvement programmes which play an important role in ensuring continuity of employment: »» Career Engine – a development programme addressed to Polpharma’s talented leaders »» LEADER– a programme supporting newly hired staff and newly appointed managers in building engaged and motivated teams; »» Polfa Warszawa Manager Academy – a series of training courses addressed to team managers at Polfa Warszawa. PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 45 46 VISION AND We also run numerous programmes and competitions to motivate and reward Employee recognition mechanisms play an important role We assess the employees’ level of engagement on DEVELOPMENT employees acting as role models for their colleagues: at Polpharma, helping us to boost employee satisfaction a regular basis. Our efforts go far beyond a simple »» Amber Galen Award – the highest distinction at Polpharma Group awarded to individuals or teams for promoting and engagement, and foster successful teamwork. In questionnaire survey. We maintain an active dialogue the Company’s values through their attitude or behaviour addition to thanking the employees face-to-face for with our employees to better understand what areas »» Innovation of the Year – a programme rewarding the best process, product or organisational innovations their efforts and performance and offering financial need to be improved and to involve our people in submitted by employees rewards, the company has additional appreciation and developing solutions. In 2015-2016, our employees »» Kaizen Programme – a competition reinforcing the culture of continuous improvement in daily work where awards rewarding tools in place. These include empowerment suggested over 70 improvements, most of which RAW MATERIAL are given to the best idea, the most active participant and the best team and giving our employees ambitious challenges that we have been successfully implemented. Those included »» Green Process Award – an award given to employees who contribute to the improvement of production process trust they will be able to address, together with the onboarding standards, common rules on communicating eco-efficiency. necessary resources and space. key projects, and helping employees to enroll their SOURCING children in kindergartens close to work. Polpharma also runs a Distinction Programme. To reward a specific behaviour or action of an employee, the Percentage of employees undergoing regular performance and career development manager may award points to the employee which he/ reviews* she can then exchange for a prize on the online platform MyBenefit. 2015 2016 PRODUCTION Managers and executives women 96% men 97% total 96% women 95% men 97% suma 96% Programmes to attract employees Individual contributors 96% 97% 96% 93% 95% 94% Percentage of employees To attract talents, Polpharma runs dedicated programmes for students and graduates, and is involved in initiatives to 96% 97% 96% 96% 95% 94% undergoing review provide practical education to secondary school students in order to meet the needs of the modern industry. * Employees returning from a long-term leave of absence or currently on a leave of absence and staff members who have been with the company for less than 6 months are not subject to the review. Polpharma Academy Polpharma Academy is a programme addressed to graduates in chemistry, pharmacy, biotechnology, medicine and DISTRIBUTION related sciences which enables them to get an understanding of a pharmaceutical company by working on tasks specific to each department. It gives the participants an opportunity to confront their knowledge with practice, and Reference to the CSR Strategy helps them choose the business area where they will feel most comfortable as an employee. The best participants are offered a 7-month internship which may lead to regular employment at the company. In 2015-2016, 29 people took part in the project. Our commitments 8. We nurture employee growth and commitment Dual education In 2016, in collaboration with the Polish Noble Prize Winners Technical Secondary School No. 1 in the Starogard Gdański Economics School Complex, we set up a dual class offering students an opportunity to train as laboratory technicians. Thanks to this collaboration project, students have the chance to gain theoretical knowledge at school and gain practical skills at Polpharma’s laboratories. The students can use innovative measuring equipment, tools and reagents. SALES The 4-year programme covers as least 750 hours of practical vocational education and 240 hours of apprenticeship. We have implemented a new All employees are now We have increased the number This is one of the first extensive collaboration projects in dual education in Poland. We intend to invite the students to & MARKETING work for Polpharma after graduating. Thanks to the dual education model, the students can become better prepared competency model. Since subject to performance of employees engaged in internal for the job and understand the intricacies of our business. 2016, it has been used the at review based on the new initiatives (including innovation, the entire Polpharma Group. competency model. community involvement, and safety). Career Laboratory The Career Laboratory is a programme addressed to ambitious students and graduates in Life Sciences. It offers participants the opportunity to complete a one-year internship at Polpharma’s Biotechnology Division. The aim of this project is to show young Polish scientists that it is worth to further their career in our country in the most advanced PARTNERS AND biotechnology centre in Poland. The programme is very popular among students, attracting applicants from over 30 CUSTOMERS Polish universities. In the two editions of the programme completed to date, a total of over 2,500 applications were received from which more than 40 best interns were selected. 47 48 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT A CULTURE OF growing faster than in the remaining business areas. This study allowed us to identify key risks for the organisation, such Employees with disabilities DIVERSITY as the risk of disruption to the continuity of the company’s intellectual capital management, a likely decrease in efficiency, In recent years, we have taken measures to increase employment of people with disabilities in our organisation. We a shortfall in key skills due to the aging of the workforce, and have also made the necessary adjustments in our Warsaw office to accommodate people with motor disabilities. By It is of utmost importance for us to ensure that all a difficulty in maintaining continuous production due to staff implementing the recommendations of the architecture audit carried out by the Integracja Foundation, we were able our employees are treated equally and have equal shortages in the medium term. To minimise these risks and to meet the necessary requirements to obtain the Obiekt bez barier (Barrier-Free Building) Certificate by the end of RAW MATERIAL opportunities for development. Our company culture is a improve intergenerational collaboration, we have prepared 2016. culture of openness to all, regardless of gender, age, origin, various measures which we will start implementing in 2017. These include generational management training for manages Reference to the CSR Strategy nationality, religion, sexual orientation, appearance, health, SOURCING physical ability or any other aspect of diversity. Diversity and employer branding activities to attract young employees. management is a conscious effort in our company which We are also working on mentoring programme to include means that we acknowledge the differences between experienced staff members in educating new hires. our employees and develop adequate policies and Our commitments programmes. This is reflected in Polpharma Group’s Code 9. We build a culture of diversity of Ethics which highlights the importance of diversity. The aim of diversity management is to create a work Management Board PRODUCTION environment where every employee feels respected and appreciated, and can achieve his/her full potential. At the same time, we do not tolerate any form of discrimination, isolation, harassment or mockery, as regulated by our Code composition in Polpharma Intergenerational management has been considered a key We have also made the necessary of Ethics and the Procedure for Prevention of Mobbing and Discrimination at Work. Group companies* diversity management challenge in our company. In 2017, we will launch dedicated educational activities for Polpharma Group adjustments in our head office in Warsaw to accommodate people with motor disabilities, managers in Poland. and took measures to increase employment 33% 67 % Women Men of professionals with disabilities. Since becoming a Diversity Charter signatory in 2015, the have been actively engaged in promoting this initiative with the help and support of the Responsible Business ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PRINCIPLE 7 DISTRIBUTION Forum. 44 % 56 % MANUFACTURING Aged 30-50 Aged 51 and above Intergenerational * Status at the end of 2016 We are a manufacturing company, and all manufacturing Detailed guidelines for operation are processes have an impact on the environment and provided in our declarations: Management The Management Board of Polpharma S.A. includes 3 environmental resources. Therefore, we continuously »» The Green Process Declaration: optimising and men who are foreigners. improve process efficiency, reasonably manage our streamlining technological and support processes Intergenerational management is a key aspect of diversity energy and water consumption and pollutant emissions, »» The Solvent Management Declaration: minimising management in our company. and ensure safe use of chemicals. We are continuously solvent use and using the least environmentally improving and developing our environmental SALES burdensome solvents We care about employees aged 45 and over. In 2015-2016, At the end of 2016, we analysed the age structure of management systems. We use metrics that allow us »» Waste Management Declaration: minimising waste we organised a lifelong learning workshop as part of the to track changes in the business environment and take and maximising recycling & MARKETING our workforce and the challenges it represents for the National Training Fund for nearly 100 staff members from company. This study was based on a review of trends in mitigating measures. »» Eco-Transport Declaration: promoting safe and this age group. The workshop covered both specialised demographics, labour market and education, as well as environmentally-friendly personal transport options, subjects, such as chromatography or production process quantitative data relating to employment at Polpharma Our activities to ensure sustainable development are including cycling and public transportation.. management, and collaboration in an intergenerational Group (age, gender, seniority and absenteeism) and inbased on the Integrated Occupational Health and Safety team. Additionally, this age group was offered dedicated depth interviews with managers. The analysis shows that and Environment Management System conforming to MS Office user training and foreign language courses. the percentage of older employees has increased, while ISO 14001 (environmental management), OHSAS 18001 These declarations are available at www.polpharma. the percentage of staff members aged 25 or younger has and PN-N-18001 (OHS management), and PN-EN 17025 We also keep in touch with retired employees of the pl under Corporate Social Responsibility. (quality management for testing laboratories) standards. PARTNERS AND declined at Polpharma. Special focus should be given to Polpharma Group. We regularly hold meetings with our production where roughly 36% of the company’s total The policies implemented within the system include the retirees, and invite them to company events to help them workforce is employed, and their average age has been Environmental Sustainability Policy, the Occupational CUSTOMERS stay active and pursue their passions. Health and Safety Policy and the Laboratory Management Policy. 49 50 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Our Environmental Goals PRINCIPLE 9 Environmental protection investments and expenditure (PLN) Total expenditure 18,278,974 19,448,962 Polpharma Group’s long-term environmental goals for 2015-2020 based on significant 2015 r.: 2016 r.: environmental aspects: »» Reduce electricity and heating usage »» ncrease the use of recycled packaging materials Total investments »» RAW MATERIAL Reduce waste and increase the percentage of waste undergoing recycling and recovery 8,477,700 1,691,000 2015 r.: 2016 r.: »» Reduce CO2 emissions from personal transportatio »» Reduce water withdrawal SOURCING »» ncrease the quantity of regenerated solvents. Key initiatives taken in 2015 and 2016 to mitigate the environmental impacts of manufacturing: Substance Management and Process Mass »» Optimisation of the cooling system performance by integrating three cooling sources into one control system which »» allows the company to save 340 MWh of electricity and 470 GJ of heat per year Implementation of a new avanafil manufacturing technology on a semi-commercial scale where the use of the solvent Intensity PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 (dimethyl sulfoxide) was abandoned, and explosive hydroxybenzotriazole was replaced with non-explosive Oxyma By maximising the use of inputs and raw materials, we can minimise emissions of pollutants and other environmental PRODUCTION »» Reduction in the quantity of solvents used by 17%, and waste generated in the manufacturing of topiramate by 11%, impacts. Therefore, our ambition is to continuously improve our manufacturing processes to reduce the use of which reduced the risk of employee exposure to dangerous chemicals materials, including packaging, and chemical substances, especially the most dangerous ones. Since 2009, we have »» Reduction in heat losses thanks to the use of innovative equipment and pipe insulation solutions, which allowed the monitored the efficiency of each manufacturing process using Process Mass Intensity (PMI). This has allowed us to company to save 2,336 GJ of heat per year gradually increase the use of regenerated solvents. »» Improvement of apixaban manufacturing technology which reduced isopropanol solvent use by 10 times »» Improvement of repaglinide manufacturing technology which eliminated the use of two solvents: ethyl acetate and methyl tert-butyl ether. Solvent management The achievement of our environmental objectives by minimising our environmental footprint, prevention and ensuring the Organic solvents are used in the manufacturing of drugs and chemical substances. The principles of organic solvent management are as follows: DISTRIBUTION safety of our processes requires continuing investments. Over the last years, Polpharma Group’s major projects in terms of »» Eliminate halogenated solvents and solvents with proven carcinogenic, mutagenic and teratogenic properties spending included upgrading of the brine production and distribution plant, modernisation of the river pipeline, upgrading »» Reduce solvent use of the central compressed air production plant, and implementation of the initiatives under the Sustainable Development »» Maximise solvent regeneration and recovery Programme. The remaining expenditure was related to ensuring compliance of the company’s ongoing activities with the applicable legal requirements. We carefully analyse all chemicals used, including solvents, to make sure that our raw materials have the least Polpharma Group has various measures in place to possible impact on the environment. Solvents which cannot be regenerated due to quality issues are forwarded promote a culture of environmental care to our waste incinerator plant for heat recovery. Halogenated solvents are neutralised by licensed waste disposal contractors. Green Process Awards PRINCIPLE 7 Total use of raw materials and inputs in kg SALES & MARKETING 16,646,203 15,227,254 2015: 2016: We recognise and reward employees who show exceptional care for the environment. The Green Process Awards are given to people whose ideas have allowed us to improve efficiency of our production processes. Each year, our employees submit about 15 projects which are then assessed based on pre-defined criteria by the company’s key representatives. The * All resources used are non-renewable programme offers benefits to the environment, as well as Polpharma Group. Thanks to our employees’ suggestions, we began using recycled cardboard packaging and materials recovered from composite packaging, and eliminated dangerous solvents from many manufacturing processes. Percentage of recycled input materials used in manufacturing PARTNERS AND 29 initiatives 76 people PLN 1,870,311 2015: 19 % 2016: 24% of employees in 2015 and 2016 engaged in projects financial gains CUSTOMERS 51 52 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Energy Waste management ZASADA 7 The nature of the pharmaceutical industry makes energy management extremely complex at Polpharma. We need to We undertake multiple steps to minimise the amount of waste. We implement low-waste technologies, optimise balance the need to use energy-intensive air conditioning systems to meet stringent requirements for pharmaceutical processes, and use top quality raw materials. The Company generates about 50 different types of waste, including manufacturing with the growing environmental standards. The systems reducing air emissions also use of a lot 20 hazardous types. of energy. Nevertheless, we have been able to continuously reduce energy consumption by implementing several initiatives as part of the Energy-Saving Programme, which has been in place at Polpharma since 2009. Aside from In 2016, 67.5% of waste generated by the Group was sent for recovery or recycling. In 2016, we separated these two RAW MATERIAL technical and technological solutions, internal and external audits are also a very effective tool that helps us to processes for the first time. Recovery is mostly possible for solvents, wooden packaging, composite packaging, optimise our energy consumption, and raise energy awareness among our staff. rubble, and certain types of manufacturing waste. Recycling is the disposal method for plastic, paper, steel and glass. SOURCING The remaining waste is neutralised by professional contractors with no harm to the environment. Hazardous waste is transported in compliance with the international ADR regulations. Total power consumption [GJ] 756,248 747,333 2015: 2016: Waste is separated at the source (on-site), and disposed in specially selected and properly identified safe locations. We regularly assess the environmental impact of waste and are looking for new recycling, recovery and neutralisation opportunities, as well as safe ways of storing and moving waste. In 2015, Medana Pharma S.A. was required to pay liquidated damages of PLN 8,983 for discharging wastewater with elevated levels of contaminants into a municipal sewer. To ensure compliance with all requirements, a sewage pre-treatment plant is currently being built at the new PRODUCTION Water PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 9 manufacturing site in Sieradz. Water is one of the most precious natural resources, and we are committed to reducing water consumption as one of our environmental goals. The plant in Starogard Gdański has its own river water intake and four deep water wells, while the Group’s remaining locations use the municipal water supply system. We optimise our manufacturing, Reference to the CSR Strategy cooling and fire protection processes, enhance water system efficiency, and quickly eliminate any leaks. Total water withdrawal from all sources (m3) Our commitments PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 10. We care about the environment 3,160,449 3,324,688 DISTRIBUTION 2015: 2016: We have committed to achieving the following goals compared PRINCIPLE 9 to the base-year of 2014: In 2014-2016, a higher intake of river water was recorded due to the implementation of our investment projects and the launch of new refrigeration units. Withdrawal and consumption of well water fluctuates depending on the To reduce heating by 6%. To reduce electric energy To reduce water withdrawal by 10%. quantity and types of products manufactured in each year. Well water is also used for household purposes. We have consumption 6%. In 2016, water withdrawal increased launched the “Don’t Waste Water” Programme to reduce consumption of this natural resource. Since 2010, we have In 2016, we achieved a 1.23% increase In 2016, we achieved a 7.20% by 37.0%, mainly due to the been running a campaign to raise the employees’ awareness about reasonable use of water for household purposes which resulted from larger production reduction which resulted from commissioning of cooling equipment (bathrooms and kitchen) and manufacturing (washing and cleaning of equipment). We are modernising our process SALES volumes. multiple modernisation projects at the drug manufacturing plant, and cooling systems so that well water is only used if river water does not have the required temperature. Industrial as part of the Energy Saving a relatively warm summer. effluents and sewage generated by the Starogard Gdański Plant are forwarded to an on-site treatment plant which & MARKETING Programme. ensures that contaminants in treated wastewater are within the acceptable range. In 2015-2016, the contaminant reduction efficiency expressed as the reduction in chemical oxygen demand (COD) was 95.03%. We have been able to achieve this thanks to the use of innovative technologies and improvements both in manufacturing and effluent treatment processes. The wastewater generated in the other Polpharma Group locations goes to municipal treatment plants. To increase the use of recycled To recycle 80% of all generated To reduce waste volume packaging materials to 50%. waste. by 10%. Total water discharge (m ) 3 In 2016, we achieved 67.51%. We PARTNERS AND The use of recycled carboard unit have been steadily increasing In 2016, waste volume increased by 2,356,361 2,959,116 2015: 2016: dose packaging for our products has the quantity of waste sent to 12.5% due to the production range CUSTOMERS been steadily growing year by year. recovery and recycling. and more decommissioning. 53 54 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES LIVING NEAR OUR PLANTS A harmonious development is not only about how much a company grows but also how it engages with local communities. In 2015-2016, Polpharma’s plant in Starogard Gdański underwent a third-party audit to assess its RAW MATERIAL impact on respect of human rights. Engaging on a social level in the regions where we operate is crucial for us. It’s an important part of our CSR Strategy reflected by our motto: “People helping people.” For Polpharma Group, social SOURCING engagement means efforts and activities dedicated to education, disease prevention, promotion of a healthy lifestyle, social impact investment in the regions, local charitable campaigns, supporting culture, and employee volunteering programmes. Operated since 2013 at all Polpharma Group’s locations in Poland, employee volunteering programme is a meaningful contribution to local community development. The programme is a grant competition and provides cofunding to 20 most interesting project ideas proposed by our employees each year. Our employees are also engaged in other social initiatives: PRODUCTION In 2015 and 2016, the Group’s employees undertook projects to support the Reference to the elderly, people with disabilities, homeless, children living in orphanages, CSR Strategy »» Polpharma Open Day Each year, we invite the local community to »» The Island In early 2016, we launched a new pilot CSR and other beneficiaries. The initiatives Polpharma Open Day in Starogard Gdanski. On programme to provide long-term support to the included: »» Renovation of staff rooms, hospital rooms, school Our commitments this day, our employees, their families and local residents are able to find out how our products are families of children receiving long-term hospital treatment far from home. To identify the needs facilities and rehabilitation rooms, holding classes 4. We are engaged in local community manufactured in Polpharma’s state-of-the-art and of the programme’s beneficiaries, we held a series at schools, including chemistry, traffic rules trainings development safe facilities. The Open Day is also an opportunity of meetings across the country. These efforts led and interesting leisure activities (such as board to educate the attendees about disease prevention, to the development of a programme called Wyspa DISTRIBUTION games, physical activities, etc.) safety, and environmental protection. Experiments Spokojnych Rodziców (Parents’ Island of Peace of »» Organisation of trips to interesting destinations at the company’s labs, free screening tests, Mind or Island in short) to ensure that the little or meaningful activities for people struggling with exchange of waste paper for seedlings and bicycle patients and their families receive comprehensive social exclusion or people with disabilities fit and function check-up are some of the activities support, including assistance from a psychologist »» Art classes for children and seniors In 2016, we carried out a survey to find out what the that attract the local community to visit our plant and volunteers. We invited the Dajemy Dzieciom Siłę »» Workshops to help participants discover their local community in Starogard Gdański expects from on this day. Foundation to help us coordinate and implement talents and boost their confidence and self-esteem Polpharma in terms of social engagement. the pilot programme. We spent the second half »» » Christmas Charity of 2016 preparing for the programme launch with As part of the “Letter to Santa” initiative in 2015the help and support from medical personnel 2016, Polpharma Group’s employees prepared 621 working at the pilot locations: Department of Christmas presents for children from residential care Neurorehabilitation at the Children’s Memorial SALES 237 Number of homes, community centres and other educational Health Institute (CZD) in Warsaw, and Department & MARKETING volunteers in 2015care facilities. Additionally, our people joined the of Paediatrics, Haematology and Oncology at the 2016 We also surveyed participants of the volunteering national charitable campaign “Szlachetna Paczka” University Clinical Centre (UCK) in Gdańsk. In the programme to define how the programme should be (Noble Box). At company level, a total of 445 end of 2016, the Foundation’s volunteers and developed. employees engaged in the initiative forming more psychologists started visiting these departments 4,124 Number of hours than a dozen teams which collected PLN 39,550. The offering support to the children and their parents. worked teams provided both in-kind contributions (clothes, food, cleaning products, toys, and household appliances), as well as other forms of support, By the end of 2018, we intend to establish a good such as forklift truck operator course allowing the PARTNERS AND neighbourliness policy covering all Polpharma Group beneficiary to gain new skills, or a gas cylinder to CUSTOMERS locations in Poland. prepare hot meals. 55 56 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT DISTR IBUT I O N We ensure adequate quality of products in the distribution process RAW MATERIAL across the supply chain. Distribution of medicinal products and active pharmaceutical ingredients is subject to legal regulations. To SOURCING ensure compliance, Polpharma Group works with qualified carriers and forwarded and makes sure that the best route and vehicle are always used. Transportation of our products is monitored and controlled for compliance with storage and transport requirements. We also implemented production planning and inventory management systems PRODUCTION integrated with our customers which allows us to ensure continuous availability of our products across distribution channels. DISTRIBUTION SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 57 58 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Our economic, social and environmental Associated risks Our activities impacts on stakeholders and the business »» Insufficient availability of medications in the market »» We are working on projects with the key distribution environment »» Failure to ensure proper transport or storage conditions »» chain participants to improve cooperation We implement innovative systems for stock »» Generating waste during transportation management in the distribution chain RAW MATERIAL Impact on the economy Impact on the environment »» Risk associated with inappropriate use of medicines »» We follow safe storage and transport procedures »» We are the leading supplier for distributors of »» We cause air pollution emissions from transport withdrawn from the market »» We optimise deliveries by using electronic systems »» Risk of road accidents SOURCING medicinal products in Poland of our products, and we generate waste »» We contribute to our partners’ development and the business environment across the distribution chain Impact on the society »» We ensure a continuous supply of our products PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 59 60 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT TRANSPORT SECURITY Modern distribution solutions To ensure continuity of supply and continuous availability of our products for patients, we have implemented the Safe transport of raw materials and products Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) Model which allows the supplier (Polpharma Group) to manage the distributor’s inventory. This method of cooperation in the supply chain is known as CPFR (Collaborative Planning, Forecasting & Replenishment). We ensure that pharmaceutical ingredients and finished dosage forms are transported safely and in compliance with RAW MATERIAL national and international requirements. We use a supplier qualification process for transport service providers and In this model, the traditional commercial relationship is reversed because of transfer of responsibility. Polpharma enter into contracts with them which, apart from commercial terms and conditions, also set out detailed quality (the supplier) generates orders for the distributor based on his needs using the demand information provided by SOURCING requirements. We monitor the conditions during transport of raw materials and products to our customers. We the distributor. That way, we can manage the distributor’s inventory and create supply plans that are convenient for provide training to drivers handling our freight orders. Before handing our products to a driver, we check if the vehicle both parties. This is a highly innovative approach which helps optimise the supply chain and ensure availability of our is clean and in good working order. We monitor the entire route, and make sure that the goods are delivered to the products across distribution channels. destination on time and in the required conditions. Another innovative solution is the replacement of paper documents with electronic ones which started in late 2016. The aim of the Document Exchange Website project is to enable our business partners to download quality, Safe company vehicle fleet forwarding and sales documents relating to product deliveries from our electronic system. PRODUCTION We have one of the largest vehicle fleets on the market, mostly to support our sales force. We run a Safe Fleet Programme addressed to company car drivers comprising many complementing modules. These include: Safe Driving Code, training sessions to practice safe driving techniques and first aid skills, and implementation of corporate MINIMISING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT standards for company car equipment. Since environmental aspects, such as reduction of CO emissions, are a priority 2 for us, the Programme also promotes eco-driving and sustainable transportation. In 2015, we introduced the rescue card. It’s an outline of the car’s key structural components, such as bodywork reinforcements and airbags, on one A4 page. In case of an accident, a rescue card in the car can help to significantly speed up rescue operations when We are committed to protecting the removing casualties from wrecked vehicles. environment together with our suppliers DISTRIBUTION We optimise our material sourcing and goods transport processes by implementing integrated management systems. LOGISTICS & DISTRIBUTION CENTRE When purchasing raw materials, semi-finished products or packaging of adequate quality, we always choose those manufactured locally or as close from our sites as possible. We expect our transport service providers to adhere to international environmental protection standards. They should mitigate environmental risks through effective To ensure continuous supply of our products, we use a state-of-the-art warehouse with a high storage capacity of prevention and intervention, as well as provide regular training to their employees on how to ensure safety and 14,000 pallet units. We offer top quality customer service by ensuring fast order picking and stock reservation. manage the risks. The warehouse has rooms equipped with a special surveillance system for storing psychotropic drugs and narcotic Reference to the CSR Strategy substances. It also has a refrigerated facility and a dry area for storing products with special requirements. The SALES entire warehouse is air conditioned, which means that our products are stored in optimal conditions that meet the requirements for storing medicinal products. The facility has a sampling chamber and laminar flow hoods ensuring the highest standards of quality control sample collection. Our commitments & MARKETING 10. We care about the environment Customer satisfaction surveys Effective use of resources is one of the priorities of inform others that colleagues travelling in the same Polpharma Group’s sustainability policy. Therefore, in direction are welcome to share the car. With this Since 2004, we have conducted annual customer satisfaction surveys in Poland. The processes in the survey 2016 we implemented this principle to planning business initiative we are lowering our CO2 emissions and fuel include delivery, ordering, complaints and electronic data exchange. The Customer Satisfaction Survey enables us to trips by company vehicles. We modified the electronic consumption. We also purchase company cars that meet PARTNERS AND continuously improve cooperation with customers, adapt our operating model to the evolving market needs, and business travel register to include all branches in Poland. the European emission standards. constantly streamline our working practices at the organisation. We are one of the few Polish companies conducting When choosing to travel by company car, an employee CUSTOMERS this type of survey. Since 2014, we have also carried out a similar survey on foreign markets. can tick the appropriate box in the BTM system to 61 62 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT S A L ES & MA R KETING RAW MATERIAL SOURCING Our sales and marketing responsibility mainly refers to reliable product information, ethical advertising and education of doctors, pharmacists and patients. We monitor the quality of our marketing activities and continuously improve our standards in this respect. We comply with legal regulations on fair and responsible promotion and advertising, as well as industry codes. PRODUCTION Polpharma Group has an electronic system in place for the assessment and approval of promotional and advertising contents. All materials are subject to medical and legal evaluation. We abide by the fair competition rules. We do not discredit other companies or their products. In comparative advertisements, we always refer to objective and verifiable product characteristics. We collaborate with other pharmaceutical companies as part of our membership DISTRIBUTION in industry organisations by contributing to the development of ethical marketing and promotion codes, as well as disciplinary court proceedings. They allow the industry to eliminate ads that may be misleading or violate the law or ethical standards. SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 63 64 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Our economic, social and environmental impacts on stakeholders and the business environment RAW MATERIAL Impact on the economy Impact on the society »» We invest in the education of doctors, pharmacists »» We ensure availability of medicinal products SOURCING and patients »» We help doctors and pharmacists gain new »» We reduce treatment costs by raising health knowledge awareness among patients »» We contribute to a change in the patients’ health behaviour through education »» We advertise our products in compliance with Impact on the environment the law and ethical standards »» We use e-invoices »» We ensure reliability of product information »» We use packaging that can be recycled or and labels PRODUCTION recovered Associated risks Our activities »» Risk of inappropriate medication use by patients »» We engage in the development of industry due to incomprehensible information on the regulations which helps to raise the ethical packaging or in the patient leaflet or unambiguous standards in our sector DISTRIBUTION or misleading product advertisement »» We engage on both national and European level »» Risk of the advertisement being questioned in the development of transparency rules for the by a national supervision authority or industry generics section of the pharmaceutical business organisations’ disciplinary bodies leading to a loss »» We have created an electronic assessment and of the ad’s campaign costs and the company’s approval system to review ads from a legal and reputation medical perspective »» Risk of penalties imposed by national authorities if »» We publish books and educational resources for the ad is found to be violating the law doctors and pharmacists »» Risk of unclear or changing legal regulations »» We participate in scientific conferences and run »» Risk of generating waste: returns from the finished our own educational programmes for doctors and products market and unused marketing materials pharmacists SALES »» We provide an educational platform Polpharma TV for doctors & MARKETING »» We are committed to enhancing our employees’ knowledge and health awareness »» We duly handle complaints, analyse their causes, and implement corrective measures »» We conduct pharmacovigilance activities and analyse all reports of adverse events PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 65 66 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT RESPONSIBLE Legible packaging MARKETING We make sure that our packaging ensures safe product use and is patientand pharmacist-friendly. In 2016, in response to pharmacists’ requests, we started working on changes in the packaging system for Rx products to Our marketing activities are carried out in compliance with the law, industry regulations and the principles described make the dose information more visible and reduce the risk of product confusion. The final concept was selected in Polpharma Group’s Code of Ethics, as well as industry codes established by international organisations, such as the through dialogue with pharmacists, and has been implemented since 2017. We are also adapting our packaging to the RAW MATERIAL Medicines for Europe (MfE) Code of Conduct. requirements specified in the EU serialisation directive to protect product packaging against counterfeiting. SOURCING MfE Code of Conduct Accommodations for the visually-impaired Polpharma is a member of Medicines for Europe which brings together generic pharmaceutical companies and their national associations. The Code of Conduct adopted by MfE regulates the relationship between its members and To respond to the needs of the blind and partially-sighted end-users of our medicinal products, we have created healthcare professionals, pharmacists, healthcare organisations, patients, and patient organisations. In December 2015, audio-format patient information leaflets available at a toll-free number 800,706,848. The Ulotka Audio system a new chapter was added to the Code on transparency rules. As stipulated by these rules, MfE members are required provided by MEDsynC was devised in close cooperation with the Polish Association of the Blind. Our medicinal PRODUCTION to publicly disclose any benefits legally offered to healthcare professionals, pharmacists, healthcare organisations, product packages are provided with Braille labelling in compliance with relevant EU requirements. and patient organisations. These are considered “transfers of value”, and include sponsorship of participation in conferences and other scientific events, donations, payment for counselling services, etc. For the first time, MfE members will disclose data on transfers of value made in 2017. Relevant reports are to be made public by the end of June 2018. Other self-regulations Polpharma is also a member of the Polish Association of Pharma Industry Employers (PZPPF) and the Polish DISTRIBUTION Association of Self Medication Industry (PASMI). Both organisations have a marketing ethics code in place. As a member of MfE, PZPPF adopted the MfE Code of Conduct, while PASMI has its own Code in place applying to the promotion and advertising of OTC products. Disciplinary bodies have been established in both organisations to assess and eliminate advertisements and marketing or promotional activities that are inconsistent with the organisation’s rules. PASMI has a Disciplinary Court which reviews complaints and requests relating to PASMI Code violations. If a violation is found, a penalty may be imposed as defined in the Code. In the reported period, Polpharma, as a member of the Polish Association of Self Medication Industry (PASMI), was engaged in the formulation of a self-regulation on dietary supplement advertising, the Code of Good Practices in Dietary Supplement Advertising. The final version of the Code was adopted in the second half of 2016. Despite SALES signing a formal commitment to adhere the Code in March 2017, all our dietary supplement ads made since the beginning of 2017 are in line with the requirements described in the new regulation based on internal arrangements. & MARKETING PRODUCT LABELLING We comply with legal regulations relating to package inserts and labelling, which allows us to minimise the risks associated with inappropriate use of our products. All our package inserts undergo so-called readability tests. This PARTNERS AND way, we can be sure that patients are able to easily find and understand the right information, and know how to proceed. CUSTOMERS 67 68 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT ETHICAL ADVERTISING PHARMACOVIGILANCE Each year, we approve more than 3,000 pieces of advertising and promotional material for medicinal products, medical We carry out continuous pharmacovigilance activities to minimise the risks associated with the use of our products. devices, cosmetics, food supplements and dietary foods for special medical purposes. All of them contain information We place a special emphasis on the analysis of any information about adverse reactions. The medical evaluation that allows doctors, pharmacists and patients to make a conscious choice. of adverse event reports includes the analysis of causes, severity assessment, impact of comorbidities on the development of an adverse reaction and the effect of concomitant medication. We also analyse all other safetyRAW MATERIAL related information found in the literature or received from our business partners. When reviewing the collected data, e-Medical Legal Customer data we look for signs suggesting the existence of previously unknown risks for patients. We also carry out the drug’s final benefit to risk assessment, and make suggestions on how to minimise the existing risks. SOURCING e-Medical Legal is a system to review advertising and security promotional contents to ensure medical accuracy and compliance with the law and ethical standards. It is We assure customer data security by complying with used to approve all promotional materials, including TV, radio and online ads, booklets, brochures, posters, mobile the data protection regulations, keeping the necessary records, and registering our databased with the Medical Information ads, etc. Medical advisors involved in the assessment Inspector General for Personal Data Protection (GIODO). PRODUCTION process check if the advertising contents are consistent All our companies have a dedicated information security Provision of reliable drug information to patients is an Patients can ask questions and obtain information in all with the approved Summary of Product Characteristics administrator function. Training on data protection is equally important element of the protection system, countries where the Group’s drugs are sold. To ensure and other official registration documents (medicinal also provided. In 2016, a decision was also made to including communication of all new hazards identified this, we have launched a helpline for patients who can products) or applications (other products). They must establish the Polpharma Group Security Committee and through the analysis of available data. This important call the number provided on the product leaflet to make also ensure that the advertising messages are accurate Department. role has been assigned to the Medical Department. a quick medical inquiry or report an adverse reaction. and objective, considering the medical knowledge In the reporting period, no justified grievances about To ensure that patients have access to the latest available, including research studies. The advisors make violations of customer privacy or losses of customer knowledge on our medicinal products, we have sure that recommendations on dietary supplements and data were recorded. implemented a medical inquiry management system dietary foods are on the list approved by the European covering all Polpharma Group companies and foreign Food Safety Authority (EFSA). Lawyers involved in the representative offices. DISTRIBUTION ad assessment process analyse if the advertisement conforms with the law and industry codes. In 2015-2016, 2 of Polpharma Group’s advertising materials were found to be inconsistent with the regulations or the adopted marketing communication codes, forcing the company to stop running the COMPLAINT PROCEDURE contested ads. All product complaints are recorded in accordance with Apart from an important preventive measure, these the applicable regulations and the company’s internal withdrawals are a proof of the company’s responsibility procedures. Every complaint is treated separately, and towards patients and reflect conscious quality SALES an investigation is launched to determine the causes of management in the organisation. the defect and plan the necessary measures to minimise & MARKETING its impact. Patient/consumer safety is a top priority for us, and therefore we assess all complaints to determine if the product reported as defective is safe to use. We keep in touch with our customers and end users of our products because we value their feedback which allows us to continuously improve our products and services. In 2015-2016, Polpharma Group companies in Poland applied for 8 product withdrawals. PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 69 70 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT PA RTNERS A N D CUSTOMERS RAW MATERIAL SOURCING We attach importance to the promotion of preventive care and early disease detection. We make sure that our campaigns are meaningful, comprehensible and practical, and reach as many people as possible. We support doctors and pharmacists in enhancing their medical knowledge and efforts to ensure patient compliance. We support the PRODUCTION development of Polish science and promote inventions and commercialisation of innovative ideas for the society through both independent and joint projects. We support young scientists at all stages of their career and care for future talents by encouraging young people to pursue science as an exciting career. We actively engage in the activities of various organisations and associations, DISTRIBUTION both locally and nationally, to share our knowledge and experience, and to maximise the social impact of our efforts through joint initiatives. SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 71 72 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Our economic, social and environmental Associated risks impacts on stakeholders and the business »» Risk of loss of reputation and financial losses due to unethical conduct or dishonesty of our partners environment »» Risk of inappropriate handling of unused medicines by patients, wholesalers or pharmacies Impact on the society Impact on the economy RAW MATERIAL »» We are an important link in the healthcare »» We build partnerships promoting beneficial system collaboration for all parties involved »» We share our knowledge and best practices Our activities SOURCING »» We contribute to commercialisation of scientific with our partners discoveries and knowledge-based economy »» We contribute to the development of »» We engage in joint initiatives and partnerships to support the society, science, development of the healthcare »» We support the development of new business knowledge through collaboration with system, economic growth, innovation, and the environment, as well as to promote ethical standards models in local communities through cross-sector the scientific, medical and pharmaceutical »» We are broadening the activities of the Polpharma Scientific Foundation collaboration communities »» We launch initiatives addressed to young talents »» Together with our partners we contribute »» We have an employee volunteering programme in place to support local communities and the environment Impact on the environment to the adoption of higher standards in our »» We develop partnership initiatives in the regions PRODUCTION »» We undertake environmental initiatives, business environment »» We maintain a dialogue with our stakeholders and collect feedback both independently and together with other »» Through joint local initiatives we contribute partners to the development of the local communities where we operate DISTRIBUTION SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 73 74 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT COLLABORATION WITH Value of scientific grants awarded through the Foundation’s competitions: THE SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY 1,194,665 zł 1,373,000 zł 2015: 2016: For many years, we have been actively engaged in the development of science. We are building our competitiveness based on innovations to help translate the scientists’ knowledge and creativity into products and services that serve RAW MATERIAL the society. Number of grants awarded: SOURCING 3 3 2015: 2016: Number of scholarships granted to students pursuing a PhD degree at medical universities and the Postgraduate Medical Education Polpharma Scientific Foundation PRODUCTION Centre (CMPK): 10 2015: 2016: As many as 22 scholarships The Polpharma Scientific Foundation is engaged in the provision applications were submitted. of long-term support for Polish science. It offers financial Winners of the competition were scholarships (with a total value support to Polish scientists to pursue our mission reflected by selected in 2017. of PLN 100,000) the motto: “We support people of science.” The Foundation’s flagship programme is its annual grant Countrywide PTFarm contest for the best Master thesis for competition. Since the Foundation’s establishment in 2001, 68 students of pharmaceutical faculties: DISTRIBUTION research grants have been awarded with a total value of PLN 19,054,782. 56 projects have already been completed. 3 3 2015: 2016: Every two years, the Foundation launches a contest offering science scholarships to PhD students. Awards (with a total Awards (with a total value of Until 2016, 5 editions of the competition had been held value of PLN 5,000) PLN 5,000) granting scholarships with a total value of PLN 370,000 to 37 students pursuing a PhD degree at medical universities and the Postgraduate Medical Education Centre (CMKP). The results of Foundation’s publications: the research studies carried out by the scholarship recipients SALES as part of their PhD thesis are published in the Foundation’s 2015: Student textbook: 2016: Volume 4 of the scientific scientific journal “Advances in Polish Medicine and Pharmacy. “Nieprzestrzeganie zaleceń journal “Advances in Polish & MARKETING Research Bulletin of the Polpharma Foundation.” terapeutycznych. Od przyczyn do Medicine and Pharmacy. praktycznych rozwiązań” (Patient Research Bulletin of Since 2005, the Foundation has also sponsored the National Non-Compliance: From Root Polpharma Scientific Competition for MA Theses from Pharmaceutical Faculties. The Causes to Practical Solutions) Foundation” total value of prizes granted to the winners to date is PLN 60,000. Total: 1,299,665 zł 1,378,000 zł 2015: 2016: PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 75 76 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT We care about the future of Polish science and talent development RAW MATERIAL We support young researchers at various stages of their careers. We support talents by promoting curiosity, entrepreneurship, and scientific ambitions among the youth. We pursue these goals by: SOURCING »» Awarding prizes, scholarships and grants through competitions of the Polpharma Scientific Foundation addressed to scientists under 35 years old »» Discovering and promoting talents through Polpharma’s own initiatives and sponsorships (“Eureka DGP! Odkrywamy polskie wynalazki” competition for the best Polish inventions, E(x)plory science competition for the youth, and “Supertalents in Medicine” contest) PRODUCTION »» Graduate traineeship programmes and projects addressed to Polish students studying abroad »» Cooperation with student research clubs through joint projects and knowledge sharing. Reference to the CSR Strategy Our commitments DISTRIBUTION 13. We bridge science and business We have appointed an internal coordinator to rapidly We have amended the Rules and Regulations of The Starak Family Foundation established by Jerzy Starak, In 2016, the Starak Family Foundation offered support to evaluate innovative projects proposed to Polpharma by the Polpharma Scientific Foundation so that our President of the Supervisory Board of Polpharma, also 40 beneficiaries of the EFC programme allowing them to universities and research institutes, and implemented grant competitions focus on young scientists (aged has made a significant contribution to the development pursue their studies in a high-quality setting. In the next an internal system to assess the potential of these 35 and under). of young talents. In 2016, it engaged in joint efforts few years, the Foundation intends to provide financing projects. with the Roman Czarnecki Educational Foundation (EFC) to more students. SALES under the “Marzenie o Nauce” scholarship programme. & MARKETING Launched by the EFC Foundation several years ago, Another interesting initiative supported locally by the programme aims to remove the barriers to equal Polpharma is the project “Future is coming” initiated opportunities for young people in Poland, and to support by an association with the same name. It comprises a them in pursuing their talents and scientific aspirations. series of conferences organised by secondary school The results of the research studies conducted by the We are engaged in public administration The project is dedicated to talented final-year middle students from Starogard Gdański for their peers. The Foundation’s scholarship recipients are published in initiatives, both independently and through our school students from towns with a population of up events hosted by Polpharma are aimed at promoting the scientific journal “Advances in Polish Medicine and membership in the Polish Association of Pharma to 30,000, and provides financing for their studies at entrepreneurial spirit among teenagers, as well as Pharmacy. Research Bulletin of Polpharma Scientific Industry Employers (PZPPF), to contribute Poland’s best secondary schools. The applicants who helping them choose their career path and develop an PARTNERS AND Foundation”. to the formulation of a joint strategy for the have completed the recruitment process successfully are understanding of start-ups. pharmaceutical industry and the development of eligible to financial support throughout the secondary CUSTOMERS biotechnology in Poland. school years. 77 78 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT CARING FOR PATIENTS Preventive medicine and early disease detection are key to maintaining a good quality of life. Their role is even more important considering the aging of the population and the growing pace of life. In the age of instant information and RAW MATERIAL constant search for advice, including health queries, we have developed online educational resources and guidance SOURCING on the most common ailments. All contents published on our websites are reliable, exhaustive, up-to-date, and – most of all – very practical. One of our websites is www.abcmigrena.pl where you can learn what migraine is, how to live with it, and where to seek advice from a specialist. Dedicated to those looking to become more fit, www.mojanowafigura.pl is a website PRODUCTION offering dietary advice and exercising recommendations to lose weight safely and prevent toxin build-up in the body, speed up a slow metabolism or curb your appetite. www. dbajonerki.pl, on the other hand, offers information about the most common kidney disorders and the symptoms indicating that you should see a specialist. To meet patient needs, we also use state-of-the-art technologies, such as Odetchnij Spokojnie [Take a deep breath] application dedicated to allergies. DISTRIBUTION Some of Polpharma’s patient education websites and online disease prevention Some of Polpharma’s patient-dedicated websites with health advice and product Educational campaigns SALES campaigns: information: »» www.odetchnijspokojnie.pl »» www.mojanowafigura.pl As part of our patient education efforts, we organise health campaigns, such as for instance “Pressure for Life”, “Get & MARKETING »» www.abcmigrena.pl »» www.dbajonerki.pl ready for a shock”, and “My treatment is working because I follow my doctor’s recommendations.” To reach patients »» www.mojeoczy.pl »» www.fosidal.pl aged 75 and over, we provide information leaflets and posters at pharmacies on how to take up their entitlement to »» www.bezopryszczki.pl »» www.eloderm.pl free medicines. »» www.opzs.pl »» www.acard.pl »» www.niebieskipasek.pl »» www.maxigrago.pl We try to make sure that our educational campaigns and programmes reach the largest possible number of high-risk »» www.pacjent.ponocydzien.pl patients. The interest in our campaigns and their appreciation, both by patients and the entire industry, has been »» www.mojbrzuch.pl growing each year. Knowing that through our disease prevention campaigns we are helping many people live a »» www.leczpaznokcie.pl healthy life for longer is the most rewarding aspect of our efforts. In addition to a successful continuation of two of PARTNERS AND »» www.21plus7.pl our campaigns, “Get ready for a shock” and “Pressure for Life” in 2015 and 2016, we also launched a new project, “The »» www.cowieszo.pl Blue Circle”. »» CUSTOMERS www.polpharma.tv 79 80 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Get ready for a Pressure The Blue Circle shock! for Life Nearly 3 million people in Poland have diabetes, and two million are pre-diabetic. These figures do not leave us indifferent, and therefore we decided to launch an education campaign in October 2016 titled the “Blue Circle.” The aim of this initiative is to highlight the importance of prevention, and increase pre-diabetes detection. The campaign “Get ready for a shock!” is a countrywide educational The main goal of the “Pressure for Life” campaign is to helps people realise that prediabetes is the final moment when they can change their eating habits and lifestyle to and informational programme held with the help and educate Poles on prevention of cardiovascular diseases, prevent type 2 diabetes and dangerous complications associated with it. The name and symbol of the campaign, the RAW MATERIAL support from the Polish Society of Allergology. It aims to and to encourage them to regularly measure their blue circle, refers to abdominal obesity which is one of the risk factors for prediabetes. educate the public about the causes and consequences blood pressure. In 2015-2016, free blood pressure and of anaphylaxis, and the steps to take if anaphylactic cholesterol level measurements, as well as heart age SOURCING Some of the campaign’s initiatives carried out in several cities across the country include measurements of blood shock occurs. Public awareness of anaphylaxis and tests were provided as part of the campaign in over 50 sugar and cholesterol levels, blood pressure measurements, body composition test, and nutritional consultations. In what needs to be done if it occurs continues to be very locations across Poland. This time the main aim of the the first three months after the campaign’s launch (October-December 2016), some 150 patients were tested. low. The programme was launched in 2013, and was campaign was to encourage Poles to actively reduce successfully continued in 2015 and 2016. Using our proven their heart age. Based on the data collected throughout In addition to screening tests, the “Blue Circle” campaign also offers knowledge and tools. Together with the Polish tools, such as first aid training courses, and Poland’s the campaign, “Poles’ Heart Age” report was prepared. Diabetes Association (PTD), Polpharma developed Poland’s first prediabetes risk test, one for physicians and one for unique algorithms and recommendations to follow if patients. The latter one, available at www.niebieskipasek.pl, allows patients to identify potential need to get tested someone is having an anaphylactic shock, we educated Another of the campaign’s initiatives was the launch for prediabetes. PRODUCTION new groups. In the reported period, the training was of the “Local Government with a Heart” competition to provided to bus drivers who are now able to actively reward local governments that take their own measures In September 2016, a countrywide survey on prediabetes awareness and risk factors was also held as part of the assist passengers and pedestrians. In 2016, Poland’s first to promote heart disease prevention in their regions. campaign. Based on its result, the first report on prediabetes in Poland, “Prediabetic Poland”, was drawn up in October comprehensive report on anaphylaxis was developed In 2015 and 2016, 31 local governments were rewarded. 2016. in close collaboration with the national allergology Another competition, “The Youngest Heart” was consultant Professor Karina Jahnz-Różyk. The report dedicated to patients whose task was to tell us about “Anaphylaxis as a health and social problem” provides a structured overview of the available data and knowledge what steps they have taken to reduce their heart age, and collect stamps to confirm that they regularly see Reference to the CSR Strategy on anaphylaxis and anaphylactic shock. During allergy their doctor for a check-up. The campaign also included season, we operated a patient helpline and forum where educational activities for journalists, such as the Heart Our commitments DISTRIBUTION patients were able to receive advice from an allergist. Workshop where the campaign’s experts talked about Both tools, as well as free allergology consultations the circulatory system and how it can be supported. 2. We promote principles of preventive care among provided during the Anaphylaxis Education Week, were patients and employees extensively used by patients. Campaigns outcomes (2015-2016): Campaign outcomes by the end of 2016: »» 3,000 people received training on anaphylaxis and Our education and prevention activities were addressed 2.8 million public transport passengers were reached »» 380,000 blood pressure measurements first aid for anaphylactic shock to over a million people in Poland. by our educational posters on anaphylaxis. »» 180,000 heart age examinations SALES »» More than 2,200 medical community members were »» 31 local governments rewarded in the “Local trained Government with a Heart” competition & MARKETING »» The Anaphylaxis Education Week event was hosted »» 850,000 educational brochures distributed by 13 cities across Poland offering free medical »» 280 special initiatives consultations »» 7,000 media mentions As part of the “Pressure for Life” campaign In the reported period, our health education websites »» 2.8 million passengers were reached by our poster in 2015-2016, we handed out over 210,000 recorded nearly 3.5 million unique visitors. campaign on public transport in 13 cities across educational leaflets to patients. Poland Additionally, first aid training was provided to public transport drivers »» The campaign was featured in the media 1,974 times PARTNERS AND which allowed us to raise awareness of anaphylaxis among a large group of high-risk individuals over 2,000 consultations during six 3-day-long screening campaigns for our CUSTOMERS employees as part of the “Here and Now” programme 81 82 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Patient compliance education Initiatives dedicated to the medical community and students: Initiatives addressed to patients:: »» Leaflets helping patients to take their medications »» Incorporation of patient compliance into the regularly As shown by Polpharma Scientific Foundation’s study published in the report “Self-Portrait of a Polish Patient”, many educational programme “Pharma Knowledge” for »» Applications supporting patient treatment, e.g. Polish patients do not take the prescribed medications or fail to follow doctor’s orders. Therefore, together with medical and pharmacy students medication reminders the Foundation we undertook initiatives to raise patient awareness of the importance of adhering to therapeutic »» Publication of a textbook by the Polpharma »» Contribution to the website www. recommendations and the rules of safe self-medication. Scientific Foundation for medical students odpowiedzialneleczenie.pl promoting responsible RAW MATERIAL and physicians “Nieprzestrzeganie zaleceń self-medication as part of Polpharma’s membership terapeutycznych. Od przyczyn do praktycznych in the Polish Association of Self Medication Industry rozwiązań” [Patient Non-Compliance: From Root (PASMI) Causes to Practical Solutions]. Being the first »» Enhancement of pharmaceutical forms to improve SOURCING publication of its kind in Poland, the textbook comfort of use and ensure consistent adherence contains a scientific description of patient nonand efficacy of treatment (e.g. tablets containing compliance and its impact on treatment efficacy, two active ingredients, better-tasting medicines as well as practical ways to improve the current for children in a form adapted to a child’s needs, situation. or tablets to use once a month or once every few »» Educational campaign “Go See a Doctor!” addressed months). PRODUCTION to medical students promotes a good patient-doctor relationship and its importance for improving patient compliance. Reference to the CSR Strategy Our commitments DISTRIBUTION 2. We support patient compliance In May 2016, the Polpharma Scientific Foundation and Nearly 1,000 medical students took our Polpharma jointly launched an education campaign “Go See patient non-compliance quiz, and the winners a Doctor!”. Its aim was to draw the attention of medical attended a scientific conference on this topic students to the issue of patient non-compliance and to in Lisbon. SALES promote the textbook “Patient Non-Compliance: From Root Causes to Practical Solutions”. & MARKETING The textbook and patient leaflet on patient non-compliance were Leaflets on patient compliance presented during Polpharma’s medical representatives meeting were also handed out to pulmonary, in August 2016. The participants also attended a lecture on the diabetes and heart disease PARTNERS AND importance of patient compliance in the treatment of chronic specialists. diseases to help them prepare for conversations with doctors. CUSTOMERS 83 84 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT WE EDUCATE MEDICAL AND Digital solutions for doctors PHARMACEUTICAL COMMUNITIES and pharmacists We are committed to the development of the medical and pharmaceutical communities in a variety of ways, including We develop and provide cutting-edge work tools for The users can watch regular transmissions of lectures by organising and supporting conferences, workshops and debates which offer the attendees (doctors, pharmacists, doctors and pharmacists. given by prominent scientists and practitioners, while RAW MATERIAL scientists, and students) an opportunity to enhance their knowledge. We educate future doctors and pharmacists the other contents are available as VOD. The resources, by giving students the opportunity to compare the knowledge gained at university with the practice in the “DrWidget’s Office” is an advanced software offering a which are also useful for patients, meet very high variety of features that streamline the management standards content-wise, and the video format is in line SOURCING pharmaceutical industry through the Pharma Knowledge programme which has been running since 2007. of outpatient facilities of all sizes, including small with the current trends and the users’ needs. Polpharma is the only pharmaceutical company in Poland to provide physicians with such a wide extent of private practices and large clinics offering multiple opportunities to improve their professional skills by inviting top experts in Polish medicine to deliver workshops specialisations. The e-EPE platform is dedicated to pharmacists, and and lectures. For many years, we have been organising scientific conferences as a part of the European Education combines entertainment and lifelong learning. The users Programme (EPE). The EPE events have become an important date in the calendar for many Polish doctors, including With the software features, you can organise the have access to both certified training courses, as well internal medicine specialists, ophthalmologists, gynaecologists, and dermatologists. work of your healthcare facility, make appointments, as knowledge presented in an entertaining way. Our keep electronic medical records, or prepare reports and magazine for pharmacists also has its own dedicated PRODUCTION Conferences are an excellent form of education and a key element of our cooperation with doctors. The participants statements. In other words, the programme allows you website available at www.farmacjapraktyczna.pl. We can choose the lectures and workshops they wish to attend. With each conference, we have managed to prove that to save a lot of time that you would normally spend also operate a website for pharmacy managers www. we are a partner of the medical community that responds to the community’s key educational needs. It has already on administrative tasks and dedicate it the patients, managerfarmacji.pl. become a tradition that EPE conferences for ophthalmologists include a live transmission of cutting-edge surgeries instead. to the conference room. The participants always commend our interdisciplinary approach and efforts to show the practical side of the topics discussed at the conference. The programme was created and is being developed by LekSeek but thanks to the strategic partnership with Polpharma, it can be used by doctors for free. To support specialists and primary care physicians, we have launched a dedicated website www.polpharma.tv. DISTRIBUTION In 2015-2016, Polpharma supported In the same period, the company held We also organised or supported 70 157 scientific conferences organised 69 own scientific events attended by educational workshops for 4,315 by other organisations in the medical sector which were attended by a 14,343 doctors and pharmacists. physicians. Industry magazines and total of 7,990 participants. publications For many years, we have been the publisher of the “Farmacja Praktyczna” [Practical Pharmacy] magazine providing Reference to the CSR Strategy reliable and practical information for pharmacists. In addition to the printed magazine, the contents are also available on a dedicated website www.farmacjapraktyczna.pl and a Facebook page. These tools allow us not only to share SALES knowledge and the latest news but also communicate with the readers. The magazine is a popular and reputable Our commitments source of knowledge for pharmacists. It is distributed to more than 18,000 pharmacies across the country, and has a & MARKETING circulation of 32,000 copies. 14. We educate the medical and pharmaceutical communities The Polpharma Scientific Foundation also publishes a scientific journal, “Postępy Polskiej Medycyny i Farmacji. Zeszyty Naukowej Fundacji Polpharmy” [Advances in Polish Medicine and Pharmacy. Research Bulletin of Polpharma Scientific Foundation]. It offers an overview of research work undertaken as part of projects sponsored by the Foundation. To date, 4 volumes of the Bulletin have been published. We maintain a high level of lectures given as The average score for lecture content is 4.45 Polpharma also publishes and sponsors educational and scientific papers for doctors and pharmacists, as well as PARTNERS AND part of the European Education Programme, as (on a scale from 1 to 5). patients. In 2015-2016, we published or supported the publishing of nearly 50 such items, including the famous shown by participant ratings. textbook “Interna Szczeklika” [Szczeklik’s Internal Medicine] (by Piotr Gajewski and Andrzej Szczeklik), the rare “Atlas mózgu człowieka i przebiegu włókien” [Human Brain and Fibre Tract Atlas] (by Edward Flatau) or the extremely popular series of books about ECG (by Dariusz Kozłowski). CUSTOMERS 85 86 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Ethics Officers Coalition We seek to actively participate in the activities of various organisations and associations to share our knowledge and We are a member of the Ethics Officers Coalition initiative group which was established in April 2015 as part of the experience, and to maximise the social impacts of our activities through joint initiatives. We are a member of various Programme “Business and Human Rights. Implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights organisations, including: 2014-2020”. The Coalition is a platform for exchanging the best Polish and international business ethics management practices. We see our contribution to the Coalition’s work as a way of sharing our ethics expertise. RAW MATERIAL »» Medicines for Europe (member) President of the Management Board of Polpharma »» Polish Association of Pharmaceutical Industry SA is a member of the Programme Board) In 2016, we participated in the formulation of the Minimum Standard for the Coalition’s Ethics Programme for Manufacturers (PZPPF) (membership in the »» United Nations Global Compact (participation in the SOURCING Polish companies and institutions. This is a business self-regulatory initiative under the 2nd Pillar of the UN Guiding organisation and the Supervisory Board) global initiative) Principles on Business and Human Rights. The aim of the Minimum Standard is to promote ethical conduct and »» Polish Association of Self Medication Industry »» United Nations Global Compact Poland (Markus support the establishment of ethics management programmes in companies, institutions and public administration (PASMI) (member; Polpharma’s representative in the Sieger, President of the Management Board, is a bodies. It is also intended to prevent corruption and boost competitiveness of the Polish economy based on reliability Disciplinary Court) member of the Programme Board) and responsibility of Polish companies. »» Business Centre Club (member) »» Ethics Officers Coalition, a UN Global Compact »» Polish Confederation of Private Employers Lewiatan initiative in Poland as part of the “Business and (membership through PZPPF) Human Rights” programme (member of the initiative Together for PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 PRODUCTION »» Polish Business Roundtable, with the participation group) of Jerzy Starak, President of the Supervisory Board »» Responsible Business Forum (Strategic Partner) of Polpharma S.A. »» Task Force on Sustainable Development and the environment »» The Starogard Gdański Business Club (member) Corporate Social Responsibility, an advisory body of »» Polish National Sales Award, which promotes ethical the Minister of Economic Development (task force selling principles (Rajmund Ireneusz Martyniuk, Vice member) In 2016, Polpharma joined a Partnership for Implementation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) initiated by UNEP/GRID-Warsaw in collaboration with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). Polpharma joined the United Nations Global Compact in December 2016. It is the world’s largest initiative bringing together businesses committed to sustainable development. Through a broad range of activities, working closely with We also engage in other initiatives aimed at developing collaboration and enhancing environmental knowledge. We governments, public administration bodies, the private sector, NGOs and research institutions, UN Global Compact participated in the development of a pilot programme on low-carbon development of the Starogard Gdański district DISTRIBUTION promotes the 10 Global Compact Principles among businesses worldwide and implementation of the UN global and the Environmental Education Patronage project. We also co-organised a series of conferences, “Let’s Talk About objectives, including the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). the Environment”, to share our experience with other companies in Poland. By joining the Initiative, Polpharma resolved to adhere to the 10 Principles of UN Global Compact: Development Thanks to the Fund’s grant competitions organised together with Polpharma, new Human rights: Work standards: Initiation Fund (FIR) business models and meaningful social initiatives have been implemented in PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 9 Pomerania, such as: Another example of our contribution to the partnership SALES »» Poland’s first brewery cooperative operating as part Support and respect Uphold the freedom Elimination of discrimination in respect Encourage the development and with local communities is the Development Initiation of the Social Cooperative DALBA which employs 12 the protection of of association of employment and occupation diffusion of environmentally friendly Fund (FIR) bringing together business, local government people with intellectual disabilities & MARKETING internationally proclaimed technologies and NGOs representatives from Pomorskie region. »» Pomerania’s first charity shop LUK LUK human rights »» Social enterprise Tczewscy Kurierzy Rowerowi PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 7 Resulting from cross-sector collaboration, these »» Poland’s first cooperative store 100re.pl distributing PRINCIPLE 2 Elimination of all Support a precautionary approach to initiatives contribute to increasing the number of active products and services offered by social enterprises forms of forced and environmental challenges Anti-Corruption: citizens, socially engaged businesses and conscious »» Gastronomy workshop in Lębork for professionally Elimination of any human compulsory labour public institutions fostering the implementation and socially excluded people rights abuses by the of a growing number of innovations and regional »» Centrala canteen in Gdańsk which is the first company PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 10 development. PARTNERS AND workplace for young people growing up in residential Abolition of child Encourage the development and Work against corruption in all its care homes CUSTOMERS labour diffusion of environmentally forms, including extortion and friendly technologies bribery 87 88 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT ABOUT THE REPORT RAW MATERIAL SOURCING Polpharma Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 -2016 is the Company’s third CSR report. The previous report covering 2013 and 2014 was published in December 2015. This report was prepared in accordance with the G4 Core Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and underwent an external review. The Group’s reports are drawn up biannually. PRODUCTION This paper covers the Group’s CSR efforts from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2016. The Report’s contents were defined by the company’s representatives and stakeholders during a stakeholder dialogue meeting held in Warsaw on 25 August 2017. To formulate and select the topics for the report, the authors also referred to internal policies and strategies, previous company reports, CSR reports of other pharmaceutical DISTRIBUTION companies, and key issues for the sector. Based on the expectations of external and internal stakeholders, a list of key aspects was compiled, and reportable indicators were recommended. After these aspects and indicators had been approved, the report structure was determined and the persons responsible for providing data for the report were named. SALES & MARKETING PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 89 90 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT Key aspects selected in Key aspects for internal stakeholders** »» Economic performance DETAILED FIGURES the analysis process »» »» Materials and raw materials Energy Key aspects for external stakeholders* »» Water Employment »» Effluents and waste »» Economic performance »» Products and services 2015 2016 »» Market presence RAW MATERIAL »» Compliance with environmental regulations women men total women men total »» Indirect economic impacts »» Environmental costs Number of employees with contracts of employment: »» Materials and raw materials »» Employment probationary period 2 7 9 11 29 40 SOURCING »» Energy »» Occupational health and safety non-permanent 187 152 339 186 170 356 »» Water »» Training and education permanent 2,052 1,762 3,814 2,070 1,744 3,814 »» Effluents and waste »» Diversity and equal opportunity replacement 65 29 94 66 27 93 »» Products and services »» Local communities to perform a specific task 0 0 0 0 0 0 »» Compliance with environmental regulations »» Customer health and safety »» Environmental costs TOTAL WORKFORCE WITH EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS »» Product and service labelling »» Employment by gender 2,306 1,950 4,256 2,333 1,970 4,303 »» Marketing communications »» Occupational health and safety management contracts 0 0 0 0 0 0 PRODUCTION »» Compliance with product responsibility regulations »» Training and education self-employed but working for 0 0 0 0 0 0 »» Diversity and equal opportunity the group as regular employees »» Labour practices grievance mechanisms Polpharma Group companies and employees supervised by the 0 64 201 0 179 179 »» Human rights compliance assessment group (TWA) divisions in Poland covered by the report »» Human rights grievance mechanisms GRAND TOTAL 2,443 2,014 4,457 2,466 2016 4,482 »» Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A. in Starogard »» Local communities Number of employees with permanent employment contracts on: Gdański*** »» Anti-corruption »» Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A., full-time basis 2,293 1,934 4,227 2,316 1,955 4,271 »» Anti-competitive behaviour Biotechnology Division in Gdańsk part-time basis 13 16 29 18 14 32 »» Compliance with CSR regulations »» Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A., TOTAL 2,306 1,950 4,256 2,334 1,969 4,303 »» Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Manufacturing Division in Duchnice DISTRIBUTION »» Customer health and safety TWA Temporary Work Agency »» Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A., »» Product and service labelling Manufacturing Division in Nowa Dęba »» Marketing communications »» Trade Office, Polpharma Biuro Handlowe Sp. z o.o. in »» Compliance with customer privacy regulations Warsaw »» Compliance with product responsibility regulations »» Polfa Warszawa S.A. in Warsaw »» MEDANA Pharma S.A. in Sieradz Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and total number of »» and special investment vehicles of those companies. work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 2015 2016 On 1 December 2016, research and development activities of Polfa Warszawa S.A. covered by the reporting process were women men total women men total SALES transferred to the R&D Division located in Warsaw at ul. Barska. A strategic decision was also made to construct a new Number of fatalities at work 0 0 0 0 0 0 biologicals manufacturing plant (APIs and finished dosage forms) in Duchnice near Warsaw. The project was launched in Number of minor injuries at work 21 14 35 22 18 40 & MARKETING 2015. In 2016, Medana Pharma S.A started the expansion of its manufacturing plant in Sieradz. The API plant was also Number of severe injuries at 0 0 0 0 0 0 expanded during the reporting period. In 2016, the Dutch biotechnology company Bioceros joined the Polpharma Group work which contributed to the expansion of the company’s B2B offering of biological cell lines. Total injuries 21 14 35 22 18 40 Injury rate (IR) (all Group 0.46 0.30 0.76 0.49 0.40 0.89 employees) Number of cases of occupational To share your feedback or ask questions about the Report, diseases 1 0 1 1 0 1 please contact: Magdalena Rzeszotalska PARTNERS AND Corporate Communications and CSR Director * Important aspects for all stakeholders outside Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A. the company. ** Important aspects for the entire organisation. CUSTOMERS ul. Pelplińska 19, 83-200 Starogard Gdański *** Zakłady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A. is the sole or majority shareholder in other Polpharma E-mail: magdalena.rzeszotalska@polpharma.com Group companies in Poland. 91 92 VISION AND 2015 2016 Percentage of recycled input materials DEVELOPMENT women men total women men total 2015 2016 Occupational diseases rate (ODR) 0.02 0 0.02 0.02 0 0.02 TOTAL [KG] TOTAL [KG] Lost days due to accidents and 483 251 734 641 576 1,217 Materials and raw materials used 16,646,203 15,227,254 injuries at work Severity rate 23 179 21 29.1 32.0 30.4 Total recycled input materials 3,240,994 3,616,849 used by weight or volume Lost work days due to illness 34,919 18,131 53,050 37,601 20,713 58,314 RAW MATERIAL Percentage of recycled input Total lost work days (including 19% 24% 41,259 21,401 62,660 43,504 23,474 66,978 materials used in manufacturing due to illness) SOURCING Absentee rate (AR) 7,694 3,991 11,685 8,113 4,377 12,490 Power consumption within the organization 2015 2016 PRODUCTION Workforce composition Fuels consumed by the plant 183,732 181,280 [GJ] MANAGERS AND EXECUTIVES INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTORS Electricity consumed by the 2015 2016 2015 2016 221,856 225,704 plant [GJ] women men women men women men women men Heating consumed by the plant AGED ≤ 29 8 1 3 3 279 219 280 229 350,661 340,350 [GJ] AGED 30-50 214 261 231 269 1,386 1,069 1,397 1,074 Power consumption in the 756,248 747,333 AGED 51 ≤ 33 54 37 57 386 346 386 337 organisation [GJ] DISTRIBUTION 2015 2016 Heat sold to third parties [GJ] 2,218 2,164 Materials/ raw materials used by weight or volume 2015 2016 Materials and raw materials used TOTAL TOTAL [kg] Reduction of electric energy and heat consumption in GJ resulting from the Raw materials used 7,984,336 6,330,984 implementation of investment projects under the Energy Saving Programme Packaging materials used 7,166,199 7,211,709 calculated by comparing the energy consumption after the investment project with Solvents used 1,495,668 1,684,561 the consumption prior to the project SALES Total [kg] 16,646,203 15,227,254 2015 2016 & MARKETING Reduction of electric energy 9,004 3,665 consumption [GJ] Reduction in thermal energy 7,822 5,411 consumption [GJ] 2015 2016 Total reduction in energy Semi-finished products manufac16,826 9,076 consumption [GJ] tured for own use by the API plant for the Medicines Manufac226,296 214,425 turing Plant and other divisions and subsidiaries [kg] PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 93 94 VISION AND Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Total water withdrawal by source DEVELOPMENT 2015 2016 2015 2016 WATER WITHDRAWAL TOTAL [m3] TOTAL [m3] BY SOURCE WASTE DISPOSAL METHOD Rivers 2,554,193 2,676,934 Waste reused [Mg] 0 Municipal water supplies 241,755 265,604 Recycling [Mg] 295 RAW MATERIAL Deep groundwater 364,501 382,150 Composting [Mg] 0 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL Recovery, including energy recovery [Mg] 2,446 3,160,449 3,324,688 FROM ALL IDENTIFIED SOURCES SOURCING Thermal waste treatment [Mg] 41 * Data based on certified meter readings. Landfill site [Mg] 170 On-site disposal [Mg] 0 Other (e.g. dissolution in a treatment plant, 623 third party disposal) [Mg] Total water discharge Total 3,575 HAZARDOUS WASTE 2015 2016 DESTINATION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE Waste reused [Mg] 0 PRODUCTION Treated wastewater discharged Recycling [Mg] 0 2,119,853 2,698,855 to groundwater (lake, river, etc.) Composting [Mg] 0 Wastewater discharged to sewers 236,508 260,261 Recovery, including energy recovery [Mg] 328 TOTAL WATER DISCHARGE 2,356,361 2,959,116 Thermal waste treatment [Mg] 381 Landfill site [Mg] 0 On-site disposal [Mg] 0 Other (e.g. dissolution in a treatment plant, 425 third party disposal) [Mg] Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE Waste reused [Mg] 0 DISTRIBUTION 2015 2016 Recycling [Mg] 1,317 TYPE OF EXPENDITURE [PLN] Composting [Mg] 0 Fees: Recovery, including energy recovery [Mg] 912 Environmental fees 813,805 827,871 Thermal waste treatment [Mg] 133 Surface or ground water 1,323,649 1,347,291 Landfill site [Mg] 222 withdrawals On-site disposal [Mg] 0 Gas or dust emissions into the 1,750,539 1,810,494 air Other (e.g. dissolution in a treatment plant, 69 Waste treatment 5,258,304 5,671,051 third party disposal) [Mg] Total 3,787 Cost of sewage treatment, including cost of restoration in SALES 4,252,700 4,389,220 connection with spills disclosed under EN23 & MARKETING Cost of sewage services and In 2016, detailed reporting of data related to waste handling was introduced. 2,822,835 3,120,914 water purchase Testing and measurements of emissions into the air, noise 639,875 871,995 emissions, water and sewage quality, water tables in wells Management expenses 1,417,267 1,410,126 TOTAL EXPENDITURE 18,278,974 19,448,962 TOTAL INVESTMENTS 8,477,700 1,691,000 PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS 95 96 VISION AND GRI INDEX TABLE DEVELOPMENT External External Indicator Indicator description Pages Reporting status Indicator Indicator description Pages Reporting status review review STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS REPORT PROFILE tak G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 3 complete yes G4-28 Reporting period 90 complete yes 13, 15, 16. 23, 24, 26, 27, 33, 39, 44, G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 90 complete yes Description of key impacts, risks, and RAW MATERIAL G4-2 47, 49, 50, 54, 55, complete yes G4-30 Reporting cycle 90 complete yes opportunities 59, 62, 65, 73, 77, 82, 84, 85 G4-31 Contact point 91 complete yes ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE SOURCING G4-32 GRI content index 90 complete yes G4-3 Name of the organisation 8 complete yes G4-33 Assurance 102 complete yes G4-4 Primary brands, services and/or products 7 complete yes GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 6 complete yes G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation 8 complete yes Number of countries where the organisation G4-6 7 complete yes ETHICS AND INTEGRITY operates, and names of countries Values, principles, standards and norms of G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 8 complete yes G4-56 behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of 19 complete yes G4-8 Markets served 7 complete yes ethics PRODUCTION G4-9 Scale of the organisation 5 complete yes Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Total number of employees by region, age, gender advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, and G4-10 41, 92 complete yes G4-57 21 complete yes and employment contract matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Percentage of total employees covered by G4-11 42 complete yes Internal and external mechanisms for reporting collective bargaining agreements G4-58 concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, 21 complete yes G4-12 The organisation’s supply chain 5, 25 complete yes and matters related to organisational integrity G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 91 complete yes ECONOMIC INDICATORS G4-14 Precautionary approach 50, 51 complete yes EC-DMA Management approach (economic performance) 5, 27 partial yes Externally developed initiatives to which the G4-15 49, 67, 87 complete yes G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 5 partial yes organisation subscribes or which it endorses Management approach (indirect economic DISTRIBUTION G4-16 Memberships of associations 87 complete yes EC-DMA 29 complete yes impacts) IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure 29 complete yes Entities included in the organisation’s ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS G4-17 91 partial yes consolidated financial statements Management approach (materials and raw G4-18 Process for defining the report content 17, 90 complete yes EN-DMA 52 complete yes materials) Material aspects identified in the process for G4-19 90 complete yes Materials/ raw materials used by weight or defining report content G4-EN1 52, 93 complete yes volume Scope and materiality of identified aspects for all G4-20 91 complete yes Percentage of materials used that are recycled entities within the organisation G4-EN2 52, 94 complete yes input materials Scope and materiality of identified aspects G4-21 91 complete yes EN-DMA Management approach (energy consumption) 53 complete yes outside of the organisation SALES G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption within the organisation 53, 94 complete yes Restatements of information provided in previous No G4-22 complete yes G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 94 complete yes reports, and the reasons for such restatements corrections & MARKETING No EN-DMA Management approach (water consumption) 53 complete yes Significant changes in relation to the previous G4-23 significant complete yes G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 53, 96 complete yes report changes Management approach (effluents and waste EN-DMA 52, 54 complete yes STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT management) List of stakeholder groups engaged by the orgaG4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 54, 96 complete yes G4-24 18 complete yes nisation Total weight of waste by type and disposal G4-EN23 54, 95 complete yes Identification and selection of stakeholders with method G4-25 17 complete yes whom to engage Management approach (impacts of products and EN-DMA 50, 54 complete yes PARTNERS AND G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 17 complete yes services) Key topics and concerns that have been raised Extent of impact mitigation of environmental G4-27 17, 91 complete yes G4-EN27 54 complete yes through stakeholder engagement impacts of products and services EN-DMA Management approach (compliance) 54 complete yes CUSTOMERS 97 98 VISION AND External External DEVELOPMENT Indicator Indicator description Pages Reporting status Indicator Indicator description Pages Reporting status review review Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions No confirmed G4-SO5 incidents complete yes Monetary value of significant fines and total taken number of non-monetary sanctions for nonManagement approach (anti-competitive G4-EN29 54 complete yes SO-DMA 20 complete yes compliance with environmental laws and behaviour) regulations Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Management approach (environmental No EN-DMA 30, 50, 51 complete yes G4-SO7 behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and complete yes RAW MATERIAL expenditures) violations their outcomes Total environmental protection expenditures and SO-DMA Management approach (compliance) 20 complete yes G4-EN31 52, 96 complete yes investments by type SOURCING No SOCIAL INDICATORS: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Monetary value of fines and total number of nonG4-SO8 fines or complete yes monetary sanctions for non-compliance LA-DMA Management approach (employment) 41 complete yes sanctions Total new employee hires by age, gender and SO-DMA Management approach (grievance mechanisms) 22 complete yes G4-LA1 42 complete yes region No grievances Benefits offered to full-time employees (not Number of grievances about impacts on society about the company’s G4-LA2 provided to part-time employees) by significant 42 complete yes G4-SO11 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal impact on complete yes locations of operation grievance mechanisms society were received Management approach (occupational health and PRODUCTION LA-DMA 43 complete yes SOCIAL INDICATORS RELATED TO PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY safety) Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Management approach (customer health and PR-DMA 70 complete yes diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total safety) G4-LA6 43, 92 complete yes number of work-related fatalities, by region and Percentage of significant product and service by gender G4-PR1 categories for which health and safety impacts 70 complete yes LA-DMA Management approach (training and education) 46 complete yes are assessed for improvement Average hours of training per year per employee Total number of incidents of non-compliance with G4-LA9 46 complete yes regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health by gender and by employee category G4-PR2 70 complete yes and safety impacts of products and services during Programmes for lifelong learning that support the their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-LA10 continued employability of employees, including 46, 49 complete yes outplacement PR-DMA Management approach (product labelling) 67 complete yes DISTRIBUTION Percentage of employees receiving regular Type of product and service information required performance and career development reviews by the organisation's procedures (information G4-LA11 47 complete yes G4-PR3 and labelling), and percentage of significant 67, 68 complete yes (evaluation), by gender and by type of employment product and service categories subject to such information requirements Management approach (diversity and equal LA-DMA 49 complete yes Management approach (marketing opportunity) PR-DMA 69 complete yes communications) Composition of governing bodies and breakdown G4-LA12 of employees by position, gender, age, ethnic 49, 93 complete yes Total number of incidents of non-compliance with group, and other indicators of diversity regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-PR7 69 complete yes communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes LA DMA Management approach (grievance mechanisms) 21 complete yes PR-DMA Management approach (customer privacy) 69 complete yes SALES Number of grievances about labour practices filed, Total number of significant grievances about violations G4-PR8 69 complete yes G4-LA16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 21, 22 complete yes of customer privacy or losses of customer data & MARKETING mechanisms SOCIAL INDICATORS RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS HR-DMA Management approach (human rights) 55 complete yes Total number and percentage of operations that G4-HR9 have been subject to human rights reviews or 55 complete yes impact assessments HR-DMA Management approach (grievance mechanisms) 22 complete yes Number of grievances about human rights G4-HR12 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through 21, 22 complete yes PARTNERS AND formal grievance mechanisms SOCIETY INDICATORS CUSTOMERS SO-DMA Management approach (anti-corruption) 20, 25, 88 complete yes 99 100 VISION AND DEVELOPMENT INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT 4. Reviewing documentary evidence provided by Polpharma; 5. Agreeing a selection of the Selected Information to the corresponding source documentation; To: The Stakeholders of POLPHARMA GROUP 6. Reviewing Polpharma systems for quantitative data aggregation and analysis; RAW MATERIAL Introduction and objectives of work 7. Assessing the disclosure and presentation of the Selected Information to ensure consistency with assured information. BUREAU VERITAS Polska Sp. z o.o. (Bureau Veritas) has been engaged by Zakłady Farmaceutyczne SOURCING Polpharma SA (Polpharma) to provide limited assurance of its GRI G4 Standard Disclosures, core Conclusion option, included in its Polpharma Group Social Responsibility Report 2015 2016. This Assurance On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above: Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below.  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Selected Information is not fairly stated in Selected information all material respects. The scope of our work was limited to assurance over GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures and Specific Standard Disclosures, core option, included in the Polpharma Group Social Responsibility Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence Report 2015 2016 (‘the Report’) for the period 1.01.2015 – 31.12.2016. Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in quality, environmental, health, safety and social accountability with over 185 years history. Its assurance team Reporting Criteria has extensive experience in conducting verification over environmental, social, ethical and health and The Selected Information needs to be read and understood together with the G4 GRI Sustainability safety information, systems and processes. PRODUCTION Reporting Guidelines as set out at https://www.globalreporting.org. Bureau Veritas operates a certified 1 Quality Management System which complies with the Limitations and Exclusions requirements of ISO 9001:2008, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information relating to: including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  Activities outside the defined verification period; Bureau Veritas has implemented and applies a Code of Ethics, which meets the requirements of  Positional statements (expressions of opinion, belief, aim or future intention by Polpharma the International Federation of Inspections Agencies (IFIA) 2, across the business to ensure that its and statements of future commitment. employees maintain integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality, This limited assurance engagement relies on a risk based selected sample of sustainability data and professional behaviour and high ethical standards in their day-to-day business activities. the associated limitations that this entails. The reliability of the reported data is dependent on the Evaluation against Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines accuracy of metering and other production measurement arrangements employed at site level, not addressed as part of this assurance. This independent statement should not be relied upon to detect all Bureau Veritas Polska Sp. z o.o. .undertook an evaluation of Polpharma Report against the GRI G4 errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This included cross checking the GRI index table against all the DISTRIBUTION reference documents to provide an opinion on the self-declared GRI application level. Responsibilities Based on our work, it is our opinion that Polpharma Group Social Responsibility Report 2015 2016. This preparation and presentation of the Selected Information in the Report are the sole responsibility has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 Reporting Framework including appropriate of the management of Polpharma. consideration of the Reporting Principles and necessary indicators to meet the ‘in accordance – core’ Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report or the Reporting Criteria. Our requirements of GRI G4. responsibilities were to:  obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected Information has been prepared BUREAU VERITAS POLSKA Sp. z o.o. in accordance with the Reporting Criteria; Warsaw, December 2017  form an independent conclusion based on the assurance procedures performed and evidence obtained; and  report our conclusions to the Directors of Polpharma. Witold Dżugan Assessment Standard SALES We performed our work in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) Member of the Board & MARKETING 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after December 15, 2015), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Summary of work performed As part of our independent verification, our work included: 1. Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the Selected Information; 2. Conducting interviews with relevant personnel of Polpharma; 3. Reviewing the data collection and consolidation processes used to compile Selected PARTNERS AND Information, including assessing assumptions made, and the data scope and reporting 1 Certificate of Registration No. 44 100 160145 issued by TUV NORD CERT GmbH boundaries; 2 International Federation of Inspection Agencies – Compliance Code – Third Edition Page 1 of 2 Page 2 of 2 CUSTOMERS 101 102
