KİBAR HOLDING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR 2015 KİBAR HOLDING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR 2015 TABLE OF CONTENTS About the Report............................................................................. 2 Global Compact.............................................................................. 2 About Kibar Holding........................................................................ 3 Message from the Chairman of the Board....................................... 5 Message from the CEO................................................................... 6 Kibar Holding Companies................................................................ 7 Governance at Kibar Holding......................................................... 13 Working Life.................................................................................. 17 Mitigating Environmental Impacts.................................................. 21 Our Social Investments.................................................................. 24 Performance Indicators Table........................................................ 26 Sustainability Report For 2015 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The Sustainability Report 2015 issued by Kibar year. Kibar Career School has continued its Holding for the 3rd time this year is an indicator activities in order to increase the knowledge of our company’s commitment to the principles and competencies of our human resources. of Global Compact (UNGC) signed in 2013. The Significant improvements have been achieved report covers the activities and consolidated data in all indicators as a result of the importance of Kibar Holding and its affiliates Assan Alüminyum, attached to occupational health and safety. Kibar Assan Gıda, Assan Hanil, Assan Panel and İspak Holding, Group Companies and Kibar Foundation in the fields of anti-corruption, prevention of have continued their contributions in the social human rights violations, improvement of labour development also in 2015. standards and mitigation of environmental impacts. The details of our performance in the field of sustainability are provided under the headings The year 2015 has been a successful year for of governance at Kibar Holding, working life, Kibar Holding in the fields of both business and mitigating environmental impacts, and our social sustainability. For example; despite the increased Investments; and we are very pleased to present production during the year, energy density has our Sustainability Report For 2015 to you, decreased by 5.5% compared to 2014. Water our valuable stakeholders for your opinions. density has decreased by 50% compared to 2013. Kibar Holding Codes of Conduct have been published and put into force in all our affiliates. Risk management has been restructured in order to strengthen our managerial structure. As a result of the importance attached to social equality, the number of our white-collar female employees has increased by 16% compared to the previous Sustainability Report For 2015 ABOUT THE REPORT This report has been prepared within the scope TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL of the Global Compact Progress Reporting principles and aims to communicate Kibar COMPACT Holding’s performance in the field of corporate sustainability to its stakeholders. The information Human Rights provided in the report covers the period of Principle 1: Business should support and respect 1 January 31 December 2015. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Kibar Holding signed the Global Compact in Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that 2013. In addition to the principles of Global they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Compact, the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom G4 Guidelines, an internationally accepted of association and the effective recognition of the reporting standard, has been also used as a right to collective bargaining. basis in our Sustainability Report For 2015. Unless stated otherwise, the information Labour Standards contained in the report covers the consolidated Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination data of Assan Alüminyum, Assan Gıda, Assan of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Hanil, Assan Panel and İspak, the companies Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective representing the main activities of Kibar Holding. abolition of child labour. The report also includes the best practices of the Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination said companies in the fields of environmental, of discrimination in respect of employment and social, and corporate governance. The data occupation. shared in the section entitled “About Kibar Holding” reflect all Holding Companies in order to Environment provide a general introduction about the Holding. Principle 7: Businesses should support a For any opinions and suggestions about the precautionary approach to environmental report, please contact us at kurumsaliletisim@ challenges. kibar.com. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. GLOBAL COMPACT Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the The Global Compact is comprised of development and diffusion of environmentally 10 principles specified in the fields of human friendly technologies. rights, working conditions, environment, and anti-corruption. These principles are prepared Anti-Corruption with a guiding perspective to enable companies Principle 10: Businesses should work against and organizations to achieve higher objectives in corruption in all its forms, including extortion and terms of risk management, increased efficiency, bribery. employee motivation and loyalty, brand awareness and access to new markets. The Global Compact signed by the United Nations in 2000 is an important initiative today with more than 9.000 signatory companies covering 168 countries around the world. UNGC has been active in Turkey since 2002 and has 250 members by 2015. Sustainability Report For 2015 -2ABOUT KİBAR HOLDING Being one of the long-established business metal, automotive, packaging, construction groups of Turkey, Kibar Holding has been materials, real estate, logistics, energy, food, and significantly contributing in the country’s economy service industries. and social welfare since its foundation. Operating in the fields of industry, service and trade, Kibar Holding has contributed 3,7 billion dollars Kibar Holding companies are leading in their to Turkish economy with its 6,588 employees by respective sectors. The Group has grown with its the end of 2015. Its group companies Hyundai knowledge and experience, reputation, positive Assan, Assan Alüminyum, Assan Hanil, Assan brand recognition and innovative organization Panel and Assan Demir are ranked among and established important foreign partnerships. the Top 500 Biggest Industrial Enterprises as Kibar Holding and its affiliates create great value for announced by Istanbul Chamber of Industry. The the country’s economy with their high production goal of Kibar Holding is to create added value for capacity, employment opportunities created, all its stakeholders in line with its ethical business volume of exports, social investments, and principles. strong partnerships established. The international business partners of Kibar Group include many leading international partners such as Hyundai, THY, Posco, Hanil, E-Hwa and Heritage. Kibar Dış Ticaret (Kibar Foreign Trade), managing the business relations of Kibar Group companies with foreign countries, is considered among the top 10 exporters of Turkey with its trade volume of 1,5 million tons per year. Kibar Group has 22 companies under its structure operating in Sustainability Report For 2015 -3ABOUT KİBAR HOLDING KİBAR HOLDING IN FIGURES Net sales revenues (Million TL) Operating costs (Million TL) 2015 10.433 2015 10.178 2014 8.168 2014 7.992 2013 5.054 2013 4.905 Salaries and benefits paid to Dividends paid to shareholders employees (Million TL) (Million TL) 2015 258 2015 13 2014 211 2014 23 2013 170 2013 14 Taxes paid (Million TL) 2015 48 2014 29 2013 22 Sustainability Report For 2015 -4MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Kibar Group is today among the biggest private sector conglomerates of Turkey operating in various sectors with over 7,000 employees. This great zone of influence that we have increases our responsibility to create a sustainable and quality life for future generations. Therefore, as Kibar Group, we are focusing our activities on development of environmentally friendly and innovative products and services creating added value. Kibar Group has maintained its performance development trend in the field of sustainability Dear Stakeholders, in 2015. As a result of the activities conducted within the period, we have succeeded in making As Kibar Group committing itself to grow improvements in various fields, particularly in the responsibly based on the principle of transparency, field of ensuring energy efficiency and reduction of I am pleased to share with you our Sustainability water consumption. We consider climate change Report For 2015. In this report that we have as the biggest obstacle standing in front of a prepared in accordance with the principles of the sustainable future. Therefore, we are improving United Nations Global Compact that we signed our business processes, products and services in 2013 and in which we have summarized our taking the climate factor into consideration. sustainability approach and performance, we present the practices of Kibar Holding and Group Kibar Holding, Group Companies and Kibar Companies for your opinions. Foundation have continued their contributions in the social development also in 2015. They have Today, the progress in science and technology performed activities that positively changed many offers advanced living opportunities for people. people’s lives in the fields of education, health, However, the gradually increasing population all sports, culture-art, environment, and various around the world and the subsequent changes other fields. in the social and environmental conditions create new requirements and expectations that We are proud that we have fulfilled our should be answered by us. While meeting such commitments towards our stakeholders also requirements, it is required to make sustainable in 2015 experiencing a successful period. We preferences that do not risk the requirements of would like to thank to all our stakeholders, future generations. Leading this transportation especially our employees, customers, investors, is an important responsibility particularly for the suppliers and business partners that have made business world. important contributions in our success that we have achieved. Creating added value for the society is the primary objective of Kibar Holding. For half a century, we Ali KİBAR have grown together with our society through Chairman of the Board our activities contributing in the economic, social and environmental development of Turkey extending from industry, trade, and training to health and from employment to culture and art. Sustainability Report For 2015 -5MESSAGE FROM THE CEO in 2015 within the scope of its changing and growing range of products. Assan Gıda has also renewed its certificates after successfully passing from BRC Global Standards and IFS (International Featured Standards) audits in 2015. As a result of the healthy food awareness that has raised in the recent years, food manufacturers have turned towards environmentally friendly and organic products market in order to meet this demand. Assan Gıda is closely following up such activities and is trying to offer products in line with the market trends. Assan Hanil has commissioned its 3rd plant in Bursa in 2015 and begun mass production for Karsan EU Project. It has Dear Stakeholders, produced its first functional prototype seat for the project on air-suspension driver seats for commercial vehicles The opinion that the leaders of the business world have developed in its R&D center established under its own reached to a consensus on in today’s world with gradually structure with a unique design and high export potential. globalizing economy is that corporate sustainability is an important criterion for success of the companies. For Having set off with the objective of becoming one of the today’s business world, the issues such as protection of top 20 flexible packaging manufacturers of the world, climate balance, strengthening human rights and supporting İspak has taken a new investment decision for increased social development are as important as the financial and capacity planned to be put into operation in Izmit Asım operational risks. The companies that can answer such Kibar Organized Industrial Zone in 2017. The first phase of social expectations can become the leading actors of the investment, i.e. the procurement of 8 units of process the new economic order. The management approach of machines, has been completed in 2015. Kibar Holding considers social development as an integral part of our corporate development. Managed with this In 2015, our corporate sustainability performance has also understanding, Kibar Holding companies are improving followed a positive course. We have achieved success the sustainability of their value chains while constantly in resource utilization thanks to the efficiency studies increasing their business success. conducted by group companies. Despite the increased production during the year, energy density has decreased The year 2015 has been a year in which our Group by 5.5% compared to 2014. Water density has decreased Companies have continued their investments and R&D by 50% compared to 2013. activities without slowing down. Assan Alüminyum has transferred funds at the amount of 2,8 million TL for its Making an impression with the support that they have R&D activities in 2015. The Company has been accepted been providing for the social development since their to be included in Turquality program targeting to create foundation, Kibar Holding and Group Companies lead global Turkish brands under the leadership of the ministry the way with sustainable and reproducible practices in of economy. Having won the tender for privatization of the social responsibility projects that they accomplish. Manavgat HEPP, Assan Alüminyum will implement one of Future Camp organized for high school students is a the most important investments through incorporation of good example of such projects. We would like to thank this renewable energy resource. Assan Alüminyum has also especially to our Group employees that have enabled us completed its ISO 50001 energy management certification to achieve our corporate success and to our business process. partners, customers, investors, suppliers and all our other stakeholders. Having a factory that can process the highest quantity of tomatoes from a single location in Turkey, Assan Gıda has Tamer SAKA commissioned its sauce preparation and stick filling machine CEO Sustainability Report For 2015 -6KİBAR HOLDING COMPANIES OUR INDUSTRY GROUP COMPANIES ASSAN ALÜMİNYUM ASSAN DEMİR ve SAC Started its operation in 1988, Assan Alüminyum Established in 1972, Assan Demir has been has been manufacturing and trading flat manufacturing and providing services for rolled aluminium (roll, sheet and foil) products. sheet iron and steel products according to the Manufacturing under the structure of Kibar Group needs of end users and industrial firms. As a in Istanbul Tuzla and Kocaeli Dilovası plants, the solution partner for stock management, one of company is the leading company of Turkey in the the biggest problems of industrial companies, flat aluminium industry with an annual installed Assan Demir keeps in stock the products capacity of 250 thousand tons in 2015. The needed by its customers in the flat product Company has an aluminium painting capacity groups. It meets the demands of its customers of 60 thousand tons per year in its roll painting with its manufacturing and supply services that it plants. provides from its Dilovası and İskenderun plants. ASSAN GIDA EGE ASSAN GIDA Started its operations in Susurluk-Balıkesir in The Company was established by Assan Gıda 1998, Assan Gıda produces and exports tomato in 2010 for exporting tomato paste in Izmir paste, ketchup, and various sauces. Assan Gıda’s Free Zone in order to increase the competitive industrial investment equipped with the most power in global markets and to meet customer modern technology has exceeded the value of expectations. 50 million dollars. The Company sells its products to nearly 30 foreign markets. Sustainability Report For 2015 -7KİBAR HOLDING COMPANIES OUR INDUSTRY GROUP COMPANIES ASSAN HANİL ASSAN PANEL One of Kibar Group’s automotive companies, Assan Hanil was The leader company in the sandwich panel industry, established in 1997 with the partnership of the South Korean Assan Panel started production with its first factory Seoyon E-Hwa company and started production as an original established in Tuzla Istanbul with a capacity of 4 million equipment supplier in the automotive supply industry. While it m2 per year in 1990. Having continued its investments was supplying parts for Hyundai Assan only in the early years of in order to increase its capacity in years, Assan Panel its establishment, it has become one of the important suppliers established its Iskenderun plant with a capacity of of Ford-Otosan since 2005. Assuming also the production 3 million m2/year in 2004, its Balıkesir plant with a capacity of important parts of an M2 class minibus, the joint project of of 3 million m2/year in 2009, and its Jordan plant with a Karsan and Hyundai Motor Company (HMC), Assan Hanil has capacity of 4,5 million m2/year in 2012. After successfully added Isuzu and Honda to its customer portfolio. With over one completing its investment for a second production line thousand specialized employees working in its plants with a total in Tuzla Istanbul plant with a capacity of 3,5 million m2/ area of 80 thousand m2 in three different locations including two year in 2015, the company’s capacity has reached to plants in Kocaeli and one plant in Bursa, the company carries out 18 million m2/year. Playing an active role in the global automation-based production activities with high technology. market, the company exports to 47 countries. KİBAR INDUSTRY HYUNDAI ASSAN Established in 2011 by Assan Panel Sanayi ve Ticaret Celebrating its 25th year of entry in the Turkish Automotive A.Ş., Kibar Industry Co. started its operations in Jordan Market in 2015, Hyundai Assan is jointly managed by to produce sandwich panels. The manufacturing plant, 70% Hyundai Motor Company and 30% Kibar Group located at a distance of 45 km to the capital Amman, partnership. As the compact automobile station of the was established on a total area of 65 thousand brand with an investment of 1.2 billion TL, Hyundai m2 including 10 thousand m2 of indoor space. The Assan exports to more than 40 countries over 200 foundations of the plant were laid early 2012; and with thousand units of automobiles produced in a year with a continuous line offering 4,5 million m2 of production its 2 thousand and 800 employees. Hyundai Assan is capacity, polyurethane-insulated sandwich panels and among the most favoured automobile brands in Turkey; supplementary elements are produced in the first stage. and more than 50 thousand units of vehicles are sold in a year via the network comprising 71 dealers spread throughout the country. Sustainability Report For 2015 -8KİBAR HOLDING COMPANIES OUR INDUSTRY GROUP COMPANIES İSPAK POSCO ASSAN TST Established in 1974, İspak offers products and The Company was established in 2011 with the services for flexible packaging industry with cooperation of Kibar Holding, South Korea-based its experience of over 40 years. The company Posco and Daewoo International to manufacture manufactures packaging solutions for any stainless steel in Kocaeli. Having the first and only processed food, candies, chocolate, milk and stainless steel cold rolling plant of Turkey, Posco dairy products, pharmaceuticals, cigarettes, Assan TST had an initial investment cost of beverages, white goods, and insulation industries. 350 million dollars and it started production in 2013 with a production capacity of 300 thousand tons per year. TSI UÇAK KOLTUK ÜRETİMİ The Company was established in 2011 by Turkish Airlines, TT Turkish Technic and Assan Hanil Otomotiv. TSI designs, manufactures and sells all types of passenger seats used in commercial aeronautics. Focusing on weight, which is very important in aviation industry and which directly affects fuel consumption, the company creates added value with the design of high quality, light and innovative products. Sustainability Report For 2015 -9KİBAR HOLDING COMPANIES OUR TRADE GROUP COMPANIES ASSAN GAYRİMENKUL ASSAN YAPI Established in 2008, Assan Gayrimenkul aims to Established in 2007, Assan Yapı offers services develop all the real estate projects of the group. in every field of the construction industry. The company also continues to carry out its new Assan Yapı is gradually growing and developing project efforts in high potential areas having room day by day using all the technologies of the era. for development throughout the entire country. BAREKS DIŞ TİCARET KİBAR ENERJİ Established in 1995, Bareks Dış Ticaret exports Established in 2011, Kibar Enerji imports and steel-iron, non-ferrous metals and various carries out wholesale activities for natural gas. consumer goods to the Commonwealth Kibar Enerji acquired 1 billion m3/year of natural of Independent States (CIS). In addition, gas purchase-sale contract under the West it conducts, under the name of Bareks Mermer, Line Contract transfer in 2012; and has been the wholesale and retail organization of marble conducting importation and wholesale of natural that it imports from Ukraine, Turkey and various gas as of 1 January 2013. marble manufacturing countries across the world. Sustainability Report For 2015 -10KİBAR HOLDING COMPANIES OUR TRADE GROUP COMPANIES KİBAR INTERNATIONAL S.A. KİBAR DIŞ TİCARET The company was established in Switzerland Established in 1985, Kibar Dış Ticaret organizes in 2001 in order to support the import and foreign trade activities of Kibar Group. With its export activities of the companies engaged in widespread contact points all around the world international trade under the structure of Kibar and accumulated foreign trade know-how Group. and knowledge, Kibar Dış Ticaret is an original representative of the group’s strong commercial culture. Kibar Dış Ticaret is listed as one of the Top 10 Exporters of Turkey. Sustainability Report For 2015 -11KİBAR HOLDING COMPANIES OUR SERVICE GROUP COMPANIES ASSAN BİLİŞİM ASSAN LOJİSTİK Established in 2006, Assan Bilişim offers comprehensive Established in 1996, Assan Lojistik provides door-to-door services in information and communication industries. logistic services at a national and international level. It offers Assan Bilişim is a technology and consulting company domestic transportation, heavy transport, warehouse, offering the services related with development of storage, distribution and stocking, in-port handling, enterprise resource planning solutions tailored for supervision and customs clearance services throughout customers, Microsoft Axapta consultancy, project Turkey. The company also conducts multimodal management, information security management transportation, international land transport, international system installation, disaster recovery center services, air transport, international marine transport, international system development, system support, hardware and railroad transport and heavy transport operations in the integrator services, data center, call center, software field of international transportation. It started to provide selection, process development and desktop support operational fleet leasing services in 2001, thus offering its services. intra-group experience and boutique service concept to extra-group companies as well. ASSAN PORT İNTERAKTİF The company was established in Iskenderun Bay İnteraktif was established by the end of 2015 as the in 2010 in order to provide services for all types of joint venture of Kibar Group and the Heritage Group container ships and general cargo vessels. Assan that has been operating in the USA since 1930 in order Port Iskenderun, the first container terminal providing to provide competitive and innovative solutions in the services for modern container ships at Iskenderun areas of Total Waste Management and Environmental Bay, has become the second and a very important Consultancy. With its experience in Total Waste alternative following Mersin for the same hinterland. Management and the sustainable solutions that it The company is continuing its activities under the offers, the Company is in the service of its customers partnership agreement executed with the Dutch and of Turkey that is a party to Kyoto Agreement in Terminal Investments Limited Group in 2013. order to enable them to achieve their environmental and sustainability objectives. Sustainability Report For 2015 -12GOVERNANCE AT KİBAR HOLDING Kibar Holding’s corporate governance approach is shaped Directorate was established in 2016 and it is planned that by the principles of integrity, dignity, ethical conduct and intra-group corporate risk management, business continuity compliance with all laws and regulatory authorities. These and compliance policies and standards will be developed; risk principles constitute the basis of governance for the Group assessment models and reporting processes will be structured; Companies as well as Kibar Holding. Displaying a transparent, and the impacts and possibilities of operational risks and their fair, responsible and accountable governance approach relative consequences will be minimized through business and strict compliance with the regulatory rules in terms of continuity planning and drills under the coordination of the managerial structure, policies and processes are the principles said unit. It is aimed that the risk management and business that must be always complied with by Kibar Holding and Group continuity systems will be structured in line with international Companies. standards like ISO 31000 and ISO22301 and in an integrated manner with the company strategies and corporate culture and Since 2013, there have been important changes towards thus, they will be internalized by all employees as an important institutionalization in Kibar Holding. The organization structures element of corporate sustainability. Under the coordination of the Holding and of the Group Companies were changed of the Risk Management Directorate, the framework, system and a professional governance approach was adopted and committee infrastructures are established for periodical through transfer of executives at various levels. The systematic assessment by the companies, Senior Management and the developments that will automate management of organizations Board of Directors of and for the actions to be taken by the and operations and facilitate their control are also ongoing. The related departments against the operational, financial, legal Organization Manual defining the corporate procedures has and strategic risks that may prevent the Holding or Group been prepared. Companies from achieving their strategic business targets, or jeopardize business continuity, or cause financial, reputational For detailed information on the Board of Directors and Senior or human loss. Necessary risk management and internal control Management of Kibar Holding, please visit activities are designed through cooperation with the Holding https://www.kibar.com/Holding/Yonetim-Kurulu.aspx. Finance Department in the monitoring of the financial risks such as currency, bad debt, interest and liquidity risks; and with the insurance companies in the management of operational STRATEGIC PLANNING risks related with assets, products, and business continuity. The strategic planning at Kibar Holding is a continuous process In addition, the Internal Audit Department and the Internal during which current, initiative-based and riskbearing decisions Audit units in the Group provide assurance and consultancy are taken systematically and considering the possible impacts services for management of the risks that may occur during on the future, the efforts necessary to implement such decisions the processes related with the operational, financial and are organized and a systematic feedback mechanism is compliance issues in the entire Group. determined and the results of such decisions are compared with expectations. Corruption and misconduct issues are taken into consideration in all audits conducted at Kibar Holding. The audits of all Strategic planning refers to systematic creation and follow-up processes of 8 companies under the structure of Kibar Holding of a road-map designated by the General Managers of Group were completed in 2015; and the audits of 4 companies Companies. The Holding Senior Management and Strategy have been started in 2015. In addition, inventory counts were and Business Development Department review this roadmap performed in 8 companies and cash counts were performed in terms of the Holding’s objectives and mission and provide in 7 companies in 2015. In addition, private investigations recommendations. received via the complaint channel and mostly related with misconduct cases were also conducted in 2015. Six different RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL AUDIT reports of misconduct were received from 4 different companies and reports regarding 31 different claims were submitted At Kibar Holding, there are effective risk management and internal to the Board of Directors in 2015. As a result of such cases, audit systems in place for ensuring business sustainability. In control points that will increase the reliability of internal control line with its objectives and principles of creating added value for environment in the companies have been defined. Necessary the society and protecting such values, Kibar Holding attaches punitive sanctions were imposed for persistent violations. utmost importance to identification of corporate risks toward its stakeholders, its assets and its operations and effective management of such risks. In this context, Risk Management Sustainability Report For 2015 -13GOVERNANCE AT KİBAR HOLDING BUSINESS ETHICS PRACTICES BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND The Ethics Committee Reporting to the Board of INFORMATION SECURITY Directors is the highest authorized body for Business It is targeted to establish “Lean Functioning” approach Ethics practices at Kibar Holding. “Kibar Holding in order to ensure business excellence under the Codes of Conduct” prepared in 2015 and put into structure of Kibar Holding. In this context, Kaizen, force in 2016 is based on the principles of integrity, the improvement approach of this philosophy has confidentiality, justice, quality and continuous been adopted and the projects such as improvement development, prevention of conflicts of interest and of the efficiency of equipment in critical machinery responsibility. Training and information activities were have been started together with the companies in conducted in order to increase the awareness about order to widely deploy this approach in the Group the rules within the Group; in-class trainings were Companies. There are practices already in place in organized with the participation of all employees; Assan Hanil and İspak companies oriented toward the Codes of Conduct were introduced and the establishing production continuity under the scope of Codes of Conduct Booklets were distributed in the TPM (Total Productive Maintenance) approach. such trainings. A signed statement is received from all employees indicating that they have read and The activities for ensuring business continuity at understood the Codes of Conduct and they will not Kibar Holding and Group Companies are continued display any behaviours contrary to the Codes of without slowing down. In order to ensure business Conduct. Trainings are from time to time organized in continuity, it is required to design the current the campuses according to the personnel circulation functioning considering the best practices, and to in the companies and the participation and signed regularly measure the performance with the related statement status of our employees are periodically indicators and to continuously improve it. All business reported to the Board of Directors. The rules are also processes should be designed taking any and all incorporated into the orientation programs as well. risks into account and covering the requirements in terms of human resources and technology. The An Ethics Hotline was established for receiving intrabusiness processes at the holding and companies or extra-Group calls to be made within the framework are being reviewed and designed and the transition of the confidentiality principles in case of any breach to SAP program in ERP systems is ongoing. of ethical rules. It is ensured that every call received at the Ethics Hotline will be answered and recorded by Balanced scorecard practice is continued under a limited number of authorized personnel. In addition the scope of corporate performance management. to Ethics Hotline, it has been made possible that any Thus, in addition to financial indicators, the indicators possible complaints may be forwarded in writing related with customer relations and progress are via e-mail or letters and they are recorded and then also monitored. The improvement projects in relation submitted to the Ethics Committee for their opinion. to the issues, for which the related performance is monitored, are being continued together with the A Code of Conduct Advisor has been designated Group Companies. in Group companies in order to ensure that the codes of conduct are correctly understood by Data privacy is a process managed with due care employees. Code of Conduct Advisors serve as a and diligence at Kibar Holding and Group Companies point of consultancy for any nonconformities with having a wide network of stakeholders. The data the Codes of Conduct in any cases experienced of all our customers and our business partners by the employees. When the employees face any and employees are secured using various security nonconformity with the Codes of Conduct, they systems. Kibar Holding Data Security Policy can be can report it anonymously to Kibar Group Ethics viewed at Committee as well as the Code of Conduct Advisors. https://www.kibar.com/Holding/Veri-Gizliligi.aspx. Sustainability Report For 2015 -14GOVERNANCE AT KİBAR HOLDING SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT created is ensured through constant monitoring and improvement of the sustainability performance of this Kibar Holding Group Procurement department manages large group of stakeholders. a procurement volume of nearly 2,5 billion TL through the procurement of raw materials, operating auxiliary Kibar Group Companies not only render the best and materials, technical materials, energy, real estate / finest quality service at all times; but also conduct their construction works, technical equipment investments activities within the framework of social responsibility, and indirect procurements required for all group environmental awareness and respect to employee companies. rights. As a requirement of joint responsibility, suppliers are also expected to operate with the same At Kibar Group, procurement activities target to responsibility by developing their own environment with guarantee sustainable, accountable and corporate this awareness. Execution of Kibar Group Framework practices through effective, efficient, and dynamic Agreement with the suppliers is considered as the operations. In order to support these targets, Kibar prerequisite of the procurement process. With this Holding common procurement organization continues agreement, it is guaranteed that the suppliers also adopt its activities focusing on quality and saving. The all critical sustainability priorities. Being an integral part approach followed in the operations is a sustainable and of our Codes of Conduct, the Procurement Codes of corporate procurement approach choosing, protecting Conduct are expected to be adopted and implemented and developing the correct suppliers through categoryby each supplier with which we are to work and we are based specialization and providing benefits for the entire currently working. Group and the suppliers through collaboration activities. Kibar Group treats all suppliers equally and provides its The purpose of purchasing operations is to ensure suppliers with the opportunity to act within a fair corporate sustainability of Kibar Group Companies. competition environment. To this effect, the developments in the raw material markets are followed up; and various risks and All suppliers currently providing and/or evaluated for opportunities directly affecting the costs such as provision of services for the Group are monitored within economic fluctuations in our supply geography are the scope of the following criteria: managed. Energy efficient investments equipped with advanced technology are preferred in the procurements. • Efficiency (quality-cost-time balance) Purchasing requirements are met over a global supplier • Compliance with environmental rules and codes network. The point of focus is to develop long-term of conduct business partnerships creating added-value, which can • The performance regarding the responses to the serve the entire Group. development/improvement demands • The capability of adaptation to developing and While Kibar Group develops environmentally and changing global/ local/ economic/ industrial socially responsible processes in its own operations, conditions it also expects from its suppliers to fulfil similar conditions. • Compliance with the terms and conditions of Purchasing procedures, principles and codes of contracts conduct have been established as a part of responsible supply chain practices. These criteria developed in line Kibar Group believes that permanent business success with the Global Compact deal with the issues such as can be achieved together with the suppliers that it prevention of child labour and forced labour, provision of considers as its business partners and chooses the fair and equitable working conditions, and mitigation of suppliers that it will work with based on the principle environmental impacts. As a Group, the suppliers acting of trust. Therefore, the quality of the relationship with in accordance with the codes of conduct and principles the suppliers is extremely important. Kibar Group and showing respect to people and environment are Procurement Codes of Conduct aims to standardize worked with and all efforts are made in order to ensure the relations between the supplier companies and the that the suppliers also adopt our corporate culture. A wide employees. These rules are binding for and upon not and strong network comprising nearly 2000 suppliers is only the procurement personnel, but also all employees being managed. The development of the ecosystem that may be involved in procurement activities. Sustainability Report For 2015 -15GOVERNANCE AT KİBAR HOLDING SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT and compulsory labour practices are avoided within the framework of the activities of the Group companies. The Kibar Holding’s sustainability management is basically referring Group companies expect their suppliers and business to the United Nations Global Compact that it is a signatory partners to meet similar operational norms and standards to, as well as its corporate governance structure, business by realizing various monitoring practices, thereby contribute ethics and social responsibility culture that it has developed to the attainment of aforesaid conditions within the scope so far. All Group Companies are obliged to comply with the of their areas of influence. In the group companies, human 10 principles set forth in the said agreement under the main resources policies and processes are managed by units headings of working conditions, human rights, environment with specialized expertise; whereby bodies are constituted and anticorruption as well as the policies and strategies set with the representation of employees, primarily in the field of forth by Kibar Holding, over their all operational geographies. occupational health and safety. Our group companies conduct continuous improvementfocused studies in the related areas by monitoring their Maintaining corporate sustainability at Kibar Holding performance that they display in this area. Companies is the main target of the Holding. In parallel to such objective, the managerial approaches developed in Kibar Holding Companies provide employees with safe and the respective areas of social, economic and environmental fair workplaces where human dignity remain at the forefront; responsibility are monitored through Kibar Holding human rights are maintained; the professional development Sustainability Reports. of employees is supported; and equal opportunities for their development are provided. Human resources policies As required by its governance principles and sustainability and strategies set forth by Kibar Holding are shaped and approach, Kibar Holding is in constant and constructive monitored by the Group Companies through and by means communication with its stakeholders. Due to the structure of customizations made according to the characteristics of its affiliations, Kibar Holding deals with a broad range of the sectors they are operating in. Under the personnel of stakeholders, primarily shareholders, companies, regulations published by the Group Companies, principles employees, dealers, agencies, customers, nonrelated with the matters such as employees’ social rights governmental organizations and public institutions. and benefits, working conditions, occupational health and As far as stakeholder engagement is concerned, the safety are specified; they are governed by the systems engagements implemented include one-way and twoand procedures established; and their implementation way information provision and feedback methods, as well as performance results obtained are followed project-based partnerships, mutual discussions and up at the company and Holding levels. Human rights similar practices. The criteria expected to be fulfilled by including, particularly, the right to association, are secured the corporate stakeholders include integrity, respectability, under policies and procedures regulated pursuant to ethical behaviour and compliance with laws and regulations. the provisions on human rights stipulated in national The other continuously evaluated criteria for any ongoing or legislation as well as international conventions, including, future cooperation to be developed are about the potential particularly, the related articles of the United Nations Global contribution to the community as well as potential of Compact; and thus, discrimination, child labour, forced creativity and innovation. STAKEHOLDER MEANS AND FREQUENCY OF COMMUNICATION GROUPS Employees Annual Report (yearly), Internal Information Announcements (spontaneous) Group Companies Annual Report (yearly), Labour Committees (standing) Annual Report (yearly), Interim Period Activity Reports (biannually), Reputation Researches Shareholders and (annual), General Assembly Meetings (annual), Meetings and Discussions (spontaneous), Board of Investors Directors’ Meetings (quarterly) Public Institutions Annual Report (yearly), Audits (spontaneous/annual), Other Requests and Notices Customers Annual Customer Satisfaction Measurement University Students K Team Long-term Internship Program Trade Unions Meetings and discussions held between MESS that Assan Alüminyum is a member of and the company during the year Sustainability Report For 2015 -16WORKING LIFE Kibar Holding believes that its corporate success is increase the number of female employees in based on its qualified and committed employees. order to ensure gender equality in the community. The Group acts with respect to employee rights set forth in international agreements in every At Kibar Group companies under the scope of stage of working life and develop systems for the report, the number of total employees in 2015 protection of such rights. Kibar Holding and its has increased by 11% compared to 2013. The affiliates target to add competent employees number of white-collar female employees has to its structure and to ensure their continuous increased in all Kibar Group Companies under development as a preferred workplace. the scope of the report in 2015. The total number of female white-collar employees has increased Kibar Group has adopted the principles of by 16% compared to 2014 and reached to 175 in not practicing any discrimination based on 2015. In Assan Alüminyum, the number of female language, religion, region, race and gender; employees has increased by 14.8% compared to providing completely all legal and personal rights 2014 and reached to 70 in 2015. The rates of of employees; not acting contrary to personality increase in Assan Gıda and in Ispak are 6% and rights and human dignity and not permitting 29%, respectively. such behaviours. There are ongoing studies to Breakdown of white-collar – blue-collar employees in the companies under the scope of the report 2015 571 2318 White collar 2014 570 2201 Blue collar 2013 584 2016 Breakdown of employees by gender in the companies under the scope of the report 2015 382 2507 Female 2014 364 2407 Male 2013 377 2232 Breakdown of white-collar employees by gender in the companies under the scope of the report 2015 175 396 Female 2014 151 419 Male 2013 150 434 Sustainability Report For 2015 -17WORKING LIFE ASSAN HANIL AND INTERNATIONAL ASSAN ALÜMINYUM VALUE CREATING WOMEN’S DAY IMPROVEMENT MODEL (ADIM) Various awareness-raising activities on equality of ADIM model is implemented as an improvement opportunities and femicide are conducted under methodology in Assan Alüminyum. ADIM is comprised the scope of the International Women’s Day Events of Small Steps, Big Steps and KGF components. Small regularly organized by Assan Hanil every year. Assan Steps are the suggestions for improvement realized Hanil is also a leading company in its sector with the through personal experience and common sense. Big support that it provides for women’s employment in all Steps are the suggestions for improvement realized management and operational positions. by project groups, which should be focused on a Group basis. Using the system of Accident is On the Way Form (KGF), employees report over ERA system EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION AND the situations such as near-miss events, potential SATISFACTION hazards, unsafe conduct, etc. experienced on site. Continuous improvement of working life and increasing Such reports are reviewed by OHS&E Department employees’ welfare are among the corporate priorities and pertinent reports are prioritized and converted of Kibar Holding. Employees’ expectations are regularly into work orders and corrective/preventive actions collected via Employee Opinion Surveys conducted are taken duly. This system has also been linked to by an independent consultancy firm since 2004. The a rewarding system in order to encourage it. In 2015, feedbacks given both throughout the entire Group 53% of the suggestions received from employees and specific to Group Companies are examined at the have been put into application and 1.123 suggestions highest level, the results are shared with employees have been supported in Assan Alüminyum. and actions are taken according to the suggestions and duly followed up. There are targets set forth in the EMPLOYEE SUGGESTION SYSTEM AT scorecard of every manager in Kibar Group aiming the development of employee engagement. İSPAK In İspak, the suggestions of all employees are Believing that providing a participative workplace evaluated and they are encouraged to participate in increases the creativity and satisfaction of employees, the improvement activities. Suggestions received from Kibar Holding has commissioned Porttakal, the internal employees are evaluated by the Suggestion Evaluation communication portal in 2014 in order to reinforce Committee chaired by the General Manager and the communications between the companies and comprising the authorized personnel from Production, employees. Another important communication channel Maintenance, Human Resources and Quality is the internal communication bulletin named K-Haber. Departments. The OH&S Award of the month and Prepared with the participation of employees, K-Haber the Efficiency Award of the month are given through a (KNews) contains news from the employees and plays selection made among the suggestions received every an important role in strengthening intra-group bonds. month. Sustainability Report For 2015 -18WORKING LIFE ASSAN ALÜMINYUM IN SOCIAL MEDIA leadership development programs, mentorship and coaching activities. At the end of the trainings Exporting to over 70 countries, Assan Alüminyum provided, the evaluations made by the participants conducts its activities towards reaching to the in relation to such trainings are taken into account; intended target group in the business market. To this thus targeting continuous development of training effect, social media channels are effectively used. organizations. Training requirement analyses are The number of the Company’s followers in LinkedIn made according to the compulsory professional has increased by nearly 50% and exceeded 8,000 trainings of hourly paid workers and the working in 2015. standards for heavy and dangerous works and such trainings are organized via accredited institutions. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEMS The trainings provided at Kibar Holding and the Effective performance systems are extremely Companies under its structure have been also important in creating a fair working life rewarding continued in 2015. 29,111 man hours of trainings success. Kibar Holding and Group companies were organized in the fields of occupational health measure the performances of their employees in and safety, professional and personal development line with their objectives and governance principles. and environment. Employees’ performance is measured with a system using competencies as well as the targets. In addition, the holding companies continuously Kibar Group competencies have been determined increase the training opportunities and the types in the workshops organized with the managers of of trainings provided for their employees. Having all Group Companies; and the competencies have increased its investments in the field of training, been identified based on the exemplary behaviours Assan Gıda has organized 3481,5 hours of trainings bringing success in the activities of Kibar Holding. in 2015 and increased the total number of training The Performance Management System, the general hours by 77% compared to 2014. Assan Alüminyum principles of which have been determined by Kibar has increased the total number of training hours by Holding, is flexible enough to meet the different 19.4% compared to 2014 and organized 2,088 hours requirements in practice on a company basis. of trainings in 2015. Assan Panel has increased the The Performance Management System provides total number of training hours by 57% and provided inputs for the Training and Development, Career 6,451 hours of trainings for its employees. Management and Reward Management Potential Evaluation processes. In 2015, 1,783 employees in total have been included in the performance KİBAR CAREER SCHOOL evaluation system in the companies under the scope Kibar Holding’s biggest investment in the field of of the report. education is Kibar Career School established with its training partner Sabancı University. With Career School There are recognition and appreciation systems project, it is aimed to develop the competencies of varying on Group Companies basis within the employees in their fields of specialization by means structure of Kibar Holding. of a corporate academy. A Faculty of Leadership has been established within the scope of the Academy TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT in order to create a common leadership approach At Kibar Holding giving utmost importance to throughout the entire Group. Faculty of Development human resources and targeting continuous has been established for the employees at specialist training and development within this meaning, level and Sales Academy has been established for annual training plans are prepared considering the the sales personnel throughout the entire Group. The requests of employees, the areas for improvement leadership trainings organized under the structure of competencies required by positions, the trainings of Career School have included 1.608 man* hours needed for achievement of annual targets, and of training at Assan Alüminyum; 1.384 man* hours personal and professional development needs. This of training at Assan Panel, and 504 man*hours of process is also supported by positionand title-based training at Assan Hanil. Sustainability Report For 2015 -19WORKING LIFE CAREER MANAGEMENT are reviewed and evaluated by the occupational safety specialists and the other related unit Kibar Holding tries to offer a satisfactory career representatives and the preventive and corrective to its employees. Employees’ target-oriented actions specified as a result of such analyses are performances and competency developments put into application. As a result of such activities, are monitored by years at Kibar Holding. no fatal events or occupational diseases have Employees demonstrating development for the been experienced at Kibar Holding companies next upper level are evaluated at their companies since 2011. The companies have also maintained or the other Group companies considering the the same performance in 2015. The number of requirements of the Group. In order to ensure injuries in the companies under the scope of the such development and to create a pool of report has decreased by 4.4% in 2015 compared potential candidates, employees benefit from a to the previous year. In Assan Gıda, the accident wide range of opportunities covering mentorship, frequency rate has decreased by 74% in 2015 coaching, and leadership programs. Most of the compared to 2014. This rate has decreased by requirements in the Group for medium and senior 42% compared to the previous year in İspak. level managers are covered internally within the The injury rates have decreased by 5.8 at Assan Group. Alüminyum, 25.6% at Assan Gıda, 28.5% at Assan Panel and 50% at İspak in 2015 compared OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY to 2014. Aware of the fact that employees can be happy and efficient in a safe and healthy workplace, Kibar There is a workplace doctor in all working Group makes no compromise of occupational areas and infirmary service is provided in the health and safety practices considered among its group companies. Private health insurances are top business priorities. There are Occupational implemented at Kibar Holding companies with Health and Safety Committees, meeting regularly different policies and limits according to the every month and responsible for the functioning sectors they are operating in. of the occupational health and safety policy in all companies. There is a position entitled High standards of Kibar Holding Companies have as Occupational Health and Safety Manager also been registered by international companies. established for monitoring Occupational Health Holding companies export to many global and Safety (OHS) practices throughout the entire companies and follow international standards in Holding. OHS practices of all companies are their manufacturing and occupational health and audited by the Occupational Health and Safety safety processes. Assan Gıda, one of the Holding Management every year. Six OHS committees in companies, has successfully passed the audits total have been commissioned in the companies of Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX), and under the scope of the report; and 90 employees IFS and BRC Food Safety Global Standards. and employee representatives in total have served in such committees in 2015. ROBOTIC IRONING PROJECT AT At Kibar Holding Companies believing in ASSAN HANIL the importance of employees’ awareness With the robotic ironing system that will be of occupational health and safety, 15,765.5 commissioned at Assan Hanil in 2016, the man*hours of occupational health and safety ironing operation previously performed manually training have been organized with the participation by the operators on the front seat lines will of 1,685 employees in 2015. become robotized. Thus, it is aimed to prevent musculoskeletal system disorders that may be Accidents occurring in the group companies suffered by the employees due to their works. Sustainability Report For 2015 -20MITIGATING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change is one of the greatest threats that our planet faces. In case of global warming by more than 2 degrees compared to the pre-Industrial Revolution levels, climate change will become irreversible and it will create very devastating impacts in the long run. As a result of climate change, it may become impossible to find drinking water enough for everyone in many regions of the world. Adverse weather conditions causing both physical and economic losses and damages may become more frequent. Private sector may have to incur serious costs and expenses against the high costs of managing a different climate. Therefore, Decreasing natural resources and climate change climate change poses a serious risk not only for the are considered among the top global issues today. natural life, but also for the economic and social life. The impaired environmental balance directly affect various industries, particularly agriculture; and There are important duties falling on the part of the large-scale global issues necessitate innovative private sector in order to eliminate the risk of climate solutions with comprehensive participation. change. To this effect, Kibar Holding and Group Kibar Holding Companies act with the awareness Companies act in line with their obligations under the and responsibility of the environmental issues that United Nations Global Compact and have adopted have become global in all their activities. the principles of mitigating their environmental impacts, leading their ways towards environmentallyThe environmental sustainability approach at Kibar friendly technologies and creating awareness about Holding and its affiliates is based on constantly environmental issues. Environmental performance developing innovative solutions to minimize the is monitored in all companies under the roof the adverse impacts on the environment and encouraging Holding with due care and diligence; and numerous environmentallyfriendly behavioral changes. The goal local and international standards are implemented of minimizing the holding companies’ environmental and continuous improvement projects are put into footprints is achieved through efficient use of all application. natural resources, especially water, and energy and environmentallyfriendly waste management. The Efficient use of energy constitutes an important potential risks generated by environmental issues are area in the fight against climate change. The turned into opportunities through the development of projects for energy efficiency also decrease the environmentally-friendly technologies and products external dependency of Turkey in the field of thanks to R&D activities of the companies under the energy resources, thus contributing in the national structure of Kibar Holding. economy. To this effect, our Group Companies implement various efficiency projects. As a result of National and international certification processes such projects, the energy density of our companies are closely followed up in the field of environmental have declined. Despite the increase in production management. The companies within the structure of volumes, energy consumptions are decreasing Kibar Group adopt an integrated governance model thanks to the environmentally-friendly technologies by adding new national and international certificates used and the efficiency studies conducted. to those already received by them. Most of Kibar Group Companies have ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certificate. Sustainability Report For 2015 -21MITIGATING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Energy density of the companies under the scope of the report (Total energy consumption/Total production (GJ/tons)) 2,10 1,65 1,56 2013 2014 2015 At Assan Panel, the energy consumption has process. The registration procedures related with decreased by 14% compared to 2014 and has the project have been completed and the patent been recorded as 442,.666 GJ in 2015. İspak application has been submitted. achieved 6,5% energy saving compared to the previous year thanks to the projects implemented in 2015. LOGISTICS OPTIMIZATION AT ASSAN HANIL Assan Alüminyum has continued its renewable Some practices that were under the responsibility energy investments in 2015. The Company has of Assan Hanil due to FOB transportation purchased 103.3 GJ of energy from renewable agreement in relation to procurements from resources in 2015. This corresponds to an foreign countries have been transferred to increase by 11% compared to 2014. suppliers via CIF mode of transportation. Upon transfer of loading responsibility to suppliers, the Kibar Holding companies have implemented container efficiency has increased from 60% to a number of energy efficiency projects in the 80%; this yielding a significant energy saving. reporting period. EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES ASSAN HANIL HARDBOARD Gradually decreasing natural resources have led AUTOMATIC TAPING PROJECT the companies to search for rational solutions about this issue. Decreasing the use of natural With the Hardboard Automatic Taping Project, the pads manually fixed by the operators are now resources especially water, increasing recycling automatically glued via robotic application. With and reuse through effective waste management, this project, the process has been accelerated by and preferring environmentally-friendly disposal 30% compared to the current conditions and the methods constitute the basis of Kibar Holding’s capacity has increased. The energy consumption natural resources management approach. that was 3,329 kwh in the old process has been decreased to 1,536 Kwh per hour, thus providing With the water efficiency projects implemented 54% energy saving. The project has also allowed by Kibar Holding Companies in the reporting for prevention of the OHS risks arising from the period, the water density of production plants has decreased. Sustainability Report For 2015 -22MITIGATING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Water density of the companies under the scope of the report (Total water consumption/total production (m3/tons)) 0,2 0,1 0,1 2013 2014 2015 The recovered water at Assan Gıda has in 2014 has increased to 40% in 2015. Assan increased by 27% compared to 2014 and has Gıda has increased the recycling rate of nonbeen recorded as 47.289 m3 in 2015. Water hazardous wastes by 22% compared to 2013 consumption at Assan Hanil has decreased by and recycled 872 tons of non-hazardous wastes 10% compared to 2013 and has been recorded in 2015. At Assan Panel, 845.024 tons of nonas 26.248 m3 in 2015. hazardous wastes have been recycled in 2015. The rate of recycling of non-hazardous wastes at Effective waste management is extremely İspak has increased by 307% in 2015 compared important for sustainability of natural resources. to 2013. İspak has recycled 116 tons and Assan Particularly, mitigation of hazardous wastes and Hanil has recycled 282 tons of hazardous wastes their disposal through environmentally-friendly in 2015. At Assan Hanil, the energy recycling rate methods are the issues of top priority for resource for non-hazardous wastes has increased by 46% utilization. As a result of the studies conducted, compared to the previous year and reached to the waste density of the companies under the 1,235 tons in 2015. scope of the report has decreased by 43% in 2015 compared to 2013. Operating in the foods industry where packaging wastes constitute an important problem, Assan The rate of use of recycled raw materials at Assan Gıda has recycled 52% of its packaging wastes Hanil has been 97% in 2015. At Assan Alüminyum, in 2015. This rate has been recorded as 48% in the rate of recycled raw materials that was 31% İspak and 100% in Assan Hanil. Sustainability Report For 2015 -23OUR SOCIAL INVESTMENTS Kibar Holding tries to improve the welfare level KİBAR EDUCATION AND SOCIAL of the society that it lives in. Access to training and healthcare services and the capability of RELIEF FOUNDATION benefiting from culture-art and sports facilities Established in 1999 in order to institutionalize and opportunities take an important place for the charity activities within the Group, Kibar establishment of social peace and happiness. Education and Social Relief Foundation supports Kibar Holding and its affiliates support a number the government services from many aspects by of social responsibility projects in order to facilitate making social investments in education, health access to such services by the stakeholders living and social areas. The purpose of the foundation in their operational areas. In 2015, Kibar Holding is to reach to a higher number of people in need has transferred funds at the amount of 2,750,328 by creating awareness on social responsibility. TL for social projects, donations and sponsorships. Kibar Group companies support various information FUTURE CAMP A 1-week camping was organized for high school students under the scope of the project jointly conducted with Turkish Education Foundation (TEV). In the organization held under the name of Future Camp, 25 high school students received information about the professions that they dreamt of and had the opportunity to experience the spirit of teamwork and solidarity. With the event intended to be organized every year, it is planned to reach 40 students in 2016. activities and events in order to contribute in the industrial knowledge. In 2015, Assan Alüminyum and Assan Hanil companies have provided professional guidance for 257 people and 5,172 people, respectively. 311 interns have served their internship at the Group Companies and received industrial information and training in 2015. Assan Alüminyum has donated aluminium plates to Karadeniz Technical University Society of Energy Technologies for use in the TUBİTAK-supported electric and hydrogen-fuelled automobiles project. Sustainability Report For 2015 -24OUR SOCIAL INVESTMENTS SUPPORT BY ASSAN GIDA FOR İspak and SAVE FOOD AWARENESS ON FOOD SAFETY Addressing the impacts of food loss and waste, İspak aims to raise public awareness about Assan Gıda is a leading company of its sector this issue, to generalize the use of packaged contributing in the development of the industry products, and to prevent food waste by that it operates in. With this understanding, it has extending the products’ shelf life with alternative been conducting awareness-raising activities on packaging solutions. To this effect, the Company quality and food safety in the high schools and has become a member of Save Food Platform universities and holding training organizations at in 2015. This platform will help both the industry various institutions located in the region that it and the consumers to develop awareness on operates in. food waste and safety issues. SUPPORT BY ASSAN HANIL FOR SUPPORT BY ASSAN ALÜMINYUM STEP BY STEP FOR STREET ANIMALS Believing in the positive impacts of sports on Assan Alüminyum has donated the food residues/ human health, Assan Hanil has been conducting leftovers from the dining hall to Patiköy (PawTown) various awareness-raising projects to this effect. Volunteers; thus both preventing food waste, and Assan Hanil has provided financial support for supporting street animals. Adım Adım (Step by Step) Platform in 2015 and encouraged the company employees to participate in the Eurasia Marathon. INSULATION DAYS AT ASSAN PANEL During the Insulation Days held in all regions of Turkey in order to raise awareness on thermal, water, noise and fire insulation and to keep the consumers informed, detailed information on insulation is given to the participants. These meetings are attended by contractors, architects and engineers as well as investors. 300 people have been reached through these meetings in 2015. The details of our performance in the field of sustainability are provided under the headings of Governance at Kibar Holding, Working ASSAN PANEL UNIVERSITY TRAININGS Life, Mitigating Environmental Impacts, and Within the scope of the project, applied trainings Our Social Investments; and we are very are given in the architecture and engineering pleased to present our Sustainability Report departments of universities, thus contributing for 2015 to you, our valuable stakeholders in the students’ education process. These for your opinions. The next section provides trainings provide the students with know-how the key sustainability indicators of Kibar on the performance properties of industrial Holding and its affiliated companies. For any roof and facade covering materials. During the opinions and suggestions about the report, trainings, energy-saving products’ contribution please contact us at kurumsaliletisim@kibar. in the national economy is also emphasized. 400 com. students have been reached in 2015. Sustainability Report For 2015 -25PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TABLE SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Employee Demographics 2013 2014 2015 Total Number of Employees 2.610 2.772 2.890 Total Number of Female Employees 377 364 382 Total Number of Male Employees 2.232 2.407 2.507 Number of White-Collar Employees 584 570 571 Number of Female White-Collar Employees 150 151 175 Number of Male White-Collar Employees 434 419 396 Number of Blue-Collar Employees 2.016 2.201 2.318 Number of Female Blue-Collar Employees 226 213 207 Number of Male Blue-Collar Employees 1.790 1.988 2.111 Number of Employees under 30 Years of Age (including 30) 1.045 1.031 1.027 Number of Employees at 30-50 Years of Age (excluding 30 and 50) 1.521 1.694 1.804 Number of Employees above 50 Years of Age (including 50) 43 46 58 Mid-Level Female Managers 10 10 10 Mid-Level Male Managers 68 66 63 Senior-Level Female Managers 1 2 1 Senior-Level Male Managers 32 40 26 Number of Male Members of the Board of Directors 30 28 27 Number of Female Members of the Board of Directors 4 4 4 Number of Men Newly Employed 533 545 384 Number of Women Newly Employed 135 85 71 Number of Male Employees Leaving the Company 361 460 344 Number of Female Employees Leaving the Company 66 112 54 Employee Development 2013 2014 2015 Total Training Hours NA 33.266 29.111 Total Training Hours for Blue-Collar Employees NA 26.801 17.208 Total Training Hours for White-Collar Employees NA 6.465 11.904 Total Training Hours for Male Employees 10.373 29.023 24.455 Total Training Hours for Female Employees 4.165 4.130 4.657 Total Training Hours for Female White-Collar Employees 1.243 1.772 3.426 Total Training Hours for Male White-Collar Employees 3.909 4.689 8.477 Number of Employees Subject to Regular Performance and Career Development Evaluation NA 1.182 1.712 Number of High-School Equivalent Student Interns 170 118 121 Number of College/University Equivalent Student Interns 182 205 190 Occupational Health and Safety 2013 2014 2015 Number of Active OHS Committees 6 6 6 Number of Employee Representatives assigned in Active OHS Committees 26 29 29 Total Number of Members in Active OHS Committees 59 68 90 Total Hours of OHS Training provided for Employees 6.742* 18.961 15.766 Total Number of Employees participating in OHS Trainings 974* 2.609 1.685 Total Number of Accidents NA 158 151 Number of Participants in Environmental Trainings Provided for Employees 108 1.371 966 Total Hours of Environmental Trainings Provided for Employees (personxhour) 108 1.617 676 Sustainability Report For 2015 -26PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TABLE ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Energy and Emission* 2013 2014 2015 Total direct non-renewable energy consumption amount by source (GJ) Natural Gas 2.499.924,9 2.832.077,4 3.107.285,2 Coal 137.788,7 198.526,4 202.469,2 Other 30.201,9 30.605,1 33.009,7 Total 2.667.915,4 3.061.208,8 3.342.764,2 Total indirect non-renewable energy consumption amount by source (GJ) Electricity 15.597.476,7 21.253.287,9 22.416.054,7 Heating 88.842,5 107.708,8 92.846,8 Steam 189.665,6 249.103,4 283.007,0 Cooling 3.020,1 3.059,7 3.301,9 Total 15.879.005,0 21.613.159,8 22.795.210,4 Total energy consumption (GJ) 18.546.920,4 24.674.368,6 26.137.974,6 Energy density (GJ/tons) 2,1 1,7 1,6 Utilization of Resources 2013 2014 2015 Total raw material consumption (tons) 155.115.752,4 137.433.475,5 172.456.204,1 Total water draft amount by source (m3)* Well water 1.327.996,0 1.443.455,0 1.404.523,0 City water supply 96.479,0 57.269,0 54.512,0 Total 1.424.475,0 1.500.724,0 1.459.035,0 Water density (m3/tons) 0,2 0,1 0,1 Total amount of hazardous wastes by disposal method (tons)** Energy Recovery NA 118,0 69,1 Recovery NA 32.470,9 6.885,8 Dumpsite NA 0,1 0,2 Waste Incineration NA 249,1 281,1 Other NA 67,3 97,1 Total NA 32.905,4 7.333,3 Total amount of non-hazardous wastes by disposal method (tons) Energy Recovery NA 844,0 1.235,0 Recovery NA 3.307,4 6.481,3 Dumpsite NA 377,6 401,3 Other NA 1.397.820,0 1.509.472,0 Total NA 1.402.349,0 1.517.589,6 Total production (tons) 8.840.241 14.924.885 16.755.511 *data excluding İspak ** data excluding Assan Gıda. Contact: Kibar Holding Kurumsal İletişim Bölümü Reporting Advisor: Kıymet-i Harbiye Design: Being Çözüm Sustainability Report For 2015 -27Zorlu Center Levazım Mahallesi Koru Sokak No: 2 Ofisler Bölgesi Kat: T4 Beşiktaş 34340 İstanbul T: +90 212 924 7300 F: +90 212 924 7304 info@kibar.com
