UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “Grindeks” July, 2017 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – JULY, 2017 CONTENTS Company Proﬁle “Grindeks” Mission, Vision and Values Governance and Management History Corporate Social Responsibility PATIENT SOCIETY EMPLOYEE QUALITY and PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT Future Commitments PATIENT SOCIETY EMPLOYEE QUALITY AND About this Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENTAL Contact Details PROTECTION COMPANY PROFILE Based in Riga, the Baltics, Grindeks is a vertically integrated pharmaceutical company with the history from 1946. Its main ﬁelds of action are: research, development, manufacturing and sale of original products, generics and active pharmaceutical ingredients. The Group of “Grindeks” consists of ﬁve subsidiary companies in Latvia, Estonia, Russia and Slovakia, as well as representative oﬃces in 12 countries. “Grindeks” specializes in the heart and cardiovascular, CNS and anti-cancer medication therapeutic groups. A range of products covers a successful combination of original products and generics, with the original products Mildronate® and Ftorafur®. Currently “Grindeks” produces 23 active pharmaceutical ingredients. Products of the company are exported to 71 countries and its export comprises 91% of the total turnover. The key markets include the EU countries, Russia and other CIS countries, the U.S., Canada, Japan and Vietnam. To increase production capacity and develop infrastructure, since 2002 the company has accomplished many signiﬁcant investment projects, investing more than 90 million euros over the last 15 years. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We aim to become PRINCIPLES OF “GRINDEKS” a significant European company Over the course of 70 years, the traditions built and experience accumulated are continuously furthering a role of corporate social responsibility as the basis of sustainable development of “Grindeks”. Today, the operations of “Grindeks” Group reach clients and partners in more than 70 countries worldwide – provided by our ﬁve subsidiaries and representative oﬃces in 12 countries, which operate under uniﬁed We are concerned about public health, employee motivation corporate social responsibility principles and welfare of our and business philosophy which are shareholders. inseparably linked to company's mission, We are innovation based and vision and values. environmentally friendly company EMPLOYEES QUALITY INNOVATIONS STABILITY We are the professionals We are responsible We are steering development We are reliable partners, using our knowledge for the production of science and research, socially responsible and skills to achieve of safe and effective as well as implementing and honouring traditions the determined goals medications, ecologically the latest technologies clean environment and work place safety UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 In its operation “Grindeks” adheres to high standards of STRUCTURE OF THE “GRINDEKS” GROUP corporate governance and ensures that the company is managed in accordance with the “Principles of corporate governance and recommendations on their implementation” adopted by “Nasdaq Riga” It encourages the transparency of the governance and increases the quality of the company and its appeal from the viewpoint of investors and society as whole. Lithuania, Estonia, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Uzbekistan, Moldova, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT More information about the company: Grindeks.eu For the company's ﬁnancial reports please visit: Grindeks.eu/for-investors/ﬁnancial-reports/ The origins of “Grindeks” go back to Year 1946 when the Vitamin and Hormones Plant was transferred to the supervision of the Latvian Academy of Sciences with the goal of gradually re-establishing it as an experimental plant. Throughout the years company experienced a considerable growth, forming into the pharmaceutical company of European signiﬁcance with the potential of tremendous growth. “Grindeks” purposefully works on the expansion of the pharmaceutical holding and the development of its operations. “Grindeks” business development is closely bound to the Corporate Social Responsibility, securing manufacturing of HISTORY high quality products and performing all manufacturing processes in the environmentally friendly manner. COMPANY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PATIENT SOCIETY EMPLOYEE QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES PROTECTION „Sustainable operations of “Grindeks” are based on corporate social responsibility, which is implemented in four main areas: PATIENT SOCIETY EMPLOYEE QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION A constant importance in carrying out company's corporate social responsibility is given to the dialogue with relevant audiences, represented by patients, health care specialists, students and pupils, teachers and professors, scientists, state institutions, NGOs and other groups of interest. In 2001, Latvia joined the UN Global Compact movement and “Grindeks” has always been proud to be among the ﬁrst supporters of the initiative that joined the movement. This involvement goes hand in hand with implementing socially responsible behaviour practice in accordance with the ten principles of UN Global Compact, which deﬁne following human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption policies. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 PATIENT With an emphasis on health as an irreplaceable value, socially responsible business practice of “Grindeks” is based on a care for patient safety, public health promotion and education and dialogue with healthcare professionals. “Grindeks” supports a belief of anyone involved in the healthcare industry – manufacturers of medication, wholesalers, doctors, pharmacies, pharmacists and patients themselves after all – are co-responsible for the result of pharmaceutical care. By both participating and initiating conferences, seminars, discussions, exhibitions and other events for exchange of views, “Grindeks” is strengthening its dialogue with wide spectrum of healthcare representatives. The company is also a long lasting supporter of “The Annual Award in Medicine” – an award ceremony for most outstanding health care professionals in Latvia. In marketing communication which also includes product advertising, “Grindeks” respects respective national ethical principles and regulatory requirements by providing objective and truthful information on medication and without exaggerating their properties. Since 2016, when the principles of EFPIA Code (The European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations Code), have been enacted in Latvia and also incorporated in Regulations of Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Latvia, “Grindeks” is disclosing data on transfers of value to healthcare organisations, societies, doctors and other representatives of the industry. “Grindeks” actively participates in the activities of public organizations in health and chemical industries (Latvian Generic Medicines Association (LPMA), Association of the Latvian Chemical and Pharmaceutical Industry (LAKIFA)) and is involved in the development and improvement of legislative acts that are aimed at promotion of access to medicines in the country. To take care of patients and to prevent potential risks to them, “Grindeks” is constantly improving company's pharmacovigilance system, organising it in accordance with “Good Pharmacovigilance Practice” standards set by the European Union and respective national laws, where the company's medications are distributed. As complying with the standards, “Grindeks” provides information on signiﬁcant adverse drug reactions to responsible institutions. If necessary, any person may report any side eﬀects caused by “Grindeks” medication by ﬁlling out a report on the company's homepage Grindeks.eu, in report section of “Pharmacovigilance”. In the ﬁeld of clinical research “Grindeks” strictly follows the Declaration of Helsinki and principles of ethics, legal regulations, local and international guidelines and requirements, including “Good Clinical Practice” and, thus taking full responsibility for the risks that may aﬀect the health of patients and are associated with the quality, safety and eﬃcacy. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 SOCIETY “Grindeks” is constantly seeking to be a reliable partner to the society, therefore it supports and involves in projects of public interest for many years. As creating high added-value products, “Grindeks” takes into account that today's results and future perspective are not only directly proportional to the advancement of its own intellectual capacity, but it has to be purposefully favoured at the overall societal level. This reﬂects in the company's contribution to the education and science – supporting higher and secondary level educational institutions and their staﬀ, promoting excellence in pharmaceutical and chemical industries and the area by itself. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 Marking both the 70th anniversary of “Grindeks” and 240th birthday of David Hieronim Grindel – a natural scientist, doctor, chemist and professor of Latvian descent, from whose surname the title “Grindeks” has been derived – the most outstanding Latvian doctors and scientists received awards from “Grindeks” in a ceremonial event held in The Latvian National Opera and Ballet. The highest award, D. H. Grindel medal, was granted to a gastroenterologist and professor at Riga Stradins University Dr. Juris Prokratnieks, while the “Grindeks” award for signiﬁcant accomplishments in science, the “Golden Owl”, was given to an academician Ivars Kalvins, and the awards “Silver Owl” were given to three new and talented scientists – Marina Markrecka-Kuka, Kristers Ozols and Edijs Vavers. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 Annually since 2010, “Grindeks” carries out the project “Profession Days for Pupils”, which fosters a pupils' interest in chemistry and introduce them with career opportunities in a pharmaceutical ﬁeld. In 2016, 120 applicants from 36 diﬀerent areas in Latvia applied for participation in the project. The best 40 applicants were invited to spend one day in the company along with a professional from a chosen area in the research and development, quality control or drug manufacturing ﬁeld. Since the beginnings of the project, 256 Latvian youngsters have been introduced to the daily routine of “Grindeks” and career options in the company to open up after studying chemistry, pharmacy or other related subjects. Furthering the professional growth and career development of young professionals in chemistry and pharmaceuticals, the company provides a remarkable number of internships every year. During the last years, 700 young professionals have had their internship at “Grindeks”; in 2016, the company provided with an internship 59 Latvian and foreign students. In 2016, “Grindeks” continued cooperation with the Foundation “Riga Technical University Development Fund”, thus providing four paid internship positions of six months' duration. To bring closer the content of professional and higher education with the labour market requirements, the leading specialists from “Grindeks” give lectures and seminars on pharmacy and related disciplines at diﬀerent professional and higher education institutions. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 “Grindeks” has a continuous and successful cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science, ﬁnancially supporting participation of Latvian young talents of chemistry in the International Chemistry Olympiad. In the Olympiad of 2016, held in the Georgian capital Tbilisi, Latvia was represented by 4 competitors, who won one silver and one bronze medal, as well as one honourable mention. In December, “Grindeks” in cooperation with the Faculty of Materials Science and Applied Chemistry of Riga Technical University rewarded the best three chemistry teachers in Latvia, thus appreciating their contribution to students' education and motivation. Gathering together children of “Grindeks” employees, the event dedicated to the International Day for Protection of Children and the end of a school year has become a tradition. In 2016, in the framework of the tradition, employees' children visited their parents' workplace, where they participated in educational tours to “Grindeks's” manufacturing units and laboratories, and, later on, enjoyed inﬂatable attractions. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 Every year in August, “Grindeks” in cooperation with the Pharmacy Museum bring visitors of Riga City Festival to an infotainment event. In 2016, attendees of the event “Having eaten. Healthy. Joyful.” were advised on healthy eating and enjoyed demonstration of healthy cooking under the guidance of dietician Dr. Andis Bremanis and chef Elmars Tannis. For several times, “Grindeks” has taken an active part in the European Researchers' Night. In the fall of 2016, under the framework “Technologies and Quality of Life”, “Grindeks” hosted a tour to the company’s Quality Control Laboratory, as well as introduced society to the drug safety. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 Alongside support given to the science and education and an involvement in public interest campaigns, “Grindeks” is pleased being a patron of the Latvian National Opera and Ballet – the pearl of Latvian culture which bears the country's name in the world brilliantly. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 EMPLOYEE Professional and focused employees are one of the four core values of “Grindeks”. From 1281 employees of the “Grindeks” Group, 684 are employed in Latvia, while the others – in company's representative oﬃces. In JSC “Grindeks” in Latvia, where most of the Group's employees work, 59% of them hold a university degree, while the management values the high level of personnel loyalty to the company, reﬂected in 11.21 years of an average length of service at “Grindeks”. Besides, “Grindeks” is aware of the crucial role that employee welfare plays in the achievement of company's goals, thus constantly motivating company's management to raise employees' professional, personal and career development, as well as to ensure a well organised work environment respective to the principles of occupational health and safety. One of the employee motivation factors is the social programme of “Grindeks's” personnel policy – within its framework employees are provided with social guarantees and beneﬁts, employee health and accident insurance, study leaves and paid holidays, subsidized lunch, transportation to work and home, sports centre services, opportunity to sing in the choir and events for employees. An ever-increasing relevance is given to the education of company's employees in matters of health and occupational safety. On 29 September, the World Heart Day, for the second time, employees of “Grindeks” were educated on cardiac health and were invited to the company's Health Oﬃce to measure their blood pressure, weigh themselves, calculate a body mass index and receive a consultation on heart disease prevention. In October, aiming to raise public awareness of the importance of health promotion events in workplaces, the State Labour Inspectorate and the Institute for Corporate Sustainability and Responsibility hosted a seminar “An apple, cookie UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 or chocolate – how to get employees to eat healthier”, where “Grindeks” was invited to share the good practice on implementation of health promotion events. Also, “Grindeks” promotes its product availability among employees, providing an option to buy company's food supplements in its canteen. As the fundamental of a healthy lifestyle “Grindeks” has always emphasized the importance of sports. Traditionally, “Grindeks” team performed in 10 km and 6 km distances in Lattelecom Riga Marathon of 2016. Shortly after, “Grindeks” basketball team for the 20th time participated in a basketball tournament organised by the Latvian Pharmacist Association, ranking seventh in the overall competition and proudly standing out as the only team, which has participated in all tournaments. Welcoming the Rio Olympics 2016, in an easygoing atmosphere, “Grindeks” employees gathered together in the “Olympic Day”, where they tried themselves in several informal sports disciplines, while in the autumn, more than 110 company's employees competed with each other in the annual autumn bowling tournament. The year 2016 was especially important to the company – “Grindeks” marked its 70th anniversary, which was celebrated in a circle of employees enjoying a festive summer atmosphere at the Flower Gala in the Botanical Garden of University of Latvia. While in October, with respect to anniversary, employees together with clients and cooperation partners of “Grindeks” attended an award ceremony of the highest “Grindeks” recognition – D.H. Grindel award – held in the The Latvian National Opera and Ballet. Company's personnel policy is appreciated not only by the employees, but it is found as attractive also by other Latvian inhabitants. In the “Top Employer” survey of 2016, “Grindeks” was recognized as the third most desired employer in the manufacturing sector. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The production process at “Grindeks” is based on a series of chemical and biological processes, which requires following maximally possible environmentally-friendly operations and adhering to more than 70 binding environmental regulations and requirements. Meanwhile, “Grindeks” is constantly improving its operations according to increasing drug manufacturing quality standards, which is annually examined by several local and international inspections and audits. “Grindeks” is certiﬁed according to “Good Manufacturing Practice” requirements and ISO standards. The company continuously develops its Quality, Environment, Energy, Occupational Health and Safety Policy, by implementing new standards and investing funds in equipment, processes and trainings of management and specialists. The basic principles of the policy are: · All activities are coordinated with the needs and expectations of stakeholders, as well as they are in accordance with legislation acts and other requirements; · Implementation and continuous supervision of fulﬁlment of the current Good Practices (GxP) principles. · Continuous improvements within the framework of the planned resources: · of the Quality Management System in accordance with the Standard LVS EN ISO 9001; · of the Environmental Management System in accordance with the Standard LVS EN ISO; · of the Energy Management System in accordance with the Standard LVS EN ISO 50001; · of the Occupational Health and Safety Management System in accordance with the Standard LVS OHSAS 18001; · Continuous reduction of environmental impact of manufacturing process, products and services; · Continuous planning of energy purchases, energy consumption, increase of energy eﬀectiveness and decrease of costs of energy recourses. At “Grindeks”, any project of strategic signiﬁcance is implemented in accordance with an analysis of environmental aspects. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 IN THE SCOPE OF ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION, “GRINDEKS” OBJECTIVES FOR 2015-2017 ARE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMPANY'S LONG-TERM OBJECTIVES TO REDUCE: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WATER CONSUMPTION THE QUANTITY OF WASTE EMISSIONS INTO PRODUCTS' IMPACT THE AIR OF ON THE ENVIRONMENT THE WORKING BY IMPROVING ITS ENVIRONMENT AND MANUFACTURING AND THE ATMOSPHERE INNOVATION PROCESSES UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION AND REDUCTION OF ENERGY RECOURSES AT “GRINDEKS” Development of environmentally-friendly technologies is in accordance with the European Commission recommendations issued in 2006, which include the best available technical and technological solutions for implementation of ﬁne organic synthesis processes, also reduction and recycling of the emissions and waste. “Grindeks” is following the European Commission's guidelines on best available techniques on pharmaceutical an analogous manufacturing complementary sectors. Measures to reduce energy consumption: • Regulation of heat supply; • the old steam boiler and ventilation equipment replacement with modern, energy-eﬃcient appliances; • building insulation; • an installation of thermal insulation and other measures aimed at more rational use of equipment. Since 2015, company's Energy management system conﬁrms to the requirements of LVS EN ISO 50001:2012 (ISO 50001:2011) standard. Improvements implemented due to obtaining of certiﬁcate now allows planning more eﬃcient energy procurements, increasing energy eﬃciency, as well as reducing energy expenses. · In 2016, a supervision audit on compliance to the requirements of ISO 14001:2004 standard was performed successfully by “Bureau Veritas”. Considering chemical complexity of a drug manufacturing process and its environmentally harmful nature, “Grindeks” industrial activity is carried out in accordance with the permit of A category for existing polluting operations, however, at the same time preference is always given to the most environmentallyfriendly technologies, raw materials and solvents, choosing water-soluble and vegetable dyes, etc. Since 2009, an environmentally friendly industrial wastewater treatment concept has been implemented in the company, revealing a modern, closed industrial biological wastewater treatment plant with a laboratory, where waste water analysis and performance monitoring is made, as well as wastewater research. High-quality wastewater treatment process management and system optimization allows the industrial wastewater treatment eﬀectiveness to approach the best available technology indicators worldwide. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 • In 2016, puriﬁcation eﬃciency was on average 93.52% on the COD. • During 2015, 44 255m3 of industrial wastewater was puriﬁed, which is by 12.1% less than in 2015. In 2010, the company introduced use of artesian water for cooling of manufacturing equipment, which saves energy for the company and promotes an achievement of environmental objectives – maintaining a proportion of energy costs at the level of 3% compared to the volume of manufacturing output in terms of money. • In 2016, the proportion of costs was 2.02%, which is by 1.52% less than in 2015. In 2015, to improve energy eﬃciency the project of “Grindeks” steam generating system reconstruction was concluded. Measures for waste reduction: • A reaction solution increase in chemical processes, where one of techniques is used for solvent recovery and liquid waste, or valid component distribution for residual solution; • Collection in groups of wastes arising from manufacturing processes, and dissociation of hazardous waste. In 2016, amount of hazardous waste remained at the level of the previous year; • An implementation of double-sided printing of regulatory documents; • Cooperation with companies, such as “Latvian Green Point” (in Latvian – “Latvijas Zaļais punkts”), “BAO”, “Eko Port” (in Latvian “Eko Osta”), “ECO Baltia environment” (in Latvian “ECO Baltia vide”) in regard to waste management. UNITED NATIONSGLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JSC “GRINDEKS” 2017 QUALITY, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY: • To look constantly for new, innovative and even more eﬀective solutions to save natural resources • To carry out regular environmental measures based on environmental impact assessment and monitoring results • To minimize and avoid possible pollution risks by analysing how certain activities may aﬀect the environment Targets for 2017 FUTURE COMMITMENTS JSC “Grindeks” joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2002 and this Communication on Progress covers the activities of one of the leaders of the pharmaceutical industry in the Baltics – JSC “Grindeks” in year 2016. All operations of the company around the world are committed to the Global Compact principles and the company is continuously making further progress as to these commitments. In 2017, as it was previously, the company is going to pay its special attention to personnel policy, developing result-oriented motivation system and strengthening the team. Also, “Grindeks” will continue to carry its existing and begin new science and education support initiatives, aiming to encourage the young generation to explore the potential of exact sciences and maintain professionals dedicated to the industry. ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CONTACT DETAILS Head Oﬃce JSC “Grindeks” 53 Krustpils St, Riga, LV-1057, Latvia Phone: (+371) 67083500, (+371) 67083252 Fax: (+371) 67083505 E-mail: grindeks@grindeks.lv Contact Person Head of the Communications Department Laila Klavina Phone: (+371) 67083370, (+371) 29256012 Fax: (+371) 67083505 E-mail: laila.klavina@grindeks.lv
