Communication on Progress 2016 an Enaex company OUR COMMITMENT Davey Bickford in a nutshell an Enaex company 2016 : Davey Bickford focus on Environnement Since July 2004 we sustain our support to the Global Compact 10 principles. In Davey Bickford we promote these principles within our spheres of influence, and make a clear statement of our commitment to our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. We followed the progresses of the COP 21 with interest, especially when Barack Obama and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping handed over their ratification documents to Ban Ki-Moon, the UN Secretary-General in September 2016 in Hangzhou. That’s why in the COP 2016, we decided to highlight our environmental actions : Modify and renovate facilities to improve quality of life at work, Implement environmental friendly technologies, Reduce energy and water consumption, Strengthen awareness through internal communication campaign. We also wanted to share a structural effort carried out through the years by our research teams to comply with and go beyond the REACH European Directive. Finally after highlighting our South American subsidiary actions last year, we present the results of the great job done by Davey Bickford USA. C O R P O R AT E I N T R O D U C T I O N Davey Bickford in a nutshell an Enaex company ID Card A leading global company designing, manufacturing and selling initiation systems (detonators & igniters) for civil explosives and specific applications in defense, security & entertainment Strategy: focusing on mining, quarrying, construction & earthwork markets requiring Premium Electronic Initiation Systems for civil explosives through a direct added-value approach with end customers. promoting abroad our know-how for defense activity Founded in 1831 – Unique production site in Héry, Yonne, France created in 1906 Sales & operations in around 40 countries in all continents Around 600 employees across the globe Since July 7th 2015, part of Enaex Group, Chilean leader in ammonium nitrate & civil explosives in South America. Vision • To humanize mining while developing a people friendly • Life, our priority • “By 2020, to become the most blasting industry prestigious company in • Clients, our vocation our industry, providing premium • Excellence, our obsession blasting solutions in all the • Innovation & entrepreneurship, important mining regions our strength in the world” Mission Values Davey Bickford subsidiaries 85% of our business outside France 65% outside Europe Our 89 millions € business split… 2016 Revenue per zone % 2016 Revenue per activity % 10% 16% 19% 43% 38% 74% Defence & Security Australia / Oceania EMEA Americas EIS : Electronic Initiation Systems & associated services Conventional detonators (non-electric, electric, detonating cord) 2 0 1 6 G L O B A L C O M PA C T I N I T I AT I V E S 2016 actions performed in consistence with the 10 principles an Enaex company HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION L E A D A Z I D E D U S T F I LT R AT I O N Environment – Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies an Enaex company Current dusting press HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION The old equipment: No longer compliant with current environmental standards Difficulties in supplying spare parts Severely attacked by corrosion Its overall condition no longer allowed performing sustainable repairs As the dusting press was installed in the same workshop as the loading press, the loading press was exposed to dust contamination Risk of fire due to the cell containment, making cleaning operation extremely difficult to perform. Lack of accessibility to the hydraulic unit during maintenance and replacement of press heads New dusting press HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Respect environmental constraints as targeting the 0 emission objective. Better working conditions while improving operator protection to the risks related to lead dust exposure. making maintenance operations safer (accessibility to the dust collector). Reduce fire hazard by easing the cleaning operations in the press workshop. Use of stainless steel to allow a better resistance to corrosion New device dusting press HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT Plan ANTI-CORRUPTION Construction work Building n°223 today HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION CHANGE AND REDUCE OUR CONSUMPTIONS Principe 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies an Enaex company Reduce water consumption HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION In 2012, implementation of an awareness campaign, including the search for water leaks. It has been followed by repairs work between 2012 and 2015 (pipelines). Not only the usage of rain water has been significantly increased in proportion, but more important, the overall water consumption has been divided almost by 4 in 10 year time. Rain Water Tap Water HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION R E A C H R E G U L AT I O N A N D D AV E Y B I C K F O R D Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. an Enaex company REACH Regulation: a European directive to reduce & eliminate noxious substances HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION REACH To comply with the regulation, companies must identify a regulation of the European Union and manage the risks linked to the substances they improve the protection of human health and the environment manufacture and market in the EU. They have to from the risks from chemicals demonstrate to ECHA (European Chemical Agency) how enhancing competitiveness of the EU chemicals industry the substance can be safely used, and they must also promotes alternative methods for the hazard assessment of communicate the risk management measures to the substances in order to reduce the number of tests on animals. users. REACH applies to all chemical substances REACH stands for Registration, Evaluation, industrial processes Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. It entered day-to-day consumer products, for example in cleaning products, paints as well as in articles such as clothes, furniture and into force on 1 June 2007. electrical appliances. the regulation has an impact on most companies across the EU. For more information ECHA official website : https://echa.europa.eu/fr/home REACH Regulation: steps for change HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR There are 3 lists of chemical products to be addressed: ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION The « candidate » list This list can be considered as the first step before restriction or authorization of use for a substance. In general terms an SVHC (Substance of Very High Concern) is a substance meeting one or more of the following criteria: Class 1 or 2 carcinogen, mutagen, or toxic for reproduction (CMR) Substance which is PBT (persistent, bio-accumulative and toxic) or vPvB (very persistent and very bio-accumulative) in accordance with Appendix III of REACH Other substances for which there is evidence of equivalent degree of concern (e.g. endocrine disruptors)  Note that there are over 1000 substances that potentially fulfill these criteria.  In terms of REACH compliance, SVHC refers specifically to those substances that meet the hazard categories mentioned AND that have been placed by the Commission on the Candidate List of substances considered for authorization. The « annex » lists Annex XVII: this list limits the manufacture, use or placing on the market of substances, mixtures and articles which entail an unacceptable risk to human health or the environment. Examples of targeted substances include mercury applications such as in thermometers, certain phthalates in toys, etc. Annex XIV: this list applies to substances for which manufacturing is strictly prohibited unless a special authorization has been delivered by the ECHA (such authorization being applicable for a limited period of time and for a given duly declared application) Davey Bickford’s commitment: become REACH proactive leader in our industry HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Our commitment is that 100% of Davey Bickford’s products are REACH compliant For our needs, preference is given to ‘’clean’’ substances rather than special authorizations (in case of substances in the authorization list). Accordingly, R&D resources are allocated in priority to ‘’REACH’’ programs Defence & Security sector: >83% of budget allocated to REACH related developments Chemical lab: 100% of resources are dedicated to REACH related developments We also commit to anticipate all REACH restrictions to make sure that our customers don’t face a break in their supply chain. We know that the replacement of materials or substances submitted to restrictions or obsolescence is a long and expensive process. For this reason we pay efforts to anticipate and continuously inform our customers of the evolution of the above lists Some examples of REACH targeted substances: HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Example 1: the ammonium dichromate (CAS # 7789-09-5) Listed in Annex XIV, this substance is used in one of our pyrotechnic composition. This substance will be prohibited from 21/09/2017 onwards. Anticipating the above sunset date, the formulation of a replacement solution has been started and a REACH compliant solution has been available for a few years. Since 2017, this solution has already been qualified on many programs, in cooperation with our customers (according to their technical specifications). Several of our major customers have already confirmed their satisfaction with this new solution which permit to ensure the continuity of strategic space, defence and aeronautics programs Example 2: the lead tetroxide (CAS # 1314-41-6) This substance is in the candidate list. It is used in several pyrotechnic compositions manufactured by Davey Bickford. Development effort has been started to formulate and manufacture a replacement solution offering at least the same performances. We shall be soon able to start validation tests in partnership with our customers. A significant reduction in using lead tetroxide for delay compositions(kg/year) 1800 1600 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Illustration of example 2 (previous page): Lead tetroxide consumption from 2011 to 2016. This substance is on REACH « candidate » list.  HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights an Enaex company Safety 30 2.5  HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION 25 2.0 20 Historically low rate in 2015. 1.5 A slight raise in 2016 but it has to be highlighted 15 that it still remain far from French Industry standard 1.0 records. 10 2016 report is, however, already taken into account 0.5 in 2017 with an enhanced communication 5 awareness on safety at work. 0 0.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Accidents Frequency Rate DB Accidents Frequency Rate Sectorial Average (Chemistry Caoutchouc Plasturgy) Accidents Frequency Rate Average National Accidents Severity Rate DB Accidents Severity Rate Sectorial Average (Chemistry Caoutchouc Plasturgy) Accidents Severity Rate Average National E X A M P L E O F D AV E Y B I C K F O R D N O R T H AMERICA an Enaex company Davey Bickford North America: fully engaged in complying with Global Compact principles  HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Last year we have made a focus on South America, this year we propose a wink to USA : Subscribe to United Nations Global Compact since 2015. Human Rights: Davey Bickford USA Inc. fully recognize Employee Rights under the National Labor Relation Act (NLRA). A notice is given to each Employee for a general information about his rights, and about obligations of employers and unions under the NLRA. Labour : The company operates under the Utah Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1973. Environment: Davey Bickford USA Inc. is an active member of the International Society of Explosives Engineers and participates in its HAS committee meetings. The meetings provide a forum to discuss latest industry practices, use of technology and benchmarking in HSE management system. Anticorruption: All employees are required to sign the Code of Conduct at the time of joining. The company promote fair business practices and ensures compliance with regulatory and legal requirements. For more information, full report available here:
