This website uses cookies. If you agree to the use of cookies, you will more easily be able to make use of OK, I agree to the use of cookies our website and the information you see will be more relevant to you. More information KBC Group Other KBC sites  Nederlands Français English Corporate Investor Corporate Working at About us Governance Relations Newsroom Sustainability KBC  Home  Corporate Sustainability  Reporting Reporting Share this      Tweets @TerrorEvents Threat turns out to be We report in all transparency on our financial and non-financial performances. false, Antwerp building has meanwhile Given the amount of information and the expectations of our various been released by the local police stakeholders, we have divided our reporting across different channels: PDFmyURL online url to pdf conversion • The Sustainability Report provides a detailed overview of non-financial Read the complete 2016 KBC report data at group level. to society https://t.co/9pVOwPFNqc KBC Group has published a sustainability report each year since 2005. In 2014 and 2015, we decided to cease publishing a separate sustainability report and instead to provide all the information in the GRI table on our corporate website, in our Annual Report and in our Report to Society (see the GRI table for 2014 and 2015). Follow us on Twitter We have now decided to publish a separate sustainability report again for 2016, in accordance with the GRI Standards. The report will be available in mid-2017. 2013   Sustainability Report 2013 (PDF 1.11 MB) • The Report to Society gives a general overview of how KBC assumes its role in society. 2016  PDFmyURL online url to pdf conversion  Report to Society 2016 (PDF 3.84 MB) • The integrated Annual Report gives a detailed overview of the financial performances, as well as the most important non-financial information. We describe how we create value for our shareholders and society as a whole. 2016   Annual report 2016 (PDF 8.59 MB) Quick links Downloads Contacts Who we are  Annual report (PDF, 8.59 MB) Contacts and head office Leadership  Report to society (PDF, 3.84 MB) Complaints management Shareholder information  Company presentation (PDF, 1.3 MB) PDFmyURL online url to pdf conversion Reports Credit ratings Connect with us   Legal disclaimer Cookies Sitemap © KBC 2017 PDFmyURL online url to pdf conversion
