Corporate Responsibility at PHOENIX CONTACT 2017 Wind power as an example of Wide range of health renewable energies measures for employees Meeting the challenges of Comprehensive basic and tomorrow with solutions for further training options the future Familienbetreuung Lippe Energy and resource-eﬃcient Family-friendly programs and lighting for sports venues work-life balance Energy-eﬃcient compressed The international educational air supply in competition xplore New production New Automation Award Automation Award Use of environmentally E-Mobility for corporate and Phoenix Contact charitable Career orientation for young friendly and sustainable private use trust people building technology Contact Prof. Dr. Gunther Olesch Chief Human Resources Officer PHOENIX CONTACT GmbH & Co. KG Flachsmarktstr. 8 D-32825 Blomberg Tel. ++49 5235 3-41671 Fax ++49 5235 3-42072 Mail to://golesch@phoenixcontact.com www.phoenixcontact.com PHOENIX CONTACT Company Presentation Corporate Principles Corporate Social Responsibility at PHOENIX CONTACT CSR activities Economy Ecology Employee Affairs Community Affairs For the sake of readability, masculine pronouns are always used in this document to refer to ­people. However, these references are intended to include both genders. PHOENIX CONTACT 2 PHOENIX CONTACT Group Phoenix Contact is a global market leader for components, systems, and solutions in the field of electrical engineering, electronics, and automation. The family-owned company currently employs approximately 15,000 people worldwide, and achieved a turnover of €1.97 billion in 2016. The company headquarters are in Blomberg, Germany. The Phoenix Contact Group includes 12 companies in Germany and more than 50 independent sales subsidiaries worldwide. The company's international presence is further strengthened by 30 subsidiaries in Europe and abroad. Products are manufactured with a high level of vertical integration in ten countries throughout the world. The product range consists of components and system solutions for energy supply, including wind and solar power, device manufacturing and machine building, as well as control cabinet manufacturing. Innovative components are provided from a wide range of terminal blocks and special terminal blocks, PCB terminal blocks and connectors, cable connection technology, and installation accessories. Electronic interfaces and power supplies, automation systems based on Ethernet and wireless technology, safety solutions for people, machines, and data, surge protection systems, as well as software programs and tools provide system installers and operators as well as device manufactures with comprehensive systems. Markets within the automotive industry, renewable energy, and infrastructure are supported by means of consistent solution concepts, ranging from engineering and maintenance to training services in line with specific needs. The digital transformation is supported by Phoenix Contact by means of products, systems and solutions. Thanks to the experience gained from in-house machine building, the company is familiar with the requirements for digitalization and continuous data flow, from engineering to production and beyond – throughout the entire produce life cycle. Product innovations and specific solutions for individual customer requirements are created in the development facilities at sites in Germany, China, and the USA. Numerous patents emphasize the fact that many developments from Phoenix Contact are unique. Working closely with universities and scientific institutes, technologies of the future such as E-Mobility and digitization are researched and transformed into marketable products, systems, and solutions. phoenixcontact.com PHOENIX CONTACT 3 Corporate Responsibility at PHOENIX CONTACT The corporate principles developed by the Executive Board provide Phoenix Contact customers, business partners and employees with the foundation for a trusting relationship based on partnership. The corporate mission We create progress with innovative and inspiring solutions describes the basis of the business – the development of innovative solutions and products. Phoenix Contact would like to meet future megatrends and thus build a pioneering bridge to the future . At the same time, sustainable behavior, preserving resources and protecting the environment are integral parts of the corporate policy for the company. Social responsibility for Phoenix Contact employees is made clear through a value-oriented leadership style and a corporate culture based on partnership and trust, a high level of commitment to training and qualification as well as further internal provisions, for example a comprehensive health management system. The social commitment to society is demonstrated through a multitude of sport and cultural sponsorships and a commitment to education. The Phoenix Contact Corporate Group Executive Board statement. We feel that we are committed to the positive, sustainable development of places to live and work. Phoenix Contact is aware of its role in society and the environment. As part of our corporate social responsibility and corporate compliance, we take responsibility for adhering to laws, generally applicable values, and principles, and the sustainable management of resources, as well as promoting social commitment, integrity, and professionalism . Phoenix Contact has been demonstrating this commitment since signing into the United Nations Global Compact in 2005. This voluntary commitment includes upholding ten principles in the fields of human rights, work standards, environmental protection and corruption prevention. Naturally, the company has also been committed to the ZVEI Code of Conduct for Corporate Social Responsibility , the code of the German Electrical Engineering and Electronic Manufacturers' Association, since 2009. The following section highlights selected examples of corporate responsibility activities in the fields of economy, the environment, and social awareness for employees and society: PHOENIX CONTACT 4 Economy: Efficient use of resources, thanks to innovative solutions and products Phoenix Contact is passionate about creating innovative solutions and being a part of social megatrends. The company responds to these trends with a broad range of products for various markets; amongst others, with the development of products and solutions in the field of renewable energies in response to the growing shortage of resources. A number of product examples demonstrating this will be highlighted in the following: Intelligent photovoltaic panel shutdown Phoenix Contact has been involved in the field of renewable energies for a long time. Photovoltaic systems have become a significant and established part of energy supply, with an installed power so far of approximately 230 gigawatts worldwide. Roughly two thirds of these systems are installed on building roofs. It must be just as easy and safe to maintain and repair these PV applications as it is to operate them. To this end, thanks to the intelligent SOLARCHECK RSD panel shutdown system, these systems can be automatically disconnected without expert knowledge. According to the latest studies, the feed-in power of PV systems worldwide will increase to approximately 600 gigawatts by 2020. This comparatively small and yet very important portion of the energy mix contributes to limiting climate change and to the sustainable management of the available energy reserves. Above all, growth in industrial and municipal applications emphasizes the significance of photovoltaics as a credible element of the energy balance in buildings and operations. This trend is aided by the simplicity of use of these PV applications. As opposed to other energy suppliers, the use of combustible fuel is not necessary, there are no moving parts, and installation and wiring are very easy to realize. Indeed, annual maintenance, the occasional repairs necessary due to damage caused by external influences, and cleaning in order to improve yields are normally the only times that the operator needs to have physical contact with his PV system. Otherwise, the system normally produces electricity reliably and requires no further involvement. The power range of such systems is between 30 and 500 kilowatts. The PV panels in these systems are connected in series and then connected together to the inverter inputs. Through this type of wiring, and depending on the number of panels, the system voltage summates to between several hundred volts up to one kilovolt. DC electricity is present on this side of the PV system; AC electricity for feed-in or other purposes is only present downstream of the inverter. Since all system components have been designed as standard for long-term operation under the influence of weather, the safety of the photovoltaic system is normally also assured. This means that all parts are insulated appropriately and do not therefore represent a danger to people PHOENIX CONTACT 5 or animals. Nevertheless, each PV application is a real power station. In particular during repairs, operators and technicians must be careful, for example of insulation errors. Physical harm can, however, be fully avoided if the panels on the DC side are disconnected. If this is the case, high voltages cannot be generated and the technician can work in conditions of complete safety. Many PV systems have a central disconnect point, further disconnect points at the entrance to the roof or various passive protective measures, such as fireproof cable ducts. None of these activities, however, address the cause of the danger. Activating the disconnection device only interrupts the flow of current; the high voltage remains in the system as long as sunlight falls on the PV system. Even the well-known and, from experience, expedient five safety rules cannot be followed with this DC-side solution because disconnection from voltage sources is not possible. The only proven procedure is the individual disconnection of the PV panels. In this way, high system voltages simply cannot be generated. In terms of equipping the photovoltaic system, this does however mean that each PV panel needs a switching device, which increases the costs accordingly. An argument here in favor of investment costs and against occupational safety is not only inappropriate, but also irresponsible. In order that the attractiveness of PV systems is not reduced, the safety disconnection equipment does however need to be manageable in terms of costs and, above all, be beneficial. To this end, Phoenix Contact has developed an intelligent panel disconnection system that protects everybody involved in the photovoltaic system without them having to have special expert knowledge. The SOLARCHECK RSD system includes two device types which automatically and fully disconnect and then later reconnect the system. Each of the switching units, which are installed directly behind the individual panels, react individually and recognize when the system is behaving abnormally. Such a reaction is judged to be unsafe operation and the panels are then disconnected. Because Solarcheck RSD also recognizes inverter disconnection as being a deviation, the entire system can also be disconnected manually. In the event of cleaning, maintenance or repair, the operator or technician can thus disconnect the entire DC-side of the PV system by disconnecting the inverter. The often discussed subject of first responders is also safely covered, without the necessity of having specialists on site. One of the first measures here includes disconnecting the building at the main fuse or even disconnecting an entire block at the main distribution box. Such steps lead to the standard-compliant disconnection of the DC side of the inverter and thus all PV panels. The most critical scenario in the event of a fire involving a building with a PV system does not lie in extinguishing the fire, but rather in repairs and the removal of fire-damaged parts. In this case, it must be assumed that cables are damaged or have melted together. Thus, the technician is presented with a situation that is difficult to estimate. If, however, he has disconnected all panels individually via Solarcheck RSD, resulting in the system not being in normal operation, the technician can also work safely in such extreme cases. Reconnection of the photovoltaic system is also fully automatic under controlled conditions. This ensures that the system does not start up again as long as work is being performed on it. The starter unit with intelligent test programs equipped especially for this purpose only allows the energy to flow again when the array is PHOENIX CONTACT 6 not interrupted and the inverter has been connected and released. This rules out inadvertent reconnection. With Solarcheck RSD, Phoenix Contact provides a solution that is exclusively for safe disconnection. This system has therefore been designed to be appropriately robust and simple. No additional cabling, configuring or special commissioning is necessary for its installation. The devices are designed for long-term use under harsh conditions and therefore only contain highquality components. They are not limited to certain inverters or PV panel types. It is thus ensured that the safety function can be installed in all standard crystalline photovoltaic systems, regardless of other components. Load optimization in wind turbine generators Wind turbine generators are designed for a service life of 20 years. But what happens then? Normally, the systems are dismantled and, wherever possible, sold on. They are then very often relocated to Eastern European countries, where they reliably generate electricity for many more years. This begs the question as to why these systems do not remain on the grid in Germany for longer. Countless operators argue in favor of a longer-term operating life for wind turbine generators (WTGs). This is because the wind turbines are installed at sites that do not allow repowering, or the financial means for a new system are not available to the operator at that point in time. WTGs are not developed for a specific number of years. Rather, their primary components are designed for specific loads. During the development of wind turbine generators, the manufacturers calculate the loads in a way that the wind turbine generators are capable of operating for at least 20 years even in locations that are subject to particularly strong winds. As a consequence, systems particularly those that are installed inland in less windy locations often have a relatively high reserve in practice between the load assumption determined during development and the actual value resulting from the operating life. The challenge confronting operators during an application for an operating period extension is proving the structural stability beyond the planned operating period. A surveyor, and in the best case the system manufacturer data regarding the exact design of the WTG, are necessary for such confirmation. Using all of the data available, the surveyor then examines whether the structural stability is assured beyond the approved operating lifetime. Much of the information necessary is very difficult to determine and can only be calculated via interpolation. Thus, the surveyors often have to refer to wind field analyses and wind data from the system control, for example, in order to be able to estimate the load on the components during their lifetime so far. This data is, in most cases, inaccurate or incomplete and must therefore be overlaid with an appropriate risk factor. For the PHOENIX CONTACT 7 exact determination of a possible operating period extension, it is therefore advantageous if the exact load data recorded over as long a time period as possible is available. Ideally, a wind turbine generator that is intended for further use should be equipped with a load measurement system from the point of commissioning. If this is not the case, the immediate retrofitting of such a load measurement system is expedient. This enables as much reliable data to be collected as possible, based on which the surveyor can create a significantly more exact forecast as to how long the wind turbine generator may remain on the grid. In order to utilize the absolute load limit of the wind turbine generator, the operator should still have the load measurement system installed even if the extension to the operating period has already been granted. In this way, it is possible to determine precisely the extent to which the loads assumed for the extended service life have been exceeded or not reached. The operator can now decide whether to decommission his system early or to further prolong the extended operating period. It is now the case that as a part of some approvals for extended operation, continuous monitoring of the loads is demanded explicitly. Currently, there are very few systems available on the market with which the loads of a wind turbine generator can be reliably measured. The Phoenix Contact Rotor Blade Tension Monitoring System (RBTM) is one of the first solutions in this field. The RBTM system can be fully integrated into new wind turbine generators and retrofitted into existing WTGs. These products are very quick to install and replace, and the expenditure for this is relatively low. With this solution, the loads arising in the blade root are recorded, preprocessed, and transmitted to a superordinate system, and defined actions are taken autonomously. Alongside the general vibration analysis, the RBTM enables the determination of load spectrums, which simplify the estimation of the remaining service life. If the data regarding the loads on the rotor blades in a WTG is recorded, the process of approval for further operation is simplified significantly. The load measurements can furthermore be used to optimize the operation of the wind turbine generator and to ensure the longest possible period of further operation. Older systems whose locations are not suitable for repowering can be utilized for the maximum service life of the components in this way. PHOENIX CONTACT 8 Growth of E-Mobility in the Netherlands E-Mobility will only become accepted once the vehicle can be charged rapidly anywhere. Along with Phoenix Contact and ABB, Fastned is contributing to this vision slowly but surely becoming a reality in the Netherlands. In the foreseeable future, you will be able to cover a distance of 400 kilometers with an electric car on just one charge. This does away with the need for charging in your home garage. Rather, vehicles will be recharged at work or on the motorway , says Crijn Bouman, Vice President of Business Development at ABB Electrical Vehicle & Charging Infrastructure. Today, the Swiss concern is one of the leading providers of Internet-based charging infrastructure. The charging stations have a cloud link based on open standards, enabling them to be connected to all service and payment applications. Furthermore, they are equipped with all relevant rapid charging plugs, enabling all E-vehicles to be charged. The business relationship between today's ABB Electrical Vehicle division and Phoenix Contact stretches back to 2010. Back then, we took up a pioneering role in E-Mobility together with Phoenix Contact , remembers Bouman. Both companies were represented within the commission that defined the European rapid charging standard CSS (Combined Charging System). The foundation was laid during this period for intensive cooperation, within the framework of which, for example, we had a two-way exchange on the subject of ergonomics. The first few years were taken up with the development of prototypes. Currently, the E-Mobility sector is growing continuously. Among other things, a new generation of charging plugs is currently being designed which will enable even more power to be conducted . A good example of how dynamically the market is expanding is, according to Bouman, the growth of the rapid charging network in the Netherlands. The stock market-listed Fastned company is commissioning new charging stations every week, for example. Established in 2011, Fastned received the concession in 2012 for building rapid charging units at 201 freeway service stations. Approximately 130 stations are due to be in operation by the end of 2017. This is necessary because the Dutch government has resolved that by 2020, 2.5 percent and by 2025, 12.5 percent of the approximately eight million licensed cars are to be electrically powered. And because the motorists do not want to relinquish the familiar convenience of conventional vehicles, the E-vehicle batteries need to be able to be recharged in a very short period of time. Set to this background, in the summer of 2013 Fastned awarded ABB with the contract for providing suitable charging stations, with which the electric vehicles can be charged within 15 to 20 minutes for a range of 150 kilometers. For this, ABB uses Phoenix Contact CCS (Combined Charging System) charging plugs. Furthermore, the stations include type 2 AC plugs in accordance with IEC 62196 for conventional charging with AC power and CHAdeMO plugs (Charge for Moving). The Combined Charging System (CCS) was developed by the German and American automotive industries in cooperation with Phoenix Contact. The aim was to PHOENIX CONTACT 9 standardize the charging interface between the vehicle and the charging station. At the same time, both the established AC charging and the much faster DC charging was to be possible. The result is the now-widespread type 2 combined interface with just one plug-in contact on the E-vehicle, via which it can be charged at both AC and DC stations. Thus, users can either charge their electric vehicles with alternating current conventionally over night in their garage, or on longer stopovers in car parks. Furthermore, rapid charging in just a few minutes at service stations, restaurants, supermarkets and banks is also possible. Naturally, safety measures are also built in; on the one hand, an electromechanical interlock actuator, and, on the other hand, monitoring of the charging current in the event of the system overheating. The Fastned charging stations are easily recognizable thanks to their design. The prominent roof does not just offer protection in the event of bad weather, but is also equipped with solar panels. Indeed, the energy provided by Fastned for charging electric vehicles is generated entirely by wind and solar power. Battery storage systems at the individual stations buffer the energy generated for those times when the sun is not sufficient or there is little wind. There are at least two rapid charging points per station in order to minimize longer queuing times. Furthermore, customers have access to a Wi-Fi network. Thus, for example, they can read their e-mails, prepare meetings, listen to music or even watch TV while their vehicle is charging. Fastned is certain that the faster charging speed will also reduce the cost of charging. If hundreds of E-vehicles can be charged per day, the higher financial expenditure for the hardware laid out by the company will be recovered more quickly. In order that this technological position is maintained, ABB continues to work closely together with Phoenix Contact. Higher charging currents are in the planning phase that will enable the action radius, currently at 150 kilometers, to be extended to 300 to 500 kilometers once the battery performance improves. The value for rapid charging on the road amounts to a minimum of 100 to 350 kilowatts. Against this background, the heat balance of charging stations and connectors is of crucial importance. In this regard, Bouman asserts: There are only a few companies that are able to supply such a charging plug. Therefore, Phoenix Contact opens up a high level of added value to us in this environment . PHOENIX CONTACT 10 Environment: Conservation of resources at Phoenix Contact Phoenix Contact has focused on activities for increasing efficiency, environmentally responsible production and using environmentally friendly and sustainable building technology for many years: Environmental protection is an integral part of our corporate policy. A main focus of our activities is on taking responsibility for the sustained protection of our resources . The energy management system in accordance with DIN EN ISO 50001 ensures the necessary transparency and measurability of the steps implemented. The successful recertification in 2016 accredited the measures implemented and highlighted further potentials for optimization. Energy efficiency training A new course on offer is the training program Energy efficiency compact: possibilities for reducing the energy requirement , aimed at those responsible for energy, employees who have an interest in the subjects of energy and energy efficiency, and those who are involved with energy during their activities within the company. Upon completion of the training program, the participants should be in a position to demonstrate methods for increasing energy efficiency within the company. They can develop their own ideas and measures aimed at reducing the energy requirements of the company. Furthermore, participants can identify the energy saving measures that Phoenix Contact has previously introduced and become acquainted with the contact persons in order to receive support on the subjects of energy and energy efficiency. Construction of new office building New energy efficient technologies and renewable energies are being installed at the Phoenix Contact sites wherever possible in order to ensure the optimum utilization and conservation of resources. In the construction of a new Phoenix Contact Electronics building, the technical highlight is the building automation. Many installations are barely visible to the employees or even not noticeable, and yet energy data, the lighting or occupancy of meeting rooms and corners can be displayed via a page on the intranet. Employees can see whether the ceiling mounted cooling systems are running, the value they are set to and whether there is a malfunction. In such cases, a message is sent via telephone to employees in Facility Management, who can immediately see what the malfunction is. Thus, any consequential damage is avoided. Energy data on the individual rooms, rotation speeds and consumption are displayed transparently and with progression curves in order that in the event of increasing energy consumption with no apparent explanation, the cause can be ascertained more quickly. Furthermore, a system has been installed which, in the event of a fire, blocks the ways to the location of the fire and guides employees out of the ­building via the correct path. PHOENIX CONTACT 11 The entire roof area of the new building has been equipped with a photovoltaic system that includes 670 panels covering an area of 935 square meters. In ideal solar irradiation conditions, the system can generate a power of 175,000 kilowatt hours per year, which is comparable with the average amount of energy consumed by 46 single family homes each with three people. The energy generated is exclusively for in-house consumption. A storage system has also been installed so that a small amount of energy can be stored intermediately. The photovoltaic system also serves as a test system for products developed by Phoenix Contact. Among other products, Sunclix connectors, the Solarcheck system for efficiency monitoring and the intelligent disconnection of photovoltaic panels with Auto Rapid Shutdown (RSD) have been installed. The Solarcheck RSD system and its scope of application are described in detail in the Economy section. The building is a perfect example of the possibilities of modern building technology. An intelligent connection between the energy supply, heating and cooling circuits and the production areas enables the sustainable, energy efficient operation of the site. Due to the supply process, the building does not need heating and cooling systems. Interested customers can see and experience first hand how and where they can install Phoenix Contact products and what they can do. While designing the architecture of the building, great value was also placed on the possibilities for communication. There are the usual meeting rooms, closed off seating areas and shortcuts to the coffee rooms. The so-called plaza is also an ideal meeting point. PHOENIX CONTACT 12 Social responsibility: Commitment to our employees Phoenix Contact attaches great importance to an appreciative and trustworthy corporate culture as well as to the development of employees. This is also specified in the corporate culture: Our corporate culture promotes trust and employee development to achieve our agreed objectives . The expectation of a mutually respectful appreciative environment is also reflected in management's mission statement, including aspects such as trust , respect and appreciation and promotion and development . The depth of the culture of the trust within the Phoenix Contact Group is measured every two years via the employee survey in association with the Great Place to Work Institute. Reports on individual results enable the strengths and potential fields of action in the respective organizational units to be considered in order that individual optimization opportunities can be derived. In addition to these individual activities, Phoenix Contact provides versatile instruments and measures within the areas of basic and further training, health management, and work-life balance. These are being developed further or even redeveloped continually, based on current trends and the wishes of the employees. Health management Health management plays an important role at Phoenix Contact to such an extent that this subject has been reported on several times already in previous Communication on Progress reports. One service on offer is occupational employee counseling, which has become established within Phoenix Contact and which has been very well received by employees. In addition to counseling on professional as well as private issues, colleagues also provide support during the entire process of inpatient care in hospitals and clinics and after rehabilitation programs. From the very beginning, employees benefit from good contact to various clinics in order that they can capitalize on the service more quickly and avoid long waiting lists for PHOENIX CONTACT 13 places. Employees also receive the support necessary during their stay at a hospital or clinic and during the reintegration process from the occupational employee counseling service. Health days held annually provide employees with the opportunity to learn about health subjects and even to have short health checks. The 2015 event was held under the motto Movement strengthens the vascular system . During this event, vein measurements, measurements of the diameter of the visceral artery, and blood flow measurements were taken, vaccinations were given and information and advice on the subject of vascular diseases was also available. The 2016 Health Day, under the motto Healthy and fit through the summer , was a complete success. Health checks such as osteoporosis measurements, skin screenings, skin analyses and BIA measurements were well received by employees. In addition, there were several presentations and events on the subject of insurance and immunization protection for overseas travel, and lots of useful information helpful for the summer and when on vacation. New on offer in 2016 was the first blood donation campaign, which took place on the company premises in Blomberg with the DRK-Blutspendedienst West (German Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service West) and the DRK-Ortsverein Blomberg (Blomberg branch of the German Red Cross). A prior agreement was made with management that this campaign could take place during working hours. The response from employees was very good, and the action also attracted many first-time donors, who wanted to take on responsibility and also become blood donors. It is undoubtedly a campaign that Phoenix Contact will again hold in 2017. Basic and further training The element of the corporate strategy Strategically expanding employee skills is very important for Phoenix Contact. Basic and further training has a long tradition in the company, because as a technologically-oriented company aligned to the future, well trained employees are the foundation for achieving the corporate goals. Technologies are developing constantly, in particular in the areas of electronics, automation technology and digitization, and knowledge and expertise have to be developed and expanded continuously. Networked and integrated thinking will become increasingly more important in the future. With the launch in 2016 of the Training Center, with 30 training rooms for ten to 65 participants and IT rooms for up to 32 people, the company has created exceptional conditions for good basic and further training. On the one hand, young professionals are trained in eleven training courses and eight dualtrack courses within the Training Center. On the other hand, it provides a flexible training program for employees that is aligned with the trends and the needs of the company. Qualification courses are available in the fields of Technology, Business, IT and Media, Soft and Leadership Skills, and individual solutions are also arranged. Approximately 14,000 participants per year take advantage of the qualification courses on offer. The Training Center is also an event venue for forums, internal and external conferences and for the regional adult education center. It is therefore a location with a great learning environment and was designed for both internal and external networking. PHOENIX CONTACT 14 Social responsibility: Commitment to society Phoenix Contact is committed to the sustainable positive development of living and business areas and takes its role as a responsible company very seriously. Training is an important subject both within the field of internal growth and employee development and in social commitment. For example, young people are prepared for their professional life through the Aubicom project , and pupils and students gain an insight into professional life through excursions or internships. Alongside training activities, Phoenix Contact has been championing culture on the site in a variety of ways for many years. Regional cultural highlights are sponsored, for example the European Street Theater Festival in Detmold, the music and literature festival Wege durch das Land (journeys through the land), and the Illumina laser show in Bad Pyrmont. In cooperation with organizations and institutions, the company would like to actively participate in staging modern and eclectic formats in order to strengthen the attractiveness of the region, and also to make it accessible to its own employees and interns. Furthermore, the company organizes its own seminars and cultural events as non-profit events, for example the annual Phoenix Contact Colloquium for the interested general public, which is staged in cooperation with the Ostwestfalen-Lippe (OWL) University of Applied Sciences. In 2016, the seminar, on the subject News in the Age of Social Media Tradition versus a Brave New World? , was hosted by Pinar Atalay, the presenter of Tagesthemen , the German current affairs TV program. xplore New Automation Award 20th anniversary Phoenix Contact has been organizing the annual xplore New Automation Award international technology and educational competition for 20 years and can therefore look back over a long tradition. More than 500 projects in six categories from over 30 nations have been realized. Phoenix Contact provides pupil and student groups with the technical equipment and personal support necessary. The highlight for the winners is undoubtedly presenting their projects in the categories Smart PHOENIX CONTACT 15 Factory, Environment, Urban Infrastructure, Recreation and Infinity at the Hannover Messe, the world's largest industry trade fair. New Automation Award Phoenix Contact has included the special category Infinity for the 20th edition of the competition. With the support of partner organizations such as Don Bosco, schools will be selected from so-called emerging regions for this. The 300 selected schools will each receive a technology package which will enable pupils to get to grips with automation technology and to bring life to their own ideas. Cooperation with the Namibian Institute of Mining and Technology (NIMT) The cooperation between Phoenix Contact and the NIMT Institute was initiated in 2014. The NIMT Institute is the largest technical vocational training institute in Namibia, with three sites. A total of 3000 young people are trained in various technical fields, such as in electrical engineering and mechanics. The aim of this cooperation is on the one hand programs involving employee exchange and knowledge sharing, and on the other hand the development of training programs for interns in the NIMT Institute and providing support through training materials. These activities are aimed at supporting the economical competitiveness of Namibia and at providing employees of both organizations with the opportunity of becoming acquainted with and to appreciate the respective cultures. In previous years, visits lasting several weeks have been made; the director of the Namibian institute and some trainers have received an insight into the German education system and become acquainted with the didactic structure of projects and learning media. Alongside the familiarization process, leisure time should never be neglected. Shareholder Klaus Eisert, several employees, interns and dual-track students took the time to show the visitors a little of Germany. In the end, all participants were very impressed with the cultural exchange, becoming acquainted with a different culture and acknowledged a huge gain in experiences. Two dual-track students made the return visit in 2016. The two students of electrical engineering and mechatronic systems spent time working in the school and developing learning media, but also becoming acquainted with the country and people of Namibia. This cooperation is to be continued into the future, and further trainers from Namibia and students from Germany will be given the opportunity of taking part in an exchange program. PHOENIX CONTACT 16 AIESEC Phoenix Contact's membership of the national advisory board for the student organization AIESEC has already been reported on in the previous Communication on Progress Report. Regular advisory board activities and interactions strengthen mutual communication. Phoenix Contact thus contributes to the development of responsible and entrepreneurial students who can gain practical experience in being successful. This ensures they are prepared for all future challenges. The company also supports the regular Youth2Business (Y2B) events. Phoenix Contact became a partner for the first time last year in the Global Citizen Partnership Program . In this program, students have the opportunity to participate in a social overseas project and, thus, to develop their own capabilities and personal expertise through facing new challenges, to become acquainted with other cultures, and to gain experience and to strengthen social responsibility. Phoenix Contact has supported ten students in overseas projects: for example in mentoring and teaching children from difficult backgrounds in Brazil, a project in the field of environmental protection in organic farming and in recycling on Mauritius, and in the Earth5R project for unemployed women aimed at improving the quality of life in villages in India. All students have reported on valuable experiences and interesting insights into a new culture, and so Phoenix Contact will continue to support this project. In 2017, two Phoenix Contact students have the opportunity to take part in this. PHOENIX CONTACT 17 Phoenix Contact charitable trust The philosophy of the company charitable trust is the sponsorship of factually determined and timelimited projects and research programs in the field of natural and technological sciences. The sponsor Klaus Eisert and the board of trustees find it inspiring to exchange ideas with young scientists during their scientific work and to experience progress together with them. The charitable trust has been involved in the field of institutional research since 2007 at the Institute for Industrial Information Technology (inIT) of the Ostwestfalen-Lippe University of Applied Sciences. Without the trust, the inIT would not have been in a position to develop so quickly into a leading research institute, to realize the first German Scienceto-Business Center CIIT in the field of intelligent automation, to establish the research factory SmartFactoryOWL together with the Fraunhofer Gesellschaft research organization or to establish the Fraunhofer Institute and company. The charitable trust continues to be involved in individual sponsorships through doctoral scholarships in the fields of electrical engineering and machine building. To maintain the technical progression of Germany at an international level, the charitable trust sponsors applied fundamental research in the fields of production technology, electrical engineering, and automation technology at numerous German higher education institutes. Many different disciplines are sponsored in the field of machine building. Supporting international congresses with the Cross Border Studies Program is also important to the charitable trust. Young students should have the opportunity of becoming acquainted with new countries and cultures, to study with people who speak a different language, and to leave their comfort zone. PHOENIX CONTACT 18
