INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2016 03 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 06 2016 AT A GLANCE 37 WORK WELFARE • Our Commitment • Our Employees • Employees Development • Safety and Hygiene 07 AXTEL PROFILE • Philosophy • Merger Results • Axtel Operational Structure • Products and Services 44 SOCIAL CONNECTION • Axtel Foundation • Corporate Volunteering • Technological Infrastructure 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Board of Directors 48 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS • Our Commitment • Energy Use • Risk Management • Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) • Management Team • Water Consumption • Management Team Benefit Plan • Waste Management and • Business Ethics Disposal • ALFA Transparency Mailbox • Human Rights 56 OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY • Our Commitment 24 SUSTAINABILITY • Sustainability Statement • Sustainability Model and • Enterprise Market and Government Market • IT Market Strategies • Mass Market • Materiality • Stakeholders 66 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE • Relevant Data 33 INNOVATION AND DIGITAL CULTURE • Our Commitment • Management Commentary and Analysis • Report of Independent Auditors • Foresight • Consolidated Financial • Innovation Hub Statements • Innsight • NAVE Accelerator 151 MEMORY PARAMETERS CONTENT • GRI G4 Content Index • Verification Letter • 2016 Certifications • Adopted Associations and Initiatives • Contact Information 2 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT G4-1, G4-2, G4-13 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER I n 2016, the merger between Alestra and Axtel gave rise a new entity with greater capabilities, strengthening our competitive position in the market of services of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in Mexico. Since the announcement of the merger agreement unveiled by the end of 2015, we initiated specific projects oriented to identify and maximize the benefits from this transaction. One of the first actions carried out was the design and formalization of the new organizational structure, which has been key to the process of integration. We have significantly strengthened our position in the market by having the most advanced fiber optic of Latin America, the best operational centers to meet the needs of customers from all segments and the most comprehensive portfolio of solutions, all together maintained by a highly qualified network of 7,584 employees. In Axtel we have a fiber optic network of almost 40,000 kilometers, including 23,000 kilometers of long distance network, more than 11,300 kilometers of metropolitan beltways, and nearly 6,000 kilometers of the network is Fiber To The Home or Business (FTTx). We also have approximately 7,000 square meters of white floor in our six Data Centers, plus 600 square meters that will be available in April, 2017. The integration of the operation and the assets of both companies generate annual savings of 20 million dollars in investments and a billion pesos in operative cash flows synergies. It is important to remember that, when the merger took place, we formalized a syndicated bank loan for 750 million dollars oriented to cover different obligations of international bond with higher financial cost. Thanks to the positive reception of the credit institutions, it was possible to increase the amount of such funding to 85 million dollars, which were used to pay off short-term loans. During 2016, our strategy was focused on providing ICT solutions to enterprises and government customers, as well as triple-play offers based on fiber optic for the mass segment, made up by small businesses and homes. AXTEL 2016 3 Among the important events of the year, we highlight the acquisition of 49 percent of Estratel, a subsidiary specialized in the integration of information technology solutions for businesses and government, and whose 51 percent was acquired in 2015. Likewise, in 2016 we continued with the construction of the second Data Center in Querétaro, which will have in its initial phase a capacity of 800 square meters of white floor. It is important to mention that the Data Center in Querétaro was recognized in September by the International Computer Room Experts Association (ICREA) as “The best of the world”, thanks to its robust and redundant infrastructure, as well as for having the best practices in operational efficiency and environmental commitment. For Axtel innovation is key to design and develop solutions that generate greater value to customers. In that sense, in 2016 major projects were sealed thanks to innovative technological proposals, such as the Ventanilla Única solution for the Federal Government and the agreements signed with Open Exchange and Compusoluciones to use the services of the Axtel cloud in different applications. On the other hand, we launched NAVE, the first business accelerator created by an ICT corporation in Mexico, through which it seeks to identify and develop entrepreneurial projects with potential for success in the market of ICTs. As another important event, the Department of Communications and Transports (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes, SCT) awarded Altan Consortium the Red Compartida project, which consists of installing and operating a new mobile network generation with a 700 MHz band to provide resale services to operators. The Red Compartida project is strategic for our company, as it will allow complementing the solutions portfolio with mobility services. It is important to note that, in addition of participating with a minority position in the consortium capital and without management intervention, we seek to become a major user and supplier of infrastructure and services for such network. In 2016, we invested 170 million dollars in fixed assets, including the expansion of Data Centers, the last mile fiber optic network for the mass market, the transportation network, the metropolitan beltway, and in Information Technology infrastructure (IT). The integration of Alestra and Axtel created important growth in revenue and in EBITDA. During 2016, revenues increased 37 percent, totaling 13,937 million pesos, of which 63 percent came from enterprise customers, followed by those from the mass segment and government, which accounted for 22 percent and 15 percent respectively. The EBITDA was of 3,673 million pesos, 14 percent more than in 2015 and resulting from the consolidation of Alestra and the synergies generated by the merger. The results allow observing a favorable trend based on the performance of the business, particularly in the segment of IT and the mass market with fiber optic technology. We have also devoted considerable efforts to maintain our position as a company that integrates and promotes sustainability in its operations, implementing initiatives to mitigate our environmental impacts, generating dialogue and social contributions through various community projects, and addressing global trends throughout our supply chain. For the sixth consecutive year, we’ve reaffirmed our commitment to the United Nations 4 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Global Compact to promote and comply with its 10 principles. Likewise, for the fourth consecutive year, we are part of a group of 30 companies that conform the CPI Sustainability Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange, and we are added up to the environmental reports on national and international initiatives such as the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Greenhouse Gas Report (Mexico’s GHG Program) and Clean Transportation, promoted by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, SEMARNAT). 2017 is a year of challenges. The economic situation of the country, the exchange rate and the political environment anticipate a scenario of uncertainty. Nevertheless, we reiterate our commitment to increase our efforts for the benefit of our stakeholders, through a new organizational culture, with innovation and customer orientation, as well as with a competitive range of solutions based in a modern and robust technological infrastructure. On behalf of the Board of Directors and the Corporate Office, we express our appreciation for the trust and support that you have given us. We also thank our customers and suppliers, as well as the financial community for their collaboration. In addition, we would like to recognize all of our collaborators for their congruency, flexibility, and attitude for service displayed in the integration process, whose contribution and talent will serve to overcome the challenges and capitalize opportunities presented to generate value. San Pedro Garza García, N.L., Mexico, February 21, 2017. Rolando Zubirán Shetler, Chief Executive Officer AXTEL 2016 5 3,186 18 % CUSTOMER BASE INCREASE MILLION 3 SPERTO OF WHITE FLOOR NEARLY 7,OOO M² PESOS EXPERIENCE CENTERS INVESTED IN INFRASTRUCTURE I N N OVAT I O N 50+ CITIES WITH CONNECTIVITY of energy used to operate HUB 22% comes from clean energy sources 233,400 40,388 WITH NETWORK customers with FTTx technology 2016 AT A GLANCE 1,033,000 401,000 BROADBAND REVENUE KILOMETERS GENERATING UNITS (RGUs) SUBSCRIBERS 6 WORLD CLASS DATA CENTERS 6 Axtel is owned by ALFA, a Mexican consortium conformed by Axtel, Alpek, Nemak, Sigma, and Newpek, with presence in 26 countries around America, Europe and Asia, and with 126 productive plants. The total revenue is more than 16,315 million dollars and its divisions serve the sectors of telecommunications, petrochemical, aluminum auto parts, refrigerated foods, natural gas, and hydrocarbons. In 2016, Axtel and Alestra, an ALFA subsidiary, merged to create a more robust entity in its offer of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) services. G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-8, G4-13 AXTEL PROFILE AXTEL 2016 7 40,388 TOTAL NETWORK KILOMETERS 8 23,092 11,317 5,979 OPERATIONAL CENTERS TRANSPORTATION METROPOLITAN FTTX NETWORK KILOMETERS (LD) BELTWAY KILOMETERS KILOMETERS San Diego Dallas Nogales El Paso Cd. Juárez Santa Ana San Antonio Hermosillo Chihuahua Cd. Obregón Monclova Laredo Nuevo Laredo Delicias McAllen Los Mochis Monterrey Matamoros Torreón Reynosa Culiacán Paila Saltillo San Fernando Durango Cd. Victoria Mazatlán Zacatecas San Luis Potosí Cancún Tampico Mérida Tepic Aguascalientes Playa del León Tamalín Carmen Querétaro NUESTRA RED Guadalajara Pachuca Campeche Tankah Poza Rica Celaya Tula México Tlaxcala Cd. del Carmen RED AXTEL Morelia Escarcega Puebla Esperanza Veracruz Villahermosa Toluca Coatzacoalcos CRUCES FRONTERIZOS Yautepec Cuernavaca Mal Paso Temascal Minatitlán Tuxtla Gutiérrez Acapulco Belice MORE THAN MICROWAVES FOR CONNECTIVITY OF THE LAST 7,000m 2 MILE AND METROPOLITAN COVERAGE OF WHITE FLOOR IN SIX DATA CENTERS 7, 10.5, 15 and 23 GHz 3.5 GHz ENTERPRISE SEGMENT MASS SEGMENT T oday we are a company with a more solid inWe offer solutions to the most important markets frastructure and a competitive position in the in Mexico in the sectors of corporations, government, market of Information and Communications small and medium businesses, and residential. Technology (ICT) services in Mexico, consequently Headquartered in Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexifrom the merger between Alestra and Axtel. From the co, we provide local services in 45 cities, data services new entity called Axtel, ALFA possesses 51 percent of in 53 localities and 10 cities with FTTx (Fiber To The the capital. Home or Business). 8 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Mission To enable organizations to be more productive and bring people to improve their quality of life. Vision To be the best option for your digital experience through innovation to create value. Values 1 G4-56 TEAMWORK… OUR STRENGTH. RESPECT… OUR COMMITMENT. PHILOSOPHY CUSTOMER FOCUS… OUR DIFFERENTIATOR. INNOVATION… OUR PASSION. QUALITY… OUR STANDARD. INTEGRITY… OUR PILLAR. 1 To acknowledge Axtel Values visit: www.axtelcorp.mx/sustentabilidad AXTEL 2016 9 MERGER RESULTS “We are a dynamic company, willing to T he merger between Axtel and Alestra became implement new things, to take risks, to effective on February 15, 2016, leaving Alestra as subsidiary of Axtel and the latter as subsidibe attentive to invest in a good bet in the ary of ALFA, paving the way to a company with better technology market. In 2017, we aspire capabilities that enhance its offering to the market, to be a more integrated company with generating benefits not just for the company, but for a completely stable operation that can our interest groups. reach high performance levels, considering As in any process of change, the first commitment that the merger is completely overcome”, derived from this merger was the integration of both Bernardo García Reynoso, companies, in its operations and in its organizational structure, which were addressed during 2016. Executive Director for Planning and In addition, it was decided to give greater focus to Development. the Mass Market businesses in order to offer better value propositions and increase the number of cusTo provide personalized services to all markets, ortomers; hence different synergies were created, such ganizational changes were made; therefore, a comas the incorporation of Alestra’s customer base, who mercial area for Information Technology (IT) was were offered Axtel TV services, fiber optic links, and made and became separated from Government and higher speed internet, among other services. Corporate Markets. AXTEL OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE G4-17 SUBSIDIARY ACTIVITY PARTICIPATION PERCENTAGE Alesre Insurance, PTE LTD Managed Services 100% Alestra Comunicación, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Alestra Telecommunication Service 100% Comunicación”) Alestra USA, INC. Telecommunication Services 100% Alestra, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Alestra”) Telecommunication Services 100% Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel”) Telecommunication Services 100% Axes Data, S.A. de C.V. (“Axes Data”) Managed Services 100% Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Axtel”) Telecommunication Services 100% Cogeneración de Querétaro, S.A. de C.V. Managed Services 100% (“Cogeneración”) Contacto IP, S.A. de C.V. (“Contacto IP”) Managed Services 100% Estrategias en Tecnología Corporativa, S.A. de C.V. Telecommunication Services 100% (“Estratel”) Ingeniería de Soluciones Alestra, S.A. de C.V. (“ISA”) Managed Services 100% Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V. (“ICOSA”) Managed Services 100% S&C Constructores de Sistemas, S.A. de C.V. (“S&C”) Telecommunication Services 100% Servicios Alestra TI, S.A. de C.V. (“Servicios Alestra TI”) Managed Services 100% Servicios Alestra, S.A. de C.V. (“Servicios Alestra”) Managed Services 100% Servicios Axtel, S.A. de C.V. (“Servicios Axtel”) Managed Services 100% 10 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT OUR SOLUTIONS CONNECTIVITY SECURITY OF THE TELEPHONY INFORMATION CLOUD INTERNET SECURITY AND DATA CENTERS AUTOMATION APPLICATION PAY TV MANAGEMENT SYSTEM INTEGRATION PRODUCTS AND SERVICES A lestra is the commercial brand through which Winning this tender makes us partakers of the bigwe offer solutions to enterprises and governgest telecommunication project in the history of Mexment entities to which we provide ICT services ico. The Red Compartida, which will be offered to teleto enable them to be more productive. While Axtel is communication operators, allows an increase in availthe commercial brand for the residential and business ability and access to mobile broadband services in the market; it provides voice, data, security, and entercountry, facilitating these services to remote populatainment solutions to bring people together and imtions that currently do not have access to Internet or prove their quality of life. mobile phones. We expect the Network to initiate opWe develop solutions grouped by families of sererations in March 2018. vices to meet the needs of different markets we serve: As part of our strategy, in addition of providing Industry, Cloud and Data Center, Collaboration, Secutechnology and know-how, we also plan to incorpority, and Connectivity2. rate mobility to our ICT portfolio of solutions for the At the end of 2016, the Department of Commuenterprise and mass segment customers, and explore nications and Transports (Secretaría de Comunicabusiness opportunities in new markets or services in ciones y Transportes, SCT) awarded the Red CompartiMexico. da (Shared Network) wholesaler project to the Altan consortium, of which our company is a member together with companies like Morgan Stanley Infrastructure, International Finance Corporation, Grupo Multitel and Megacable. 2 For more information see the Operational Efficiency section. AXTEL 2016 11 TECHNOLOGICAL INFRASTRUCTURE “We evolve our network for technologies I n Axtel we work tactically and strategically with that, combined with our marketing and our technological infrastructure. Tactically because we plan on how to deploy and operate product design strategies, allow us to the network to accomplish the company’s yearly incarry out new solutions to the different come plan. And strategically because we grow, build market segments. Standardize the and evolve the network in five-year periods in order network of both companies has given rise to supply efficiently and with adequate services acto synergy. Today, Axtel has more fiber cording to the demands of the market, as well as with optic kilometers and can deploy them the necessary capacity so that our sales plans can be achievable. to the enterprise sector faster and at a Consequently, from the merger, in 2016 we faced lesser cost than before”, a series of technical challenges on where and how to Andrés Cordovez Ferretto, integrate the networks, the management systems Infrastructure and Operations Executive and the processes of both companies, coupled with Director. the importance of forming a new workgroup and to avoid affecting productivity and efficiency in our operation. Today we have a modern infrastructure with a more robust and advanced fiber optic network and with world-class Data Centers. We are working on reducing the digital gap by providing first world solutions to our customers, as well as by facilitating the latest technology to the communities with which we have relationship. 12 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT The highest governance body in Axtel is the Board of G4-34, G4-35, G4-36, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40, G4-41, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-51, G4-52, G4-53 Directors, whose priority is generating long-term value through the adoption of policies, procedures and guidelines based on transparency, accountability, integrity, responsibility, and adherence to corporate ethics. T he Board is comprised of businessmen with exJanuary 11, March 9, April 25, July 28, and October pertise and experience in various industries, as 24. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE well as a high level of knowledge in the field of Their actions are based on the LMV, on the guidebusiness, and who were appointed and approved by lines of the Organization for Economic Cooperation the Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting on January and Development (OECD), the Code of Best Corpo15, 2016. rate Practices of the Business Coordinating Council, According to the Stock Market Law, as well as to the United Nations Global Compact, and on the byour bylaws, 15 members integrate the Board, two of laws of the company. them Co-Chairmen, seven are Board members, six are To ensure the appropriate management strateIndependent, and four are Alternate. Three of the ingy in our company, we have an Audit and Corporate dependent board members integrate the Audit and Practices Committee that monitors, manages and Corporate Practices Committee. conducts the way the company is to be managed, recAmong the functions of the Board of Directors ommending the Internal and External Audit departand Chief Executive Officer are defining Axtel objecment actions to follow. Likewise, the Committee is in tives and strategies in the economic, social and envicharge of maintaining managers communication with ronmental fields, as well as manage, conduct and exthe Board of Directors, as well as to avoid any conflict ecute the businesses of the company, review the acof interest. counting principles, financial statements and present Within the business organization, the Sustainabilireports to the General Shareholders Meetings. ty Department, which depends from the Human CapMonitor compliance of existing laws, including the ital Executive Office, reports to the Board of Directors Stock Market Law (LMV); identify, manage and mitiof all progress in economic, social and environmental gate potential risks, internal and external that Axtel matters regarding the objectives established throughis exposed to; appoint the Chief Executive Officer, as out the year. In addition, it also participates in the Suswell as indicate its faculties, obligations, working containability and Environmental Committees formed by ditions and remuneration; appoint and remove exterall companies of ALFA, integrating and standardizing nal auditors of the company, establish an Audit and efforts on this issue, and in the environmental comCorporate Practices Committee, and define the conmittee of the Sustainability Working Team formed by trol and internal guidelines are some of its functions. companies that are part of the IPC Sustainability InThe Board of Directors met five times during 2016: dex of the Mexican Stock Exchange. 13 ÁLVARO ALEJANDRO MIGUEL FERNÁNDEZ GARZA ELIZONDO BARRAGÁN March 27, 1968 October 14, 1953 Board Member and Co-Chairman of the Board Member of Axtel sinBoard of Directors of Axtel since February ce February 2016. ALFA Bu2016. siness Development ManaHe is the Chief Executive Officer of ALFA ger. Board Member of Arca since 2010 and Board Member of the saContinental, Banregio Grume since April 2005. He is a Board Mempo Financiero, Indelpro, and ber of ALFA, Alpek, Nemak, Cydsa, Grupo Polioles. Aeroportuario del Pacífico, Vitro, Universidad de Monterrey (UDEM), Georgetown University (Latin American Board), and the Museum of Contemporary Art of Monterrey. He is also President of the AdviFERNANDO ÁNGEL sory Board of Roberto Garza Sada Center GONZÁLEZ OLIVIERI of UDEM, and was President of the Nuevo October 2, 1954 Leon State Manufacturing Industry ChamBoard Member of Axtel since ber (CAINTRA). February 2016. Chief ExecutiDegree in Economics by the University of ve Officer of CEMEX. Notre Dame, with a Master in Business Administration from the Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM) and from Georgetown University. TOMÁS PAULINO JOSÉ MILMO SANTOS RODRÍGUEZ MENDIVIL November 3, 1964 April 21, 1951 Board Member and Co-Chairman of the Board Member of Axtel since Board of Directors of Axtel since February February 2016. ALFA Human 2016. Capital and Services Director. He was Chief Executive Officer of the Board Member of Campofrío company from 1994 to February 2016, Food Group. Member of BOARD MEMBERS has been a Board Member since 1994 the National Council of and was the President of the Board of COPARMEX and the Business Directors from 2003 to February 2016. Coordinating Council. He is a Board Member of CEMEX, ITESM CO-CHAIRMEN and Promotora Ambiental. He is also President of the Board of Tec Salud and Alianza Educativa Ciudadana por Nuevo THOMAS LORENZO León. MILMO ZAMBRANO Degree in Business Economics by Stanford July 9, 1935 University. Board Member of Axtel since February 2016. Co-Founder and President of the Board of Directors of Grupo Javer and Incasa. President of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Carbonífera San Patricio and Carbón Industrial. 14 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT ARMANDO SALVADOR ENRIQUE GARZA SADA ALVA GÓMEZ (A) MEYER GUZMÁN (A) June 29, 1957 June 4, 1951 January 7, 1960 Board Member of Axtel since Board Member of Axtel sinBoard Member of Axtel since February 2016. President of ce February 2016. President of February 2016. Chief Executive the Board of Directors of ALSistema ITESM. Member of the Officer of Cemix and Ovniver. FA, Alpek and Nemak. Board Board of Directors of Endeavor Board Member of UDEM, BanMember of CEMEX, FEMSA, and Proeza. comer, Banamex, ITESM, EGAFrisa Industrias, Grupo FinanDE, Farmacias Benavides and ciero Banorte, Grupo Lamosa, CAINTRA. Liverpool, Proeza, and ITESM. RAMÓN ALBERTO FRANCISCO JUAN IGNACIO LEAL CHAPA GARZA EGLOFF GARZA HERRERA June 4, 1969 September 5, 1954 November 26, 1966 Board Member of Axtel sinBoard Member of Axtel sinBoard Member of Axtel since Fece February 2016. Finance Dice February 2016. Chief Execubruary 2016. Chief Executive rector of ALFA. Member of the tive Officer of Arca ContinenOfficer of Xignux. Board MemExecutive Council of UDEM. tal. Board Member of Grupo Inber of BBVA Bancomer (Nordustrial Saltillo, Grupo Alen, theastern Regional), Consejo Banregio, Banco Holandés RaMexicano de Hombres de NeCONSEJEROS INDEPENDIENTES bobank, Engineering Division gocios (CMHN), UDEM, ICONN, and Architecture of ITESM, and Cleber, and Instituto Nuevo UANL Foundation. Amanecer. ALBERTO RICARDO SANTOS BOESCH SALDÍVAR ESCAJADILLO August 26, 1971 November 21, 1953 Board Member of Axtel since Board Member of Axtel since February 2016. Chief ExecuFebruary 2016. President and tive Officer of Empresas SanChief Executive Officer of The tos. Board Member of GruHome Depot. Board Member po Tres Vidas Acapulco, Grupo of FEMSA, Cluster de Vivienda Maseca, Interpuerto de MonMonterrey, Asociación Nacioterrey, Santos y de la Garnal de Tiendas de Autoservicio za Evia Foundation, Instituto y Departamentales (ANTAD), Nuevo Amanecer, UDIA A.C., American Chamber of Comand En Nuestras Manos. merce (Monterrey Division), and ITESM Talent and Culture Committee. BERNARDO GUERRA TREVIÑO (A) February 24, 1965 Board Member of Axtel since February 2016. Founding partner of Morales y Guerra Aseso(A) Member of res (MG Capital). Board Memthe Audit and ber of Promotora Ambiental Corporate Practices and Banco Ahorro Famsa. Committee. AXTEL 2016 15 JOSÉ ANTONIO GONZÁLEZ FLORES May 5, 1970 Alternate Board Member of Axtel since February 2016. Finance Executive Vicepresident of CEMEX. MAURICIO MORALES SADA September 6, 1961 Alternate Board Member of Axtel since February 2016. President and founder of MG Capital. Member of the Executive Committee of ITESM Business Development Program. ALTERNATE BOARD MEMBERS PATRICIO JIMÉNEZ BARRERA October 29, 1965 RISK MANAGEMENT G4-14, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47 Alternate Board Member F of Axtel since February or Axtel it is very important to identify, analyze 2016. Member of the Board and address the risks that may take place inof Directors of Sociedad side or outside the company, in order to avoid Financiera de Crédito Popular a negative impact in its performance. The GenerNacional and Operadora de al Management supports itself with different areas Servicios Mega. to identify the most relevant risks that may impact from an economic, environmental and social point of view. These areas are assigned according to the perception and involvement over the issues to analyze. Within the annual plan, the areas involved inMARIO HUMBERTO corporate the most relevant risks and action plans PÁEZ GONZÁLEZ in order to validate the effectiveness of the proOctober 28, 1950 cesses and implemented actions to mitigate and Alternate Board Member of manage identified risks. Axtel since February 2016. In addition, to analyze the impacts, risks and Chief Executive Officer of business opportunities, the Board of Directors met Sigma Alimentos. Board on five occasions during 2016. Member of Campofrío Food Group. 16 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF AXTEL Rolando Zubirán Shetler INTERNAL AUDIT AND CONTROL Héctor Canales Espinoza G4-37, G4-49 INFRASTRUCTURE BUSINESS MARKET IT COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Ricardo J. Adrián Andrés Eduardo Hinojosa González Cuadros Gutiérrez Cordovez Ferretto MANAGEMENT TEAM DIRECTOR PLANNING AND GOVERNMENT MASS MARKET OF THE FINANCE OFFICE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIC ACCOUNTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Adrián de los Santos EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Antonio Escobedo Bernardo Arturo De Nigris Sada García Reynoso Vázquez Silveyra IT, SECURITY AND LEGAL AND HUMAN CAPITAL INNOVATION EXECUTIVE REGULATORY EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR José Eloy Rogelio Raúl Valero Treviño Ancira Garza Ortega Ibarra AXTEL 2016 17 ROLANDO ROGELIO ADRIÁN ADRIÁN ZUBIRÁN SHETLER ANCIRA GARZA CUADROS GUTIÉRREZ DE LOS SANTOS ESCOBEDO 64 years 47 years 46 years 48 years CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER IT, SECURITY AND IT COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR OF THE OF AXTEL INNOVATION EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FINANCE OFFICE DIRECTOR Former Chief Executive He served as Innovation He is part of Alestra since He served as Corporate Officer of Alestra from 1999 and Technology Director in 1996 performing as IT Sales Finance and investors to February 2016. Has more Alestra before joining Axtel, Director and Institutional Relations Director of Axtel than 30 years of experience as well as former Director Accounts Sales Director. until February 15, 2017 when in the telecommunications of the Small Businesses he was appointed interim Latin American market and Consumption Unit, and Electronic and Director of the Finance Office. where he has held various Systems Director. Communications Engineer Before he entered Axtel in management positions in by the Instituto Tecnológico April 2006, he worked at Mexico, Brazil and Argentina. Bachelor in Administrative y de Estudios Superiores de Operadora de Bolsa y Banca Computing Systems by Monterrey, with a Master Serfin (today Santander Industrial Engineer by the Instituto de Estudios in Business Administration Mexico) and Standard the Universidad Nacional Tecnológicos y Superiores by ITESM and an Executive Chartered Bank, where he Autónoma de Mexico, de Monterrey, with a Master Program from IPADE. held positions in Corporate with a Master of Science in Business Administration Banking at Monterrey, in Operations Research by the University of Texas at London and New York. by University of Southern Austin. California and a Doctorate Bachelor in Business degree in Philosophy Administration by the specialized in Management Instituto Tecnológico y de by the Universidad Autónoma Estudios Superiores de de Nuevo León. Monterrey, with a Master in Finance by Carroll School of Management from Boston College. 18 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT ANDRÉS EDUARDO ANTONIO BERNARDO RICARDO J. CORDOVEZ FERRETTO DE NIGRIS SADA GARCÍA REYNOSO HINOJOSA GONZÁLEZ 48 years 51 years 58 years 50 years INFRASTRUCTURE AND MASS MARKET EXECUTIVE PLANNING AND BUSINESS MARKET OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DEVELOPMENT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR He was the Technology Former Consumption Market He joined ALFA in 1985, He joined ALFA in 1988, then and Operations Executive Executive Director, North then joined Alestra in 1996 joined Alestra in 1997 and has Director of Axtel from 2013 Regional Mass Market and has participated as participated as Commercial to January 2016 and before Director, Operations Director, Business Sales Director, and Marketing Director, as that he was the Director for and National Level Service Residential Business Unit well as performed in several Information Technology and Delivery Director in Axtel Director, Big and Affiliated executive Marketing, Corporate Processes. In his 25 years of since 1999. Previously, he Companies Sales Director, Sales, and Planning and Control professional experience he was the Director of Banking Sales Management and positions. has served several executive Business and Entrepreneurs Commercial Strategy positions in different in BITAL (today HSBC) and Director, Strategic Alliances Bachelor in Administrative national and international worked in Prime International Director, Human Resources Computing Systems by Instituto telecommunication, finance in the Financial Lease Planning Sub-director, Tecnológico y de Estudios and services companies. Institution. and Human Resources Superiores de Monterrey, Management Director. with a Master in Business Computer Systems Engineer Industrial Engineer by Administration specialized in by Instituto Tecnológico y Anáhuac University. Systems Industrial Engineer Marketing by the University of de Estudios Superiores de by Instituto Tecnológico y California. Monterrey and a Diploma in de Estudios Superiores de Top Management by IPADE. Monterrey, with a Master in Business Administration by the International Institute for Management Development, Lausanne, Switzerland. AXTEL 2016 19 RAÚL JOSÉ ELOY ARTURO ORTEGA IBARRA VALERIO TREVIÑO VÁZQUEZ SILVEYRA 60 years 56 years 47 years LEGAL AND REGULATORY HUMAN CAPITAL GOVERNMENT STRATEGIC EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ACCOUNTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Responsible for several areas Former Human Resources Worked as Monterrey ever since he formed part Director, Management Sales and Service Director, of Alestra in 1996, such as and Human Resources Business Sales, Service and the International Business Executive Director, Talent Government North Region, Unit and Communications; and Organizational Culture and Sales and Service Federal previously he served as AT&T Executive Director in Axtel. Government; in his 16-year Regulatory Affairs Director for He performed as President of career, he has occupied Mexico. Asociación de Ejecutivos de executive positions in Recursos Humanos (ERIAC), Corporate and Service Sales Public Accountant by the Secretary of the Board of the to the North West Region Universidad Iberoamericana, North American Resources and Business Sales Manager with studies in Political Managers Association for Axtel. He is an Advisor for Economy and Management (NARHMA) and Advisor for COPARMEX, the American by Stanford University. academic, government and Chamber of Commerce of private organizations. Nuevo León, CANIETI, CIAPEN, and CUDI. Bachelor in Business Administration by the Computer Systems Universidad Autónoma de Engineer by Universidad Nuevo León, with a Master Regiomontana with a Master in Business Administration in Business Administration by by the Instituto Tecnológico ITESM. y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. 20 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT MANAGEMENT TEAM BENEFIT PLAN COMPONENT STRATEGY ALIGNMENT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES Alignment with Meet social, environmental and economic Remuneration granted based on the Business objectives. compliance with goals by area. Strategy Base salary Attract and retain talent. Salaries are reviewed annually based on the results of business, the macroeconomic environment, salary surveys and performance. Fixed remuneraComply with the law and ensure Annual bonus, vacation bonus, grocery tion (benefits) competitiveness with respect to competition. and automobile vouchers. Reward the fulfillment of individual and Quarterly bonus plan, yearly bonus group goals; strengthen the alignment of according to accomplishment of the management team with the interest of operational and strategic goals. shareholders and ensure competitiveness with respect to competition. Variable Provide financial stability to the officer and Major medical insurance, life insurance, remuneration cope with contingencies, retain talent. medical emergency insurance, and regular medical check-ups. A ttached to our business philosophy, all those employees of the new entity, ensuring a work environwho are part of this company act based on the ment of productivity, respect to the human rights, eqhighest standards of personal and professionuity, diversity, and harmony, where conflict of interal integrity, complying with the policies, procedures, est, bribery, corruption, discrimination, and harassguidelines, and laws that sustain our operation, parment situations are avoided, defining at the same G4-56 ticipating actively in the promotion of an ethical cultime the conduct guidelines regarding our investors, ture in everything we do and complying at all times clients, creditors, suppliers, competitors, government, BUSINESS ETHICS with the applicable legislation in the places where we and authorities. have operations. The application and adherence to the principles The current Code of Ethics3 is governed under 16 set out in this document represent a right and an obliprinciples that include the behavior expected by Axtel gation for Axtel employees; therefore, each year they of our employees, suppliers and allies. must sign an acceptance and commitment letter, as In 2016, we worked in the update of this docuwell as take a course to strengthen the knowledge of ment, coupled to the change process in which we are its content. with the recent merger and always with the objective To ensure that our external contractors perform of being a company that builds its future with solid their work pursuant to law, we developed a permafundamentals. The new Code of Ethics will begin to nent inspection program to ensure that they comtake effect during the first quarter of 2017, which emply with the requirements of age (to avoid child laployees, directors, managers, leaders, area managbor) and to ensure they carry their personal protective ers, coordinators, consultants, outsourcing staff, conequipment whether inside and outside the facilities. tractors, and all that provide professional services to Axtel shall comply. 3 Axtel Code of Ethics: http://axtelcorp.mx/inversionistas/ gobierno-corporativo/codigo-de-etica The Code of Ethics establishes the principles that should guide the actions and behaviors of the AXTEL 2016 21 A RECEPTION AND ATTENTION LFA Transparency Mailbox is the complaint tool G4-41, G4-50, G4-56, G4-57, G5-58, G4-LA16, G4-SO5, G4-HR3, G4-HR12, G4-PR8 that is permanently available to employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, comOF COMPLAINTS PROCESS munity, and other stakeholders to guarantee the correct application of the Code of Ethics. Through the transparency mailbox it is possible to file 1 complaints over issues related with accounting, finance, Complaint is received at the ALFA internal control, conflict of interest, corruption or bribery, Transparency Mailbox as well as noncompliance to policies, with what we seek to promote a climate of transparency, integrity and ethics inside and outside the company. Complaints can be made anonymously if the complainant desires, and they will always be treated as confi2 dential. The means to express them are as follows: It is analyzed and assigned to the responsible areas for investigation, according to policies and procedures EMAIL buzon@alfa.com.mx ALFA TRANSPARENCY MAILBOX Sensible cases are reviewed by Internal Audit Department FREE TELEPHONE NUMBERS 01 800 265 2532 1 866 482 1957 (United States) 1 866 238 2860 (Canada) 3 WHATSAPP/SMS Investigation results +52 1 81 2353 9583 are received for review WEBSITE www.alfa.com.mx/buzon.html 4 A meeting is held The area responsible to follow-up and solve delivered to authorize closure of cases complaints is ALFA’s Internal Audit Department. In 2016 we received 204 complaints, two of which were not processed, 118 were handled and closed during 2016, and 84 are in the follow-up process. There were no complaints for corruption, violation of human rights, discrimination or violation of privacy and customer data 5 leaks. In regard to employment practices, in 2016 was Results are presentedt given solution to a labor related complaint received in o the Audit Committee 2015, and of the 106 complaints received for inappropriate treatment of employees, 48 were given solution. 22 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT COMPLAINTS RECEIVED 2016 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH POLICIES 6% 2% CONFLICTS OF INTEREST HUMAN ASSET 2% PERSONAL RELATIONS RIGHTS PRESERVATION 7% G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR7, G4-HR9, G4-SO4, G4-SO5 I n Axtel we reject any act of discrimination, child labor and forced labor, and we make sure to protect all persons with whom we interact from any abuse, coercion or threat. The tools that reinforce this position are the Code of Ethics of Axtel, the Transparency Mailbox and our Human Rights, Diversity, Inclusion, Recruitment, and Staff Selection policies. OTHER 9% Since 2011 we are signatories of the United Nations Global Compact and committed to INAPPROPRIATE 52% INAPPROPRIATE comply with its 10 principles related to Human TREATMENT OF TREATMENT OF Rights, Environmental, Labor, and Anticorruption CUSTOMERS 22% EMPLOYEES practices. AXTEL 2016 23 We promote projects and initiatives to address global trends in issues relevant to our stakeholders, while at the same time care for Axtel’s permanence in the business. G4-15 SUSTAINABILITY 24 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT OP RK E EF ER AT FI C IO F or Axtel, sustainability are all environmental, soW O L FA R IEN NA E CY L cial, economic, financial, and corporate goverW nance practices that enable us to guarantee the permanence of the company in the market, in harmony with nature and the Mexican communities in where we have presence. TAL During 2016, we performed several initiatives in INN MEN S ANDOVATION favor of sustainability and, in particular, of the conserI RO N vation of the environment. We share with our employS D CULT IGITAL E N V WA R E N E ees the ALFA Sustainability Week, in which topics reURE lated to the environment, safety, hygiene, health, and A ethics were presented. Each company of the group organizes in its facilities the event during the second week of October, and this year, Axtel participated for SOCIAL the first time. CONNECTION This edition was focused on raising awareness of biodiversity care through documentaries about unknown ecosystems in Mexico, our oceans and endanSustainability Model and Strategies gered species, as well as the construction of a more Is the graphic, visual, and synergic tool honest world through the projection of short films on that help us coordinate the ethical, the fight against corruption. Among the activities held in the year there are two innovative, social, labor, and environmental communication campaigns; one focused on the properformance of Axtel. motion and commitment towards the Sustainable Development Goals proposed by the United Nations, and the other to celebrate and inform about internationDue to the merger, we modified the foundations that al days related to health, environment, human rights, conform Axtel’s Sustainability Model, having as cenand community. tral axis the values that sustain it: Ethics, Quality and InWe actively participate in ALFA’s Environmentegrity, in order to reflect our current commitment with tal Committee and Sustainability Committee, which the sustainability of the business and our stakeholders. are comprised of representatives from each company of the Group, and who are responsible for proposSTRATEGY ing, manage and boost projects that contribute to the Axtel’s Sustainability Strategy is comprised of a generconstruction of a balanced environment and comal statement complemented with economic, social and munities, without losing sight of the objectives of the environmental matters. business. We seek contributing to a more sustainable future In addition, we are part of the Sustainability Workwith our labor and environmental practices, and by ing Group, in the field of the Environment, integrated proposing, in an honest, ethical and responsible way, by five of the 30 companies that conform the CPI Susinnovative solutions that put information and comtainability Index. munications technology within the reach of society. ECONOMIC STRATEGY SOCIAL STRATEGY ENVIRONMENTAL Our commitment is to manage, in We promote the sustainable deSTRATEGY an honest way, our technological, velopment of our society by perWe seek to reduce the negative economic and financial resourcforming actions for the benefit impacts of our operational praces to operate efficiently under a of our employees and external tices on the environment by restrict risk control and pursuant communities, providing the tools viewing our procedures, develto the legislation, allowing a sucthat allow them access to better oping new technologies and imcessful and sustainable growth of opportunities in education and proving our methods to conserve the company. health, as well as a dignified life. resources and establish a harmonious relationship with nature. AXTEL 2016 25 GLOBAL COMPACT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS W ith the intention to contribute in all areas of our concern, in Axtel we are committed to the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals, both international initiatives promoted by the United Nations. We promote the 10 Principles of the Global Compact to ensure that inside all Axtel’s facilities we respect human rights, labor rights, environmental rights, and no corruption. AREA GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Committed to international initiatives that promote sustainability, we adhered ourselves to the proEnvironment 7. Businesses should support a motion and awareness of the Sustainable Developprecautionary approach to ment Goals proposed by the United Nations Organienvironmental challenges; zation to establish plans of actions in favor of people, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote the Planet and prosperity, and that through the 17 obgreater environmental responsijectives that include 169 goals, invite signatory counbility; and tries to strengthen peace, eradicate poverty and en9. Encourage the development and sure the protection of natural resources. diffusion of environmentally As part of our responsibility as corporate citizens, friendly technologies. in Axtel we have joined with an agenda to inform our employees in a monthly basis about the 17 objectives Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against and how they can contribute to comply from the comcorruption in all its forms, inclupany and with their families. During the year, we send ding extortion and bribery. more than 25 emails, newsletters and social network communications. 26 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT F or Axtel has always been essential to know what more than 500 people who are part of our stakeholdare the issues that matter most to our stakeers, among mass and business customers, employees, holders in terms of ethics, society, environment, and academia members. The results highlighted 23 labor welfare, and relationship with the community, topics relevant to them, which were analyzed by the and which are crucial for the business, so we can straSustainability Department and taken in consideration tegically plan the direction of the company and estabfor the sustainable management of the company. lish specific objectives for each area. The previous activities were made considering the In 2016, we updated the materiality exercise perprinciples to determine the content of the report, such formed in 2015 to include questions about structural as inclusion of the stakeholders, determination of the changes in Axtel due to the merger and thus be able context of sustainability and the concept of materialito present the most important issues for this report. ty understood as a guide for reporting relevant issues. For this exercise, an online survey was applied to Y 2016 AXTEL MATERIALITY 1 3 IMPORTANT TOPICS FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS + 6 5 7 10 8 4 2 9 19 17 13 11 16 14 12 18 21 15 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 23 22 20 MATERIALITY X IMPORTANT TOPICS FOR THE BUSINESS + In Axtel we seek that sustainability goes beyond climate change, clean transportation, human rights, our operations, therefore we take care of the most imand technological innovation, among others. portant issues to make sure that they do not generate Below are the topics of greatest relevance that negative impacts in society, the economy and the enemerged from the materiality consultation prioritized vironment. In addition, to evaluate our performance by the importance of its economic, environmental and contribute to global sustainability, we participate and social impacts, and classified by their scope inside in national and international initiatives on issues of and outside the company. AXTEL 2016 27 MATERIAL TOPIC TO AXTEL THIS REPRESENTS… SCOPE X (internal) Y (external) 1 Technological Offer products and services that put within the reach of our X Y Innovation customers, community and society the tools that allow them to contribute and meet their environmental, social and economic goals. 2 Customer Offer customers the best experience in the use of our products Y satisfaction and services, serve them in their needs offering always the best solutions that will help us build an excellent reputation. 3 Sustainability Promote sustainable actions inside and outside Axtel allowing us X Y the continuity of our business and our environment. 4 Energy Reduce our energy consumption to decrease operating costs, X consumption emissions and risks related to its use. 5 Management and Search sustainable growth for the benefit of our customers, X financial situation employees, suppliers, and communities where we live, work and analysis serve. 6 Labor environment Foster an environment of respect, balance, development, and X teamwork, enabling us to a favorable performance and meet our objectives. 7 Occupational Offer clean and safe facilities to maintain the health and welfare X safety and health of our employees, improve productivity and lead the success of the company. 8 Business ethics Maintain at all times a conduct based on ethics, transparency and X Y in compliance with the legislation, supporting an anti-corruption and anti-bribery culture. 9 Environmental Comply with environmental legal requirements, prevent and X Y management minimize risks, waste management, decrease negative impacts in the operation, and promote a culture of environmental preservation. 10 GHG emissions Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) resulting from our X operations. 11 Risk analysis Ensure compliance of customers’ requirements before any X environmental, economic, communitarian contingency or any other disruptive event, focusing on the maintenance and operation of our network infrastructure, systems, products, services, and security of our employees. 28 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT MATERIAL TOPIC TO AXTEL THIS REPRESENTS… SCOPE X (internal) Y (external) 12 Digital Offer tools and products that allow our customers ensure Y responsibility the privacy and security of their data, as well as prevent cyber-attacks. 13 Customer privacy Ensure security of our customers’ data to prevent disclosure and X Y misuse of information. 14 Internet security Prevent the use of internet for cyber-bullying and facilitate X Y controls and standard of content for children. 15 Waste integral Management and proper disposal of waste according its X management classification and volume. 16 Supply chain Create added value through a more sustainable supply chain, X Y working closely with our suppliers to reduce inefficiencies and waste. 17 Digital gap Connect our services to all social sectors to be able to promote X Y reduction sustainable development. 18 Social connection Get involved and help communities with volunteer activities to Y demonstrate our commitment to the development of society. 19 Corporate Define the structure, the responsibilities and the functioning X governance of our governance bodies, as well as the principles and rules governing us. 20 Water consumption Promote the responsible use of water. X 21 Stakeholders Establish and maintain a good and reliable relationship through a X Y relationship constant and efficient communication with all our stakeholders. 22 Responsible Offer our products and services with real and reliable advertising X marketing arguments. 23 Civil organizations Dialogue and collaborate together to create strategies and X Y and associations actions that benefit society, the economy and the environment. AXTEL 2016 29 We maintain a close relationship with the people, organizations and institutions that influence or to whom we influence through the activities of our company. The relationship is based on periodic communication, with clear expectations of recognition, development, quality, service, and wellbeing, under the mechanism that best suits for each group. STAKEHOLDER ADDRESSED KEY ISSUES Employees We conducted an organizational Pulse Survey to find areas of improvement and best practices, we recognize the seniority of our employees, provide benefits through commercial agreements, promote volunteering programs, health, education, and recreation, personal safety campaigns and celebrate Family Day. Shareholders and We organize strategic plan meetings, perform external audits, as well as exercises to Investors identify Axtel potential risks. We have a solid corporate governance structure and a new Code of Ethics. Customers We train staff who attends our customers directly, based on a satisfaction model designed by Axtel. We have an array of communications, services and sales through social networks, post-sale specialized services and electronic invoice services. Suppliers We have a portal for suppliers to inform our policies and Code of Ethics. In addition, we involve them annually in an environmental and social assessment, and in a Transparency Statement. Government We collaborate with authorities in their requirements, participate in intermediate bodies and regulatory and put our information transparently to any stakeholder. G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 institutions Civil society We promote volunteer activities, some in collaboration with the civil society and organizations and others in social programs of mixed representation with government, private sector and groups communities. Competitors We participate in sectorial forums and industry chambers, constantly communicate and facilitate dialogue with our competitors. STAKEHOLDERS Media We encourage constant dialogue and have a media relations program. Community We have a volunteering program inside the company and participate in the initiatives of the Axtel Foundation. Unions We are part of joint safety and hygiene committees and sectorial meetings. We have an open and permanent communications channel, we train periodically our unionized employees and ensure they have proper health and safety conditions. Some communication mechanisms used are the company’s intranet, meetings and employee sessions, surveys, social network, advertisement, portal for suppliers, internet website, and press releases, among others. 30 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT W e cannot imagine our business without providing an excellent customer service, thereINTERACTION WITH fore, in addition to the training received by our operating and customer service staff, we have CUSTOMERS DURING 2016 lines for users to communicate with us regarding any SOCIAL NETWORK EMAIL doubt, necessity or service failure. In 2016, we main1.4% (48,409) 1.1% (38,763) tained 3,521,973 interactions with our consumers. We seek to develop customer experience as a CHAT key differentiator for the business, thereby in 2016 6.7% (235,800) we integrated an innovative tool to our operating model: Right Now. Right Now, from Oracle, unifies the experience across all communication channels (website, social network and contact centers), allowing stronger relations, make more efficient the interaction with customers TOTAL and improve resolution rates. This tool has three objec3,521,973 tives: have a knowledge base for Axtel’s customer service and internal use; accelerate and establish a life cycle of information that allows it to be consistent, effecTELEPHONE tive and precise; and achieve addressing incidents from 90.8% (3,199,001) the different channels provided. The use of this tool has allowed us to improve efficiency in service, facilitating all who maintain communication with customers to follow-up, obtain updated surveys to acknowledge our customers’ opinions and information and offer homologated and focused anneeds to improve our services. The aspects we evaluate G4-PR5 swers to the customer needs. are related with situations involving presale, sale, serAnother way to stay in touch with customers in all vice delivery, customer service, failure service, use, funcCUSTOMER SATISFACTION the markets we serve is the application of satisfaction tionality, invoicing, payments, and collections. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX OBJECTIVES 2016 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY RESULTS 2016 OBJECTIVE *Only includes the Mass Market with FTTx technology 64 55 44 47 43 39 CORPORATE MARKET MEDIUM BUSINESSES MARKET MASS FTTX* MARKET Among the changes resulting from the merger beTo make this measurement, we use the tool Net Protween Alestra and Axtel, adjustments were made and mote Score (NPS), with which we measure and follow-up contributed to improve customers’ experience. One of the satisfaction level of our customers to establish imthem was the modification of the indicator to present provement actions. In 2016, we saw reflected a decrease the results of the surveys that are applied during the in this indicator and it is attributable mainly to the mergyear to our customers; therefore, the scale differs in reer of both companies, situation in which we are working lation to the information presented in previous years. with concrete actions to improve the results. AXTEL 2016 31 G4-12, G4-EC9, G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-LA15, G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR10, G4-HR11, G4-SO9, G4-SO10 I n Axtel we recognize that having a supply chain in which 3,668 were national and 292 international. line with sustainability ensures that products and In addition, during October of this year, we proservices arrive on time and with quality to the divermoted with our suppliers the signature of the Transsity of clients that prefer us, seeking to generate value parency Statement, document that establishes in fair circumstances for each of our suppliers. the behavior of who provide us any product or serOur relationship with suppliers is based on the Supvice should be abide to the regulations with honesplier Selection Policy, as well as in the different evalty, avoid conflicts of interest and corruption acts. The uations made in warehouses and in the field regardstatement emphasizes that, to report situations or ining the materials acquired. During 2016, we worked appropriate conducts of any party, the ALFA Transparin the review and homologation of Alestra and Axtel’s ency Mailbox shall be used. supplier base to avoid duplicities, as well as repetition of processes. In 2016, the budget for suppliers was 35,466 mil4 For payments in dollars to suppliers, the applicable exchange rate taken was $18.50 Mexican pesos per $1.00 USD. lion pesos 4 in transactions with 3,930 suppliers, of AXTEL SUPPLIERS “In the Supply Chain, we work constantly INTERNATIONAL with our suppliers to have an optimal 7% commercial relationship, and we invite them to participate in our sustainability SUPPLIERS initiatives for a mutual commitment to improve the environment and the community conditions where we TOTAL interact”, 3,930 Gabriela Pérez Campos, Supply Chain. NATIONAL 93% 32 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT We seek to create a digital culture through constant innovation of products and services that create a knowledgeable society that, at the same time, contributes to reduce the digital gap and connects with society. INNOVATION AND DIGITAL CULTURE AXTEL 2016 33 OUR 2020 COMMITMENT PRIORITY WHAT DO WE EXPECT? WHAT WE ARE DOING APPROACHES TO ACHIEVE IT? Information • Generate value through technology and innovation. • Developing applications that Technologies • Strengthen the capabilities of our customers. strengthen our customer’s’ business • Encourage creativity and collaboration. processes. Information • Maintain certifications. • Protecting activities and information Security • Promote and standardize throughout the company the culture from customers under the risk band. of information security. • Increase awareness of cyber risks within the company. Innovation • Develop a culture of innovation in the company. • Developing a formal innovation • Seek the creation of value through new business models. program. • Promote open innovation and intrapreneurship. • We have the NAVE Accelerator, the • Analyze the future megatrends to detect opportunities and Innsight Platform and the Innovation develop initiatives. Hub. • Foster the relationship with customers through the process of • Exploring future scenarios and innovation. capabilities. • Working on technological prototypes. I n a company like Axtel there are priority and critiproducts and services we offer. cal issues to address, being Information Technology The Information and Communications Technology one of them; an inherent element of our business industry lives in permanent evolution, therefore, evis to be at the forefront of new market trends to meet er since we began operations, innovation has been in the needs of our customers and guarantee the securiour DNA, however, it was in 2007 when we formally ty of the information in all operations. began with the Axtel Innovation Program, a methDue to the relevance of these issues, we incorpoodological process that has been a success thanks rated them in one organizational area to make our to the participation and learning of all employees. internal processes more efficient and improve the Its objective is to generate value for the company, AXTEL INNOVATION MODEL INNOVATION CULTURE PROCESSES FORESIGHT IMPROVEMENT STRATEGY INNOVATION CUSTOMERS OPERATION LEARNING D ES I G N T H I N K I N G AWARDS AND ORGANIZATIONAL RECOGNITION STRUCTURE PROGRAM INNOVATION STRATEGY LEADERSHIP 34 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT We have our customers, employees, and all who participate consistently externally. worked on four The processes of the organizations should support elements of and transmit the value of innovation and link it to busiour Innovation ness strategies. To manage it, we rely on an InnovaModel: tion Model that is the basis of Axtel Innovation Program, and in which all employees participate. FORESIGHT Through Foresight we standardize future scenarios identifying the most relevant technological trends to generate opportunities that allow us to innovate. This methodology aims to visualize and anticipate change, prepare the organization and develop the necessary capabilities to create value. Using it, we were able to prioritize different scenarios relating with the technological trends, such as Mobility, Big Data, Internet of Things, Social Networks, and Artificial Intelligence. It also allows us to define priorities in the different Innovation initiatives, identify development opportunities as part of the business strategy and detect, INNSIGHT jointly with customers, initiatives arising from the opTo promote continuous improvement, we launched eration of their businesses. Axtel Synergies Challenge, which seeks to make companies more efficient through voluntary participation of our employees, who are invited to form INNOVATION HUB multidisciplinary teams to propose ideas focused on We have an enabler called Innovation Hub that has four areas: expense and cost savings, investment savan area of more than 900 m2 inside the Innovation ings, increase income, and processes that impact our and Technology Campus of Monterrey (ITC), where customers. there are two centers in one same place: Business Once the ideas are consolidated, they are pubInnovation, which motivates creativity, collaboralished in the Innsight Platform, one of the main techtion and the generation of ideas; and Technology Innological tools for innovation in the world adopted by novation, where ideas become prototypes and soluour company and that is offered to the Mexican martions that will be part of the portfolio. During 2016, ket. In this platform, a team of expert evaluators, proInnovation Circles were offered to more than 1,000 moters, the innovation committee, and the continuemployees to create a culture, bring the best practicous improvement subcommittee, review the proposes and promote their participation in the proposal of als to determine their implementation. new ideas. In 2016, we achieved the participation of 30.8 This space received more than 90 visits from cuspercent (1,668) of our employees that have access tomers, foundations and academic institutions, into this platform, who proposed ideas, commented or cluding the participation of Axtel in the Semana I of voted for more than 500 initiatives focused on topTec Monterrey, during which 100 students from difics like: relationship and customer experiences, operferent cities used the innovation processes to develop ations, efficiencies, and new services. technological initiatives. As part of the program to the outside, the Hub gave room for the development of Innovation as a NAVE ACCELERATOR Service offering, giving advice and consulting to straWe also encourage open innovation, connecting with tegic customers and providing tools, platforms and organizations and institutions different from ours to knowledge to integrate the innovation processes in obtain inputs from abroad or contribute in the genertheir companies. ation of ideas for our customers. Our most important project in this area is the NAVE Accelerator, the first and only acceleration AXTEL 2016 35 • Pollstr: Platform to detect the satisfaction level of The Continuous users through the monitoring of emotions online Improvement or by telephone. Program • Synapbox: Software development with the caobtained the pacity to detect emotions through micro facial following savings gestures. in 2016: • PRYSMEX: Intelligent industrial safety helmet with sensors to measure in real time the location and QUANTIFIED possible risks of accidents. BENEFIT 5 • GoWi: Platform to increase the access and use of Internet through segmented advertising and with free Wi-Fi access points at places of affluence and public transport. • Tok3n: Platform that provides an additional layer 60.4 of security to passwords for existing applications, when starting a session, to user actions and for MILLION PESOS sensible data. (3.16 million dollars) These six projects entered an Acceleration Program during 16 weeks with a budget of 830,000 peANNUALIZED sos to work with customers, partners, experts, high BENEFIT 6 level mentors, and members of Axtel management “Innovation has been essential to our team in different modules: financial, technologiorganization, starting with the ability to adapt to change and transform, cal, commercial, and operative to strengthen their company. This NAVE edition concluded with three companies 110.8 continuing with the creation of a selected to collaborate in a commercial alliance: Goculture where failure and finding a Wi, Synapbox and PRYSMEX. MILLION PESOS quick solution is an option, but with the NAVE will continue to promote the development of (5.75 million feature that the need to iterate and add new generations according its mission based on the dollars) value is the constant”, following benefits: Ana Catalina Garza Orezza, • Promote entrepreneurship, innovation and develoStrategic Innovation. pment of startups in Mexico. • Boost entrepreneurial projects with our experience in Information and Communications Technology, innovation and infrastructure. program for Information and Communications Tech• Develop new lines of business, new markets and nology (ICT) businesses, designed and powered by a strengthen our portfolio with new products or Mexican Corporation. services. This open innovation initiative of Axtel, launched in April 2016, is oriented to identify and develop enAll Axtel employees are involved in the Innovatrepreneurial projects with great potential, related tion Program, sharing ideas, working with entrepreto megatrends that our company has chosen to proneurs in NAVE or developing initiatives of change or mote: Big Data, Mobility, Internet of Things, Social improvement as part of our values and organizationNetworks, Virtualization, and Security. al culture. NAVE received more than 400 projects from Mexico, United States and Central America, 17 of which were preselected and evaluated in NAVE Camp, an event held in June at the Axtel Innovation Hub where six winners were selected: 5 The quantified benefit corresponds to the savings reflected in the year’s operation. • Zentli: Hardware and software development crea6 The annualized benefit considers the savings that the initiatives of ted to detect plagues and other anomalies in the the program will generate during a year. crop fields with drones. 36 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT We seek labor welfare in our employees, caring for their health and safety, inside and outside of the company, providing training and a good place to work where they can develop and improve their quality of life. 5. WORK WELFARE AXTEL 2016 37 OUR 2020 COMMITMENT PRIORITY WHAT DO WE EXPECT? WHAT ARE WE DOING TO ACHIEVE IT? APPROACHES Working • Have a working environment that • Conducting surveys to listen employees. environment contributes to the execution of • Preparing action plans that promote an adequate working the business strategy and with a environment. comprehensive development of • Providing mechanisms so that leaders and key employees employees. influence positively the teams in the working environment. Training and • Facilitate intellectual, emotional • Evaluating and promoting the development of skills based on development and professional development the competencies required by the organization through several of human capital so that it can development programs. contribute fully to achieve the • Facilitating the integration of working teams. objectives of the business. • Assessing the competencies of the staff for its development and/or • Improve employees’ quality of internal promotion. life. Health and • Bring experiences focused to the • Carrying out agreements with educational, health and business family balance integral development of employees institutions. and their families. • Offering low-cost consultations in our facilities, as well as an • Contribute to family-work balance Education and Health Fair. and quality of life. • Facilitating talks about medical and psychological topics, yoga classes, and football tournaments. Safety and • Safeguard the physical integrity of • Integrating and coordinating Safety and Hygiene Commissions. hygiene all employees exposed to working • Preparing safety diagnostics in working centers. risks, contributing to productivity, • Issuing recommendations to eliminate and reduce unsafe efficiency and operative continuity. conditions. • Mitigate and eliminate work risks, • Performing technical specifications and evaluating in the field the accidents, administrative sanctions use of protective equipment in operative areas. or non-compliance situations. • Promoting preventive awareness campaigns for employees exposed to greater working risks. • Designing civil protection internal programs, immediate response units, and staff training in emergency plans. I n Axtel we provide personal and professional deour efficiency and therefore productivity. velopment to our employees, looking for workspacThis approval implied the definition and clarity of es conducive of performing with excellence, while roles, functions and responsibilities for each area, inat the same time encouraging a work-family balance, cluding the compliance of policies and staff managein order to contribute to improve their quality of life. ment procedures, comprehensive schemes, talent Due to the merger, 2016 was a year of transformanagement, training and development, labor relamation for Axtel in which we established a definition tions, and social responsibility. process and management change to adopt an orgaAll of this generated efficiency in costs and elimnizational culture based on the best for both compainated redundant functions, therefore we were able nies. In this process, we focused on the promotion of to maximize the efficiency and productivity of workthe qualities of leaders at all organizational levels, as ing teams, as well as retain the best talent in the well, we focused in the construction of an open attiorganization. tude to new forms of work and continuous improveCurrently, we have a unique opportunity to implement, to drive the evolution of the company, increase ment new systems and improve the previous ones by 38 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT promoting the transformation processes according to “Change will be constant during 2017, Axtel’s new needs. For 2017, the Human Capital deseeking to transform the company with partment will seek to consolidate the new culture in passion, commitment and consistency in our company to attract and maintain the required talall the actions we take to consolidate ent, pointing to an organization oriented to our stakethe new culture of Axtel”, holders, where we have started with our employees improving communication, creating a climate of trust José Eloy Valerio Treviño, and forging the new values of the company. Human Capital Executive Director. EMPLOYEES BY AGE AND GENDER 1,322 18 30 years G4-9, G4-10, G4-11, G4-EC3, G4-EC6, G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3, G4-LA9, G4-LA12 596 2,397 31 -40 years 914 1,512 41 50 years 423 345 51 y más years 75 OUR EMPLOYEES “I am very enthusiastic that the c 7,584 employees make our workforce, 5,576 are men ompany supports the continuous and 2,008 are women. Of that total, 7,073 are perpreparation and development of its manent employees and 511 are temporal. employees. Being considered for the We have a benefit plan that includes, among other things, double the year-end bonus established by law, Supervisor to Coach Program has been major medical expenses insurance, life insurance, very valuable, as from the first day I savings account box, maternity and paternity leave, have noticed how it has contributed and coverage for disability or invalidity according to in a positive way in my role as an Axtel law. Employees in the lower wage range of the orgaemployee, as well as in my personal nization receive 360 percent more than the minimum life”, wage established by law in Mexico. In 2016, 181 paternity and 121 maternity leaves José Manuel Contreras Alderete, were granted to Axtel employees, of which 91 percent Agile Business Management Table. returned to their job at the end of their license, and 73 percent remained working in the company. AXTEL 2016 39 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES WITH CONTRACT TYPE AND GENDER A PERMANENT CONTRACT BY WORKDAY TYPE AND GENDER TEMPORAL EMPLOYEES PART TIME 345 44 TOTAL TOTAL 5,576 5,231 FULL TIME 5,187 PERMANENT CONTRACT TEMPORAL EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 5,231 PART TIME 166 58 TOTAL TOTAL 2,008 1,842 PERMANENT FULL TIME CONTRACT 1,784 EMPLOYEES 1,842 COLABORADORES CONTRATO PERMANENTE TOTAL 7,073 TIEMPO COMPLETO TOTAL 6,971 COLABORADORES EVENTUALES TOTAL 511 TIEMPO PARCIAL TOTAL 102 TOTAL 7,584 TOTAL 7,073 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY AFFILIATION TYPE, WORKDAY, REGION, AND GENDER Unionized Without Union Región Full time Part time Full time TOTAL Men Women Men Women Men Women Central 417 0 0 0 1,311 484 2,212 México North 315 0 15 24 2,727 1,238 4,319 West 188 0 40 42 563 220 1,053 TOTAL 920 0 55 66 4,601 1,942 7,584 40 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER 1,728 Central Mexico 484 3,057 North 1,262 791 West 262 NEW HIRES BY REGION, ROTATION RATE BY REGION, GENDER AND AGE GENDER AND AGE Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage Region Age Men Women of Men of Women Region Age Men Women of Men of Women 18-30 279 123 69.40% 30.60% 18-30 324 244 57.04% 42.96% 31-40 141 53 72.68% 27.32% 31-40 309 154 66.74% 33.26% North North 41-50 56 38 59.57% 40.43% 41-50 98 96 50.52% 49.48% 50 + 37 8 82.22% 17.78% 50 + 8 6 57.14% 42.86% 18-30 145 66 68.72% 31.28% 18-30 242 98 71.18% 28.82% 31-40 57 19 75.00% 25.00% 31-40 137 86 61.43% 38.57% West West 41-50 25 10 71.43% 28.57% 41-50 62 64 49.21% 50.79% 50 + 8 2 80% 20.00% 50 + 4 2 66.67% 33.33% 18-30 110 31 78.01% 21.99% 18-30 268 76 77.91% 22.09% South 31-40 95 38 71.43% 28.57% South 31-40 205 79 72.18% 27.82% Central 41-50 67 16 80.72% 19.28% Central 41-50 72 42 63.16% 36.84% 50 + 18 4 81.82% 18.18% 50 + 4 6 40.00% 60.00% TOTAL 1,038 408 71.78% 28.22% TOTAL 1,733 953 64.52% 35.48% MANAGEMENT COMPOSITION BY AGE AND GENDER Executive Directors Directors Managers Age TOTAL Men Women Men Women Men Women 1830 years 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 31-40 years 0 0 1 1 22 3 27 41-50 years 4 0 33 3 112 14 166 50 + 7 0 16 0 27 3 53 TOTAL 11 0 50 4 161 21 247 AXTEL 2016 41 MANAGERS PLACE communication, teamwork, personal development, OF ORIGIN recruitment and selection, and executive capabilities. We offer a Comprehensive Employee Agenda OTHER FOREIGN CITIES 2% with a series of cultural, educational and social events 7% for our employees and their families. In 2016, we celebrated Family Day with the participation of 18,190 people, and events such as football tournaments, executive forums and runner clubs, which altogether attended more than 2,300 employees. “I love working in Axtel, it has been my CITIES WITH AXTEL second home, where I love what I do and I PRESENCE 91% am also recognized. Is the company where my professional growth is manifested in the well-being of my family. W e know that having trained professional Over the years, my career has been G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11 employees is essential for us to be an innovative company, always at the foresupplemented with my academic growth front, and capable of meeting our customers’ needs, and thus better opportunities. I feel knowing that it is essential for the daily growth and very fortunate of growing together with development. Axtel”, In 2016, we offered different training alternaMaría Guadalupe Librado Merinos, tives for our employees, whether in person or online, about leadership, coaching, personal finances, Indicators and Metrics, Service Delivery. EMPLOYEES DEVELOPMENT AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS 10.15 9.27 8.89 8.99 8.21 8.31 7.28 6.81 6.69 6.00 6.22 5.77 4.00 3.32 1.75 2.00 1.50 ANALYST ASSISTANT DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES MANAGERS AREA MIDDLE UNIONIZED TOTAL DIRECTOR LEADERS MANAGERS AVERAGE 6.81 1.75 4.00 1.50 9.07 6.24 8.42 7.17 3.30 8.33 42 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT HEALTH PROMOTION FOR EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES 2016 (PARTICIPANTS PER CAMPAIGN) TOTAL 7,541 2,100 3,400 630 460 327 364 260 VACCINATION INFORMATION FAMILY HEALTH SEVERAL HEALTH CONFERENCES NUTRITION AND MEDICAL PROGRAMS CAMPAIGNS PREVENTION SERVICES FOR WOMEN G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA8 LABOR ACCIDENTS, LOST DAYS AND FATAL ACCIDENTS 2016 120 SAFETY AND HYGIENE LABOR ACCIDENTS I t is important to guarantee the integrity of our em2,719 ployees in the performance of their work, as well as their health. To ensure this, we have a series of measures such as inspections and audits, training, personal protective equipment in activities that reDAYS LOST DUE TO LABOR RISKS quire it, and 79 Health and Safety committees that represent the totality of our employees. In Industrial Safety area, our accidents record was reduced by 4 percent versus the previous year and is below the industry average according to the statistics report of the Department of Labor and Social Insur1 FATAL VICTIMS FOR LABOR ACCIDENTS ance (Secretaría de Trabajo y Previsión Social, STPS), while the severity indicator of accidents was 12.68 percent less than the national average registered in the same government agency. In 2016, we recorded no cases of occupational disease, however, 120 employees had labor accidents, 22.7 AVERAGE DAYS LOST FOR LABOR ACCIDENTS thus resulting in an average of 22.7 days lost by accidents and one fatal victim. AXTEL 2016 43 We connect with the community through social investment, peace and security, as well as through the search and generation of opportunities that promote jointly social development. SOCIAL CONNECTION 44 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT W e are convinced that we should get ininvestments through the provision of financial volved and participate in the solution resources. of social problems that go beyond our We place special emphasis on programs that business, supporting those who are part of the support causes aligned with human and commucommunity in where we operate, live and where nity development, and environment. Specificalour employees are part. ly, we are interested in pointing out projects for Therefore, since more than 10 years ago young people aged between 13 and 17 who are we created the Axtel Foundation, to generate at social risk by the environment in which they synergies with institutions and perform social live. INSTITUTO ANDARES SER Y CRECER NUEVO AMANECER Offers human development It provides residence and Maximize the potential of services for 500 students training for independent 29 kids and adolescents in with cerebral palsy and living to 24 adults with adverse economic conditions. their families. Provides child disabilities and supports psychology, family therapy, them in their labor communication, language, integration in order to and emotional development. increase their quality of life. 2016 joint results with Axtel 2016 joint results with Axtel 2016 joint results with Axtel • 100 percent of students • The total number of • Some obtained a better improved their behavioral beneficiaries was trained in academic achievement. G4-SO1 skills. activities related to safety • Levels of discipline and • 77 percent managed to and home. compliance were elevated. AXTEL FOUNDATION establish a functional • Monthly medical follow-up • Personal improvement and formal communication. and nutritional advice was future projects for high • 49 percent progressed in given. school and university were their abilities and stages of • Beneficiaries’ families were promoted. development. trained in disability issues. • 45 percent improved their visual perception, listening, visual memory, and auditory skills. • 45 percent improved their learning processes. • 50 percent of students advanced in mathematical thinking. • We will seek to involve 13 students in the regular education system. AXTEL 2016 45 In 2016, we supported seven organizations from the civil society that benefited more than 4,600 people. Thanks to this, we received the recognition Social Investment, granted by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI), by allocating 1 percent of our profits before taxes to these causes. ALIANZA EDUCATIVA POTENCIA JOVEN RED SUMARSE CASA PATERNA CIUDADANA POR NUEVO LEÓN LA GRAN FAMILIA NUEVO LEÓN (AECNL) Axtel is an ally of the Virtuous Works to decrease social risk Operates and gives continuity to Provides education and Circle program, in which conditions of 316 kids and initiatives of high social impact support for children and infrastructure and equipment youths of the community of in six localities in Nuevo Leon (La youths at social risks. in schools are improved in San Gilberto, Santa Catarina, Ermita, Riberas de Capellanía, Nuevo Leon. Nuevo León. Lázaro Cárdenas, Ciudad CROC, 2016 joint results with Axtel Constituyentes de Querétaro 1° • The institution has 77 2016 joint results with Axtel 2016 joint results with Axtel y 3er sector, Xochimilco, Cima direct beneficiaries • 3 schools, 1,238 students • Resiliency and parental de las Mitras, and Lomas de la and nearly 231 indirect and 53 primary, secondary skills in parents were Fama). beneficiaries. and high school teachers developed to reduce the • School transportation were benefited. risk factors for children. 2016 joint results with Axtel was provided to kids and • All schools are in the • Kids and youths were • Since the beginning of the youths. third phase of the reinserted to the school program, seven years ago, • Guaranteed maintenance program, which have system. more than 2,500 persons, of internal services. achieved promoting self• Capabilities for decisioncomprising 19 community management from the making and non-violent groups have been benefited. school community. conflict management were • We worked in the generated. development of capabilities for citizens of these areas to generate solutions to the problems of their environment. • Joining 34 multi-sectorial actors and the signature of a collaboration agreement with the government of the United States, through its cooperation agency USAID was achieved. • The model is being replicated in Coahuila and in Guanajuato is in progress. 46 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT DONATION IN CONTACT CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING CENTER SERVICES In 2016 we invited our employees, through the Axtel A ligned to the Axtel mission “enable organizations Foundation, to contribute with their time and knowledge to be more productive and bring people to imin two corporate volunteering programs: prove their quality of life”, in 2016 we launched • Life Purpose is an initiative in partnership with Fundathe contest Donation in Contact Center Services that ofción Jomar, aimed at young people to find and carry fers our Call Centers services to civil society organizations out their life’s purpose. We had the participation of 12 to support winning institutions in events, projects, update volunteers from Axtel that provided 96 hours to beneof its database or surveys application. The purpose is to fit 2,980 high school students from “CONALEP Rangel provide access to telephone services that help them genFrías”, in the municipality of Guadalupe, N.L. erate greater efficiency in their operation. • Mentor Friend is a program provided by Alianza EduThe results of the announcement were unveiled in cativa Ciudadana de Nuevo León, were we participaMay 2016, in which nine organizations were awardted with nine employees, who taught Spanish and math classes to support 38 students from the primary “I have participated as volunteer in different activities, school “1 de Mayo” in Santa Catarina, N.L., which added 200 hours of volunteer work. sharing time and bringing knowledge to different groups in the community, looking for their benefit, In addition to these initiatives, the workshop Forwhich has allowed me to learn and grow as a person, mación de Embajadores de la Compasión para el Serviand it has left me experiences and infinite satisfaction”, cio Social, taught by Escuela de la Compasión. Its purpose Miguel Ángel Puebla Díaz, was to raise awareness and put into practice, among Auditing. our volunteer employees, complementary values that help them enhance their sensitivity towards actions of solidarity. ed: Fundación Tarahumara José A. Llaguno, A.B.P., YoAs part of ALFA, our volunteers also participated in the lia Niñas de la Calle, A.C., Fundación Juconi, A.C., Funprogram School for Parents, an initiative that is part of dación Comunitaria del Bajío, A.C., Paz Es, A.B.P., Cárithe Educational Project ALFA Foundation. Volunteers talk tas de Monterrey, A.B.P., Asociación Mexicana para la Auto the parents of high school students about the differdición Ayúdanos a Oír, A.C., Abogados con Cámara, A.C., ent problems their children face, seeking to encourage and Instituto Nuevo Amanecer, A.B.P. the development of a healthy and comprehensive family that helps improve their psychological well-being and quality of life. AXTEL 2016 47 We promote an environmental awareness that is reflected in the responsible consumption of resources, energy efficiency in the processes, the proper handling of waste, and a reduction in emissions to lessen our impacts and help slow down climate change. G4-EN27 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS 48 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT OUR 2020 COMMITMENT PRIORITY WHAT DO WE EXPECT? WHAT ARE WE DOING TO ACHIEVE IT? APPROACHES Energy • Reduce 2 percent of the electrical energy • Generating energy efficiency initiatives. consumption. • Replacing obsolete equipment with more efficient • Reduce 5 percent of the fleet fuel technologies. consumption. • Improving the performance of our vehicle fleet. Emissions • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our • Having supply of renewable energy (aeolian, geothermal, operations by 10 percent. and solar) • Generating energy from a system of efficient cogeneration. • Having the best technologies of the moment. Waste • Recycle 10 percent of waste generated. • Promoting a nationwide recycling program. Water • Reduce 2 percent of the water consumed in • Measuring water consumption to identify areas for our buildings. improvement and implement cost-saving measures. Environmental • Create environmental awareness in our • Promoting information related to environmental issues culture stakeholders. internally and externally. I n Axtel we work in favor of the construction of enIn addition, we engage in sessions of the Environvironmental awareness that contributes to the demental Committee that are held periodically in ALFA, cision-making inside the company, focused on imwhere issues related to legislation and regulations are proving energy efficiency, saving in water consumpreviewed, as well as the initiatives we promote in favor tion, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reduce of the environment. the generation of waste, while at the same time seekIn 2016, the workshop Environmental Leadership ing to pass it on to all our stakeholders. for Competitiveness was held, where 21 employees These topics are supported by the Environmenfrom different areas and some of our suppliers partictal Policy that governs us, and which is aligned to our ipated in developing 14 eco-efficiency projects. ImpleSustainability Strategy that contains the guidelines menting these initiatives will generate annual savings to reduce and prevent negative environmental imapproximated by 7.2 million pesos as a result of reducpact of our activities. Three specific policies emerge tions in the consumption of energy in 4.5 million kWh from it: Waste and Residues, Energy Savings and Waand 403 tons of waste, which translates to 2,219 tons ter Consumption. of CO2e not emitted. AXTEL 2016 49 DIRECT CONSUMPTION OF FUEL BY SOURCE TYPE LITERS GJ 28,163.00 1,071.46 DIESEL 5,777,417.88 190,799.80 FLEET AND GENERATORS GASOLINE (MOBILE SOURCES) 7,053.24 257.16 LP GAS TOTAL 5,812,634.12 192,128.42 79,563.00 3,026.97 DIESEL 5,538.00 182.89 GENERATORS OF GASOLINE ELECTRICITY (FIXED SOURCES) 52,600.00 1,917.78 LP GAS TOTAL 137,701.00 5,127.64 TYPE MWh GJ 4,675.00 16,830.00 COGENERATION NATURAL GAS G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN7 TOTAL 4,675.00 16,830.00 The data was obtained from the electricity and fuel invoices, as well as from the fuel purchase orders of the generators. The energy from the cogeneration system is recorded independently. E nergy is a topic relevant to INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE the sustainability of our business, since it is a key resource to provide the services that we ofTYPE MWH GJ ENERGY USE fer to our customers. Hence the commitment we have to reduce 124,632.82 448.678.14 our energy consumption. CONVENTIONAL To make more efficient the use of electricity and contribute to the reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emis28,251.46 101,705.24 sions (GHG), we base our activiAEOLIAN ELECTRICITY ties in the Energy Savings Policy, which describes the expected ac1,074.47 3,868.10 tions to ensure it. GEOTHERMAL TOTAL 153,958.75 554,251.49 50 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT T TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION he Querétaro Data Center is rated as the most efficient worldwide according to ICREA (InternationGENERATING al Computer Room Experts Association), since it PLANTS COGENERATION 1% (5,128 GJ) 2% (16,830 GJ) has the best practices in power and cooling, resulting in a balance between operating efficiency and environmental commitment. Also, our Data Centers in Apodaca and Querétaro were certified on CEEDA (Certified Energy-Efficient Datacenter Award) for its commitment to energy efficiency, sustainability and with underlying performance. One of the actions we made in 2016 was the renewal of obsolete power plants by a more efficient natural gasbased, allowing us to reduce 30 percent of energy con768,337.54 GIGA JOULES sumption and 50 percent fuel usage. We have improved the performance of the vehicle fleet with which we give service to our clients, and implemented a program where units are controlled by GPS to monitor the geographical boundaries and proper drivFLEET ELECTRICITY ing of the operator, allowing managing fuel consumption 22% (192,128 GJ) 75% (554,251 GJ) efficiently. ENERGY INTENSITY: 0.74 GJ/Subscriber 1,033,000 768,337 GJ SUBSCRIBERS TOTAL CONSUMPTION PUE ANNUAL AVERAGE OF OUR “In the Querétaro Data Center we have DATA CENTERS: a Cogeneration System to provide us Power Usage Effectiveness or PUE, is a metric defined electric energy and use geothermal by The Green Grid to measure energy efficiency of the energy in other internal processes that Data Centers. This indicator compares the total enerhelp us be efficient and sustainable by gy consumed by its operation with the amount actuareducing the carbon footprint. These lly reaching the equipment. characteristics made us candidates to the Energy Efficiency certification (CEEDA) and 1.9 MONTERREY 1.9 APODACA to the Green Seal (ICREA)”, Luis Eduardo Arizpe Aldape, Critical Mission Center Operations Manager. 1.9 GUADALAJARA 2.1 QUERÉTARO NOTE: The closest the PUE value is to 1, the more efficient is the process (the value of 1 means 100 percent efficiency). Studies show that the majority of the Data Centers have PUE values close to 3.0. AXTEL 2016 51 T he consumption of electrical energy and fuels • We report our inventory of GHG emissions and the G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN30 used to maintain efficiency in our operations actions we carry out to reduce them to the internagenerate Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG), tional initiative Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in therefore we implemented initiatives to minimize enthe category of climate change and suppliers. vironmental impacts and voluntarily participate in difWe measure our direct emissions as Scope 1; inferent programs to demonstrate our efforts: direct emissions due to electric energy consumption • We collaborate with Programa GEI México (Mexias Scope 2; and other indirect emissions as Scope 3. co’s GHG Program) for the third consecutive year, where we submit a GHG Protocol Report to the DeSCOPE 1 7 partment of Natural Resources and the EnvironOur Data Center in Querétaro has a system of effiment (SEMARNAT) with the measurement of the cient cogeneration based on natural gas that supgreenhouse gas emissions of our company. plies 67 percent of the electric energy required to op• We present our fleet performance to the Clean erate. With this system, we have avoided the emission Transportation Program of the SEMARNAT and of 1,299 tons of CO2, allowing us to have lower emisSCT. sion factors than conventional energy. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (GHG) SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS BY SOURCE TYPE LITERS CO2 CH4 N2O Ton CO2e 28,163.00 75.51 0.00 0.00 75.56 DIESEL 5,777,417.88 13,446.11 0.50 0.27 13,532.13 FLEET GASOLINE (MOBILE SOURCES) 7,053.24 10.79 0.00 0.00 11.36 LP GAS TOTAL 5,812,634.12 13,532.41 0.51 0.27 13,619.05 79,563.00 212.95 0.00 0.00 213.65 DIESEL 5,538.00 12.58 0.00 0.00 12.63 ELECTRICITY GASOLINE GENERATORS (FIXED SOURCE) 52,600.00 84.78 0.00 0.00 84.85 LP GAS TOTAL 137,701.00 310.31 0.00 0.00 311.12 TYPE MWh CO2 CH4 N2O Ton CO2e 4.68 944.09 0.02 0.00 945.00 COGENERATION NATURAL GAS TOTAL 4.68 944.09 0.02 0.00 945.00 7 Scope 1: emissions from sources controlled by the organization. 52 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS BY SOURCE TYPE MWh Ton CO2e SCOPE 2 8 Pursuant to the commitment of being a more 124,632.89 57,081.83 sustainable company, from 159 Axtel buildings, 18 are provided with aeolian energy and 69 with CONVENTIONAL geothermal energy. This represents nearly 20 percent of the total energy consumed, in other words, 13,595 tons of CO2e that were not emitted 28,251.46 12,882.66* during 2016. ELECTRICITY AEOLIAN 1,074.47 489.96* During 2016, we emitted a GEOTHERMAL total of 71,957 tons of CO2e TOTAL 153,958.75 57,081.83 (before emissions intensity). * Tons CO2e avoided. ENERGETIC INTENSITY: • For each GJ of electric energy consu• For each subscriber 0.07 tons of CO2e, med, 0.094 tons of CO2e/GJ were emiwere emitted, considering a total of tted, considering 71,957 tons of CO2e 71,957 tons of CO2e and 1,033,000 of electric consumption (conventional subscribers of all markets. and cogeneration) and 68,337 GJ in our operations. SCOPE 3 9 In 2016, Axtel’s executives performed 2,201 na• To obtain Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions we use tional and international working trips, accumulata tool to calculate transportation and statioing 3,056,122 kilometers, which represents indirect nary combustion emissions obtained from The emissions for 548 tons of CO2e. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, with reference to the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report for global warTo reduce the number of trips and kilometers travelled ming potentials. (http://www.ghgprotocol.org/ that generate GHG emissions, we have strengthened calculation-tools/all-tools). the use of videoconferencing, decreasing transfers be• For the Scope 2 emissions, we use the electrical tween offices and cities. emission factor published by SEMARNAT in the Federal Official Gazette. (http://www.semarnat.gob. mx/sites/default/files/documentos/cicc/aviso_ factor_de_emision_electrico_2015.pdf). 8 Scope 2: emissions by energy acquired from another organization. 9 Scope 3: emissions resulting from activities of the organization from sources not controlled or possessed. AXTEL 2016 53 G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10, G4-EN22 O ur activity does not require large WATER CONSUMPTION consumption of water, however, given the reality of the problems surrounding this resource, we promote its conservation for future generations. We foster a culture for the care and WATER SUPPLY use through our Efficient Use of WaBY SOURCES ter Policy, which contains the applicable guidelines to all employees. The reported consumption is limited to the use of sanitary services. UNDERGROUND 27,492 m3 TOTAL 111,090 m3 MUNICIPAL SUPPLY 83,598 m3 54 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT MATERIALS USED BY TYPE G4-EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN23, G4-EN25, G4-EN28 AND VOLUME 1.12 WOOD AND W ORGANICS e rely on the Official Mexican Standards, current environmental legislation in Mex1.68 GLASS ico, in our Waste Management and Dis4.80 PLASTIC posal Policy, and in its respective procedure to ensure the separation and proper disposal of hazard22.69 ALUMINUM AND METALS ous and non-hazardous waste, as well as reduce its generation. Our processes generate waste that comes from the packaging of products, materials used in our operations, and the ones generated in the worksites; WASTE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL which we separate and send to its proper disposal. With the Recycling Program that takes place in the cities where we have more presence, we recycled 65.9 tons of wood, paper, carton, glass, metals, and plastic. This represents 45 percent of waste generat35.57 PAPER AND PAPERBOARD ed in our working centers in Monterrey, Guadalajara, Mexico City, and Querétaro. On the other hand, we export 22.5 tons of electronic equipment and 42.5 of batteries with specialized suppliers for the reuse of its components. We have the National Recovery of FTTx Equipment Program, an initiative focused on establishing strategies and actions that allow increasing to 90 percent the number of FTTx equipment recovered, providing the same quality of service, while saving its acquisition and contributing to reduce our negative impact in the environment. With this initiative, we seek to give more life to these instruments, to help reduce the use of materials such as plastic and metal, as well as energy and natural resources such as petroleum. In 2016, we retrieved 136,068 devices before they completed their life cyTOTAL 65.86 cle and reused 102,97610.In total, since the program Tons started in 2015, we have recovered 263,656 devices. The cities that participated in the National Recovery of FTTx Equipment Program during 2016 were Aguascalientes, Mexico City, Ciudad Juarez, Guadalainvoices or 30.6 tons of sheets not sent to print. jara, León, Monterrey, Puebla, Querétaro, San Luis PoAt the end of 2016, we implemented a tool named tosí, and Toluca. Time of Arrival, which digitally handles service reWe sent to confinement 19.2 tons of fiber optic, quests to the phones of our installers, scheduling vismaterial that represents one of the greatest challengits automatically. With this initiative, we removed es to reduce our direct impact to the environment. 700,000 printed orders, equivalent to 18 tons of paIn the same way that we have done since 2011, per, which represented 70 percent of all prints of the we work on reducing our consumption of paper proService Delivery department. moting among our customers the option of electronic invoicing. To this day, 61 percent of our invoicing is 10 The equipment reused in 2016 correspond to devices recovered since 2015, year in which we initiated the program. made in this format, which is equivalent to 3,810,890 AXTEL 2016 55 We seek operational efficiency using the best corporate governance practices to ensure proper financial management that drives the economic growth of Axtel, always providing the best service that our customers may find in the market. G4-8, G4-9 OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY T oday in Axtel we are larger, with the greatest coverage in the country and direct attention in more sites. We have a robust offer, much more reliable and secure, for tools, services and Information and Communications Technology (ICT) solutions that are at the forefront of the industry. The Axtel portfolio, as well as the way in which we operate to generate value to our customers, is the result of a selection of the best practices in Axtel and Alestra. We attend different customers, with different needs, and that belong to different markets, served by us in four areas: Business Market, Government Market, IT Market, and Mass Market. 56 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT ENTERPRISE MARKET AND GOVERNMENT MARKET OUR 2020 COMMITMENT AREA PRIORITY WHAT DO WE EXPECT? WHAT ARE WE DOING TO ACHIEVE IT APPROACHES Ensure a unique • Integrate our operation and promote • Homologating our practices, processes and experience for our the best practices in both organizations operations, ensuring a comprehensive, agile and customers with the highest to maintain a high level of customer safe service. standards of operation. satisfaction. Continue with an • Maintain and exceed our acquisition • Capitalizing on the best practices and competitive accelerated growth pace objectives. advantages, achieving a stronger infrastructure, through the promotion of • Strengthen our technological offer with supply and human capital. technological adoption in cutting-edge solutions. • Promoting the skills of employees and training them the market. for the fulfillment of the objectives. Develop the working • Train all employees to acknowledge and • Working in synergy with Human Capital and other team professionally. obtain all certifications that ensure their areas of the organization. leadership inside the business market. • Offering training to our staff about the product and services portfolio. BUSINESS MARKET INCOME ENTERPRISE MARKET (IN MILLION PESOS) AND GOVERNMENT MARKET BUSINESS GOVERNMENT We serve the segments of medium, big and corporate-sized businesses through the development of ICT solutions for different requirements and mar$10,808 ket needs. To date, we provide service to more than $2,024 18,000 companies nationwide. Through our technology, we help companies to $6,763 $7,025 $6,834 $8,784 be more efficient and competitive, in both, its com$2,268 $2,243 $2,592 munication and other business processes. Through our managed services offering, companies can ded$4,495 $4,782 icate to their goals, while they trust us their ICT $4,242 infrastructure. From this Commercial Department, we are in charge of converting into reliable and efficient solu2013 2014 2015 2016 tions all the latest technological trends in order to promote companies in Mexico to compete in the global market. Among the most outstanding achievements of the year is the compliance of the Business Unit Contribution (BUC), by retaining, and renegotiating contracts and their growth. In addition, during 2016 we launched a new AXTEL 2016 57 collaboration service in the cloud that offers increased “We launched to the market a new productivity, efficiency and cost savings. Through a collaborative service in the Cloud, where unique offer in its type in Mexico, we offer our customers the tools to work remotely or virtually in a safe we have the challenge to maintain way, optimizing time and resources, as well as contribtechnological forefront and be sure our uting to the reduction of transfer of people, positively customers have the best solutions that impacting the environment. help and contribute to the efficiency of As of 2016, the Government Market was sepatheir products”, rated from the Business Market to attend in a more Ricardo J. Hinojosa González, personalized way our customers in the government sector. Business Market Executive Director. Alestra SummIT Since 2010, Alestra SummIT has been recognized as the most important technology forum in Mexico and a platform for technology solutions that transform the way of doing business. The forum, unique in its kind, is performed in five as well as global technological leaders like: Arbor Netof the most important cities of Mexico, where differworks, Avaya, Blue Coat, Cisco, EMC, Fortinet, Hewlett ent decision-makers, leaders, businessmen, and enPackard, Huawei, NetApp, SAP, and SUSE. trepreneurs in the Information Technology (IT) field Alestra SummIT 2016 brought more than 4,000 assist. attendees to the technological offer of our company, During 2016, Querétaro, Guadalajara, Mexico oriented to the business and government market as City, Monterrey, and Tijuana were part of this experiCloud, Collaboration, Security, and Big Data, solutions ence, where Vito Di Bari, considered one of the three that generate benefit in businesses and organizations, most important futurists in the world and “European at the same time drive their growth potential, and preguru of innovation” by New York Times participated, pare them for the trend Internet of Things. 58 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT IT MARKET OUR 2020 COMMITMENT AREA WHAT DO WE EXPECT? WHAT ARE WE DOING TO ACHIEVE IT? PRIORITY APPROACHES Technological • Provide Information Technology services • Providing a consultative sale that adds value. partner that contribute to a more efficient and pro• Bringing businesses to new technological trends for their ductive operation of our customers, enproper evaluation and adoption. couraging the use of technology as an ele• Offering support in the definition and monitoring of operament of value in the transformation of its ting indicators. businesses. Delivery of • Efficiently implement the IT projects and/or • Implementing methodologies and processes that ensure excellence services to become a strategic partner for proper follow-up to the implementation of services. services our customers. • Attending the process from the design of the solutions until its transition to the operation. • Monitoring delivery indicators to ensure compliance with defined service levels. • Training and certifying employees to guarantee the technical specialization. Compliance • Ensure the correct operation of services • Evolving the operating model by integrating the industry’s with operation offered, provide the required business best practices. indicators continuity and comply with committed • Implementing tools that support the monitoring and maindicators. nagement processes to perform a proper operation of services. Services • Provide the Mexican business market wi• Increasing commercial and design coverage through IT coverage th IT services, ensuring commercial and adconsultants. visory coverage, as well as design, delivery • Creating processes of interaction between foreign offices and efficient operation. and centralized equipment for delivery and operation, to provide close attention to customers. IT MARKET INCOME IT MARKET (IN MILLION PESOS) In 2016, we created this area to cover strategy, sales, BUSINESS GOVERNMENT design, service delivery, and operation, with which we seek to enhance the presence of Axtel among our more than 18,000 business customers that rely on us $791.45 as its main technology partner. $359.19 We serve corporate customers, multinational companies and SMEs, with special insight in manufacturing, finance, services, logistics, retail, health, and education, to which we provide innovative solutions, $432.26 supported by the new technological trends and promoting its adoption through managed services. We offer solutions based on data centers, cloud services, system integration and application management 2016 AXTEL 2016 59 solutions, as well as a wide range of security services “With the merger, we combined all that protect the periphery of the companies up to Telecom strengths with all IT capabilities their applications and Internet portals. During the year, sales exceeded 214 million pesos to offer comprehensive solutions and created alliances with strategic partners like Miand with added value that generate crosoft, Open Xchange, Hewlett Packard Enterprise important market differentiators”, and CompuSoluciones to offer different cloud and Adrián Cuadros Gutiérrez, email services. IT Commercial Executive Director. In addition, during 2016 we materialized the integration of companies like GTEL, S&C and Estratel, taking full advantage of values contributing to business from the point of view of technological capabilities, services, processes, and human resources. 60 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT MASS MARKET OUR 2020 COMMITMENT AREA WHAT DO WE EXPECT? WHAT ARE WE DOING TO ACHIEVE IT? PRIORITY APPROACHES Customer • Improve customers’ experience as a key • Transforming our services to maintain product quality. service differentiator for the business. • Optimizing sales efforts. • Integrating tools to the cloud for a 360º management of the traditional and digital service channels like Oracle Right Now, as well as for the operation of field teams that provide installations and repairs Oracle TOA (Time of Arrival). Increase • Grow the fiber optic business and reduce • Defining greater coverage areas to implement new sale operational disconnections. strategies. efficiency Development • Penetrate in the businesses markets that • Launching Internet solution packages for 200 megabytes, of the business invoice less than 10,000 pesos per month plus telephone lines, SIP trunks or virtual switchboard, model for in telecommunication services. as well as value added services (cloud backup, virtual businesses assistance, security and audio conference). • Establishing differentiated service channels to offer specialized attention. MASS MARKET INCOME MASS MARKET (IN MILLION PESOS) Through this Address we serve more than 440,000 FTTx WIRELESS home customers, as well as small and micro businesses, to which, during 2016, we offered solution packages at a very attractive cost. $3,523 $3,572 $3,316 Consequently from the merge, we incorporated Al$3,130 $2,497 $2,134 estra’s customer base to Axtel services – such as Ax$1,645 $1,170 tel TV, with 124,000 services and fiber optic links with 229,000 Internet accounts – with which we reached an annualized growth of 18 percent in revenue and $1,959 a national penetration of 17 percent within the cov$1,672 erage areas. $1,439 To improve customer experience, we implement$1,027 ed tools that allow us to optimize operating costs. One of them is Rightnow, which offers a platform to track 2013 2014 2015 2016 the history of each customer; another one is Time of Arrival, used by our field technicians to coordinate services more effectively; all of this is translated into better service. AXTEL 2016 61 Axtel services portfolio relies on technology trends that offer options available to all markets, facilitating access to technology to those who do not have large resources and decreasing the digital gap in Mexico. Through our two brands we develop solutions for four markets, which we group into the following families of services: INDUSTRY CLOUD SYSTEMS COLLABORATION SECURITY CONNECTIVITY AND DATA INTEGRATION CENTERS AND APPLICATION MANAGEMENT INDUSTRY efficiency, communication, and cooling. These cenS ervices aimed to specific market segments withters are certified by ICREA (International Computer in the public and private sectors in order to adRoom Experts Association), Uptime Institute, CEED, dress them comprehensively: and the highest international standards such as TIA• Digital Government. Integrates communi942, ICREA-Std-132, BICSI-002, ASHRAE, The Green cation and computer systems to support the Grid Guidelines, and NFPA. effectiveness of the different levels of public Alestra Data Center in Querétaro was recognized administration. by ICREA as the best in the world, thanks to its robust • Digital Education. Provides resources to strengand redundant infrastructure, as well as for the best then the learning process. practices in energy and cooling for a balance between • Digital Health. Offers solutions to hospitals and operational efficiency and environmental commitclinics related to security within the hospital, stament. Is the first Data Center in the industry to obtain ff communication and digitization of medical the Governability Certification at ALFA level, as well as records. to be the first one in Latin America to have an Energy Cogeneration System. AXTEL SOLUTIONS CLOUD AND DATA CENTERS • Sperto Centers. They are centers designed to proWe put at the disposal of our customers in the busivide clients of the Business and Government Marness market cutting-edge technology through the acket the experience of our solutions to help them cess of the Cloud, which includes applications, techanalyze their needs and assess the way in which nical support and other solutions that bring unlimitwe can promote transformation in their businesed capabilities, universal accessibility, flexibility, and ses. The centers are located in Monterrey, Queseveral savings. rétaro and Mexico City, and have been recogniAll these solutions are backed by security and availzed by the Association of Briefing Program Manaability of our Data Centers, which are safe and closed gers for having world-class marketing, marketing spaces equipped with a robust and redundant electroinnovation and excellence in 2010, 2011, 2012 mechanical infrastructure, to guarantee that the opand 2014. erations of our customers are not affected by the conThrough the Sperto Centers we have provided ditions of the environment. more than 40,000 experiences through demonstraWe have six world-class Data Centers located in tions, talks and tours in seven years of operation. Each Monterrey: three centers with 1,115 m2, Apodacenter shares the same objective: challenge and exca (1,885 m2), Querétaro (3,250 m2) and Guadalaperiment the most recent technological solutions dejara (105 m2), distributed in more than 6,000 m2 of manded by businesses and how they can transform white floor with the best practices in security, energy their businesses. 62 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT • Holistic Operation Center. Is the center that interact and collaborate more effectively and effibrings the best practices, processes, tools, and ciently from any place and with any device, facilitating experts of our Network Operating Center (NOC), voice channel management, data, video, networks, Security Operating Center (SOC), Managed Sersystems, and business applications. vices Operating Center (MSNOC), IT Services MaWe offer videoconference services, telepresence, nagement Center (CASTI), Help Desk and Systems instant messaging, voice, mobility, and Contact CenSupport (HD), and Business Service Center (CAE). ter applications, which are provided through the Cloud so that our customers don’t have to invest in specialSYSTEM INTEGRATION AND ized equipment. APPLICATION MANAGEMENT System integration practices deliver solutions tailored SECURITY to requirements, communicating infrastructure, comThrough this portfolio we provide solutions to proputers, storage, back-ups, monitoring, and managetect computer equipment, networks and systems ment, in a holistic model in which we become the onagainst threats or hacking through the provision, oply point of contact for their customers. eration, management, and monitoring of all infraWithin this practice, we include mission-critical structure and security of information that the compasolutions such as DRP (Disaster Recovery Plan), high ny requires. availability platforms, private and hybrid clouds, and Some associated services are the Analysis of Vulmigration of environment, among others. nerability, through which we offer a diagnosis to deApplication Management Solutions provide a spetermine the level of exposure of the critical infrastruccialized management of IT services accompanied by a ture of a network in the event of attacks that affect complete operational and management model based its operation. Other services are Security Consulting, on the best practices in the industry. With this soluManaged Services for Detection and Prevention of Intion, our customers delegate the operation of their truders, Managed Services for Web and Firewall Filtercritical applications for which we provide outsourcing ing designed for companies that require web access services in operations, monitoring, incident managecontrol, comprehensive protection of multiple layers, ment, problems and changes in business applications, and security all in one. such as an ERP, CRM, data bases, among others. CONNECTIVITY COLLABORATION We have a broad portfolio for connectivity solutions With this type of solutions we seek the integration of networks that allow business customers connect of several communication tools that allow people to via links point to point or point to multipoint, their AXTEL 2016 63 different national or international offices. “I like the area of Corporate Sales b In addition, we offer VPN, Ethernet and Private ecause I enjoy working in projects with Line services, with safe transmission of voice informacustomers to help them solve their tion, data or video simultaneously, and protect the Inrequirements; also because I am part of ternet gateway against cyber threats through mechathe most important technology company nisms called Clean Pipes. For the residential market we offer Internet up to in Mexico and this helps me accomplish 200 symmetric high-speed megabytes (same speed my personal goals. It is an area where my for uploading and downloading) and Triple Play position implies challenges, dynamism, (voice, broadband and television), as well as Internet innovation, teamwork, respect, and in the modality of Charge per Use, which offers high integrity to my colleagues and clients”, capacity links with rates depending on the use that Julia Echeverría Moreno, customers demand. We have a portfolio of managed solutions for netCorporate Sales. works, such as Managed Routers, LAN Switches and Managed WLAN. With these solutions, Axtel customers receive benefits through a monthly rent of the equipment: design, implementation, support, mainNational Repair Center (CNR) that serves 24 hours tenance, operation, and equipment management. 365 days a year all technical requirements of our resIn the SMEs (micro, small and medium companies) idential customers; and the Work Center (WC), which market, we help businesses professionalize their Inforis the center of operations for Field technicians and mation and Communications Technology platforms to Repairs (I&R). make them more productive, positioning us as their We have services such as local telephone lines, intechnology partner. ternational long distance, intelligent network, 800 We have three Operative Centers: Video Operaservice with national or international coverage, and tion Center (VOC), which is the place of reception and prepaid and postpaid telephone cards. We also have monitoring of video signals that integrate the paid digital telephone lines, IP lines and fixed-mobile virtuprogramming television services offered by Axtel; the al private networks, among others. 64 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FOR THE MASS MARKET • Axtel X-tremo: high speed internet and telephone service. • Axtel TV: paid interactive television. • Axtel Mi Negocio: lines, trunks and virtual switch packages focused to small businesses. • Axtel Acceso Universal: Internet and telephone service at an accessible price. • Axtel Planes: packages of landline with calls included. • Axtel Smart Home & Business: alarm, video, home and business automation service. • Axtel Lifesaver: Cloud computer back-ups. • Axtel Experto: online advice and technical assistance for computers, smartphones and other devices. • Specialized Support: field technical assistance service for home and businesses. • Axtel Conmigo: application that allows you to carry on your smartphone your home or business telephone line. • Membresía Axtel: home and business assistance service. • Soluciones Axtel: added value services for the telephone line. • WiFi Xtremo: public high-speed WiFi. AXTEL 2016 65 We take care of the company’s finances by properly managing our expenses, attracting new opportunities and propelling the growth of the markets served. T he merger of Axtel and Alestra has presented a generated 22 percent and 15 percent of the revenue, unique opportunity to design the company we respectively. want to see in the future, with major transforThe mass market achieved a relevant growth in mation projects, new platforms, systems and equipthe fiber optic segment by reaching 234,000 Interment, to satisfy the needs of our business in the folnet accounts and 124,000 television services, 15 perG4-9, G4-EC1 lowing years. cent more compared to 2015, representing an annuTo achieve this integration successfully we peralized growth of 17 percent in revenues for this segformed several synergies required for the operation ment. As well, we obtained 1,033,000 Income Genand which come from new opportunities, system and erating Units11 (UGIs) at the end of December 2016. FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE network changes that generate greater efficiencies. We invested 3,186 million pesos in projects to We dedicated 1,000 million pesos in EBITDA synserve business customers, expand our Data Centers ergies, which more than 900 million were exercised and improve our IT infrastructure and metropolitan in 2016 through 83 initiatives. For the first quarter circuits, as well as to increase the last mile access for of 2017, this phase of the process will conclude, six customers of the mass market. In addition, to expand months before planned, and once finished, a new our services coverage, we acquired 49 percent of Esphase will begin. tratel12, a company specialized in IT for business and By integrating these initiatives to the operation, government customers. we supplemented and adopted the best practices of Axtel is part of the Altan Consortium, which in each of the companies, becoming a stronger suppliNovember 2016 the SCT awarded the Red Comparer to the market, since having a combined infrastructida project to install and operate a new generation ture allows us to offer a more robust, reliable and safe wholesale mobile network in the 700 MHz band to portfolio of services, and with more coverage in the provide resale services to operators. With this allocaCountry. tion, Axtel is in a favorable competitive position to use This represented a growth in our cash flow operand provide mobile services and infrastructure to the ations by registering 3,673 million pesos, 14 percent Red Compartida. more than the previous year. The cash flow of the opAll of the above makes Axtel a more relevant playeration without considering the extraordinary exer in the industry, with more comprehensive and stapenses related to the merger was 4,511 million peble processes and with high levels of performance sos, 28 percent more than the previous year. The busithat we will continue to improve in the future. ness segment had an important growth of more than 100 percent of its revenue versus 2015, which rep11 UGIs: the sum of voice lines, broadband Internet subscribers and video subscribers that generate frequent revenue for the company. resents 63 percent of the company’s total revenue. 12 Alestra acquired the 51 percent of Estratel in 2015. On the other hand, the mass and government market 66 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT RELEVANT DATA RESULTS (MILLION PESOS) 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 13,937 10,150 10,597 10,286 (Loss) Operating income (209) 589 (500) 2,687 (Loss) Net Income (3,599) (1,732) (1,919) 2,408 FINANCIAL SITUATION (MILLION PESOS) Total assets 32,176 22,199 20,985 19,883 Total liabilities 29,775 18,326 15,279 12,355 Stockholders’ equity 2,400 3,873 5,706 7,528 EBITDA (MILLION PESOS) EBITDA* 3,673 3,208 2,935 2,793 INDICATORS EBITDA / Revenues 26.4% 31.6% 27.6% 27.2% (Loss) Operating income / Revenues (1.5%) 5.8% (4.7%) 26.1% (Loss) Net income / Revenues (25.8%) (17.1%) (18.1%) 23.4% Interest coverage 2.0 2.7 3.4 3.2 Liabilities / Stockholders’ equity 12.4 4.7 2.7 1.6 Total Staff 7,584 7,001 6,900 6,791 * The EBITDA without extraordinary expenses related with the merger was 4,511 million pesos and 3,532 million pesos for the years 2016 and 2015 respectively. The EBITDA of 2013 does not include the extraordinary revenue of 3,112 million pesos related to the sale of telecommunication towers. The results of Alestra are incorporated as of February 15, 2016. QUARTERLY EBITDA QUARTERLY SALES QUARTERLY FTTx (MILLION PESOS) (MILLION PESOS) BROADBAND SUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS) UGIs $1,265 $3,836 $3,783 234 225 $1,139 $3,478 213 204 $910 $2,840 $359 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q AXTEL 2016 67 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE REPORTED TO THE MEXICAN FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (MILLION MEXICAN PESOS) CONCEPTO 2016 2015 2014 2013 Income 13,937 10,150 10,597 10,286 Economic Value Interest income 24 37 17 16 Generated (EVG) Other income 0 3,112 EVG 13,961 10,187 10,614 13,414 Operating costs (2,748) (1,766) (3,097) (2,985) Acquired services (421) (416) (400) (398) (Outsourcing) Social benefits (Payroll and (3,226) (1,939) (1,839) (1,760) Distributed Derivatives) Economic Value Paid taxes (234) (86) (52) (75) (DEV) Fund payment to suppliers (712) (1,165) (720) (756) Community investments (1) (12) (13) (10) (Donations) Other expenses (838) (437) (88) (79) DEV (8,180) (5,821) (6,209) (6,063) Retained EVG + DEV 5,781 4,366 4,405 7,351 Economic Value YEARLY EBITDA YEARLY SALES FTTx BROADBAND (MILLION PESOS) (MILLION PESOS) SUBSCRIBERS (THOUSANDS) UGIs $3,673 $13,937 234 $3,208 195 $2,793 $2,935 $10,286 $10,597 $10,150 172 143 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 * The EBITDA without considering extraordinary expenses related to the merger is 4,511 million pesos for 2016 and 3,512 million pesos for 2015. 68 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT OPERATING RESULTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND DECEMBER 31, 2015 The figures include Alestra as of February 15, 2016. However, to explain variations, reference is made to pro forMANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS ON THE COMPANY’S ma figures for 2015, which include Alestra’s results as of February 15, 2015. These Pro forma figures are located in section 3.2) Financial Information by Line of Business. REVENUES. For the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2016, total revenues were Ps. 13,937 million, compared to Ps. 10,150 million in the same period of 2015, an increase of Ps. 3,787 million or 37% derived from the merger with Alestra as of February 15, 2016. Revenues for 2016 decreased Ps. 1,665 million or 11% compared to pro forma 2015 revenues of Ps. 15,602 million, mainly explained by a 38% drop in government sector revenues. The revenues of the Company come from the following segments: ENTERPRISE. For the year 2016, revenues amounted to Ps. 8,784 million, compared to Ps. 4,242 million in 2015, an increase of 107% resulting from the merger with Alestra. Revenues in 2016 were 3% lower than Ps. 9,042 million in 2015 pro forma derived from a 5% decline in Telecom services, partially offset by a 21% increase in IT. Enterprise Telecom. For the year 2016, revenues amounted to Ps. 7,980 million, compared to Ps. 4,139 million in 2015, a 93% increase derived from the merger with Alestra. Revenues in 2016 fell 5% compared to Ps. 8,376 million in 2015 pro forma due to reductions in Voice and Managed Networks revenues. Voice revenues decreased 16% due to a decrease in fixed to mobile revenues and 800s number and an 83% decrease in revenues from international traffic, or traffic generated outside Mexico, explained by volume OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL SITUATION and price reduction. Data and Internet revenues increased 12% due to the growing demand for dedicated internet from existing Axtel and Alestra customers. Revenues from Managed Networks decreased 7% due to the sale of extraordinary equipment that was not repeated in 2016. Enterprise IT. For the year 2016, revenues from the IT segment totaled Ps. 804 million, compared to Ps. 103 million in 2015, a 680% increase from the merger with Alestra. Revenues in 2016 increased 21% compared to Ps. 667 million in 2015 pro forma, driven by growth in hosting services in our data center, cloud services and systems integration. GOVERNMENT. Revenues for 2016 totaled Ps. 2,024 million, compared to Ps. 2,592 million in 2015, a decrease of 22%. Revenues in 2016 decreased 38% compared to Ps. 3,244 million in pro forma 2015. Telecom Government. For the year 2016, revenues amounted to Ps. 923 million, compared to Ps. 1,728 million in 2015, a decrease of 47%. Revenues in 2016 were 51% lower than Ps. 1,881 million in 2015 pro forma mainly due to reductions in revenues from Managed Networks. Voice revenues decreased 34% due to a decrease in fixed to mobile revenues and 800s number. Data and Internet revenues increased 14% due to growing demand for dedicated internet. Revenues from Managed Networks decreased 69% due to the sale of extraordinary equipment to provide managed services in 2015 that were not replicated in 2016. IT Government. For the year 2016, revenues from the IT segment totaled Ps. 1,101 million, compared to Ps. 864 million in 2015, a 28% increase from the merger with Alestra. Revenues in 2016 were 19% lower than the Ps. 1,362 million in proforma 2015, due to a 32% decrease in system integration due to a strong level of equipment sales in 2015 that was not repeated in 2016 and 50% in managed applications related to lower services demanded by a customer in our contact center. AXTEL 2016 69 MASS MARKET. Revenues decreased 6% to Ps. 3,130 million in 2016 compared to Ps. 3,316 million in 2015. FTTx. Income from FTTx totaled Ps. 1,959 million in 2016, compared to Ps. 1,672 million in 2015, representing an increase of 17% in line with the 19% increase in customers. Voice revenues rose 10% due to a 23% increase in monthly income mitigated by a 63% drop in fixed to mobile revenues due to a decrease in prices and minutes. Internet and video revenues rose 16% and 33% respectively, due to the increase in subscribers. Wireless Technologies. Income totaled Ps. 1,170 million in 2016, compared to Ps. 1,645 million in 2015, a decrease of 29% compared to a reduction of 35% in customers. MASS MARKET OPERATING METRICS CUSTOMERS. As of December 31, 2016, the number of customers reached 440 thousand, a decrease of 74 thousand during the year due to the continuous fall of customers with wireless technologies. The ARPU for FTTx and Wireless clients was Ps. 802 and Ps. 414, respectively, at the end of 2016. RGUS. As of December 31, 2016, RGUs (Revenue Generating Units) amounted to 1,033 thousand. During 2016, there were 73 thousand net disconnections, compared with 148 thousand net disconnections in 2015, due to higher additions of FTTx in 2016. Voice RGUs (Lines in Service). As of December 31, 2016, the lines in service totaled 508 thousand, made up of 281 thousand of the FTTx segment and 226 thousand of the wireless segment. During 2016 the lines decreased 60 thousand compared to 99 thousand the previous year, due to the continuous decline of wireless subscribers. Broadband RGUs (Subscribers). Broadband subscribers decreased 7% year-on-year by a total of 401 thousand as of December 31, 2016. During 2016, broadband subscribers decreased by 29 thousand compared to 64 thousand in the same period of 2015 due to continuous disconnections of wireless subscribers and the increase in net additions in FTTx during the year. As of December 31, 2016, total wireless subscribers reached 167 thousand, compared to 235 thousand a year ago, while subscribers of AXTEL X-tremo, or FTTx, rose to 234 thousand compared to 195 thousand against year. Broadband penetration rose from 76% in December 2015 to 79% in December 2016. Video RGU’s (Subscribers). As of December 31, 2016, video subscribers reached 124 thousand compared to 109 thousand the previous year, an increase of 15%. Video penetration within the FTTx subscriber base was 53% at the end of 2016. COST OF REVENUES, EXPENSES, EBITDA AND OPERATING PROFIT COST OF REVENUES. For the year 2016, cost of sales represented Ps. 2,748 million, an increase of 19% or Ps. 448 million, compared to Ps. 2,300 million in 2015 from the merger with Alestra. The cost in 2016 represented a decrease of 18% compared to Ps. 3,368 million in 2015 pro forma mainly due to reductions in costs of the Government sector in Telecom and IT. Telecom costs declined 22% mainly due to a drop in managed networks associated with the lower revenue level. IT costs dropped 19% due mainly to the drop in system integration costs associated with the lower level of revenue. Mass Market costs decreased 3% due to a reduction in wireless voice segment costs, mitigated by an increase in cost of the FTTx video segment. GROSS PROFIT. Gross profit is defined as income minus cost of sales. For the year 2016, gross profit represented Ps. 11,190 million, 43% higher than in 2015. Gross profit in 2016 decreased 9% compared to Ps. 12,234 70 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT million in 2015 pro forma, due to the sharp fall in revenues and, consequently, the contribution of voice Telecom services and managed networks of the Government sector. The gross profit margin rose from 78.4% to 80.3% year-on-year, mainly due to the increase in IT and managed network projects margins and the reduction of extraordinary projects, such as the sale of equipment, which have lower margins. OPERATING EXPENSES. For the year 2016, operating expenses amounted to Ps. 6,732 million, 41% higher than the Ps. 4,740 million recorded in 2015 from the merger. Operating expenses in 2016 decreased 1% compared to Ps. 6,812 million in 2015 pro forma, due to decreases in personnel, outsourcing and advertising derived from the synergies of the merger, mitigated by the increase in maintenance expenses due in part to the depreciation of the peso against the dollar. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES). For the year 2016, other expenses represented Ps. 785 million, compared to other income of Ps. 97 million in 2015 or Ps. 162 million in pro forma 2015. These figures include extraordinary expenses related to the merger of Ps. 838 million for 2016 and Ps. 304 million by 2015. The 2015 figure includes other revenues that include the agreement with América Móvil during the first quarter of 2015 to terminate several interconnection disputes, partially mitigated by other expenses that include the agreement with Telefónica to terminate disagreements related to interconnection rates for the 2005-2011 period. EBITDA. The EBITDA defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and impairment of assets amounted to Ps. 3,673 million, 14% higher compared to Ps. 3,208 million in 2015. The EBITDA in 2016 registered a fall of 34% compared to Ps. 5,583 million in pro forma 2015. Excluding merger-related expenses, the operating flow was Ps. 4,511 million for 2016 and Ps. 5,887 million for pro forma 2015, a decrease of 23%, as a result of the 11% decrease in revenues, thus a 9% decrease in the contribution margin and a higher ratio of expenses to sales in 2016. Additionally, the operating flow in 2015 was benefited by other extraordinary income mentioned in the previous point. DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS. The depreciation and amortization for 2016 was Ps. 3,882 million, of Ps. 2,619 million in 2015. Pro forma, it increased Ps. 365 million or 10%, which corresponds mainly to the amortization of 2016 for Ps. 220 million of new intangible assets resulting from an agreement related to the merger and an increase of Ps. 48 million in impairment of fixed assets. OPERATING INCOME (LOSS). For 2016, the Company recorded an operating loss of Ps. 209 million compared to an operating income of Ps. 589 million. Pro forma, operating income was Ps. 2,066 million in 2015, representing a decrease of Ps. 2,275 million due to lower contribution margin, higher expenses related to the merger and higher depreciation and amortization levels in 2016. COMPREHENSIVE FINANCIAL RESULT, NET The integral cost of financing reached Ps. 4,856 million in 2016, compared to a cost of Ps. 2,695 million in 2015. Pro forma was Ps. 3,386 million in 2015. The increase is explained by higher interest expense due to the premium paid for the prepayment of Notes during the first quarter of 2016 and by the greater exchange loss during 2016. TAXES During 2016 the income tax was a benefit of Ps. 1,472 million, compared to Ps. 373 million the previous year. Pro forma, the income tax was a benefit of Ps. 154 million in 2015. This variation is mainly due to an increase in the deferred tax benefit in 2016, due to the tax loss generated in the year, mainly due to negative effects on the exchange rate and financial expenses of the Company. AXTEL 2016 71 NET INCOME (LOSS) The Company recorded a net loss of Ps. 3,599 million in 2016, compared to a net loss of Ps. 1,732 million recorded in 2015. Pro forma net loss increased Ps. 2,433 million, the above mentioned variations, considering the financial cost, explain this loss. CAPITAL INVESTMENTS For the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2016, capital investment amounted to Ps. 4,065 million, compared to Ps. 2,011 million in 2015. Pro forma investment increased by 17% in 2016 compared to Ps. 3,479 million in 2015, due to the impact of the increase in the exchange rate of investments in dollars. FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015. ASSETS As of December 31, 2016, total assets totaled Ps. 32,176 million compared to Ps. 22,199 million as of December 31, 2015, an increase of Ps. 9,976 million, or 45%, due to the merger of Axtel and Alestra in February 2016. Cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2016, cash and cash equivalents totaled Ps. 1,447 million compared to Ps. 2,575 million as of December 31, 2015, a decrease of Ps. 1,128 million, or 44%, derived from an EBITDA that was not sufficient to cover investment and financial expenses. Accounts Receivable. As of December 31, 2016, accounts receivable amounted to Ps. 3,129 million compared to Ps. 2,455 million as of December 31, 2015, an increase of Ps. 674 million or 27%. Property, systems and equipment, net. As of December 31, 2016, property, plant and equipment, net, were Ps. 19,619 million compared to Ps. 13,216 million as of December 31, 2015, an increase of Ps. 6,403 million or 48% derived from the merger with Alestra. Property, plant and equipment without deducting accumulated depreciation amounted to Ps. 63,634 million and Ps. 43,657 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. LIABILITIES As of December 31, 2016, total liabilities amounted to Ps. 29,775 million compared to Ps. 18,326 million as of December 31, 2015, an increase of Ps. 11,450 million or 62%, mainly due to the inclusion of Alestra’s debt and the 17% depreciation of the Mexican peso, which increases the amount in pesos of the dollar-denominated debt. Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses. As of December 31, 2016, the accounts payable and accumulated liabilities amounted to Ps. 3,183 million compared to Ps. 2,677 million as of December 31, 2015, an increase of Ps. 506 million, or 19%. Debt. As of December 31, 2016, total debt increased Ps. 8,046 million compared to 2015, mainly explained by (i) an increase of Ps. 14,863 million related to the new syndicated loan, which refinanced Ps. 12,053 million Notes due 2017, 2019 and 2020, (ii) an increase of Ps. 3,621 million related to Alestra’s debt and (iii) an increase of Ps. 2,414 million (accounting) caused by the 17% depreciation of the Mexican peso. 72 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY As of December 31, 2016, the Company’s stockholders’ equity totaled Ps. 2,400 million compared to Ps. 3,873 million as of December 31, 2015, a decrease of Ps. 1,473 million, or 38%. The capital stock was recorded in Ps. 10,362 million as of December 31, 2016 and Ps. 6,862 million as of December 31, 2015, an increase caused by the merger between Axtel and Alestra in February 2016. CASH FLOW As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, cash flow from operating activities was Ps. 3,898 million and Ps. 3,120 million, respectively. At December 31, 2016, the cash flow (used in) generated by investment activities was Ps. (3,527) million, compared to Ps. (1,925) million in the same period of 2015. The amounts above reflect investments in property, plant and equipment for the amounts of Ps. 3,105 million and Ps. 2,011 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2016, the cash flow (used in) generated by financing activities was Ps. (1,675) million, compared to Ps. (1,565) million in 2015. At December 31, 2016, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and the Company’s interest coverage ratio stood at 4.5x and 2.1x, respectively. Excluding the merger-related expenses mentioned above, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and the Company’s interest coverage ratio stood at 3.8x and 2.5x, respectively. As of December 31, 2015, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and interest coverage was 3.1x and 2.7x, respectively. AXTEL 2016 73 Monterrey, N. L., February 21, 2017 To the Shareholders and Directors of Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and subsidiaries INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and subsidiaries (the “Company”), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position at December 31, 2016 and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of changes in shareholders’ equity and of cash flows for the period then ended, and the explanatory notes to the consolidated financial statements that include a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the Company’s consolidated financial position at December 31, 2016, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the period then ended, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). Basis of the opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements” section in this report. We are independent from the Company in accordance with the Ethics Code of the Mexican Institute of Public Accountants, together with ethical requirements applicable to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in Mexico, and we have complied with our ethical responsibilities in accordance with those requirements and said Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matters Key sudit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements for the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the overall consolidated financial statements and in forming our opinion thereon, and we express no separate opinion on these matters. 74 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT KEY AUDIT MATTE Business combination As described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, during the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company conducted the following business combination: On February 15, 2016, Onexa, S. A. de C. V. (“Onexa”), a 100% direct subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V. (“Alfa”) was merged into Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. (“Axtel”), the surviving company. Onexa was incorporated in the Axtel financial statements by using the predecessor method, and the difference between the book value of Onexa’s net assets of $3,368 million and the fair value of the issuance of Axtel shares of $4,850 million was recognized as an effect of the merger on retained earnings. Under IFRS, for the purpose of determining the acquiring party in a merger, it must be determined which entity obtains control, requiring significant judgments by Management with regard to the power to conduct its relevant activities, exposure to rights to variable returns stemming from its involvement and the link between power and yield. Additionally, we focused on recognition of this acquisition during our audit, due mainly to the importance of the impact of the merger on the entity’s financial position and because the determination of fair value of the shares issued requires applying significant judgments. HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE MATTER Due to the significant judgments required to determine that the entity has obtained control, we: • Obtained the analysis conducted by Management that includes the criteria used for determining the power to conduct its relevant activities, exposure or rights to variable returns stemming from its involvement and the link between power and returns. • Compared the criteria used to determine the power to conduct its relevant activities, exposure or rights to variable returns stemming from its involvement and the link between power and returns with the terms of the “Master Operating Agreement”, “Agreement between shareholders” and “Collaboration Agreement”, as well as the minutes of Board of Directors’ Meetings and other relevant information. Moreover, we attended meetings with Management and corroborated these decisions. • We obtained confirmations from attorneys with regard to the preceding criteria. • We evaluated the Company’s power to designate key officers taking into consideration the points above. Additionally, due to the significant judgments used by management in the valuation models for the determination of the consideration given, we involved our valuation experts to selectively evaluate the premises and criteria used by Management and their independent expert on said models. Specifically: • We reviewed the reasonableness of the consideration given, with respect to the market ranges, conducting calculations in parallel to estimate the value of the majority interest in the company based on the total value of the business acquired. Assessment of impairment of long-lived assets As mentioned in Notes 4k and 4m to the consolidated financial statements, the Company conducts annual impairment testing of intangible assets with an indefinite useful lifetime, and of property, plant and equipment and remaining intangible assets with a definite useful lifetime when there are events and circumstances that indicate that there are signs of impairment. We have focused on this matter due mainly to the importance of the balance of property, plant and equipment of $19,619 million and of intangible assets of $1,838 million for the Company’s consolidated financial statements, and due to the fact that the impairment testing involves applying significant judgments by the AXTEL 2016 75 Company’s Management in determining the assumptions and premises related to the estimation of the recovery value of cash generating units (“CGUs”). In particular, we focused on the following significant assumptions considered by the Company upon estimating the future projections to evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: estimates of future projections, growth rates, gross margins and discount rates used. As part of our audit, we assessed future cash flows projections prepared by Management, and the processes used for preparation thereof. In particular, we assessed whether all relevant CGUs were identified and the internal processes was carried out by Management to perform the projections, including timely oversight from those charged with governance, and if the projections are consistent with the budgets approved by them. Due to the significant judgments used in the valuation models for the determination of recovery values, and with the support of our valuation experts, we questioned the premise and criteria used by Management on said models, following the procedures set down below. • We verified that the models applied in the determination of the recovery values of the assets are methods used and recognized in valuing assets with similar characteristics. • We challenged the financial projections, including the terminal value, comparing them to the performance and historical trends, obtaining Management and explanations of variations. • We compared actual results for the current year with the figures budgeted for the current year, to determine whether any of the assumptions included in the projections could be considered to be very optimistic. • We compared the most significant valuation assumptions (growth rates, gross margins and discount rates used) with those commonly used and accepted for assets of this nature for the industry in which the Company operates. • We discussed with Management the sensitivity calculations for all CGUs and evaluated the extent to which the assumptions would need to be modified for impairment to be required. Moreover, we discussed with Management the probability of those changes being made. Evaluation of the recoverability of the deferred income tax asset As described in Note 3.o), Note 6c.) and Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company recorded a deferred income tax asset arising from tax losses and therefore, Management performed a recoverability assessment thereof prior to recognizing it in its financial statements. We have focused on this line item in our audit due to the importance of the balance of the deferred income tax asset arising from tax losses at December 31, 2016 ($2,797 million) and because the estimate of its recoverable value involves application of significant judgments by the Company´s Management; specifically, upon determining expected future income, future projections, as well as the Company’s future tax results. In particular, we focused our audit efforts on the significant assumptions that the Company considered in estimating the recoverability of the deferred tax asset, based on assumptions similar to those set out in the point above. As part of our audit, we evaluated the projections used to determine the recoverability of the deferred income tax asset from tax losses. We compared these projections to those used to determine the recoverable value of the aforementioned goodwill, over which we applied procedures similar to those indicated above. With the support of experts, we evaluated and also considered the projected tax results prepared by Management, as well as the processes used to prepare them. We also challenged, with the support of our tax experts, the assumptions used by Management in tax projections. 76 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT We compared the actual results for the current year with the figures budgeted for the current year, to determine whether or not any of the assumptions included in the projections could be considered to be very optimistic. Also, as mentioned above, we discussed with Management the sensitivity calculations and assessed the degree to which the assumptions would need to be modified to require adjustment. Additional information Company management is responsible for the additional information presented. This additional information comprises the Annual Report presented to the National Banking and Securities Commission (“CNBV” from Spanish) and the Annual Report presented to the shareholders (but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our audit report thereon), which is expected to be made available to us after the date of this report. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the additional information and we will no express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. However, in connection with our audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read this additional information, when available, and determine whether it is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or with our knowledge acquired during the course of our audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. When we read the additional information that we have not yet received, we must issue a formal statement on the Annual Report required by the CNBV and if we conclude that there are any material misstatements therein, we must communicate this finding to those charged with governance and if required describe the issue in such statement. Responsibilities of Management and those charged with governance in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS and for the internal control structure considered by Management to be necessary to allow for ensuring that the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable matters related to going-concern, and using the going-concern basis of accounting unless management intends to liquidate the Company or discontinue operations, or has no realistic means of doing so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company´s financial reporting process. Responsibilities of the auditors for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatements arising from fraud of err0r, and to issue and audit report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted as per ISAs, will detect any material mistakes when if exist. Errors arise from fraud or error and are considered to be material if, either individually or in the aggregate, it can be reasonably concluded that they influence the economic decisions made by users based on the consolidated financial statements. When conducting an audit in accordance with ISA, we exercise our professional judgment and apply our professional skepticism. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatements in the consolidated financial statements whether AXTEL 2016 77 due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures in response to those risks, and obtain sufficient and adequate audit evidence to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of failing to detect a material misstatement arising from fraud is higher than that one resulting from an unintentional error, because fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or overriding of internal controls. • Obtain an understanding of internal controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’ internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of the accounting policies applied and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates and of the related disclosures made by Management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of Management´s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company´s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exist, we are required to draw attention in our auditor´s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor´s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events, thus achieving a fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient and adequate audit evidence in relation to the financial information of the entities or business operations within the company to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for directing, supervising and conducting the audit of the consolidated financial statements. We are the only party responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate to those charmed with governance, among other matters, the scope and timing and significant findings of the audit, as well as any significant internal control deficiency identified during the course of our audit. We also provide those charmed with governance with a statement declaring that we have complied with all relevant ethics requirements concerning independence and have advised them of all the relationships and other matters that could reasonably influence our independence, as well as the corresponding safeguards applied. From the matters communicated to those charged with governance, we determine those considered to be the most significant in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the current period and consequently, the audit key matters. We describe those matters in our audit report, unless the legal and regulatory provisions prohibit public disclosure thereof or, under extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report, because the adverse consequences of doing so are expected to exceed the benefits of public interest. The name of the audit partner assigned to conduct the audit of the Company is Ricardo Noriega Navarro. PricewaterhouseCoopers, S. C. C.P.C. Ricardo Noriega Navarro Audit Partner 78 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Thousands of Mexican pesos December 31, 2016 2015 Assets Current: Cash and cash equivalents 7 $1,447,118 $2,575,222 Trade receivables and other receivables, Net 9 4,066,826 3,208,265 Inventories 10 109,388 53,069 Financial instruments 21 152,978 378,099 Prepayments 517,455 151,511 Total current assets 6,293,765 6,366,166 Noncurrent: Restricted cash 8 153,040 Non-current account receivable 9 8,642 128,613 Property, plant and equipment Net 11 19,619,451 13,216,179 Goodwill and intangible assets Net 12 1,838,727 124,999 Deferred income tax 19 4,056,773 2,235,469 Other non-current assets 13 205,305 127,798 Total non-current assets 25,881,938 15,833,058 Total assets $32,175,703 $22,199,224 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Liabilities Current: Debt 17 $1,028,588 $1,050,864 Trade payables and other payables 14 5,645,436 3,893,666 Provisions 15 129,647 190,100 Other liabilities 16 1,022,605 509,415 Total current liabilities 7,826,276 5,644,045 Noncurrent: Debt 17 20,485,861 12,475,950 Derivative financial instruments 21 65,222 Other non-current accounts payable 14 985,975 112,340 Employee benefits 18 467,036 28,231 Deferred income tax 19 10,318 Total non-current assets 21,949,190 12,681,743 Total liabilities 29,775,466 18,325,788 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Controlling interest: Capital stock 20 10,233,841 6,861,986 Premium on issuance of shares 644,710 644,710 Reserve for the repurchase of shares 90,000 Retained earnings (8,484,717) (3,719,469) Other reserves 6,398 (3,791) Total controlling interest 2,400,232 3,873,436 Non-controlling interest 5 Total shareholders’ equity 2,400,237 3,873,436 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $32,175,703 $22,199,224 The accompanying notes are in integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Dr. Sergio Rolando Zubirán Shetler Lic. Adrián de los Santos Escobedo Ing. Manuel Ramírez López Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller AXTEL 2016 79 Thousands of Mexican pesos Year ended December 31, Note 2016 2015 Net revenue $13,937,320 $10,150,438 Cost of sales 22 (5,944,104) (4,143,378) Gross profit 7,993,216 6,007,060 Administration and selling expenses 22 (7,364,867) (4,980,456) Other (expenses) income Net 23 (837,729) 437,321 Operating (loss) profit (209,380) 589,283 Financial income 24 234,505 696,769 Financial expenses 24 (5,090,904) (3,391,508) Financial result Net (4,856,399) (2,694,739) Share of results in associatesNet (5,189) (5) Pretax loss (5,070,968) (2,105,461) Income tax 26 1,471,706 373,194 Consolidated loss Net ($3,599,262) ($1,732,267) Loss attributable to: Controlling interest ($3,599,267) ($1,732,267) Non-controlling interest 5 ($3,599,262) ($1,732,267) Loss per basic and diluted share* ($0.20) ($0.19) Weighted average of common outstanding shares (thousands) 18,415,933 9,185,205 *The impact of including the effect of convertible bonds and the financial liability as a result of the merger is anti-dilutive, thus the basic and diluted profit remains unchanged. See Note 20. The accompanying notes are in integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Dr. Sergio Rolando Zubirán Shetler Lic. Adrián de los Santos Escobedo Ing. Manuel Ramírez López Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller 80 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Thousands of Mexican pesos Year ended December 31, Note 2016 2015 Consolidated loss net ($3,599,262) ($1,732,267) Items to be reclassified to the statement of income: Effect of currency conversion 26 10,189 Items not to be reclassified to the statement of income: Remeasurement of defined benefit liability, net of taxes 26 (17,617) (1,182) Total comprehensive income for the period ($3,606,690) ($1,733,449) Attributable to: Controlling interest (3,606,695) (1,733,449) Non-controlling interest 5 Total comprehensive income for the year ($3,606,690) ($1,733,449) The accompanying notes are in integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Dr. Sergio Rolando Zubirán Shetler Lic. Adrián de los Santos Escobedo Ing. Manuel Ramírez López Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller AXTEL 2016 81 Thousands of Mexican pesos (Note 20) Controlling interest Premium on the Reserve for Capital subscription of repurchase of Nota stock shares shares Balances at January 1, 2015 $6,728,342 $644,710 $90,000 Transactions with shareholders: Capital stock increase from conversion of bonds 20 133,644 6,861,986 644,710 90,000 Correction of provision for impairment of trade receivables 3 Net loss Total other components of comprehensive income for the year Comprehensive loss Ending balances adjusted at December 31, 2015 6,861,986 644,710 90,000 Transactions with stockholders: Cancellation of the reserve for the repurchase of shares (90,000) Capital stock increase from conversion of bonds 20 36,094 Effect of merger 20 3,335,761 Other Total transactions with shareholders 3,371,855 (90,000) Net loss Total other items from comprehensive income for the year Comprehensive loss Balances at December 31, 2016 $10,233,841 $644,710 $The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Dr. Sergio Rolando Zubirán Shetler Lic. Adrián de los Santos Escobedo Ing. Manuel Ramírez López Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller 82 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Total Non Total Retained Other controlling controlling shareholder’s earnings reserves interest interest equity ($1,753,543) ($3,791) $5,705,718 $$5,705,718 133,644 133,644 (1,753,543) (3,791) 5,839,362 5,839,362 (232,477) (232,477) (232,477) (1,732,267) (1,732,267) (1,732,267) (1,182) (1,182) (1,182) (1,733,449) (1,733,449) (1,733,449) (3,719,469) (3,791) 3,873,436 3,873,436 90,000 36,094 36,094 (1,197,805) 2,137,956 2,137,956 (40,559) (40,559) (40,559) (1,148,364) 2,133,491 2,133,491 (3,599,267) (3,599,267) 5 (3,599,262) (17,617) 10,189 (7,428) (7,428) (3,616,884) 10,189 (3,606,695) 5 (3,606,690) ($8,484,717) $6,398 $2,400,232 $5 $2,400,237 AXTEL 2016 83 Thousands of Mexican pesos Año que terminó el 31 de diciembre de Nota 2016 2015 Pretax loss ($5,070,968) ($2,105,461) Adjustments from: Depreciation and amortization 22 3,829,589 2,618,567 Exchange loss, net 29, 24 2,778,679 1,659,066 Allowance for doubtful accounts 9 209,930 154,621 Profit from sale of property, systems computer equipment 23 4,483 (113,734) Estimate of the realizable fair value of inventories 558 12,047 Interest income 24 (24,381) (36,929) Interest expenses 24 1,805,661 1,236,309 Amortization of premium on issuance of debentures (2,213) Employees Profit Sharing (PTU) currently payable 13,192 13,736 Equity in net results of associated companies 5,189 5 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 23 52,795 Provisions and other 15 (92,390) 190,100 Change in unrealized fair value and liquidation of financial instruments 24 296,439 (163,706) Changes in working capital: Trade receivables and other accounts receivable, net 9 480,889 (410,685) Inventories 10 (16,134) 14,028 Suppliers, related parties 14,27 (789,846) 368,558 Employee benefits 18 180,175 3,104 Employees Profit Sharing (PTU) paid (6,507) (10,774) Deferred income 474,117 (220,352) Income Tax paid (233,816) (85,964) Net cash flows provided by operating activities 3,897,654 3,120,333 Investing activities: Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment 11 (3,185,729) (2,011,430) Disposal of property, plant and equipment 11 80,772 129,823 Acquisition of intangible assets 12 (960,034) Increase in financial instruments (34,918) Interest income 24,381 36,919 Notes receivable 51,544 (45,812) Effect of merger, net 2 450,708 Disposal of investment in associated company 11,234 Net cash flows used in investing activities (3,527,124) (1,925,418) 84 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Financing activities Current and non-current debt obtained 16,133,066 Payment of current and non-current debt (15,421,366) (399,611) Paid interest and other financial expenses 24 (2,386,734) (1,165,405) Net cash flows provided by financing activities (1,675,034) (1,565,016) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (1,304,504) (370,101) Exchange fluctuation of cash and cash equivalents 176,400 247,488 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,575,222 2,697,835 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $1,447,118 $2,575,222 Investment operations not requiring the use of cash flows: Issuance of shares, indemnification, financial liability arising from merger and transfer of capital reserves (see Note 2 and Note 20) Conversion of bonds 20 $ 36,094 $ 133,644 Capital leasing $174,201 $647,734 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Dr. Sergio Rolando Zubirán Shetler Lic. Adrián de los Santos Escobedo Ing. Manuel Ramírez López Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller AXTEL 2016 85 Thousands of Mexican pesos, unless otherwise specified NOTE 1GENERAL INFORMATION: Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and subsidiaries (“Axtel” or “the Company”) was incorporated in Mexico as a capital stock company. Axtel’s main office is located at Boulevard Díaz Ordaz km 3.33 L-1, Colonia Unidad San Pedro, 66215 San Pedro Garza García, Nuevo León, Mexico. Axtel is a publicly owned corporation, whose shares are registered at the National Securities Registry and are traded at the Mexican Stock Exchange (the “Bolsa” from Spanish) through Certificates of Participation (“COPs”) issued under the Trust, whose trustee is Nacional Financiera, S. N. C., a subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V. (“ALFA”), direct controlling and last company of the Group , which exercises control and holds 50.19% through the Trust Administration Agreement No. 2673 entered into with Banco Invex, S. A. ALFA has control over the Company’s relevant activities. The Company is engaged in installing, operating and/or exploiting a public telecommunications network for the provision of services involving conducting voice signals, sounds, data, internet, texts and images, IT, local as well as domestic and international long-distance telephone service and restricted television service. Concessions are required to provide these services and conducting the Company’s business activities. See Note 12. Axtel conducts its activities through subsidiary companies of which it is the owner or of which it controls, either directly or indirectly, most of the common shares representing their capital stock. See Note 4. The term “the Company”, as used in this report, refers to Axtel and its subsidiaries in the aggregate. In the notes to the financial statements, reference to pesos or “$” stands for thousands of Mexican pesos. The captions dollars or “US$” refer to thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified. NOTE 2 RELEVANT EVENTS: 2016 a. Merger On December 3, 2015, the Company, ALFA and Onexa, S. A. de C. V. (“Onexa”), a subsidiary of ALFA and a group of the main shareholders of Axtel signed a cooperation agreement, as well as an agreement among shareholders (“the Agreements”) to merge Onexa into Axtel. Onexa holds the capital stock of Alestra, S. de R. L. de C. V. (Alestra) and 100% direct subsidiary of ALFA. On December 15, 2015, the Company published an informative brochure at the Mexican Stock Exchange, through which, it officially declared its intention to enter into an agreement for the merger of Onexa into Axtel. On January 15, 2016, Axtel and Onexa held extraordinary shareholders’ meetings to approve the merger, designating the members of the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Audit and Corporate Practices Committees. After completing the process pertaining to the legal, operating and financial review, and obtaining authorizations from the authorities, the transaction became effective on February 15, 2016, when Alfa became Axtel’s majority shareholder, with the merged company disappearing and surviving company subsisting under its current business name Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. As a result of the aforementioned merger, ALFA holds 50.19% of Axtel outstanding shares. According to the assessment of control conducted by Management, it was determined that the acquiring party was ALFA, due to which, goodwill arising from the merger and any other related effect were recorded in ALFA. 86 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Onexa was a holding company whose only asset was its 99.98% interest in Alestra’s capital stock. In turn, Alestra is a lead supplier in the IT and telecommunications service market in Mexico. Alestra focuses on the business segment, including multinational companies, institutional customers, as well as small and medium companies. Through its extensive optic-fiber and data-center network, Alestra offers administrative network, IT, data and internet services, as well as local and international long-distance services. In recent years, Alestra has refocused its business strategy by concentrating on the segment pertaining to administrative networks and IT service such as data centers, cloud services, systems integration and network security. Under the merger agreements, in exchange for 100% of Onexa voting shares, Axtel issued 9,668,965,488 shares for ALFA, at the rate of 0.8027 per Onexa share, acquiring 50.19% of the combined entity’s voting shares. The Agreements established a series of rights and obligations for the parties involved in terms of corporate governance and decision making, that granted ALFA the ability to direct activities related to the merged entity, mainly due to the fact that ALFA appoints most of the members of the Board of Directors and the main Directors who hold the power to direct the merged entity’s relevant operations. Alestra’s CEO, who prior to the transaction was a 100% subsidiary of ALFA, is the Company’s CEO as from February 15, 2016. As from the merger date, Alestra is a subsidiary of Axtel. It inclusion in the consolidated financial statements was not recognized as a business combination due to the fact that Alestra is controlled by ALFA both before and after the merger. Alestra’s net book value was recognized using the predecessor method and no profit or loss was recognized in the statement of income as a result of the transaction. The difference between the book value of Alestra net assets of $3,368,099 and the fair value of the issue of shares of $6,850,122 was recognized as an effect of the merger in the merger reserve of $3,482,023. See note 20. As part of the merger, on the date the transaction took effect, in a separate operation but related to the merger, and based on the Agreements, Alestra paid $809,793 as compensation for assuming certain obligations to do and not to do (confidentiality and abstaining from certain activities, among others), which has been recognized as an intangible asset. See Note 12. The aforementioned Agreements included certain indemnity payments in the event of default by any of the parties, such as: a consequence of the lack of integrity, inaccuracy or falsehood, solely with respect to their own statements and/or failure to comply with their respective obligations. On the basis of the foregoing and in accordance with the obligations assumed under the aforementioned Agreements, an agreement was reached for ALFA to receive compensation from Axtel for the negative economic effects that resulted in the uncollectibility of certain accounts receivable of $983,747. See Notes 20 and 27. Said amount was recorded with a charge to capital, as it pertained to operations between the holding company, ALFA, and its subsidiary, Axtel, at the period close, the liability has been recorded in related parties in the Suppliers and other accounts payable line item. As a result of the aforementioned merger agreements, the parties agreed to an adjustment to the fair value assigned to the issuance of shares to ALFA, related to the exchange rate of the Mexican peso to the U.S. Dollar, as published in the Official Gazette. In said agreement expiring on July 14, 2017, ALFA is required to pay a minimum US$0 and up to US$65 million, in the event the average exchange rate is between $16 and $14.50 pesos or less to the U.S. dollar up to the date of expiration. Otherwise, ALFA would receive between 0% and 2.50% additional shareholding interest in Axtel, with a maximum cap of up to 53.5%, if said exchange rate were between $17.01 and $18.50 pesos or more to the U.S. dollar. In accordance with IFRS (IAS 32), this agreement represents a financial liability to be liquidated with own shares presented in the short term in the Suppliers and other accounts payable line item. At December AXTEL 2016 87 31, 2016, Axtel has applied $246,396, corresponding to the value of the instrument, to retained earnings. Upon exercising this instrument, at maturity, the conversion will result in a variable number of shares, increasing the capital stock and canceling the corresponding liability. As a result of the merger, the Company incurred a number of expenses totaling $835,200, which it classified as merger expenses in the other operating expenses line item. See Note 23. Income contributed for Alestra assets included in the consolidated statement of income from the effective acquisition date at December 31, 2016 amounted to $5,889,266 and a net profit of $228,812. Had the acquisition taken place on January 1, 2016, income would have increased by $780,759 and net income would have decreased by approximately $91,383. b. Borrowings As a result of the above-mentioned transaction, the Company conducted the following operations: i. On January 15, 2016, the Company signed a loan of US$500,000 and $4,759,000 to refinance all of the senior notes expiring on 2017, 2018 and 2020. Redemption took effect on February 19, 2016. The entire new loan expires in January 2019 for the portion in pesos and quarterly payments to the capital as from April 2018 and up to February 2021 for the dollar portion, at the interbank interest rate (TIIE from Spanish) for the portion in pesos, plus 2% in the first year, TIIE plus 2.25% in the second and TIIE plus 2.5% in the third and an initial interest rate for the dollar portion at the Libor, plus 2.25%, to be increased up to the Libor plus 3.25%. Management analyzed the effects of this operation and determined it had acquired a new debt. During April 2016, the Company obtained an additional portion of said loan, for $1,500 million, to refinance the debt maturing in the short term. This portion matures at 5 years, quarterly payments on the capital as from 2018 at the TIIE + 2.25%, to be increased to the TIIE + 2.75%. In order to obtain these resources, expenses were incurred in the amount of $270,168, of which, during 2016, $98,108 has been recognized as part of the effective interest expense related to the new debt. Moreover, in 2016, the Company exercised its option for prepayment and incurred a penalty for early cancellation of $758,064, which was recognized as part of the interest expense on financing. The Company charged a net total $83,527 to income for the year, corresponding to costs, discounts and premiums on the original debt. On January 31, 2013, the Company completed an exchange of unsecured bonds maturing in 2017 and 2019, for bonds and a secured convertible bond, respectively, maturing in 2020, plus a payment in cash to the participating holders. The holders of the convertible bonds could opt to convert the notes in American Depository Shares (“ADSs”) or in Certificate of participation (COPs). An embedded derivative was recorded, arising from the conversion option. Said derivative of $71,318 was extinguished at the date of prepayment of the debt and was applied to financial income for the period. 2015 c. Dispute resolution During 2015, the Company entered into a number of agreements related to disputes with other telephone service operators, as follows: 88 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT On March 18, 2015, the Company signed a transaction agreement with América Móvil, S. A. B. de C. V., (“AMX”) and its affiliate Radiomóvil Dipsa S. A. de C. V. (“Telcel”), whereby it was agreed to terminate a number of disputes related to interconnection services. As part of the agreement, the Company and Telcel entered into an interconnection agreement for the period from 2005 to 2015. Moreover, the Company, Telcel and Teléfonos de México S. A. B. de C. V. (“Telmex”) agreed to voluntarily dismiss a number of disputes involving interconnection matters. As a result of the agreements and after settling, for and against, the different amounts in dispute and/ or pending payment, the Company entered into agreements to market and resell telecommunications services and for shared access and use of idle infrastructure with Telcel and Telmex, respectively. In another act that took place that same day, the Company and companies pertaining to the Iusacell Group (“Iusacell”) signed an agreement whereby both parties end the disputes related to interconnection services for the 2005-2010 period. During said act, the Company and Iusacell signed a number of commercial agreements involving telecommunications infrastructure for their mutual benefit. Lastly, on May 27, 2015, the Company signed an agreement with Pegaso PCS, S. A. de C. V. (“Telefónica México”), whereby both parties terminate the disputes related to interconnection services for the period from 2005 to 2011. As a result of the above agreements and having settled, for and against, the different amounts in dispute and/or pending payment, the Company obtained net income in cash of $534,240, shown in the statement of income in the Cost of sales line item. NOTE 3 REVISED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Company has corrected its consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2015, due to an immaterial correction in the determination of the provision for impairment of trade receivables, which was determined inaccurately. Management conducted an evaluation under IAS 8 “Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors”, concluding that qualitatively and quantitatively, the effect is not material for the Company to reissue its historical information and therefore, decided to correct the figures following the revised model. Following are the comparative figures in the financial statements at December 31, 2015 pertaining to the revision described in the above paragraph: AXTEL 2016 89 Previously reported Revised balance Statement of financial position Accounts receivable, net (Note 9) $ 2,893,017 $ 2,454,656 Value added tax and other taxes payable (Note 14) (642,530) (582,066) Deferred income tax, net (Note 19) 2,103,961 2,235,469 Retained earnings and other reserves (3,476,871) (3,723,260) Statement of income Administrative and selling expenses ($ 4,960,582) ($ 4,980,456) Deferred tax 428,537 434,499 Consolidated net loss (1,718,355) (1,732,267) Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Comprehensive loss ($ 1,719,537) ($ 1,733,449) Statement of cash flows Cash flows provided by operating activities Loss before taxes on income ($ 2,085,587) ($ 2,105,461) Increase in trade receivables and other accounts receivable (430,559) (410,685) Additionally, the following notes to the consolidated financial statements were modified for the aforementioned review. See Notes 9, 14 and 19 NOTE 4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES: Los estados financieros consolidados adjuntos y sus notas fueron autorizados, para su emisión el 21 de febrero de 2017, por los funcionarios con poder legal que firman al calce de los estados financieros básicos y sus notas. A continuación se presentan las políticas de contabilidad más significativas seguidas por la Compañía y sus subsidiarias, las cuales han sido aplicadas consistentemente en la preparación de su información financiera en los años que se presentan, a menos que se especifique lo contrario: a. Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). IFRS include International Accounting Standard (IAS) currently in effect, as well as all related interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS-IC), including those previously issued by the Standing Interpretations Committee (SIC). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of historical cost. Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires that Management exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a greater degree of judgment or complexity, as well as the areas in which the judgments and estimates are significant for the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 6. b. Changes in accounting policies and disclosures i. New standards and changes adopted by the Company. The following standards and modifications have been adopted by the Company for the first time for the period started on January 1, 2016: 90 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT • Clarification of acceptable depreciation and amortization methods Revisions of IAS 16 and IAS 38. • Annual revisions of cycle 2012 2014 IFRS • Initiative of disclosures Amendments to IAS 1. Adoption of these amendments has had no impact in the current period or any preceding period and is unlikely to affect any future periods. ii. New standards and interpretations yet to be adopted by the Company. A number of new standards, amendments and interpretations thereof have been published, and are not effective for reporting periods at December 31, 2016, and have not been adopted in advance by the Company. Following is the Company’s evaluation of the effects of these new standards and interpretations: IFRS 9 “Financial instruments”. This standard addresses classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities and introduces new hedge accounting rules. In July 2014, the IASB made additional changes to classification and measurement rules and introduced a new impairment model. These latest changes now make up the overall new financial instrument regulation. The new hedge accounting rules require that a company’s hedge accounting be in line with risk management thereof. As a general rule, hedge accounting is easier to apply, as the standard introduces a principles-based approach. The new standard also introduces extensive disclosure requirements and presentation changes, which continue to be evaluated by the Company. The new impairment model is a model of expected loan losses, which would therefore result in early recognition of credit losses. The Company will continue assessing the impact of adopting this standard. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Early adoption is allowed. In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 “Revenue from contracts with customers” (“IFRS 15”). Under IFRS 15, an entity recognizes revenue as evidence of the transfer of goods or services promised to customers, for an amount that reflects the compensation that the entity expects to earn in exchange, following the five-step model: Step 1: identifying the contract(s) with the customer, reflected under agreements between two or more parties that create rights and obligations payable; Step 2: identifying the deliverables set down in the contract, considering the fact that if a contract includes promises, they are different deliverables and must be recorded separately; Step 3: determining the transaction price, representing by the amount established in the contract that the company expects in return for the transfer of goods and services promised to the customer; Step 4: distributing the price of the transaction to the deliverables under the contract, on the basis of the selling price related individually considered for each of the goods or for each service promised in the contract; and Step 5: recognizing revenue when (to the extent that) the entity satisfies the deliverables, through the transfer to the customer of the promised goods and services (when the customer obtains control of the goods or services). A deliverable can be satisfied at the point in time (commonly in promises to deliver goods to the customer) or during a period of time (commonly in promises to provide services to the client). IFRS 15 includes the disclosure requirements to provide comprehensive information with respect to the nature, amount, periodicity and uncertainty of the income and cash flows resulting from the contracts of an entity with its customers. IFRS 15 will replace all existing standards for revenue recognition. This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. For the transition, the standard allows for a complete retrospective approach and a modified retrospective approach for adoption thereof. The Company has evaluated the two approaches and the modified retrospective approach is that used for the adoption. Under this approach, adjustments are recognized for the initial application AXTEL 2016 91 effect (January 1, 2018) on retained earnings in the financial statements at December 2018, without reformulating the comparative period, applying the new rules to contracts in effect as from January 1, 2018 or those which, although pertaining to prior years, remain in effect at the date of initial application. For the purposes of disclosure of the 2018 financial statements, the amounts of line items credited or debited must be mentioned, taking into account application of the current Revenue standard, as well as an explanation of the reason underlying the significant changes made. The Company is currently implementing a project to evaluate the impact of IFRS 15 on its financial information and the matters considered more relevant are: • The Company identified that there are contracts with customers under which different performance obligations could need to be recognized separately, resulting in changes in the timing and form of recognizing revenue. Due to the complexity of certain contracts with companies and government, the effort and level of judgment required for this evaluation is high. • Upon distributing revenue among each of the performance obligations that differs from the current standard, the revenue amount to be recognized for each compliance obligation could also change, thus possibly changing the timing of revenue recognition. • In some cases, the agent and principal evaluation could change with respect to the current analysis, upon including the matter of control in the evaluation. This is why an evaluation is being conducted to determine whether or not the presentation of revenue from the sale of licenses to third parties could have a change. • Commission currently paid for the acquisition of contracts are applied to income as they are incurred, under the new standard for revenue, these payments could qualify as subject to capitalization and are amortized during the expected time of the contract. Management considers that the effort made for implementation and the impact of this standard could be relevant. During 2017, the Company will work on identifying impacts. IFRS 16 “Leases” In January 2016, the IASB issued a new rule for accounting for leases. That rule replaces current IAS 17, which classifies leasing as either financial or operating. NIC 17 Identifies leases as financial when the risks and benefits of an asset are transferred, and all others as operating leases. IFRS 16 eliminates classification of leases as either financial or operating and requires recognition of a liability by reflecting future payments and an asset for “right to use” in most leases. The IASB has included certain exceptions for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The above modifications are applicable to accounting for leases, while rules for the lessor remain similar to current rules. The most significant effect of the new requirements is reflected in the increase in leasing assets and liabilities, which also affects the statement of income under depreciation and financing expenses for assets and liabilities recognized, respectively, and reduces expenses pertaining to leases previously recognized as operating. At the date of issuance of these financial statements, the Company has not quantified the impact of the new requirements. The rule is effective for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with early adoption allowed, provided IFRS 15 is also adopted. There are no other IFRS or interpretations thereof yet to take effect or still expected to have a significant impact on the entity in the reporting periods, either current or future, and in foreseeable future transactions. 92 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT c. Consolidation i. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company exercises control. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed or is entitled to variable yields arising from an interest in the entity and is capable of affecting yields through its power over the entity. When the Company’s interest in the subsidiaries is under 100%, the interest attributed to the external shareholders is reflected as non-controlling interest. The subsidiaries are consolidated in their entirety from the date on which control is transferred to the Company and up to the date on which said control is lost. The accounting method used by the Company for business combinations is the acquisition method. The Company defines a business combination as a transaction in which control of a business is obtained and through which it has the power to direct and manage the activities relevant to the body of assets and liabilities pertaining to said business, for the purpose of providing a return in the form of dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits directly to the investors. The consideration transferred in the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued by the Company. The consideration paid includes fair value of any asset or liability arising from a contingent consideration agreement. The identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a combination of businesses are initially measured at their fair value on the acquisition date. The Company recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity based on the proportional part of the non-controlling interest in the acquired entity’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs related to the acquisition are recorded as expenses in the statement of income as they are incurred. Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the consideration paid and fair value of the non-controlling interest in the subsidiary acquired over the fair value of identifiable net assets and liabilities acquired. If the consideration transferred is below the fair value of the acquired subsidiary’s net assets in a purchase at a bargain price, the difference is directly recognized in the consolidated statement of income. The Company applies the accounting of the predecessor method for business combinations between entities under common control as from the date on which the transaction was conducted. The predecessor method consists of including the book value of the acquired entity, which includes goodwill recorded at the consolidated level with respect to the acquired entity. Any difference between the consideration paid by the Company and the book value of the net assets acquired at the subsidiary level is applied to capital. Intercompany transactions and balances, as well as unrealized earnings from transactions between Axtel companies are eliminated in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Unrealized losses are eliminated. In order to ensure consistency with Company policies, the amounts reported of the subsidiaries have been modified when considered necessary. AXTEL 2016 93 At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the companies that comprise Axtel’s consolidated financial statements are as follows: Shareholding percentage (%) Functional Company Country 2016 2015 currency Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. (Controlling company) (3) México Peso Servicios Axtel, S. A. de C.V. (1) México 100.00% 100.00% Peso Alestra Comunicación, S. de R. L. de C. V. (3) (d) México 100.00% 100.00% Peso Avantel, S. de R. L. de C.V. (“Avantel”)(3) México 100.00% 100.00% Peso Telecom Network, Inc. (3)(4) (a) USA -% 100.00% Dollar Avantel Networks, S. A. de C. V.(3)(4) (b) México -% 100.00% Peso Axes Data, S. A. de C. V. (1) (4) México 100.00% 100.00% Peso Contacto IP, S. A. de C. V. (1) México 100.00% 100.00% Peso Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S. A. de C. V. (1) México 100.00% 100.00% Peso Axtel Track, S. A. P. I. de C. V. (1) (c) México -% 100.00% Peso Alestra, S. de R. L. de C. V. (“Alestra”) (3) México 100.00% Peso Servicios Alestra, S. A. de C. V. (1) México 99.98% Peso Ingeniería de Soluciones Alestra, S. A. de C. V. (1) México 100.00% Peso Alestra USA, Inc. (2)(4) USA 100.00% Dollar G-Tel Comunicación, S. A. P. I. de C. V. (“G-Tel”) (3) (d) México Peso S&C Constructores de Sistemas, S. A. de C. V. (“S&C”) México 100.00% Peso Alesre Insurance Pte, Ltd. (4) Singapur 100.00% Dollar Cogeneración de Querétaro, S. A. de C. V. (1) México 99.99% Peso Estrategias en Tecnología Corporativa, S. A. de C. V. (“Estratel”)(3) México 100.00% Peso Servicios Alestra TI, S. A. de C. V. (1) México 99.90% Peso (a) Company liquidated on November 29, 2016. (b) Company liquidated on September 21, 2016. (c) Company liquidated on November 17, 2016. (d) On July 25, 2016, the merger of G-Tel Comunicación, S. A. P. I. de C. V. into Alestra Comunicación, S. de R. L. de C. V., (formerly Avantel Infraestructura, S. de R. L. de C. V.) was agreed. This merger became effective on August 1, 2016. (1) Provider of administrative services. (2) Leasing of telecommunications and infrastructure equipment. (3) Provider of telecommunications services. (4) Company with no operations. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, there are no restrictions in the subsidiaries over the Company’s capability to use the assets or liquidate the liabilities. Balances and operations between group companies have been eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. ii. Associated companies Associated companies are those over which the Company has significant influence, but not control, generally from holding between 20% and 50% of the voting rights in the associated company. The Company’s investment in associated companies includes the goodwill identified in the acquisition, net of accumulated impairment losses. 94 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT If equity in an associated company is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a portion of the amounts previously applied to comprehensive income will be reclassified to income for the year, when appropriate. The Company’s equity in the profits or losses of the associated company following the acquisition is recognized in the statement of income and its equity in the comprehensive results following the acquisition is recognized directly in other components of comprehensive income. Post-acquisition accumulated movements are adjusted against the book value of the investment. When the Company’s equity in the associated company’s losses is equal to or exceeds its equity in the associated company, including any unsecured account receivable, the Company does not recognize future losses, unless it has incurred obligations or has made payments on behalf of the associated company. The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether or not there is objective evidence that the investment in the associated company is impaired. If so, the Company calculates the impairment loss as the difference between the recoverable value of the associated company and its book value, and recognizes the amount in “Equity in losses of associated companies recognized by the equity method” in the statement of income. The unrealized gains on transactions between the Company and its associated companies are eliminated according to the interest the Company has in each. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. In order to ensure consistency with Company policies, the associated companies’ accounting policies have been modified. When the Company ceases to have significant influence over an associated company, any difference between the fair value of the retained investment, including any consideration received from disposal of part of the equity, and the book value of the investment. During 2016, the only associated company was Conectividad Inalámbrica 7 GHz, S. de R. L. de C. V. (“Conectividad Inalámbrica”), which was liquidated during the period. At December 31, 2015, the company had no associated companies. c. Foreign currency conversion i. Functional and reporting currency The amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Company’s entities must be measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (functional currency). The consolidated financial statements are shown in Mexican pesos, which is the Company’s reporting currency. Note 4c. contains a description of the functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries. ii. Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are converted to the functional currency using the exchange rate in effect on the transaction or valuation dates, when the amounts are re-measured. Exchange gains and losses resulting from settlement of said transactions and from conversion of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency at the closing exchange rates are recognized as exchange fluctuation in the statement of income, except for those deferred in the comprehensive income and which qualify as cash flow hedges. The exchange differences in monetary assets classified as financial instruments at fair value with changes in income are recognized in the statement of income as part of the gain or loss in fair value. AXTEL 2016 95 iii. Consolidation of foreign subsidiaries The financial statements of the subsidiary companies that maintain a recording currency other than the functional currency, were converted to the functional currency, as per the following procedure: a. The balances shown for monetary assets and liabilities stated in the recording currency are converted at the closing exchange rates. b. The historical balances of non-monetary assets and liabilities and of shareholders’ equity converted to the functional currency are increased by the movements occurred during the period, which were converted at the historical exchange rates. Movements of non-monetary items recognized at fair value, occurring during the period and stated in the recording currency, are converted using the historical exchange rates at the date on which said fair value was determined. c. Income, costs and expenses for the periods stated in the recording currency (euro), were converted at the historical exchange rates of the date on which they arose and were recognized in the statement of income, unless they originated from non-monetary items, in which case, the historical exchange rates of non-monetary items were used. d. The exchange differences arising from conversion from the recording currency to the functional currency were recognized as income or expenses in the statement of income in the period in which they arose. Following is a summary of the main accounting principles: Local currency unit in Mexican pesos Tipo de cambio de cierre al 31 de diciembre de Tipo de cambio promedio anual 2016 2015 2016 2015 Dólar americano 20.66 17.21 18.66 15.85 d. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, bank deposits available for the operation and other high-liquidity short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less, all subject to immaterial risks of changes in value. e. Restricted cash Cash, whose restrictions resulted in failure to meet the aforementioned definition of cash and cash equivalents, is shown in the line item shown separately in the statement of financial position and are excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. f. Financial instruments Financial assets The Company classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through income, loans and accounts receivable, investments held to maturity and available for sale. Classification depends on the intended purpose of the financial assets. Management determines the classification of its financial assets upon initial recognition thereof. Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the settlement date. 96 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Financial assets are initially recognized on a fair value basis. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or issuance of financial assets (other than financial assets at fair value with changes in income) are added or deducted from the fair value of financial assets, as applicable, in their initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets at fair value with changes in income are immediately applied to income. Financial assets are canceled in their entirety when the right to receive related cash flows expires or is transferred and the Company has substantially transferred all of the risks and benefits inherent to ownership thereof, as well as control over the financial asset. i. Financial assets at fair value through income Financial assets at their fair value through income are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category is it was mainly acquired to be sold in the short-term. Derivative financial instruments are also classified as held for trade, unless they are designated as hedges. Financial assets recorded at fair value through income are initially recognized at their fair value and transaction costs are recorded as expenses in the statement of income. Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of these assets are applied to income for the period in which they were incurred, in the Other expenses, net line item. ii. Loans and accounts receivable Accounts receivable are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determined payments that are not traded in an active market. They are included as current assets, except for maturities of over 12 months after the date of the statement of financial position. They are classified as non-current assets. Loans and accounts receivable are initially valued at fair value, plus transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently recognized at amortized cost, using the effective interest rate method. When circumstances arise that indicate that receivables will not be collected in the amounts initially agreed or will but at a different term, said accounts receivable are impaired. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities that are not derivatives are initially recognized at their fair value and subsequently valued at their amortized cost by the effective interest method. Liabilities in this category are classified as current liabilities, if they are expected to the settled within the following 12 months; otherwise, they are classified as non-current. Accounts payable are obligations to pay for goods or services either acquired or received from suppliers in the normal course of business. Loans are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Loans are subsequently recorded at their amortized cost. Any differences between the amounts received (net of transaction costs) and the settlement value is recognized in the statement of income during the term of the loan, using the effective interest method. AXTEL 2016 97 Impairment of financial instruments a. Financial assets valued at their amortized cost At the end of every reporting year, the Company evaluates whether or not there is objective evidence of impairment of each financial assets or group of financial assets. An impairment loss is recognized only if there is objective evidence of impairment resulting from one or more events occurring after initial recognition of the asset (a “loss event”) and provided the loss event or events have an impact on the estimated future cash flows arising from the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. The aspects evaluated by the Company to determine whether or not there is objective evidence of impairment is: Significant financial difficulties of the issuer or debtor. Noncompliance with the contract, such as late payment of interest or principal. The Company’s granting of a concession to the issuer or debtor as a result of the issuer’s or debtor’s financial difficulties not considered under other circumstances. The issuer or debtor is likely to declare bankruptcy or some other type of financial reorganization. The disappearance of an active market for the financial asset is due to financial difficulties. Verifiable information indicating that there is a quantifiable decrease in future estimated cash flows relative to a group of financial assets subsequent to initial recognition, although the decrease cannot yet the identified with individual financial assets, such as: i. Adverse changes in the status of debtor payments on the group of assets. ii. Domestic or local conditions related to noncompliance on the part of issuers of the group of assets. Based on the aforementioned aspects, the Company evaluates the objective evidence of impairment, if any, the book value of the asset is decreased by said amount, and is recognized in the statement of income. If the interest rate of a loan or investment held to maturity is variable, the discount rate to measure any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined according to the terms of the contract. Alternatively, the Company could determine the impairment of the asset considering its fair value determined on the basis of its current observable market price. If the impairment loss is reduced in subsequent years due to objective verification of an event occurred subsequent to the date on which said impairment was recorded (such as an improvement in the debtor’s credit rating), the reversal of the impairment loss is recorded in the statement of income. Information on impairment of accounts receivable is set out in Note 9. g. Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities All derivative financial instruments contracted and identified, classified as fair value hedging or cash flow 98 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT hedging for trading purposes, or market risk hedging, are recognized in the statement of financial position as assets and/or liabilities at fair value and are subsequently measured at fair value. Fair value is determined on the basis of recognized market prices and when they are not traded in the market, it is determined based on valuation techniques accepted in the financial sector, using inputs and variables observable in the market, such as interest rate and exchange rate curves obtained from reliable sources of information. The fair value of derivative financial instruments used as hedging instruments is classified as a non-current asset or liability if maturity of the remaining hedge amount is over 12 months, and as a current asset or liability if maturity of the remaining hedge amount is under 12 months. Derivative instruments hedges are contracted to cover risks and there is compliance with all coverage requirements. Designation is documented at the outset of the coverage operation, describing the purpose, the primary position, risks to be covered, types of derivatives and measurement of the effectiveness of the relationship, features, accounting recognition and the manner in which effectiveness is to be measured in the case of that operation. h. Inventories Inventories are shown at the lesser of its cost and net realization value. The cost of the products includes only the purchase price of the products. The net realization value is the selling price estimated in the normal course of the business, less the applicable corresponding variable selling costs. The cost is determined by the First-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Physical inventory counts are conducted periodically and inventory records are adjusted according to the results of said counts. Historically, shortages have been immaterial, as the Company has implemented strict inventory control procedures. i. Prepayments Prepayments mainly comprise insurance and prepayments to service providers. The amounts are recorded on the basis of contractual values and are recorded monthly in the statement of income over the lifetime of the corresponding prepayment: the amount corresponding to the proportion to be considered over the following 12 months is shown under current assets and the remaining amount is shown under non-current assets. j. Property, plant and equipment The components of property, plant and equipment are recorded at their cost, less accumulated depreciation and the accrued amount corresponding to impairment losses. The cost includes expenses directly attributable to acquisition of the asset. Subsequent costs are included in the book value of the asset or recognized as an asset separately, as appropriate, only when the Company is likely to obtain future economic benefits from the asset, and the cost of the component can be calculated reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. Repairs and maintenance are recognized in the statement of income during the year in which they are incurred. Significant improvements are depreciated during the remaining useful lives of the related asset. AXTEL 2016 99 Depreciation is calculated by the straight-line method, separately considering each of their components, except for land not subject to depreciation. The average useful life of families of assets are as follows: Years Buildings 40 60 Computer equipment 3-5 Transportation equipment 4 Office equipment 10 Telecommunications network 6 to 28 Spares and parts for use at more than a year and attributable to specific machinery are classified as property, plant and equipment in other fixed assets. Costs pertaining to general and specific loans, attributable to the acquisition, construction and production of qualifying assets, which necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are not capitalized to form part of the acquisition cost of said qualifying assets until such time as they are ready for their intended use or sale. If the carrying value exceeds the estimated recovery value, impairment of an asset’s carrying value is recognized and the asset is immediately recognized at its recovery value. Assets classified as property, plant and equipment is tested for impairment when there are facts and circumstances that indicate there are signs of impairment. Impairment losses are recognized on the basis of the amount by which the book value of the assets exceeds their recovery value. The residual value, useful life and method for depreciation of assets are reviewed, at least at the end of each reporting period and if expectations differ from prior estimates, the changes are recognized as a change in an accounting estimate. Gains or losses on asset disposals are determined comparing the selling value and the carrying value and are recognized in the other expenses, net in the statement of income. k. Leasing Classification of leases as financial or operating depends on the substance of the transaction more so than the contract form. Leasing, in which a significant portion of the risks and benefits pertaining to the property are retained by the lessor, is classified as straight leasing. Payments made under straight leasing (net of any incentive received from the lessor) are charged to the statement of income by the straight line method over the leasing period. Leasing under which all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Company are classified as financial leases. Financial leases are capitalized at the outset of the lease at least between the fair value of the property under lease and the present value of minimum payments. If determination thereof is determined to be practical to discount minimum payments at their present value, the interest rate embedded in the lease is used; otherwise, the lease’s incremental rate must be used. Any initial direct cost of the lease will be added to the original amount recognized as an asset. Each payment on the lease is allocated between the liability and the financial charges, until a constant rate is reached in the current balance. The corresponding rent obligations are included in non-current debt, net of the financial charges. Financial cost interest is charged to income for the year during the lease period, with a view to producing a constant periodic interest rate in the remaining balance of the 100 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT liability for each period. Property, plant and equipment acquired through financial leases is depreciated between the lesser of the useful lifetime of the asset and term of the lease. Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU) leases are considered to qualify as financial leasing. l. Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognized when they are identifiable and provide future economic benefits and when there is control over those benefits. Intangible assets are classified as follows: i. Definite useful life The definite useful life of an asset is recognized at cost, less accumulated amortization and impairment losses recognized. They are amortized by the straight-line method, according to the useful life, determined based on expected future economic benefits, and are subject to impairment testing when there is evidence of such. Trademarks and licenses Trademarks and licenses acquired individually are recognized at their historical cost. Trademarks and licenses acquired through business combinations are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Trademarks and licenses have an indefinite useful life and are recorded at cost, less their accumulated amortization. Amortization is calculated by the straight-line method to distribute the cost of trademarks and licenses based on the estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives of intangible assets with a finite useful life are summarized as follows: Years Software and licenses 3-7 Concessions 20 30 Capacity of communications network 13 Other 4 Obligations to do and not to do 3 Trademarks 5 Customer relation 15 ii. Defined useful life These intangible assets are not amortized and are subject to annual impairment testing. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, no factors have been determined that might limit the useful life of these intangible assets. Goodwill Goodwill represents the acquisition cost of a subsidiary in excess of the Company’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired, determined at the acquisition date and is not subject to amortization. Goodwill is shown in the Goodwill and intangible assets line item and is recognized at its cost, less accumulated impairment losses, which are not reserved. Gains or losses on the sale of an entity include the book value of goodwill relating to the entity sold. For the purpose of substantiating impairment, goodwill generated in a business combination is allocated to each of the operating segments, which is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. Each business segment to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Company at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. AXTEL 2016 101 Goodwill impairment is tested annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate possible impairment. Goodwill book value is compared with the recoverable amount, which is the greater of the value in use and fair value, less the cost of sales. Impairment, if any, is recorded immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversal in the future. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination An intangible asset acquired through a business combination is recognized at its fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequently, intangible assets acquired in a business acquisition of intellectual property, such as: trademarks, customer relations, intellectual property rights, obligations to do and not to do, among others, are recognized at their cost, less accumulated amortization and the accrued amount of impairment losses. m. Impairment of non-financial assets Assets without an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to depreciation or amortizable, as well as to annual impairment testing. Assets subject to amortization are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value might not be recoverable. An impairment loss corresponds to the amount by which the carrying value of the non-financial asset exceeds its recovery value. Recovery value is the greater of the fair value of an asset less costs incurred for its sale and its value in use. For the purpose of evaluating impairment, assets are grouped in the minimum levels where there are identifiable cash flows separately (cash generating units). Non-financial long-lasting assets other than goodwill that have been impaired are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment on each reporting date. n. Taxes on income The income taxes caption in the statement of income represents the sum of currently-payable and deferred taxes on income. The amount shown for income taxes reflected in the statement of income represents the tax incurred in the year, as well as the effects of deferred income taxes determined by the assets and liabilities method, applying the rate enacted or substantially enacted in effect at the date of the balance sheet where the Company operates and generate taxable income to total temporary differences resulting from comparing the book and tax values of assets and liabilities expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realized or the deferred tax liability is settled, taking into account unamortized tax losses, if any, following an analysis of their recovery. The effect of changes in tax rates in effect is applied to income for the period in which said rate change is determined. Management periodically evaluates the positions exercised in tax refunds with respect to the situations in which the applicable legislation is subject to interpretation. Provisions are recognized when appropriate based on the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The deferred tax asset is recognized only when a future taxable profit is likely to exist against which temporary difference deductions can be used. Deferred income taxes on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associated companies are recognized, except when the reversal period of the temporary differences is controlled by Axtel and the temporary differences are unlikely to be reversed in the foreseeable future. 102 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legal right and when the taxes are collected by the same tax authority. o. Employee benefits The Company grants the following plans: i. Pension plans Defined contribution plans: A defined contribution plan is a pension plan through which the Company pays fixed contributions to an entity on a separate basis. The Company has no legal or assumed obligation to pay additional contributions if the fund has insufficient assets to pay the benefits related to the services to all its employees in the current or past periods. Contributions are recognized as expenses arising from employee benefits at the date of the obligation to make the contribution. Defined benefit plans: Un plan de contribución definida es un plan de pensiones mediante el cual la Compañía paga contribuciones fijas a una entidad por separado. La Compañía no tiene obligaciones legales o asumidas para pagar contribuciones adicionales si el fondo no mantiene suficientes activos para realizar el pago a todos los empleados de los beneficios relacionados con el servicio en los periodos actuales y pasados. Las contribuciones se reconocen como gastos por beneficios a empleados a la fecha que se tiene la obligación de la aportación. Planes de beneficios definidos: A benefit plan is defined as the pension-related benefit amount to be received by an employee at retirement, usually reliant on one or more factors such as age, the number of years of service and compensation. The liability recognized in the statement of financial position with respect to defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the date of the statement of financial position, along with the adjustments for unrecognized past services. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the discount rates, in accordance with IAS 19, denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have maturity terms approximating the terms of the related pension liability. The discount rate reflects the value of money over time but not the actuarial or investment risk. Additionally, the discount rate reflects no credit risk pertaining to the entity, or the risk that future experience could differ from the actuarial assumptions. The Company uses the government CETES rate as the discount rate. Re-measurements of employee obligations are recorded directly in shareholders’ equity under other components of comprehensive income in the year in which they occur. The costs of past services are immediately recognized in the statement of income. The current cost of services under the defined benefit plan, applied to income as an employee-benefit expense, unless it is included in the cost of an asset, reflects the increase in the defined benefit obligation stemming from the employee’s service during the year. The benefit modifies layoffs and severance payments. AXTEL 2016 103 The net interest cost is calculated applying the discount rate for the net balance of defined benefit obligations. This cost is included in the employee benefits account in the statement of income. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial hypotheses are charged or credited to shareholders’ equity in “Other components of comprehensive income for the year” in the period in which they arise. ii. Other post-employment benefits The Company provides benefits such as post-employment medical care to its retired employees. The right to access said benefits generally depends on whether the employee worked up to the age of retirement and completed a minimum period of years of service. The expected cost of these benefits is recognized during the period services were provided, using the same criteria as those described for defined benefit plans. iii. Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Company before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee voluntarily accepts the termination of the work relationship in exchange for these benefits. The Company recognizes termination benefits when there is a verifiable commitment to conclude the work relationship of certain employees and a formal detailed plan providing so and that can not be surrendered. If there is an offer promoting termination of the labor relationship voluntarily by the employees, the termination benefits are valued based on the expected number of employees estimated to accept said offer. Benefits paid in a term of 12 months after the period close are discounted at their present value. iv. Short-term benefits The Company provides short-term employee benefits, which can include, wages, salaries, annual bonuses and bonuses payable over the following 12 months. The Company recognizes a provision without discount, when is it contractually obligated or when the former practice has created an obligation. v. Deferred employees’ statutory profit-sharing (ESPS) and Bonuses The Company recognizes a liability and an expenses corresponding to bonuses and employees’ statutory profit sharing when it has a legal or assumed obligation to pay benefits and determines the amount to be recognized based on the profit for the year after certain adjustments. p. Provisions Liability provisions represent a present legal obligation or a constructive obligation arising from past events, likely to require the use of resources to settle the obligation and the amount thereof has been reliably estimated. No provisions are recognized for future operating losses. Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenses expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market conditions with respect to the value of money over time and of the specific risks of said obligation. The increase in the provision over time is recognized as an interest expense. In the event of similar obligations, the probability of requiring the use of economic resources to settle said obligations is determined considering them as a whole. In such cases, the provision so estimated is recognized even though the probability of using of cash flows with respect to a specific item considered in the whole is remote. 104 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Provisions for legal claims are recognized when the Company has a present obligation (legal or assumed) resulting from past events, likely to require the use of economic resources to settle the obligation and the amount thereof can be reliably estimated. A reserve for restructuring is recognized when the Company has developed a formal detailed plan to conduct a restructuring, and a valid expectation is created among the affected parties, that the restructuring will take place, either for having started implementation of the plan or for having announced its main features thereof to the affected parties. q. Share-based payments The Company has compensation plans based on the market value of ALFA shares granted to certain Company directors. The conditions for granting the compensation to illegible executives includes, meeting certain metrics, such as the level of profits reached, at least 5 years seniority in the company, and others. ALFA’s Board of Directors has put together a Technical Committee to manage the plan. The board reviews the estimate of the liquidation in cash of this compensation at the year end. Payment of the plan is always subject to the discretion of ALFA management. The adjustments to said allowance are charged or credited to the statement of income. The fair value of the amount payable to employees with respect to share-based payments, which are settled in cash, is recognized as an expense, with the corresponding increase in the liability, during the period of services required. The liability is included in the Other liabilities line item and is updated on each reporting date and at the settlement date. Changes, if any, in the fair value of the liability are recognized as a compensation expenses in the statement of income. r. Capital stock Axtel’s common stock is classified as capital stock under shareholders’ equity. The incremental costs directly attributable to issuance of new shares are included in the capital as a deduction of the consideration received, net of taxes; however, the company has incurred no such costs. t. Utilidad integral La utilidad integral la componen la pérdida neta, más otras reservas de capital, netas de impuestos, las cuales se integran por los efectos de conversión de entidades extranjeras, las remediciones de obligaciones por beneficios a empleados, los efectos por el cambio en el valor razonable de los instrumentos financieros disponibles para su venta, así como por otras partidas que por disposición específica se reflejan en el capital contable y no constituyen aportaciones, reducciones y distribución de capital. u. Información por segmentos La información por segmentos se presenta de una manera consistente con los reportes internos proporcionados al Director General que es la máxima autoridad en la toma de decisiones operativas, como asignación de recursos y evaluación del rendimiento de los segmentos de operación. s. Comprehensive income Comprehensive income is comprised of net income, plus other capital reserves, net of taxes, which are comprised of the effects of conversion of foreign entities, re-measurement of obligations arising from employee benefits, the effects of the change in fair value of financial instruments available for sale, as well as other items required by specific provisions to be reflected in shareholders’ equity and which do not constitute capital contributions, reductions or distributions. AXTEL 2016 105 t. Segment reporting Segment reporting is presented consistently with the internal reports provided to the CEO, who is the highest authority for making operating decisions, assigning the resources and evaluating the operating segments’ yield. u. Revenue recognition Revenue is comprised of the fair value of the compensation received or to be received on the sale of goods and services during the normal course of operations. Revenue is shown net of the estimated amount of returns from customers, value added tax, discounts and after eliminating intercompany sales. Revenue from both domestic and international outgoing and incoming long-distance service is recognized based on the number of minutes processed by the Company, is recognized at the month end close once the service has been provided and the risks and benefits have been transferred to the customer. Revenue arising from the provision of pay television, interconnection, data transmission, Internet and local services is recognized as the services are rendered. Installation income and corresponding costs are deferred and recognized as income during the period of the contract established with the customer. Interest income is recognized when the economic benefits are likely to flow to the Company and the amount corresponding to income can be valued reliably, applying the effective interest rate. The Company recognizes income provisions at the end of each month on the basis of the use and enjoyment of services provided by the Company, taking into account the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifications set out in each agreement. Income from the sale of goods and the provision of services, when each and every one of the following conditions are met: The risks and benefits of ownership are transferred. The amount of the revenue can be measured reasonably. Future economic benefits are likely to flow to the Company. The Company retains no implication related to the property or effective control of the goods sold. Costs incurred or to be incurred in connection with the transaction can be measured reliably. Costs for the acquisition of subscribers are applied to income as they are incurred. Advances from customers Customer prepayments for pay television, interconnection, data transmission, Internet and local services are billed monthly and applied to income as Income for the period as the services are provided. The Company’s deferred charges are recorded on the basis of the commitment to provide a service to the customers. Said service is applied to income as it is provided. v. Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated dividing the earnings attributable to the shareholders by the weighted average of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, there are no effects of dilution per financial instrument potentially convertible to shares. 106 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT w. Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made of 2015 figures to ensure they are in line with the current presentation. NOTE 5 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT: The Company’s activities expose it to a number of financial risks; market risks (including exchange rate risks, interest rate risk on cash flows and interest rate risk on fair values), credit risks and liquidity risk. Risk management of the Company’s general program considers the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize the potential adverse effects of the Company’s financial performance. The objective is to protect the businesses’ financial health against the volatility of exchange and interest rates. ALFA (holding company) has a Risk Management Committee (CAR from Spanish) comprised of the Chairman of the Board, the Managing Director, ALFA’s Finance Director and a Finance executive of ALFA acting as technical secretary. The CAR supervises derivative operations proposed by the Company, in which the maximum possible loss exceeds US$1 million. This committee supports both the Executive Director and the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors. All of the derivative operations that Company intends to conduct, as well as renewal of existing derivatives, require the approval of both the Company and ALFA, as per the following authorizations program: MAXIMUM POSSIBLE LOSS US$ MILLIONS Individual Accumulated annual operation operations CEO 1 5 ALFA’S Risk Management Committee 30 100 Board of Finance Directors 100 300 ALFA Board of Directors >100 >300 a. Market Risk i. Exchange rate risk The Company is exposed to the exchange risk arising from exposure of its currency, mainly with respect to the U.S. dollar. Axtel’s indebtedness and part of its accounts payable are stated in U.S. dollars, which means that it is exposed to the risk of variations in the exchange rate of the peso to the dollar. The risk of fluctuations in the exchange rate involves changes in the value of the peso to the dollar. The Company’s interest expense on the dollar debt, stated in pesos in the Axtel consolidated financial statements, varies with the movements in the exchange rate. Depreciation of the peso gives rise to increases in the interest expense recorded in pesos. The Company records exchange gains or losses when the peso appreciates or depreciates against the dollar. Due to the fact that the Company’s monetary liabilities denominated in dollars have exceeded (and are expected to continue exceeding) Axtel’s monetary assets stated in that same currency, depreciation of the peso to the dollar will give rise to exchange losses. Based on exposure to the exchange rate at December 31, 2016, a hypothetical 5% increase/decrease in the MXN/USD exchange rate and maintaining all of the other variables constant, would result in an effect on the statement of income of ($541,790) and $515,990, respectively. AXTEL 2016 107 Following is an analysis of the Company’s exposure to the exchange risk at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The accompanying table reflects the book value of the Company’s monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency: December 31, 2016 2015 Monetary assets US$ 62,311 US$ 124,523 Monetary liabilities (586,793) (837,503) Net position (US$ 524,482) (US$ 712,980) ii. Interest rate risk and cash flow The Company’s interest rate risk is associated to its long-term loans. Variable rate loans expose the Company to interest rate risks on cash flows, which are partially offset by the cash held at variable rates. Fixed rate loans expose the Company to interest rate risks related to changes in fair value. At December 31, 2016, 95% of Axtel’s total debt generates variable interest, whereas the remaining 5% generates fixed interest rates. The Company analyzes its exposure to interest rate risk dynamically. A number of scenarios are simulated, taking into account the refinancing, renewal of existing positions, alternative financing and hedging. Based on these scenarios, the Company calculates the impact on the annual result, of a change in the interest rate determined by each simulation, using the same change in the interest rate for all currencies. The scenarios are produced only for liabilities that represent the main positions that generate the highest interest. Axtel’s results and its cash flows can be impacted if additional financing is required in the future when interest rates are high with respect to the Company’s current conditions. At December 31, 2016, if interest rates on variable rate loans were increased/decreased by 1%, the interest expense shown in income would be modified by ($203,056) and $203,828 respectively. b. Credit risk The credit risk represents the risk of financial loss for the Company, if a customer or counterpart of a financial instruments defaults on its contractual obligations, mainly in connection with accounts receivable from customers, as well as from investment instruments. Account receivables The Company is responsible for managing and analyzing the credit risk for every one of its new customers prior to setting down the terms and conditions for payment. Credit risk arises from exposure of credit to customers, including accounts receivable. If there is no independent rating in place, the Company evaluates the credit risk pertaining to its customers, taking into account the financial position, past experience and other factors such as historical lows, net recoveries and an analysis of the oldest balances and accounts receivable with reserves that are usually increased to the extent the accounts receivable increases in age. Axtel determined its provision for impairment of accounts receivable, taking into account the probability of recovery, based on past experiences, as well as current collection trends and overall economic factors. Accounts receivable are entirely reserved when there are specific collection problems, based on past experience, mass 108 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT customers are completely reserved when those accounts are past due by over 270 days, and business customers, carriers and government more than 360. Moreover, collection problems such as bankruptcy or catastrophes are also taken into account. Accounts receivable are analyzed monthly, and the provision for impairment of accounts receivable is adjusted in income. Axtel conducts an economic evaluation of the efforts necessary to initiate legal proceedings for the recovery of past-due balances. Besides Companies A and B, which are the Company’s main customers, the Company has no significant exposure to credit risk involving a single customer or group of customers with similar characteristics. A group of customers is considered to have similar characteristics when they are related parties. The credit risk concentration of companies A and B must not exceed 20% of the gross amount of monetary assets at any given moment during the year. The credit risk concentration of any other customer must not exceed 5% of the gross amount of monetary assets at any given moment during the year. Company A accounts for 5% and 12% of the Company’s total account receivable at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Additionally, income related to Company A for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 was 7% and 4%, respectively. Company B accounts for 1% and 1% of the Company’s total account receivable at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Additionally, income related to Company B for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 was 7% and 3%, respectively. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the reserve for impairment totaled $1,920,753 and $3,178,325 respectively. Axtel considers this reserve to be sufficient to cover the probable loss of accounts receivable; however, it can not ensure that it will not need to be increased. A 10% change in the amounts estimated as uncollectable would result in a change in the uncollectable expenses of approximately $118,000. Investments The Company’s policies for managing cash and temporary cash investments are conservative, which allows for minimizing risk in this type of financial asset, taking into account also that operations are only conducted with financial institutions with high credit ratings. The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk is equivalent to the total book value of its financial assets. c. Liquidity risk The Company’s finance department e Company’s liquidity requirements, ensuring that cash and investments in marketable securities are sufficient to meet operating needs. The Company regularly monitors and makes its decisions based on not violating its limits or covenants established in its debt contracts. Projections consider Company financing plans, compliance with covenants, compliance with minimum internal liquidity ratios and legal or regulatory requirements. Management’s responsibility with respect to the liquidity risk corresponds to the Company’s board of directors, which has established a general framework for proper handling of liquidity risk in the short, medium and long term. The Company manages liquidity risks, maintaining a proper level of reserves, use of credit lines from banks, and is vigilant of real and projected cash flows. The following chart analyzes the Company’s derivative and non-derivative financial liabilities grouped according to maturity from the reporting date to the contractual maturity date. Derivative financial liabilities are included AXTEL 2016 109 in the analysis if their contractual maturities are required to understand the terms of the Company’s cash flows. The figures shown in the chart are the contractual cash flows not discounted. Less than 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 5+ years December 31, 2016 Current debt $1,719,992 Suppliers, related parties and creditors 4,286,158 539,829 580,933 Non-current debt 1,456,283 11,039,101 6,033,816 1,975,554 2,500,844 Financial leases 408,965 238,992 135,681 213 December 31, 2015 Current debt $1,203,000 Suppliers, related parties and creditors 3,254,257 Current debt 1,906,966 1,006,732 2,756,149 9,860,087 Other non-current accounts payable 112,340 Financial leases 442,546 329,518 181,369 97,809 6 Convertible debt derivative instruments 65,222 The Company expects to meet its obligations with the cash flows provided by operations and/or cash flows provided by its main shareholders. 5.2 Capital risk management The Company’s objectives, in managing capital, are to safeguard its capacity to continue operating as a going concern, so as to be able to continue providing its shareholders with yields and benefits to other interested parties, as well as to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce capital costs. In order to be able to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company can adjust the amount corresponding to dividends paid to the shareholders, return capital to the shareholders, issue new shares and sell assets to reduce the debt. The Company’s capital structure includes debt, which in turn includes bank loans, financial leases, cash and cash equivalents and shareholders’ equity, which includes capital, retained earnings and reserves. Historically, the Company has invested substantial resources in capital goods to expand its operations, through reinvesting earnings. The Company has no policy in place for declaring dividends. Axtel monitors its capital based on the degree of leverage. This percentage is calculated by dividing the Company’s total debt, less cash and cash equivalents (net debt) by total shareholders’ equity and the net debt. The financial ratio of: net debt / total shareholders’ equity plus the net debt, totals 88.34% and 73.87% at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The above gives rise to leverage that meets the Company’s risk management policies. NOTE 6 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND SIGNIFICANT JUDGMENTS: Estimates and judgments are reviewed on a regular basis and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectation of future events considered reasonable under the circumstances. 110 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Long-lived assets Estimates and assumptions indicating a significant risk of giving rise to a material adjustment to the book values of assets and liabilities within the following financial year are as follows: Useful lives of property, systems and equipment The Company reviews the estimated useful lives of property, systems and equipment at the end of every annual period. The level of uncertainty in connection with the estimated useful life is related to market changes and the use of assets of service volumes and technological development. Allowance for impairment of goodwill Identification and measurement of impairment of goodwill involves an estimate of fair values. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on the decision to recognize or not an impairment charge and also on the magnitude of said charge. The Company conducts a valuation analysis with third-party assistance and considers relevant internal information, as well as other public market information. Estimates of fair value are mainly determined using discounted cash flows and market comparisons. These approaches use significant estimates and assumptions, including projected cash flows (including terms), discount rates that reflect the risk inherent to future cash flows, perpetual growth rates, determination of proper market comparables and the determination of whether or not a premium or discount should be applied to the comparables. There is a certain level of risk inherent to the estimates and assumptions that the Company believes to have considered in its valuations. However, if the current/future results differ from those estimated, a possible impairment charge can be recognized in future periods in connection with the decrease in the book value of goodwill, aside from the amounts previously recognized. See Note 12. Taxes on income The charge corresponding to income taxes is the total sum of the currently-payable and deferred tax charges and credits. One important judgment is required in the determination of the global provision for income taxes. There are many transactions and calculations due to which the final tax determination is uncertain. The Company recognizes liabilities related to the early tax audit, based on estimates as to whether or not additional taxes will be paid. Because the final tax result for these purposes differs from the amounts initially recognized, said differences will impact both currently-payable and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the period in which the determination was carried out. As part of the processes for preparation of these financial statements, the Company is required to calculate its taxes on income. This process involves estimating the current exposure to currently-payable taxes, aside from evaluating the temporary differences resulting from according the items differently, such as impairment of accounts receivable from customers, deferred assets, inventories, property, plant and equipment, accumulated expenses and unamortized tax losses, for tax and book effects. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the statement of financial position. The Company then evaluates the probability of its deferred tax assets being recovered. The Company recognizes deferred tax assets for all deductible temporary differences, to the extent the entity is likely to dispose of future tax benefits against which to apply these deductible temporary differences. The most recent projections of available earnings are used to determine future tax benefits. Commitments and contingencies The Company exercises its judgment in measuring and recognizing provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other pending claims subject to negotiation for liquidation, mediation, AXTEL 2016 111 arbitrage or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities. The Company applies its judgment to evaluate the probability that a pending claim is effective, or results in recognition of a liability, and to quantify the possible range of the liquidation. Due to the uncertainty inherent to this evaluation process, actual losses could differ from the provision originally estimated. Contingencies are recorded as provisions when a liability has probably been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. It is not practical to conduct an estimate regarding the sensitivity to potential losses, of all other assumptions have been made to record these provisions, due to the number of underlying assumptions and to the range of reasonable results possible, in connection with the potential actions of third parties, such as regulators, both in terms of probability of loss and estimates of said loss. NOTE 7 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: Cash and cash equivalents shown in the statement of financial position are mainly comprised of cash funds, bank deposits and short-term investments, all highly liquid and subject to immaterial risks related to change in value. Following is the breakdown of said balances: December 31, 2016 2015 Cash on hand and banks $ 620,862 $ 250,695 Short-term investments 826,256 2,324,527 Total cash and cash equivalents $ 1,447,118 $ 2,575,222 The credit quality of cash and cash equivalents has been evaluated using external credit ratings as reference: December 31, 2016 2015 AAA $ 825,616 $ 2,535,664 A-2 621,502 39,558 $ 1,447,118 $ 2,575,222 NOTE 8 RESTRICTED CASH: The value of restricted cash is made up as follows: December 31, 2016 2015 Current $ $ Non-current 153,040 Restricted cash $ 153,040 $ Alestra filed a complaint with the Federal Telecommunications Institute (IFT from Spanish) in connection with a dispute on the resale interconnection rates established between Alestra and Telmex and Teléfonos del Norte (“Telnor”, a subsidiary of Telmex). After the deposit described in Note 28, restricted cash represents the trust balance over applicable disputes for 2008 and 2010 and is shown in the statement of financial position under Non-current assets. 112 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 9 TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET: Trade receivables and other accounts receivable are comprised as follows: December 31, 2016 2015 Current: Trade receivables $ 5,049,799 $ 5,632,981 Allowance for impairment of trade receivables (1) (1,920,753) (3,178,325) Trade receivables, net 3,129,046 2,454,656 Taxes recoverable 859,477 597,262 Advances to suppliers 52,648 Notes and other accounts receivable 57,354 103,699 Related parties 20,949 $ 4,066,826 $ 3,208,265 Noncurrent: Other account receivable $ 8,642 $ 128,613 (1) Following is an analysis of the movements pertaining to the allowance for impairment of trade receivables: 2016 2015 Initial balance (January 1) $ 3,178,325 $ 3,021,130 Cancellation of accounts receivable (a) (1,571,426) Allowance for doubtful accounts for the year 209,930 154,621 Increase from merger 103,924 Effect of variations in exchange rates 2,574 Final balance (December 31) $ 1,920,753 $ 3,178,325 To determine the recoverability of accounts receivable, the Company considers any change in the credit quality of account receivable from the date on which the credit is granted to the date of the financial statements. The credit risk concentration is moderate due to the number of customers and the fact that they are not related. a. During 2016, the Company canceled $1,571,426 bad debts from customers that were already entirely impaired and reserved, as a result of which, said cancellation had no impact on the Company’s financial position or results in 2016. Trade receivables and account receivable include unimpaired past-due balances of $1,367,754 and $2,130,827 at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 2016 2015 1 to 30 days $ 284,656 $ 1,367,447 30 to 90 days 365,489 137,680 90 to 180 days 251,947 187,707 Over 180 days 465,662 437,793 $ 1,367,754 $ 2,130,827 At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the maximum risk inherent to accounts receivable is their book value. AXTEL 2016 113 At December 31, 2016, customer credit quality, net of the allowance for impairment, is evaluated as follows: Massive Low Risk < 60 days $ 279,115 Medium Risk 61-180 days 43,072 High Risk > 180 days 149,401 $ 471,588 Business Low Risk < 90 days $ 1,121,811 Medium Risk 91-270 days 101,735 High Risk > 270 days 200,035 $ 1,423,581 Government Low Risk < 180 days $ 963,594 Medium Risk 181-360 days 164,960 High Risk > 360 days 105,324 $ 1,233,878 Total $ 3,129,047 NOTE 10 INVENTORIES: Inventories are analyzed as follows: December 31, 2016 2015 Materials and consumables $ 109,145 $ 52,725 Other 243 344 $ 109,388 $ 53,069 The cost of inventories applied to income and included in the cost of sales was of $207,441 and $197,173 for 2016 and 2015, respectively. For the period at December 31, 2016 and 2015, damaged, slow-moving and obsolete inventory was recognized in the cost of sales in the amount of $558 and $12,047, respectively. At December 31, 2016 and 2015 there were no inventories given in guarantee. NOTE 11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT: Movements of property, plant and equipment for the period at December 31, 2016 and 2015 are analyzed as follows: 114 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT AXTEL 2016 115 Telecommunications Office Buildings network equipment For the period ended Thursday, December 31, 2015 Net book value $113,289 $9,291,648 $61,835 Additions 846,170 42 Transfers 1,679,472 3,051 Disposals (14,975) Depreciation charges recognized in the year (14,286) (2,384,172) (15,396) Ending balance $99,003 $9,418,143 $49,532 At December 31, 2015 Cost $263,659 $37,181,970 $260,627 Accumulated depreciation (164,656) (27,763,827) (211,095) Ending balance $99,003 $9,418,143 $49,532 For the period at December 31, 2016 Net book value $99,003 $9,418,143 $49,532 Merger-related acquisitions (Note 2) 719,865 4,550,467 43,965 Effect of conversion 3,292 Additions 620,061 44 Transfers 179,201 2,104,885 4,210 Disposals (100,405) (2) Depreciation charges recognized in the year (30,500) (3,059,965) (22,095) Ending balance $967,569 $13,536,478 $75,654 At December 31, 2016 Cost $1,163,254 $53,627,218 $482,638 Accumulated depreciation (195,685) (40,090,739) (406,984) Ending balance $967,569 $13,536,479 $75,654 116 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Depreciable assets Non-depreciable assets Computer Transportation Leasehold Investments in equipment equipment improvements Land process Total $2,209,728 $29,589 $77,248 $167,331 $1,010,874 $12,961,542 2,410 1,985,452 2,834,074 153,436 19,654 21,615 (1,877,228) (74) (227) (813) (16,089) (111,562) (16,795) (21,137) (2,563,348) $2,251,528 $34,631 $77,726 $167,331 $1,118,285 $13,216,179 $3,839,082 $374,327 $451,809 $167,331 $1,118,285 $43,657,091 (1,587,554) (339,696) (374,083) (30,440,912) $2,251,528 $34,631 $77,726 $167,331 $1,118,285 $13,216,179 $2,251,528 $34,631 $77,726 $167,331 $1,118,285 $13,216,179 189,656 16,167 45,110 314,305 690,045 6,569,580 3,292 8,277 2,901 2,753,883 3,385,166 198,424 13,151 8,060 6 (2,507,937) (665) (2,486) (34,492) (138,050) (257,039) (20,850) (26,267) (3,416,716) $2,390,181 $43,514 $104,628 $481,642 $2,019,783 $19,619,451 $4,665,963 $408,448 $587,635 $481,642 $2,019,783 $63,436,581 (2,275,782) (364,934) (483,006) (43,817,130) $2,390,181 $43,514 $104,628 $481,642 $2,019,783 $19,619,451 Assets under financial lease include the following amounts in which the Company acts as lessee: December 31, 2016 2015 Cost capitalized financial leases $ 1,370,389 $ 1,105,952 Accumulated depreciation (675,255) (324,633) Carrying value, net $ 695,134 $ 781,319 AXTEL 2016 117 Projects in process mainly include telecommunications network equipment to extend the Company’s infrastructure and the capitalization period thereof is approximately twelve months. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company capitalized $27,770 and $44,223, respectively, of loan costs related to rateable assets of $858,114 and $831,303. These amounts were capitalized based on an interest rate of 6.09% and 10.14%, respectively. Of the depreciation expense for 2016 of $3,416,716 ($2,563,348 in 2015), $3,095,736 ($2,322,537 in 2015) was recorded in the cost of sales and in selling and administrative expenses of $320,980 ($240,811 in 2015). NOTA 12 CRÉDITO MERCANTIL Y ACTIVOS INTANGIBLES: Los movimientos de activos intangibles para el periodo al 31 de diciembre de 2016 y 2015 se analizan como sigue: Defined-life Relations Concessions trademarks with customer Opening balance at January 1, 2015 $144,022 $$Amortization charges recognized during the year (40,321) Ending balance at December 31,2015 $103,701 $$Cost 681,713 Accumulated amortization (578,012) Ending balance at December 31, 2015 $103,701 $$December 31, 2015 Opening balance at January 1, 2016 $103,701 $$Additions 6,858 40,000 Acquisition via merger (Note 2) 18,824 38,255 220,412 Disposals Amortization charges recognized during the year (46,105) (14,139) (15,191) Ending balance at December 31, 2016 $83,278 $64,116 $205,221 Cost 707,395 78,255 220,412 Accumulated amortization (624,117) (14,139) (15,191) Ending balance at December 31, 2016 $83,278 $64,116 $205,221 118 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Defined life Indefinite life Obligations to do and not Software and Other defined s to do licenses life Goodwill Total $$$29,934 $$173,956 (8,636) (48,957) $$$21,298 $$124,999 183,226 864,939 (161,928) (739,940) $$$21,298 $$124,999 $$$21,298 $$124,999 809,793 99,791 3,592 960,034 285,834 115,011 488,232 1,166,568 (219,051) (92,123) (26,265) (412,874) $590,742 $293,502 $113,636 $488,232 $1,838,727 809,793 385,625 301,829 488,232 2,991,541 (219,051) (92,123) (188,193) (1,152,814) $590,742 $293,502 $113,636 $488,232 $1,838,727 AXTEL 2016 119 Company concessions Its concessions allow the Company to provide local basic telephone service; national long-distance service, the purchase or rent of network capacity for the generation, transmission or reception of data, signals, text, script, images, voice, sound and any other type of information; rent of digital circuits; restricted TV and audio service. The Company’s principal concessions are as follows: • Sole concession for commercial use for the purpose of providing any type of telecommunications and/or radio broadcasting that is feasible to be provided, granted for a 30-year period, expiring in 2046. • Public telecommunications network concession granted for data transmission via satellite, granted for a 30-year period, expiring in 2042. (*) • Public telecommunications network concession granted for the provision of local telephone service, as well as national and international long-distance service, granted for a 30-year period, expiring in 2026. (*) • Public telecommunications network concession granted for the provision of point-to-multipoint microwave connection services, granted for a 20-year period, expiring in 2018. (*) • Public telecommunications network concession granted for the provision of service for fixed or mobile wireless access, granted for a 20-year period, expiring in 2018. (*) (*) In November 2016, the Company obtained authorization to consolidate these concession into the Sole Concession for commercial use. • Public telecommunications network concession granted to Avantel, to offer local and international long-distance service for a 30-year period, expiring in 2025. • Public telecommunications network concession granted to Avantel, to offer basic local telephone service for a 30-year period, expiring in 2029. Concession under renewal • In 1998, Alestra obtained two concessions for the use, leasing and exploitation of frequency band pertaining to the radio-electric spectrum to provide capacity to establish point-to-point microwave connections and three point-to-multipoint concessions covering Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara. The concessions are for 20 years as from 1998 and are amortized based on said period by the straight-line method. • Concessions for a number of frequencies pertaining to the radio-electric spectrum granted to Axtel in 1998 for a 20-year period, renewable for additional periods of 20 years, provided the Company meets all of its obligations and the new conditions set forth in the law, and agreements are reached with respect to any condition imposed by the Federal Telecommunications Institute (IFT from Spanish). The Company provides services, under an added value plan, which are authorized independently from said concessions, such as: Internet access. In this regard, the Company expects the concessions to be extended, for which the IFT will require payment in advance of the corresponding consideration, which will be set taking into account, among other criteria, the bandwidth of the frequencies of the radio-electric spectrum under concession, the geographic coverage of the concession and the services that can be provide in said bands. 120 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT The Company must comply with the new conditions issued in this regard by the IFT. Current conditions are: i. Submitting a request at the IFT within a year prior to the start of the last fifth of the term of the concession; ii. Meeting the licensee’s obligations in the terms of the Federal Telecommunications and Radio Broadcasting Law (LFTR from Spanish) and other applicable regulations, and the concession title; iii. Acceptance, by the Concession holder, of the new conditions for renewal thereof, as per the provisions of the IFT. To date, the IFT has established no amount for the corresponding compensation, and has not yet determined the aforementioned conditions to be met. Revenue from concessions under renewal amounts to 8.4% of income for 2016. During 2013, 2014 and 2015, the Company has submitted a request to the IFT to extend the concessions for the use and exploitation of frequency bands pertaining to the radio-electric spectrum. In the event said concessions are renewed, this will not be considered an additional period in the amortization of prior concessions. It should be mentioned that this situation is not particular to the Company, but rather, of all licensees having obtained a concession for the use and exploitation of frequency bands pertaining to the radio-electric spectrum in 1998, 1999 and 2000. Telecommunications network capacity consists of the right to use fiber optics, contracted with a private party on December 10, 2012 for a 10-year period. One of the indefinite-life intangible assets held by the Company is goodwill, which has been assigned to the Business segment. The rest of its intangible assets are of defined life. Of the $412,874 and $48,957 amortization expense, $53,224 and $41,838 was recorded in the cost of sales; and $359,649 and $7,119 in administration and sales expenses, in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill is comprised of the value paid in excess of the book value of net assets and liabilities of $488,232, which were allocated to the business segment. At the date of issuance of these financial statements, no signs of impairment have been identified. Following are the percentages used for the companies’ goodwill. S&C G-Tel Estratel Estimated gross margin 20.0% 7.5% 24.0% Growth rate 1.3% 3.3% 12.6% Discount rate 5.5% 5.5% 5.5% AXTEL 2016 121 NOTE 13 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS: December 31, 2016 2015 Investment in shares of associated company $ $ 8,212 Rental of Connections 51,311 65,878 Guarantee deposit 68,237 49,628 Other 85,757 4,080 Total other non-current assets $ 205,305 $ 127,798 NOTE 14 SUPPLIERS AND OTHER ACCOUNTS PAYABLE: The Suppliers and other accounts payable line item is comprised as follows: December 31, 2016 2015 Current Suppliers $ 3,183,091 $ 2,676,819 Related parties 680,546 Value added tax and other federal and local taxes payable (see Note 3) 990,198 582,066 Accrued expenses payable 668,917 577,438 Other 122,684 57,343 $ 5,645,436 $ 3,893,666 Noncurrent: Other $ $ 112,340 Related parties 985,975 Total $ 985,975 $ 112,340 NOTE 15 PROVISIONS: Litigios Reestructuración (1) Otros Total At December 31, 2014 $$$$Additions 89,000 101,100 190,100 Payments At December 31, 2015 $$89,000 $101,100 $190,100 Additions 50,620 514,600 565,220 Additions under merger 31,937 31,937 Payments (556,510) (101,100) (657,610) At December 31, 2016 $50,620 $79,027 $$129,647 Provisions at December 31, 2016 and 2015 are short term. (1) Provisions due to restructuring include indemnities to obtain efficiencies. 122 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 16 OTHER LIABILITIES Other liabilities at December 31, 2016 and 2015 is comprised as follows: December 31, 2016 2015 Current: Deferred Income $ 1,022,605 $ 509,415 Total $ 1,022,605 $ 509,415 The variations in the year of deferred income are as follows: 2016 2015 Starting balance $ 509,415 $ 729,768 Increases 1,235,772 616,466 Applied to income for the year (722,582) (836,819) Ending balance $ 1,022,605 $ 509,415 NOTE 17 BORROWINGS: December 31, 2016 2015 Bancomext $ 3,867,268 $ Banco Nacional de México, S. A. (a) (b) 1,500,151 130,000 BBVA Bancomer, S. A. (a) (b) (c) 1,418,643 Banco Mercantil del Norte, S. A. (a) (b) (c) 1,418,643 JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. (c) 1,095,192 Banco J. P. Morgan, S. A. (a) 404,959 Banco Santander (México), S. A. (a) (c) 1,500,151 Bank of America, N. A. (c) 1,239,840 ING Bank, N. V. Dublin Branch (c) 1,239,840 Export Development Canada (a) (c) 1,176,445 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (c) 702,576 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (México), S. A. (a) 370,549 Mizuko, Bank, Ltd. (c) 826,560 Comerica Bank (c) 826,560 HSBC México, S. A. (a) 1,058,712 Scotiabank Inverlat , S. A. (a) (c) 705,808 Sabcapital, S. A. de C. V., SOFOM, E. R. (a) (b) (c) 471,318 Morgan Stanley senior Funding, Inc. (a) 441,130 Banco Monex, S. A. (a) (c) 194,565 BBVA Bancomer, S.A. de C. V. 400,000 Unsecured notes 12,024,160 Financial leasing with Telmex (1) (3) 400,137 385,968 Other financial leases (2) (3) 303,399 535,423 Accrued interest payable 132,815 545,208 Issuance costs (180,812) (93,945) Total debt 21,514,449 13,526,814 Current portion of debt (1,028,588) (1,050,864) Non-current debt $ 20,485,861 $ 12,475,950 AXTEL 2016 123 (a) Unsecured syndicated loan Tranche A MXP (b) Unsecured syndicated loan Tranche B MXP (c) Unsecured syndicated loan Tranche B USD (1) Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU) lease entered into with Teléfonos de México, S. A. B. de C. V. for an approximate amount of $708,041 expiring in 2019. (2) Financial leases entered into with banking institutions at approximate rates of 6% for those denominated in U.S. Dollars and the interbank interest rate (TIIE from Spanish) plus 3% and 5.5% for those denominated in pesos, with maturities ranging from 1 to 3 years. (3) Non-bank borrowings. At December 31, 2015 and 2007, unsecured notes were comprised as follows:: 2015 Principal of US$50,400, at an interest rate of 7 5/8 %, maturing in 2017, with interest $ 867,173 payable semiannually, Principal of US$101,700, at an interest rate of 9%, maturing in 2019, with interest 1,750,417 payable semiannually. Principal of US$544,600, at an initial interest rate of 7% that would increase to 9%, 9,371,572 maturing in 2020, with interest payable semiannually. Principal of US$22,200 of convertible notes at an interest rate of 7% that would increase 45,856 to 9%, maturing in 2020, Interest was payable semiannually. (*) Discount on the issuance of notes, arising from unsecured notes payable at an initial (19,462) interest rate of 7% that would increase to 9%, maturing in 2020. Premium on issuance of debentures, arising from unsecured notes payable, at an 8,604 interest rate of 9%, maturing in 2019. Total $ 12,024,160 (*) The holders of the convertible bonds could opt to convert the notes in American Depository Shares (“ADSs”) or in Certificate of participation (COPs). See Note 2b. Moreover, the overall unsecured notes were liquidated as part of the redemption mentioned in Note 2. 124 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Los términos, condiciones y valores en libros de la deuda no circulante son los siguientes: At December 31, Interest rate Periodicity of Payment Country Currency contractual Effective maturity of interest 2016 2015 Bancomext México USD 3.88% 4.43% 17/01/2024 Trimestral $3,729,852 $Syndicated loan Tranche A México MXP TIIE + 2% 7.03% 15/01/2019 Quincenal 4,759,800 Syndicated loan Tranche B México MXP TIIE + 2.25% 7.26% 15/01/2021 Semestral 1,499,842 Syndicated loan Tranche B México USD EuroDolar rate+ 2.25 3.64% 15/01/2021 Quincenal 10,332,000 Unsecured notes México MXP/USD varias varias varias Semestral 12,024,160 Total bank loans 20,321,494 12,024,160 Issuance costs (180,812) (93,945) Financial leases and other 345,179 545,735 Total $20,485,861 $12,475,950 At December 31, 2016, the annual maturities of the non-current debt are as follows: 2021 2018 2019 2020 onwards Total Bank loans $137,132 $10,257,788 $5,604,750 $4,141,012 $20,140,682 Financial leases and other 214,910 130,064 205 345,179 $352,042 $10,387,852 $5,604,955 $4,141,012 $20,485,861 At December 31, 2015, the annual maturities of the non-current debt are as follows: 2020 2017 2018 2019 en adelante Total Stock certificates and bonds $867,173 $$1,750,417 $9,312,625 $11,930,215 Financial leases and other 287,680 164,214 93,841 545,735 $1,154,853 $164,214 $1,844,258 $9,312,625 $12,475,950 Costs of issuance of debentures and financing are directly attributable to issuance of the Company’s debt and are amortized according to the effective interest rate over the lifetime of the debt. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company had not unused contractual credit facilities. The fair value of the non-current debt is disclosed in Note 21. Fair values at December 31, 2016 and 2015 are based on a number of different discount rates, which fall within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Liabilities related to financial leases are effectively covered with the rights of the leased asset to be returned to the lessor in the event of default. AXTEL 2016 125 December 31, Financial leasing obligations minimum payments, gross 2016 2015 • Less than one year $358,357 $375,656 • More than a year and less than five years 345,179 545,735 Future financial charges on financial leases 79,805 125,948 Present value of liabilities from financial leases $783,341 $1,047,339 The present value of liabilities from financial leases is analyzed as follows: December 31, 2016 2015 Less than one year $408,456 $442,770 More than a year and less than five years 374,885 604,569 $783,341 $1,047,339 The most restrictive obligations to do and not to do of the debt: The Company settled its debt in unsecured notes at December 31, 2015 in February 2016, due to which, the restrictions described herein refer to the new debt. On February 16, 2016, the Company drew down on a longterm syndicated loan, in the amounts of US$500,000 y $4,787,000. Subsequently, on April 13, an additional draw down was made in the amount of $1,500,000. The loan and debt issuance agreements currently in effect contain restrictions for the Company, mainly to comply with certain financial ratios, delivery of financial information, keeping accounting records and book, compliance with the applicable laws, rules and provisions. Failure to comply with said requirements within a specific term to the satisfaction of the creditors could be considered a cause for early termination. The financial ratios to be complied with include the following: a. Interest hedge ratio (to be calculated in dollars at the average exchange rate): which is calculated by dividing: the operating profit (loss) before depreciation, amortization and expenses related to “adjustment events” (such as a merger) by the interest expense (excluding interest expenses related to “adjustment events”) for the last four quarters of the period under analysis. This factor can not be less than 2.75 times during the first 18 months after the date on which control is exercised and no less than 3.0 times from that point on. b. Leverage ratio (calculated in dollars at the average exchange rate for the year, except for the net debt, which is the exchange rate prevailing at year end): which is arrived at by dividing the net consolidated debt (current and non-current debt, net of debt issuance costs, less unrestricted cash and cash equivalents) by the operating profit (loss) before depreciation, amortization and expenses related to “adjustment events” (such as a merger) for each quarter. At December 31, 2016 and up until December 31, 2017, this factor can not exceed 4.25 times. From March 31, 2018 to June 30, 2018, this factor must not exceed 3.75 times; and from September 30, 2018 to the end of the contract, this factor must not exceed 3.5 times. 126 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT The obligations to do and not to do contained in the loan agreements establish some obligations, conditions and certain exceptions that require or place restrictions on the Company’s ability to: Grant lien on assets; Conduct operations with affiliates; Conduct a merger in which the Company is dissolved, unfavorable sale of assets; and Pay dividends At December 31, 2016 and at the date of issuance of these financial statements, the Company and its subsidiaries had duly complied with the obligations set down in the loan agreements. NOTE 18 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS: Defined contribution plans: The Company has a defined contribution plan. According to the structuring of this plans, the cut down on labor liabilities is reflected progressively. The Company has established irrevocable trust funds for payment of the defined contributions plan. Due to the changes made in the 2014 tax reform, the Company interrupted deposits to the trust; however, it has preserved this benefit and recognized labor obligations of $160,118 at December 31, 2016. Defined benefit plans: Valuation of defined benefit plans is mainly based on the number of years of service completed by Company employees, their age and estimated compensation at retirement. Following is a summary of the main financial information pertaining to said employee benefits: December 31, Obligations in the statement of financial position arising from: 2016 2015 Pension benefits (1) $302,399 $28,231 Medical benefits at retirement 4,520 Liabilities in the statement of financial position $306,919 $28,231 Re-measurements from accumulated employee benefit obligations applied to other comprehensive income $25,167 $1,404 (1) Up until February 15, 2016, the Company recognized seniority premiums. Pension-related benefits The Company operates defined benefit pension plans related to pensionable compensation and the duration of the service. AXTEL 2016 127 Movements in the defined benefit obligation are as follows: December 31, 2016 2015 Present value of obligations equal to the liability in the statement of financial position $302,399 $28,231 Movements in the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2016 2015 At January 1 $28,231 $25,128 Present cost of current service 8,066 3,336 Financial cost 8,353 1,665 Remediation: Loss from changes in financial assumptions 27,226 1,182 Cost of past services 2,719 (3,079) Benefits paid (3,392) Liabilities acquired in merger 116,168 Changes to plan (See Note 23) (*) 137,321 Reductions (22,193) At December 31 $302,399 $28,231 (*) Effect arising from homogenization of personnel benefits with those offered by ALFA.. The amounts shown in the statement of income are as follows: 2016 2015 Current cost of service $8,066 $3,336 Financial cost 8,353 1,665 Cost of past services 2,719 (3,079) Changes to plan 137,321 Effect of reduction (22,193) Total $134,266 $1,922 The main ranges of the actuarial assumptions for Mexico were as follows: December 31, 2016 2015 Discount rate 6.75% 6.75% Future salary increase 5.25% 4.25% Health care inflation rate 7.50% -% The average lifetime of defined benefit obligations is 32.28 and 33.99 years at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 128 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT The sensitivity analysis of the principal assumptions for defined benefit obligations was as follows: Impact on defined benefit obligations Change in Increase in Decrease in assumption assumption assumption Discount rate 1.0% Decreased by ($1,150) Increased by $885 The above-mentioned sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption, while all other assumptions remain constant. In practice, this is not likely to happen, and there may be changes in other correlated assumptions. When calculating the sensitivity of pension plans to principal actuarial assumptions, the same method has been used as if it involved calculation of liabilities pertaining to pension benefit plans recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position. The methods and type of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis suffered no changes with respect to the prior period. Post-employment health care benefits The Company operates post-employment health-care benefit plans. The accounting method, the assumptions and frequency of the valuations are similar to those used for defined benefits in pension plans. These plans are not funded. The amounts recognized in the statement of financial position were determined as follows: December 31, 2016 2015 Present value of obligations equal to the liability in the statement of financial position $4,520 $The movements of post-employment health-care benefits are as follows: 2016 2015 At January 1 $$Present cost of current service 128 Financial cost 409 Liabilities acquired in merger 6,094 Losses (gains) from changes in financial assumptions (2,059) Benefits paid (52) At December 31, $4,520 $ The amounts shown in the statement of income are as follows: 2016 2015 Current cost of service $128 $Financial cost 409 Cost of past services Total included in personnel costs $537 $ AXTEL 2016 129 Associated risks With respect to its defined benefit pension plan and its health-care plan, the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are as follows: Changes in the discount rate A decrease in the discount rate would give rise to an increase in obligations under the plans. Inflation risk Some of the labor obligations are tied to inflation, higher inflation would give rise to an increase in plan obligations. Life expectancy Most of the obligations of the plans will result in benefits to be received by the members thereof; therefore, an increase in the life expectation would result in an increase in plan obligations. NOTE 19 DEFERRED TAXES: Following is an analysis of the deferred tax asset and liability, on a net basis: At December 31, 2016 2015 Deferred tax asset: To be recovered at more than 12 months $3,037,830 $1,808,845 To be recovered within 12 months 1,018,943 426,624 4,056,773 2,235,469 Deferred tax liability: To be covered at more than 12 months (10,318) To be covered within 12 months (10,318) Deferred tax asset net $4,046,455 $2,235,469 Gross movements in the deferred tax on income account are as follows: 2016 2015 At January 1 (Note 3) $2,235,469 $1,806,710 Credit to statement of income 1,556,866 428,537 Merger 242,203 Taxes receivable related to other components of comprehensive income 11,917 222 At December 31 $4,046,455 $2,235,469 130 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Movements in the deferred income tax asset during the year are as follows: Assets (liabilities) At December 31, 2016 2015 Unamortized tax losses $2,797,686 $1,682,858 Allowance for doubtful accounts 591,444 469,257 Property, plant and equipment 1,012,748 295,775 Provisions and other 481,128 387,443 Intangible assets and other 153,908 Deferred tax asset $5,036,914 $2,835,333 Property, plant and equipment (54,416) Telephone concession rights (15,905) (28,554) Long-term debts (549,342) (549,342) Intangible assets and other (370,796) (21,968) Deferred tax liability (990,459) (599,864) Deferred tax asset, net $4,046,455 $2,235,469 The movements in temporary differences during the year are as follows: Balance at Applied to other Balance at December 31, Applied to Increase from comprehensive Dec. 31, 2015 income merger income 2016 Unamortized tax losses $1,682,858 $1,111,685 $3,143 $$2,797,686 Allowance for doubtful accounts 469,257 15,367 106,820 591,444 Property, plant and equipment 295,775 716,973 1,012,748 Intangible assets and other (9,417) 163,325 153,908 Provisions and other 387,443 (22,249) 104,017 11,917 481,128 2,835,333 1,812,359 377,305 11,917 5,036,914 Telephone concession fees 28,554 (12,649) 15,905 Long-term debts 549,342 549,342 Property, plant and equipment (80,686) 135,102 54,416 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 11,257 (11,257) Intangible assets and other 10,711 360,085 370,796 599,864 255,493 135,102 990,459 Deferred tax asset $2,235,469 $1,556,866 $242,203 $11,917 $4,046,455 AXTEL 2016 131 Balance at Applied to other Balance at December 31, Applied to Increase from comprehensive Dec. 31, 2014 income merger income 2015 Unamortized tax losses $1,257,927 $424,931 $$$1,682,858 Allowance for doubtful accounts 498,990 (29,733) 469,257 Property, plant and equipment 312,239 (16,464) 295,775 Provisions and other 366,192 21,029 222 387,443 2,435,348 399,763 222 2,835,333 Telephone concession fees 40,466 (11,912) 28,554 Long-term debts 549,342 549,342 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 28,123 (16,866) 11,257 Intangible assets and other 10,707 4 10,711 628,638 (28,774) 599,864 Deferred tax liability $1,806,710 $428,537 $$222 $2,235,469 The deferred income tax asset arising from unamortized tax losses is recognized when the existence of future tax profits is probable and realization of the related tax benefit is permitted. The Company recognized a deferred tax asset of $4,046,455 for 2016 and $2,235,469 for 2015, of which the asset from tax losses arising from a remaining and incurred amount of $2,797,686 for 2016 and $1,682,858 for 2015, which can be amortized against future tax profits. Tax losses at December 31, 2016 expire in the following years: Year of expiration Amount 2017 2018 $381,363 2019 2020 18,715 2021 1,693,985 2022 y posteriores 9,184,996 $11,279,059 NOTE 20 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY: At December 31, 2016, the Company’s capital stock was $10,233,841 and was comprised of 19,229’939,531 Class “I”, Series “B” common nominative shares, with no par value, entirely subscribed and paid in. At that date, all series “B” shares issued by the Company were placed in a trust (CPO Trust). As a result of the merger mentioned in Note 2.1., the following, among other matters, were approved: a) issuance of 97,750,656 Class “I”, Series “A” shares and 9,571,214,832 Class “I”, Series “B” shares worth $3,464,252, which were subscribed by ALFA, to be subscribed by the Onexa, S. A. de C. V. shareholders, according to their shareholding interest in said company, as part of the price for the merger, when the merger went into effect, and b) issuance of 4,279,126 Class “I” Series A shares and 1,015,008,824 Class “I”, Series “B” shares, to held in the Company’s treasury, free of preferred subscription rights, as these shares were issued as part of the price of the merger, to be delivered to ALFA. If it becomes necessary, as per 132 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT the adjustment that is the object of the transaction’s Confirmatory Agreement, without the need to make additional contributions, and will be considered paid as per the terms of said agreement. The shares held in the Company’s treasury can not be represented or voted at shareholders’ meetings, and will confer no corporate or economic rights. Following is an analysis of the effect of the merger on the company’s shareholders’ equity: Capital Fusion Stock reserve Total Issuance of shares (see Note 2) $3,464,252 $3,385,870 $6,850,122 (*) Difference between the fair value and shareholders’ equity of Onexa (3,482,023) (3,482,023) Transfer to the reserve (128,491) 128,491 Indemnification (see Note 2) (983,747) (983,747) Financial liability (see Note 2) (246,396) (246,396) $3,335,761 ($1,197,805) $2,137,956 (*) Corresponds to the fair value of shares issued for merger mentioned in Note 2a., taking into account the estimated unit price thereof at the date of the merger, which totaled $6,850,122. During 2016, the $90,000 reserve set up for the repurchase of shares was canceled. Moreover, during 2016 and 2015, conversion options were exercised totaling $36,094, equivalent to 104,833,887 shares and $133,644 equivalent to 388,180,282 shares, respectively. In light of the above, through agreements adopted at the July 21, 2016 extraordinary general shareholders’ meeting, the following matters among others, were approved: (i) the pertinent changes in capital stock arising from the conversions exercised or, if applicable, not exercised by the holders of the obligations convertible to shares; (ii) cancellation of 182’307,349 Class “I”, Series “B” shares, not subscribed or paid in, which had been deposited in the Company’s treasury to backup conversion of convertible debentures, the holders of which exercised no conversion rights in this regard, or consequently, the authorized capital stock reduction; and (iii) consolidation in a single series of all shares currently comprising the capital stock, through conversion of the Series “A” shares to Series “B” shares, with the same characteristics as those current outstanding. At December 31, 2015, the Company’s capital stock was $6,861,986 and was comprised of 9,456,140,156 shares, entirely subscribed and paid in. The Company’s shares were divided into two classes: Class “I”, representing the minimum fixed portion of the capital stock, and Class “II” representing the variable portion of the capital stock. The shares pertaining to the two classes, “I” and “II”, offer their holders the same economic and corporate rights (the only different being those rights that can be conferred as per the applicable law, to the holders of shares that form part of the variable portion of a Variable Capital Publicly Traded Stock Company. Each of the classes had two series: Series “A” and “B”, both indistinct and providing their holders the same corporate and economic rights. The shares had no par value. Of the total number of shares, 97,750,656 were Class “I” Series A and 9,358,389,500 were Class Series B. At December 31, 2015, the Company had issued no Class “II” shares (either series “A” or series “B”). At December 31, 2015, all series “B” shares issued by the Company were placed in a trust (CPO Trust). During the years ended Saturday, December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company suffered net losses of $3,599,262 and $1,732,267, respectively. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company showed an accumulated deficit of $8,486,561 and $111,074,524, respectively, and short-term liabilities in excess of current assets of $1,532,511 in 2016. At December 31, 2016, the Company had lost more than two thirds of its capital stock, a legal cause for dissolution, which any interested party may request be declared by the courts. However, the principal shareholders have expressed their intention to support the Company so as to allow it to continue in existence as a going-concern. AXTEL 2016 133 Net income for the year is subject to the legal provision requiring that at least 5% of the profit be set aside to increase the legal reserve until it reaches an amount equivalent to one fifth of the capital stock. Dividends are not subject to income tax if paid from the after-tax earnings account (CUFIN from Spanish). Dividends in excess of the CUFIN are subject to 42.86% tax, when paid out. The tax incurred is payable by the Company and may be credited against income tax for the current year or for the following two years. Dividends paid from previously taxed profits are not subject to tax withholding or additional payments. At December 31, 2016, the tax value of the CUFIN and the value of the Capital Contributions Account (CUCA from Spanish) totaled $1,235,485 and $21,964,841, respectively. In October 2013, the Senate and House of Representatives approved the issuance of a new Income Tax Law that went into effect on January 1, 2014. Among other aspects, this law establishes a 10% tax on earnings generated as from 2014, on dividends paid to residents in Mexico and abroad, and establishes that for the periods from 2001 to 2013, the net tax profit will be determined in the terms of the current Income Tax Law in the tax period in question. During November 2015, a temporary-validity article was issued, granting a tax incentive for individuals resident in Mexico subject to an additional 10% payment on distributed dividends or earnings. The incentives is applicable, provided said dividends or earnings were generated in 2014, 2015 and 2016, and were reinvested in the entity that generated said earnings, and consists of a tax credit equivalent to the amount arrived at by applying the percentage corresponding to the year of the distribution, to the dividend or earnings distributed, as shown below: Year of distribution of the dividend or profit Percentage of application to the dividend or distributed profit. 2017 1% 2018 2% 2019 onward 5% The tax credit determined is only creditable against the additional 10% income tax that the entity is required to withhold and pay. The following requirements must be met to apply the tax credit: • The entity must identify, in its books of account, the records corresponding to the earnings or dividends generated in 2014, 2015 and 2016, as well as the respective distributions. • In entity must disclose, in the notes to the financial statements, analytical information for the period in which the earnings were generated, or the dividends were reverted or distributed. • Entities whose shares are not traded in the Mexican Stock Market and who apply this incentive must opt for having their financial statements audited for tax purposes in the terms of Article 32-A of the Federal Tax Code. Entities distributing dividends or profits on shares placed among the general investing public must advise stock brokerage firms, credit institutions, investment operators, the parties distributing the shares of investment entities or any other securities market intermediaries of the period corresponding to the profits on which dividends are being paid, so that said intermediaries can withhold the respective tax. According to the procedures established in the Income Tax Law, in the event of a capital reduction, any excess of shareholders’ equity over the capital contributions account is accorded the same tax treatment as dividends. 134 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: a. Financial instruments per category The book values of the financial instruments per category are comprised as follows: At December 31, 2016 Activos y pasivos Accounts receivable financieros a and payable valor razonable at amortized con cambios en Total cost income categories Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents $1,447,118 $1,447,118 Restricted cash 153,040 153,040 Trade receivables and other accounts receivable, net 3,207,349 3,207,349 Financial instruments (zero strike call) $152,978 152,978 Non-current account receivable 8,642 8,642 Total financial assets $4,816,149 $152,978 $4,969,127 Financial liabilities: Current debt $1,028,588 $1,028,588 Suppliers, related parties and sundry creditors 4,286,158 246,396 4,532,554 Non-current debt 20,485,861 20,485,861 Other non-current accounts payable 985,975 985,975 Total financial assets $26,786,582 $246,396 $27,032,978 AXTEL 2016 135 At December 31, 2015 Activos y pasivos Accounts receivable financieros a and payable valor razonable at amortized con cambios en Total cost income categories Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents $2,575,222 $2,575,222 Trade receivables and other accounts receivable, net 2,358,355 2,358,355 Financial instruments (zero strike call) $378,099 378,099 Non-current account receivable 127,798 127,798 Total financial assets $5,061,375 $378,099 $5,439,474 Financial liabilities: Current debt $1,050,864 $1,050,864 Suppliers, related parties and sundry creditors 2,676,819 2,676,819 Non-current debt 12,475,950 12,475,950 Derivative instruments (convertible debt) 65,222 65,222 Other non-current accounts payable 112,340 112,340 Total financial assets $16,315,973 $65,222 $16,381,195 b. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The amounts shown for cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other accounts receivable, other current assets, trade payables and other accounts payable, current debt, current provisions and other current liabilities approximate their fair value given the short span of their terms. The net book value of these accounts represents the expected cash flow. Following are the book and value and estimated fair value of financial assets and liabilities valued at their amortized cost: At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2015 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value Financial assets: Non-current receivable $8,642 $8,310 $128,613 $122,489 Financial liabilities: Bank loans 20,458,910 19,525,014 Unsecured notes 11,989,865 11,989,134 Other liabilities 703,536 658,793 921,391 945,706 Indemnification (*) 983,747 983,747 Estimated fair values were determined on a discounted cash flow basis, and these fair values are considered Level 2. These fair values do not consider the current portion of financial assets and liabilities, as the current portion closely resembles its fair value. (*) The fair value of the indemnification closely resembles its book value due to the term and interest-rate terms. See Note 27. 136 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT c. Financial instruments and derivative financial instruments Financial instruments At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company has entered into Over the Counter (OTC) transaction agreements with Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BAML) and Corporativo GBM, S.A.B. de C.V. (GBM) denominated “Zero Strike Call” or options, at a price closely resembling zero. The asset underlying these instruments is the market value of Axtel’s CPOs. The contracts signed prior to October 2016 can only be settled in cash. As from that date, the term of the contracts yet to be settled was extended and as a result of this negotiation, the settlement method can be in cash or in shares, as opted by the Company’s. The original term of these contracts is 6 months and can be extended by mutual agreement between the parties; however, as this is an American type option, the Company can exercise it at any given time prior to the date of maturity. According to the contracts, in the option is taken for payment in cash, the amount to be settled will be calculated as per the following formula: Number of options per option right per (reference price exercise price). Where: Number of options = determined in the contract Right of option = defined as 1 “share” per option, defining “share” as Bloomberg Code AXTELCPO MM. Reference price = “The price per share that GBM receives upon settling the position of the hedges thereof, under commercially reasonable terms, discounting commissions and taxes”. Exercise price = 0.000001 pesos The company determined the classification and measurement of these contracts as financial assets at fair value with changes in income. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the lending position of the options represents the maximum amount of their credit exposure, as shown below: National Contract Type of Fair value Counterparty amount start date underlying asset 2016 2015 Bank of America Merrill Lynch 30,384,700 2010 y 2009 CPO’s Axtel $106,954 $264,348 Corporativo GBM, S.A.B. de C. V. 13,074982 2015 y 2014 CPO’s Axtel 46,024 113,751 $152,978 $378,099 For the year ended December 31, 2016, the changes in fair value of the Zero Strike Calls gave rise to an unrealized loss of 225,121 (unrealized profit of 221,182 at December 31, 2015), recognized in comprehensive financing income, in the Changes in fair value of financial instruments line item, net. During 2015, the Company paid a premium of $34,918. AXTEL 2016 137 Following is a summary of the fair value hierarchy by which financial instruments and derivative financial instruments: At December 31, 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets: Zero strike calls 152,978 $$$152,978 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities arising from the merger (see Note 2) $$246,396 $$246,396 At December 31, 2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets: Zero strike calls $378,099 $ $$378,099 Financial liabilities: Convertible bonds $65,222 $65,222 d. Hierarchy of fair value The Company has adopted the standard that establishes a three-level hierarchy to be used upon measuring and disclosing the fair value. Classification of an instrument within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of the significant data used in valuation thereof. Following is a description of the three levels of the hierarchy: Level 1 Price quoted for identical instruments in an active market. The fair value of financial instruments negotiated in active markets is based on market price quoted at the closing date of the balance sheet. A market is considered active if the quotes are clear and regularly available through a stock exchange, trader, broker, industry group, price setting services, or regulatory agency and those prices currently and regularly reflect the market transactions in conditions of independence. Level 2 Prices quoted for similar instruments in active markets; prices quoted for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets; and valuations through models where all significant data are observable in active markets. The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximize the use of information observable in the market when it is available and is based as little as possible on specific Company estimates. If all of the significant data entered and required to measure an instrument at fair value are observable, the instrument is classified at Level 2. Level 3 Valuations conducted through techniques where one or more of the related significant data are not observable. This hierarchy requires the use of observable market data when available. In its valuations of fair value, the Company considers relevant and observable market information, to the extent possible. If one or more of the significant data is not based on observable market information, the instrument is included in Level 3. 138 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 22 EXPENSES ACCORDING TO THEIR NATURE: The cost of sales and selling and administration costs classified according to their nature are comprised as follows: Year ended December 31 2016 2015 Cost of service (1) $2,747,613 $1,765,628 Employee benefit expenses (Note 26) 2,958,216 1,939,545 Maintenance 1,667,790 1,123,856 Depreciation and amortization 3,829,589 2,618,567 Advertising expenses 169,736 182,978 Energy and fuel consumption 273,001 198,325 Travel expenses 69,199 42,765 Operating leases 1,107,916 904,230 Technical assistance, professional fees and administrative services 126,934 48,922 Other 358,977 299,018 Total $13,308,971 $9,123,834 (1) The cost of services consists mainly of interconnection costs and costs related to implementation of IT solutions, including: • Charges related to leased lines, normally paid on a per-circuit basis per month to Telmex and to other suppliers of last-mile access. • Cost of interconnection, including charges for local access and resale, paid on a per-minute basis mainly to Telmex. • International payments to foreign operators on a per-minute basis to complete international calls originating in Mexico. NOTE 23 OTHER (EXPENSES) INCOME, NET: Other income and expenses for the period at December 31, 2016 and 2015 is comprised as follows: Year ended December 31, 2016 2015 Merger-related expenses (1) ($ 835,200) $Disposals of property, plant and equipment due to damage and obsolescence (52,795) (Loss) profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (4,483) 113,734 Other income (expenses), net 54,749 (551,055) Total other expenses, net ($837,729) ($437,321) (1) Corresponds mainly to $514,630 of staff compensation, $137,300 to adoption of the retirement benefit plan and $183,270 to other merger-related expenses (mainly fees for professional services). See Note 2.a. AXTEL 2016 139 NOTE 24 FINANCIAL INCOME OR LOSS, NET: Financing income and costs for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 is comprised as follows: Year ended December 31, 2016 2015 Financial income: Interest income on short-term bank deposits $19,738 $30,192 Financial assets at fair value applied to income 221,182 Other financial income 4,643 6,737 Financial income, excluding exchange gains 24,381 258,111 Exchange gains 210,124 438,658 Total financial income $234,505 $696,769 Financial expenses: Interest expense on bank loans ($775,668) ($42,474) Expense related to prize for early cancellation (Note 2b) (758,064) Financial assets at fair value applied to income (225,121) Interest expense on unsecured notes (221,944) (1,165,094) Expenses related to other interest and commissions (2,472) Financial expenses related to employee benefits (6,492) Embedded derivative instrument (71,318) (57,475) Other financial expenses (41,021) (28,741) Total financial expenses, excluding exchange loss (2,102,100) (1,293,784) Exchange loss (2,988,804) (2,097,724) Total financial expenses (5,090,904) (3,391,508) Financial profit or loss, net ($4,856,399) ($2,694,739) NOTE 25 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES: Year ended December 31, 2016 2015 Wages, salaries and benefits $2,448,479 $1,599,088 Social security dues 421,205 285,554 Employee benefits (Note 19) 8,914 5,800 Other dues 79,618 49,103 Total $2,958,216 $1,939,545 140 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 26 INCOME TAXES FOR THE YEAR: Year ended December 31, 2016 2015 Currently-payable tax: Tax incurred on income for the period ($97,048) ($61,305) Deferred tax 1,556,866 434,499 Adjustment with respect to prior years 11,888 Income tax charge to income $1,471,706 $373,194 The reconciliation between the statutory and the effective income tax rates is as follows: 2016 2015 Pretax loss ($5,070,968) ($2,105,461) Equity in earnings of associated companies recognized by the equity method 5,189 5 Loss before equity in associated companies (5,065,779) (2,105,456) Statutory rate 30% 30% Tax at statutory rate 1,519,734 631,637 (Plus) less the effect of taxes on: Tax effect of inflation 105,895 4,023 Non-deductible items (249,064) (192,040) Other differences, net 95,141 (70,426) Total reserve for taxes on income applied to income $1,471,706 $373,194 Effective rate 29% 18% The charge / credit of tax related to the components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 2016 2015 Tax Tax charged/ After charged/ After Pretax (credited) taxes Pretax (credited)) taxes Effect of translation of foreign entities $14,556 ($4,367) $10,189 $ $ $ Remediation of employee benefit obligations (25,167) 7,550 (17,617) (1,404) 222 (1,182) Deferred tax ($10,611) $3,183 ($7,428) ($1,404) $222 ($1,182) NOTE 27 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES: The transactions with related parties for the year ended December 31, 2016 conducted at market values were as follows: AXTEL 2016 141 31 de diciembre de 2016 Loans received from related parties Date of Accounts Accounts expiration Interest receivable payable Amount Interest Currency DD/MM/YY rate Holding company (2) $ $246,396 MXN 14/07/17 N/A Holding company $ $ $413,280 $12,605 USD 15/07/17 3% Holding company (1) $ 287,300 MXN 28/02/18 TIIE +2.25% Holding company (1) $ 287,300 MXN 28/02/19 TIIE +2.25% Holding company (1) $ 204,574 USD 28/02/18 TIIE +2.25% Holding company (1) $ 204,574 USD 28/02/19 TIIE +2.25% Affiliates 20,949 $8,034 2,228 229 USD Libor 3M+2,75% Total $20,949 $1,238,178 $415,508 $12,834 (1) Indemnification (see Note 2). (2) Merger-related financial liabilities (see Note 2). Income from sales and other to related parties Year ended December 31, 2016 Services Interest Dividends Other Holding company $ $ $ $ Affiliates 131,060 Associated companies Total $131,060 $ $ $ Cost of sales and other expenses with related parties. Years ended December 31 Other Administrative costs and Dividends Interest services expenses paid Tenedora $10,093 $2,317 $ $ Afiliadas 1,458 31,287 Asociadas Total $11,551 $2,317 $31,287 $ Additionally, as mentioned in note 2a., during 2016, $809,793 was paid corresponding to obligations to do and not to do. For the year ended December 31, 2016, compensation and benefits paid to the Company’s main officers totaled $245,506 ($259,368 in 2015), comprised of base salary and benefits required by law, complemented by a program of variable compensation basically based on the Company’s results and by the market value of ALFA shares. The principal transactions with related parties for the years ended on December 31, 2015 are as follows: 142 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Rent expense $34,860 Installation service expenses 18,020 Other 2,705 Salaries payable to related parties at December 31, 2015 included in the Accounts payable line item are as follows: Short-term accounts payable GEN Industrial, S.A. de C.V. * $131 Neoris de México, S.A. de C.V. * 598 Total $729 *Main administrative services. NOTE 28 CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS: At December 31, 2016, the commitments and contingencies pertaining to Axtel and its subsidiaries were as follows: I. Contingencies Disagreements related to Interconnection with other mobile operators. a. Radiomóvil Dipsa, S. A. de C. V. (Telcel). i. The Company (Axtel and Avantel) signed transaction agreements with Telcel in 2015 that covered the period from January 1, 2005 to April 4, 2014, under which the parties agreed to terminate their disputes related to mobile interconnection rates generated during that period. ii. Rates corresponding to mobile interconnection services provided by Telcel to the Company as from April 5, 2014 to date are subject to gratuitousness conditions stipulated in article 131 of the LFTR. Telcel contested said condition; however, no ruling has yet been handed down by the Supreme Court of Justice of Mexico. Therefore, at December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company and its advisors consider that the gratuitousness conditions will prevail as per the favorable resolutions obtained, as a result of which, the Company has recognized the cost based on said rates and there are no reserves related to this contingency. b. Telefónica Group i. The Company (Axtel and Avantel) signed transaction agreements with Telefónica Group covering the period from 2005 to 2011, under which the parties agreed to terminate their disputes related to mobile interconnection rates generated during that period. ii. For 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, the Federal Telecommunications Institute (IFT from Spanish) resolved interconnection disagreements with the Company, reducing the interconnection rates for termination services involving mobile service users. Given the results of other litigation procedures regarding interconnection rates in the mobile network, in February 2016, the Company and Telefónica Group signed the agreements for termination of disputes related to interconnection rates. AXTEL 2016 143 Alestra entered into settlement agreements with Telefónica Group for the period from January 1 2007 to July 31, 2016, with the period from August 1 to December 31, 2016 yet to be determined by the courts. The rates used for payment of compensation for said period are those resolved by the IFT in other cases, and based on the results of the litigation process, no changes are expected. Therefore, at December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company and its advisors consider that the rates will prevail as per the favorable resolutions obtained, as a result of which, the Company has recognized the cost based on said rates and there are no reserves related to this contingency. c. Iusacell Group (now AT&T) i. For 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, the IFT resolved interconnection disagreements with the Company, reducing the interconnection rates for termination services involving mobile service users. ii. In 2015, the Company (Axtel) signed transaction agreements for the aforementioned periods, except for 2012 and 2013, because the IFT’s resolution that set the rates is under litigation at the specialized courts. For said years, the company obtained a favorable sentence in July 2016, as a result of which, the Second Specialized Collegiate Court confirmed the rates set by the IFT. iii. Iusacell Group contested the IFT’s resolution for 2015 and in July 2016, the Company (Axtel) obtained a favorable fist instance sentence confirming the rates. At present, no ruling has yet been handed down by the Specialized Collegiate Court with respect to the new motion for review filed by Iusacell. iv. Alestra has on-going litigation at the specialized courts regarding interconnection rates with Iusacell for 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 and wit ATT for 2015 and 2016, for which no ruling has yet been handed down. Therefore, at December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company and its advisors consider that the rates pertaining to the IFT resolutions will prevail, as a result of which, the Company has recognized the cost based on said rates and there are no reserves related to this contingency. d. Disagreements on interconnection with Telmex & Telnor. i. For the periods from 2009 to 2014, the Company (Axtel) obtained favorable definitive sentences confirming that rates for termination of long-distance calls from the Company to Telmex set by the Federal Telecommunications Commission (“Cofetel”). For 2009, 2012, 2013 and 2014, Telmex filed legal actions contesting the rates set by Cofetel. ii. Additionally, there is a disagreement between Telmex and Avantel regarding the rates for terminating long-distance calls that the Cofetel resolved in favor of Avantel for 2009, approving a rate reduction. Telmex contested this resolution at the courts, and the related sentence is expected to be handed down shortly. iii. In May 2011, Cofetel also approved a reduction in the rates for termination of long-distance calls for 2011. Telmex contested this resolution before the SCT; however, the appeal was dismissed. Telmex filed a new appeal with the Federal Court of Justice for Administrative Matters, sentence pending. iv. In August 2015, the IFT set the interconnection rates to be paid by Telmex to the Company for local origination. Telmex obtained a first-instance sentence protected by the Eightieth Transitory article of the Federal Telecommunications and Radio Broadcasting Law (LFTR) (for the two different rates per period). Telmex filed an appeal which was sent to the Supreme Court of Justice to determine the constitutionality of said transitory article. 144 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT v. For 2015, the IFT set the interconnection rates to be paid by Telmex to the Company for fixed termination. Telmex contested said resolution and the gratuitousness imposed by article 131 of the LFTR regarding termination in its network. No ruling has yet been handed down by the Supreme Court in this regard. vi. Alestra is a party in litigation with Telmex for interconnection rates applicable from 2008 to 2013, except 2009, as Telmex contested the reduction of rates set by the Cofetel. There is a trust with BBVA Bancomer (as trustee) to guarantee payment of fixed interconnection services in the dispute applicable to 2008. This trust agreement was amended to include the amounts in dispute from 2009 to 2010. In April 2013, Alestra obtained a favorable sentence for 2009, and was awarded a refund of the amount deposited in the trust for that year, plus interest, for a total $290.6 million pesos, for a resulting balance at December 31, 2016 of $153.0 million. (See Note 8). vii. As from April 2012, Alestra and Telmex resumed negotiations and given the most recent and reliable information and the market conditions, the resale interconnection rates have changed prospectively based on Alestra Management’s analysis and judgment. Alestra continues its negotiations with Telmex and the parties are expected to reach an agreement in the near future. viii. In April 2015, the IFT set the interconnection rates for termination of long-distance calls in the Telmex network to be applied by Alestra from 2013 to 2015. Telmex contested the injunction trial Alestra obtained a favorable sentence for 2015 and the trials pertaining to the other years are soon to be resolved. ix. Under the LFTR, as from August 13, 2014 and during the time they remain as preponderant agents in the telecommunications sector, Telmex and Telcel are forbidden to charge the interconnection rates for termination of calls that end in their network. During 2016, IFT began a process for review of the measures of preponderance imposed on América Móvil as holding company for Telmex and Telcel. A number of different scenarios can arise from this review, such as: i) that the measures imposed on Telmex and Telcel be either entirely or partially eliminated; ii) that the existing measures be modified; or iii) that they are confirmed. If the asymmetric regulation imposed on Telmex and Telcel is softened and/or eliminated, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. At December 31, 2016, the preponderant agent status of Telmex, Telnor and Telcel remained unchanged. At the date of issuance of the financial statements, the Company and its advisors consider that the rates pertaining to the IFT and Cofetel resolutions will prevail as per the favorable resolutions obtained, as a result of which, the Company has recognized the cost based on said rates and there are no reserves in the books of account related to this contingency. Likewise, the process for review of the preponderance measures is still ongoing. Litigation between Axtel and Solution Ware Integración, S. A. de C. V. (“Solution Ware”) i. The Company (Axtel) and Solution Ware participated in seven projects with the Government of Nuevo León, the Department of Labor And Social Welfare, The Department of Social Development, The National Population Registry, the National Forest Commission, Seguros Monterrey and the Government of the State of Tamaulipas. To date, Solution Ware has filed a number of ordinary commercial lawsuits against the Company, for payment of a number of purchase orders for administrative services, as well as interest, damages and lost profits, as well as legal costs. At the date of these financial statements, Solution Ware has demanded, via commercial notary public, payment of $91,776 and $US12,701. At the date of issuance of the financial statements, the Company and its advisors consider there is no real probability that these lawsuits will prosper and therefore, no reserves were set up in this regard. AXTEL 2016 145 While the results of the disputes can not be predicted, at December 31, 2016, the Company does not believe there are any actions to be applied, or threats, claims or legal procedures against the Company, which, if determined adversely for the Company, would significantly damage, whether individually or in the aggregate, its financial position and/or operating results. Other contingencies The Company is a party to a number of lawsuits and claims arising from the normal course of its operations, which Management does not expect will have a significant adverse effect on its financial position or results of future operations. Reserves were set up in connection with these contingencies. II. Commitments The Company has commitments related to lease agreements, mainly in connection with office space, that qualify as operating leases. The minimum future payments added, corresponding to non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within 1 year $7 62,194 After 1 year but not exceeding five years 2,451,428 After 5 years 5,110,650 NOTE 29 FOREIGN CURRENCY POSITION: At February 21, 2017, date of issuance of the audited financial statements, the rate of exchange was 20.41 nominal pesos to the US dollar. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company has the following foreign currency assets and liabilities: At December 31, 2016 At December 31, 2015 Mexican Mexican Dollar (US) Pesos Dollar (US) Pesos Monetary assets $62,311 $1,287,601 $124,523 $2,141,796 Liabilities: Current (84,604) (1,748,248) (127,022) (2,184,778) Non-current (502,189) (10,377,242) (710,481) (12,220,273) Foreign currency position ($524,482) ($10,837,889) ($712,980) ($12,263,255) 146 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT NOTE 30 SEGMENT REPORTING: Up until 2015, the Company considered itself to operate in a single business segment. Management formerly evaluated the business by dividing the information into two types of revenue (mass market and business); however, in 2016 and 2015, it was not possible to attribute individual costs to each of them, either directly or indirectly. During 2016, as a result of the merger mentioned in Note 2 a., the information provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), two additional segments were incorporated: Consumption and Government, to the segment in place in 2015. The information per segment for 2015 was reformulated for comparative purposes. At present, the information used in strategic decision making is reported to the CODM based on three operating segments. The approach of the tree operating segments is as follows: The Massive operating segment offers the consumer and small-business markets communication products and services. The Business operating segment offers communication services and added value services, such as information, data and Internet technologies, managed through the Company’s network and infrastructure, both for multinational companies and international and national businesses. The Government operating segment offers communication services and added value services, such as information, data and Internet technologies, managed through the Company’s network and infrastructure, for the federal, state and municipal governments. Aside from the three operating segments focusing on customers, the Company’s remaining operations are included in the “Unallocated expenses” category to be applied to the Company’s consolidated income. The “Unallocated expenses” category includes expenses related to the group’s centralized functions, including acquisitions, chain of supply and the entity’s management. These operating segments are managed separately, as the products and services offered and the markets where they are located are different. Resources are allocated to the operating segments considering the strategies defined by the Company’s Management. Operations between operating segments are conducted at market values. The operating segments’ performance is measured on the basis of the Business Unit Contribution (BUC) defined as the each operating segment’s operating profit, including sales, costs per segment and the segment’s direct expenses, as included in the internal financial reports reviewed by the CODM. The Company determines the adjusted EBITDA as the result of adding depreciation and amortization; and impairment of merger assets and expenses, to the operating (loss) profit. This is considered a useful measurement of the business’s operating performance, as it provides a significant analysis of the commercial performance, by excluding specific items reported separately due to the nature or incidence. Interest income or expenses are not allocated to the reporting segments, as this activity is handled globally by the group’s central treasury. When projects are not directly attributed to a particular operating segment, the capital expense is assigned to each segment based on the rate of future economic benefits estimated as a result of the capital expense. AXTEL 2016 147 Following is the consolidated financial information pertaining to the information segments: I. Analytical information per segment 2016 Mass Business Government Sales per segment $3,129,580 $8,783,843 $2,023,897 Cost of service (436,820) (1,579,947) (730,846) Expenses (1,098,137) (905,408) (242,768) Business Unit Contribution (BUC) $1,594,623 $6,298,488 $1,050,283 51% 72% 52% Unallocated expenses Adjusted EBITDA Impairment of non-current assets Merger-related expenses Depreciation and amortization Operating (loss) profit Financial gain (loss), net Equity in the results of associated company Income taxes Net consolidated loss 148 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Total Mass Business Government Total $13,937,320 $3,316,104 $4,242,215 $2,592,119 $10,150,438 (2,747,613) (448,381) (1,032,026) (819,461) (2,299,868) (2,246,313) (1,103,005) (292,033) (137,390) (1,532,428) $8,943,394 $1,764,718 $2,918,156 $1,635,268 $6,318,142 64% 53% 69% 63% 62% (4,435,190) (3,110,292) 4,508,204 3,207,850 (52,795) (835,200) (3,829,589) (2,618,567) (209,380) 589,283 (4,856,399) (2,694,739) (5,189) (5) 1,471,706 373,194 (3,599,262) (1,732,267) II. General information a. Sales of service 2016 2015 Voice $4,236,979 $3,844,266 RA (Networks under Administration) 3,046,351 2,976,006 DI (Internet data) 4,209,462 1,901,650 Video 499,726 375,122 Administrative Applications 215,042 265,573 Hosting 586,149 269,899 Systems Integration 573,475 197,428 Security 322,680 226,854 Cloud Services 125,474 7,086 Other services 121,982 86,554 Total $13,937,320 $10,150,438 b. Per geographic segment Sales per geographic zone 2016 2015 Mexico $13,865,436 $9,859,514 Outside Mexico 71,884 290,924 Total $13,937,320 $10,150,438 AXTEL 2016 149 NOTE 31 -SUBSEQUENT EVENTS: In preparing the financial statements, the Company has evaluated events and transactions for subsequent recognition or disclosure thereof at December 31, 2016 and up to February 21, 2017 (date of issuance of the financial statements), and has concluded there are no subsequent events that would affect said statements, except for the following relevant subsequent event that has no effect on the records in the financial statements at December 31, 2016: On November 17, 2016, the consortium ALTAN Redes, S. A. P. I. de C.V. (“ALTAN”), won the international request for tenders put out by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation, for construction and operation of the Shares Network. The Company will hold a 4% shareholding interest in ALTAN, representing an investment of US$30,000, of which US$1,000 was payable in cash in January 2017 and the remainder through a service provision plan. In this regard, Axtel will not only be a shareholder, but will also provide telecommunications and IT services to ALTAN. However, because it is a telecommunications service licensee, the Company will have no significant influence on the ALTAN operation. In light of the above, its interest will be effected through the acquisition of a special series of shares with no voting rights, mostly contributing services and capabilities. With respect to ALTAN, on January 17, 2017, through its Agency for Promotion of Investments in Telecommunications (PROMTEL), the Ministry of Communications and Transportation and the IFT granted ALTAN a concession title for commercial use as a wholesale shared network, for a 20-year term as from the date of the award. At present, the Company is working with ALTAN to subscribe the agreement requiring that Axtel provide services for up to a minimum of US$29,000. We trust that by month end, said agreement was subscribed by both parties. Dr. Sergio Rolando Zubirán Shetler Lic. Adrián de los Santos Escobedo Ing. Manuel Ramírez López Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Corporate Controller 150 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT AXTEL 2016 151 T o Axtel the year 2016 was very different to previthe indicators proposed in the Global Reporting Inious years; we started operations as a new entitiative (GRI) guide in its G4 version, with the Essenty due to the merger with Alestra, which brought tial compliance option and verified by e3 Consultora more complex challenges and different opportunities Ambiental. to face, that without a doubt we were able to cope. In this report, we do not present historical inforDespite the change, we maintained our commitmation or reformulations of data presented in previment to transparently report our annual results in the ous reports since Axtel is a new company. We also not areas of corporate governance, society, environment, include information about other entities, companies and finances through Axtel’s Integrated Annual Report or institutions, nor of shareholders, customers or busi2016. ness partners. The important organizational changes The document, comprising the period from Janupresented during this period are specified throughout ary 1st to December 31, 2016, was prepared following the document. G4-13, G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-32, G4-33 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX GRI G4 (ESSENTIAL COMPLIANCE) G4 Page Description Direct response STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 3 Statement from de most senior decision-maker of the organization, such as CEO, about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the strategy for addressing it. G4-2 3 Key impacts, risks and opportunities. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization. Axtel, S.A.B MEMORY PARAMETERS de C.V. G4-4 7 Primary brands, products and services. G4-5 7 Location of the organization's headquarters. G4-6 7 Countries where the organization operates. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Axtel, S.A.B de C.V. G4-8 7, 56 Markets served (with geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers). G4-9 39, 56, 66 Scale of the organization, including: total number of employees, total number of operations, net sales, total capitalization and quantity of products or services provided. G4-10 39 Total number of employees by employment contract, type, gender and region. G4-11 39 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 32 Organization's supply chain. G4-13 3, 7, 152 Significant changes during the reporting period (regarding size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain). PARTICIPATION IN EXTERNAL INITIATIVES G4-14 16 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. G4-15 24, 164 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 152 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT G4-16 164 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization holds a position on the governance body, participates, provides funding, or views membership as strategic. MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 10 Entities included in the organization's consolidated financial and equivalent statements, and the entities not covered by the report. G4-18 27 Process followed to define the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. How the organziation implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 27 List of material Aspects. G4-20 27 Aspect Boundary within the organization for each material Aspect. G4-21 27 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each material Aspect. G4-22 152 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the resons for such restatements. G4-23 152 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 30 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. G4-25 30 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-26 30 Organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frecuency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. G4-27 30 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 152 Reporting period for information provided. G4-29 152 Date of most recent previous report. G4-30 152 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial). G4-31 165 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. GRI CONTENT INDEX G4-32 152 In accordance option chosen by the organization, GRI Context Index for the chosen option, and the reference to the External Assurance Report (if that is the case). G4-33 152, 161 Organization's policy and current practice regarding external assurance for the report. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. GOVERNANCE G4-34 13 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body and their responsibles about social, economic and environmental impacts. G4-35 13 Process for delegating authority for economic, social and environmental topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36 13 Executive-level positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and if the holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 17 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, social and environmental topics. G4-38 13 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. G4-39 13 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer, describing his or her function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement. AXTEL 2016 153 G4-40 13 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees. G4-41 13, 22 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed, indicating if these are disclosed to stakeholders. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY'S ROLE IN SETTING PURPOSE, VALUES, ​​AND STRATEGY G4-42 13 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, and policies. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S COMPETENCIES AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION G4-43 13 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, social and environmental topics. G4-44 13 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, social and environmental topics. Indicate whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN RISK MANAGEMENT G4-45 16 Higest governance body's role in the identification and management of impacts, risks and opportunities, and its role in the implementation of due diligence processes. Indicate whether stakeholder consultation is used. G4-46 16 Highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk management processes. G4-47 16 Frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, social and environmental impacts, risks, and opportunities. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY’S ROLE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING G4-48 Highest committee or position that reviews and approves the organization’s General sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Direction HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODY'S ROLE IN EVALUATING ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE G4-49 17 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. G4-50 22 Nature and total number of critical concerns communicated to the highest governance body, and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. REMUNERATION AND INCENTIVES G4-51 13 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives. G4-52 13 Process for determining remuneration, if consultants are involved, and if they are independent of management. G4-53 13 How stakeholders' views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration. G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid perConfidential son in each country to the median annual total compensation for all employees, information excluding the highest-paid person in the same country. G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organziaConfidential tion's highest-paid person in each country to the median percentage increase information in annual total compensation for all employees, excluding the highest-paid person in the same country. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 9, 21,22 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms, such as code of conduct or code of ethics. G4-57 22 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as help or advice lines. G4-58 22 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 154 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS G4 Page Description Direct response UN Global Compact ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-EC1 66 Direct economic value generated and distributed. G4-EC2 Risks and opportunities posed by climate change Information not available that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure. G4-EC3 39 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. G4-EC4 Financial aid received from government. Axtel has not received financial aid from the Government in any modality. Market presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Information not available compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. G4-EC6 39 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure inNot material vestments and services supported. G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts. As part of compliance with the Federal Law on Telecommunications and Broadcasting we put in place the necessary adaptations for better accessibility for users with disabilities; we also offer users in rural areas the Social and Rural Coverage and Connectivity Program, granting special rates according to the zone. Likewise, we provide services to entities such as schools, hospitals and libraries as requested by the Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes with preferential discounts, favoring connectivity and social development. Procurement practices G4-EC9 32 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Materials G4-EN1 55 Materials used by weight or volume. G4-EN2 55 Percentage of materials used that are recycled. 7y8 Energy G4-EN3 50 Energy consumption within the organization. 8 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. Information not available G4-EN5 50 Energy intensity. G4-EN6 50 Reduction of energy consumption. 8 G4-EN7 50 Reductions in energy requirements of products 8y9 and services. AXTEL 2016 155 Water G4-EN8 54 Total water withdrawal by source. 7y8 G4-EN9 54 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water. G4-EN10 54 Percentage and total volume of water recycled 8y9 and reused. Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Not material adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4-EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products, and Not material services on biodiversity in protected and of high biodiversity value areas. G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not material G4-EN14 IUCN red list species and national conservation Not material list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspecto: Emisiones G4-EN15 52 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1). 8 G4-EN16 52 Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2). 8 G4-EN17 52 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3). 8 G4-EN18 52 GHG emissions intensity. 8y9 G4-EN19 52 Reduction of GHG emissions. 7y8 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Does not apply because we do not emit ozone-depleting substances. G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. Does not apply because we do not have significant NOx and SOx emissions. Effluents and waste G4-EN22 54 Total water discharge by quality and destination. G4-EN23 55 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 8 method. G4-EN24 Number and volume of significant spills. Not material G4-EN25 55 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity Not material value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and services G4-EN27 48 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental im7 pacts of products and services. G4-EN28 55 Percentage of products sold and their packaging 8 materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance G4-EN29 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-comIn 2016 fines for non-compliance with en8 pliance with environmental laws and regulations. vironmental laws and regulations were not received. 156 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Transport G4-EN30 52 Environmental impacts of transporting products 7y8 and other goods for the organization's operations, and transporting employees. Overall G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and inNot material vestments by type. Supplier environmental assessment G4-EN32 32 Percentage of new suppliers that were examined using environmental criteria. G4-EN33 32 Significant actual and potential negative envi7y8 ronmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental imIn 2016 environmental grievances were 8 pacts filed, addressed and resolved through fornot received. mal mechanisms. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-LA1 39 Total number and rates of new employee hires and turnover by age group, gender and region. G4-LA2 39 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 6 are not provided to temporary or part-time employees. G4-LA3 39 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Labor/management relations G4-LA4 Minimun notice periods regarding operational Not material changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 43 Percentage of workers represented in formal 3 health and safety committees. G4-LA6 43 Type and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 1 lost days, absenteeism and fatalities related to work by region and gender. G4-LA7 43 Workers with high incidence or risk of disease related to their occupation. G4-LA8 43 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Training and education G4-LA9 39. 42 Average hours of training per year per employee, 1 by gender and employment category. G4-LA10 42 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support employability of workers and assist them in managing career endings. G4-LA11 42 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development revews, by gender and employee category. AXTEL 2016 157 Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 39 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by category according to gender, age group, minorities and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of womInformation not available en to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Supplier assessment for labor practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were examined Information not available in terms of labor practice. G4-LA15 32 Significant actual and potential negative imapcts 6 for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. Labor practices grievance mechanisms G4-LA16 22 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-HR1 Number and percentage of significant investNot material ment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human Information not available rights policies or procedures concerning aspects that are relevant to operations. Non-discrimination G4-HR3 22 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 1, 2, 4 y 5 corrective actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 23, 32 Operations and suppliers identified in which free1, 2 y 6 dom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. Child labor G4-HR5 23, 32 Operations and suppliers identified as having sig1, 2, 4 y 5 nificant risk of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or compulsory labor G4-HR6 23, 32 Operations and suppliers identified as having 1, 2, 4 y 5 significant risk for incidents of forced labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced labor. Security practices G4-HR7 23 Percentage of security personnel trained in pol1, 2 y 4 icies and procedures of the organization regarding human rights. 158 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Indigenous rights G4-HR8 Number of incidents of violations involving rights Not material of indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment G4-HR9 23 Total number and percentage of operations that 1 have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. Supplier human rights assessment G4-HR10 32 Percentage of new suppliers examined using hu1, 2, 3, 4, man rights criteria. 5y6 G4-HR11 32 Significant actual and potential negative hu1, 2, 3, 4, man rights impacts in the supply chain and ac5y6 tions taken. Human rights grievance mechanisms G4-HR12 22 Number of grievances about human rights imNot material pacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. SOCIETY Local Communities G4-SO1 45 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and developed programs. G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential Not material negative impacts on local communities. Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Number and percentage of operations assessed 100 percent of the operations. 10 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified. G4-SO4 23 Communication and training on anti-corruption 10 policies and procedures. G4-SO5 22, 23 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 2 y 10 taken. Public policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country Economic or in kind political contributions 10 and recipient. are not made. Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive beLegal actions for anti-competitive behavior, havior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and anti-trust or monopoly practices were not their outcomes. presented during 2016. Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of fines and number of In regulatory issues, fines or sanctions due non-monetary sanctions due to non-compliance to non-compliance with laws and regulawith laws and regulations. tions were not received. Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4-SO9 32 Percentage of new suppliers that were examined using criteria for impacts on society. G4-SO10 32 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken. AXTEL 2016 159 Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society G4-SO11 Number of grievances on society filed, adNot material dressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service catNot material egories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. G4-PR2 Number of incidents of non-compliance with Not material regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling G4-PR3 Type of prodcut and service information required Not material by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements. G4-PR4 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regNot material ulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling. G4-PR5 31 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. We do not sell banned or disputed products. G4-PR7 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regWe did not received non-compliance with ulations or voluntary codes concerning marketregulations or voluntary codes concerning ing communications, including advertising, proto marketing. motion and sponsorship. Customer privacy G4-PR8 22 Number of substained complaints regarding 1 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with We did not received fines for non-complilaws and regulations concerning the provision ance with laws and regulations concerning and use of products and services. the provision and use of products and services during 2016. 160 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT /ŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚǀĞƌŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶƌĞƉŽƌƚ  The publics of Axtel’s 2016 annual environmental information are hereby informed that͗ ZzD ^ĞƌǀŝĐŝŽƐ ŵďŝĞŶƚĂůĞƐ /ŶƚĞƌŶĂĐŝŽŶĂůĞƐ͕ ^͘͕͘ ŚĞƌĞŝŶĂĨƚĞƌ ƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚ ƚŽ ĂƐ Ğϯ ŽŶƐƵůƚŽƌĂ ŵďŝĞŶƚĂů ŚĂƐ ĐŽŵƉůĞƚĞĚ ĂŶ ŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚƌĞǀŝĞǁŽĨƚŚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĐŽŶƚĂŝŶĞĚŝŶƚŚĞƐĞĐƚŝŽŶƐŽĨǆƚĞůΖƐϮϬϭϲŽŵƉƌĞŚĞŶƐŝǀĞŶŶƵĂůZĞƉŽƌƚ͕ ǁŚŝĐŚǁŝůůďĞƉƵďůŝƐŚĞĚŽŶƐĞǀĞƌĂůǀŽůƵŶƚĂƌǇŝŶŝƚŝĂƚŝǀĞƐƉůĂƚĨŽƌŵƐƚŚĂƚƉƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞƌĞƐƵůƚƐŽĨƚŚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů/ŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐŽĨ ǆƚĞů͕^͘͘ĚĞ͘s͕͘ŚĞƌĞŝŶĂĨƚĞƌƌĞĨĞƌƌĞĚƚŽĂƐǆƚĞů͕ĨŽƌƚŚĞĨŝƐĐĂůǇĞĂƌ:ĂŶƵĂƌǇƚŽĞĐĞŵďĞƌϮϬϭϲ͘ ^ĐŽƉĞ /Ŷ ƚŚŝƐ ƉƌŽũĞĐƚ͕ Ğϯ ŽŶƐƵůƚŽƌĂ ŵďŝĞŶƚĂů ĂĐƚĞĚ ĂƐ Ă ƚŚŝƌĚ ƉĂƌƚǇ ŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚ ĨƌŽŵ ǆƚĞů͕ ĂŶĚ ǁŚŽƐĞ ƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝƐƚƐ ŚĂǀĞ ƚŚĞ ŬŶŽǁůĞĚŐĞĂŶĚƚŽŽůƐŶĞĐĞƐƐĂƌǇƚŽƌĞǀŝĞǁƚŚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ͘ƚŶŽƚŝŵĞĚŽĞƐĞϯŽŶƐƵůƚŽƌĂŵďŝĞŶƚĂůĚĞĐůĂƌĞƚŽ ďĞĂĐŽŵƉĂŶǇĐĞƌƚŝĨŝĞĚƚŽŝƐƐƵĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůĐĞƌƚŝĨŝĐĂƚĞƐ͘ dŚŝƐƌĞƉŽƌƚŵĞƌĞůǇƐĞĞŬƐƚŽŝƐƐƵĞĂƉƌŽĨĞƐƐŝŽŶĂůŽƉŝŶŝŽŶŽŶƚŚĞůŝŵŝƚĞĚƌĞǀŝĞǁĐŽŶĚƵĐƚĞĚŽĨǆƚĞůΖƐĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů ŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ͘ This report neither represent nor substitutes a certificate of the Company’s emissions inventory. ^ƵŵŵĂƌǇŽĨĐƚŝǀŝƚŝĞƐ ĞϯŽŶƐƵůƚŽƌĂŵďŝĞŶƚĂůĂƐƐĞŵďůĞĚĂǁŽƌŬƚĞĂŵŽĨƐƉĞĐŝĂůŝƐƚƐŝŶĞŶĞƌŐǇĂŶĚĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ͕ǁĂƚĞƌ͕ǁĂƐƚĞĂŶĚŽƚŚĞƌĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂů ŝƐƐƵĞƐ͘dŚĞƚĞĂŵƌĞǀŝĞǁĞĚƚŚĞĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐŝŶǀĞŶƚŽƌŝĞƐĂŶĚƚŚĞĞǀŝĚĞŶĐĞƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚďǇǆƚĞůƚŽƚŚĞŶĐŚĞĐŬƚŚĞĐĂůĐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƐŵĂĚĞ ŝŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŽŽďƚĂŝŶƚŚĞĨŝŐƵƌĞƐƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞŶŶƵĂůZĞƉŽƌƚĂŶĚŽŶƚŚĞǀŽůƵŶƚĂƌǇŝŶŝƚŝĂƚŝǀĞƐƉůĂƚĨŽƌŵƐ͘ dŽĐŽŶĨŝƌŵƚŚĞƋƵĂůŝƚǇŽĨĂƐĂŵƉůĞŽĨŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶŽŶǆƚĞůΖƐĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞ͕ƚŚĞĐŽŶĨŝƌŵĂƚŝŽŶƚĞĂŵŽŶůǇƌĞƋƵĞƐƚĞĚ ĂĐĐĞƐƐ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ƉŽůŝĐŝĞƐ ĂŶĚ ĐŽŶƐŽůŝĚĂƚĞĚ ƌĞĐŽƌĚƐ ŽĨ ŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ĐŽŶƐƵŵƉƚŝŽŶ ŽĨ ǁĂƚĞƌ͕ ĞŶĞƌŐǇ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĞ ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐ ŝŶǀĞŶƚŽƌǇŽĨϮϬϭϲ͘ dŚĞƚĞĂŵƌĞǀŝĞǁĞĚƚŚĞƚŽŽůƐƵƐĞĚƚŽŵĂŬĞƚŚĞĐĂůĐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƐƚŽĐŽŶĨŝƌŵƚŚĂƚƚŚĞĐŽƌƌĞĐƚĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶĨĂĐƚŽƌƐŚĂĚďĞĞŶƵƐĞĚ͘dŚĞ ƵƐĞŽĨƚŚĞůĂƚĞƐƚ','WƌŽƚŽĐŽůƚŽŽůƚŽĐĂůĐƵůĂƚĞĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐďǇĞŶĞƌŐǇƐŽƵƌĐĞǁĂƐĐŽŶĨŝƌŵĞĚ͘ DĞƚŚŽĚŽůŽŐŝĞƐ dŚĞƚĞĂŵƌĞǀŝĞǁĞĚƚŚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůƉĞƌĨŽƌŵĂŶĐĞŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶŝŶƚĞƌŵƐŽĨĞŶĞƌŐǇ͕ĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐĂŶĚǁĂƚĞƌŝŶĂĐĐŽƌĚĂŶĐĞǁŝƚŚ ǀĞƌƐŝŽŶ 'Z/ 'ϰof the “G4ͲEϭƚŽ'ϰͲEN31” indicators of the GuiĚĞƐƵƐĞĚƚŽƉƌĞƉĂƌĞ ƚŚĞƐƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇƌĞƉŽƌƚƐ͕ƚŚĞƉƵďůŝĐ ĐĂůĐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƚŽŽůƐƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚŝŶƚŚĞ','ͲWƌŽƚŽĐŽůĂŶĚƚŚĞEĂƚŝŽŶĂůŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐZĞŐŝƐƚƌǇΖƐ;ZEͿƌĞƉŽƌƚŝŶŐŵĞƚŚŽĚŽůŽŐǇ͘ dŚŝƐ ŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚ ǀĞƌŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ ƌĞƉŽƌƚ ǁĂƐ ƉƌĞƉĂƌĞĚ ďĂƐĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐ ƐƚĂŶĚĂƌĚƐ͗ ϭϬϬϬW^ ĂŶĚ /^ ϯϬϬϬ VERIFICATION LETTER ;ĐĐŽƵŶƚďŝůŝƚǇͿĂŶĚdŚĞǆƚĞƌŶĂůƐƐƵƌĂŶĐĞŽĨ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇZĞƉŽƌƚŝŶŐ;'ůŽďĂůZĞƉŽƌƚŝŶŐ/ŶŝƚŝĂƚŝǀĞͿ͘ ŽŶĐůƵƐŝŽŶƐ dŚĞƌĞǁĂƐŶŽĞǀŝĚĞŶĐĞƚŽƐŚŽǁĂŶǇĞƌƌŽƌƐŝŶƚŚĞĐĂůĐƵůĂƚŝŽŶƐ͘ dŚĞƌĞǁĂƐŶŽĞǀŝĚĞŶĐĞƚŽƐŚŽǁƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƚŽŽůƵƐĞĚƚŽĐĂůĐƵůĂƚĞƚŚĞĞŵŝƐƐŝŽŶƐŝŶǀĞŶƚŽƌǇǁĂƐŶŽƚƚŚĞŵŽƐƚƌĞĐĞŶƚĂǀĂŝůĂďůĞ͘    DƐ͘DĂƌŝĂŶĂDĂƌƚşŶĞǌsĂůĞƌŝŽ ^ƵƐƚĂŝŶĂďŝůŝƚǇŽŽƌĚŝŶĂƚŽƌ ĞϯŽŶƐƵůƚŽƌĂŵďŝĞŶƚĂů EKd^͘dŚŝƐǁŽƌŬĐŽǀĞƌƐĂůŝŵŝƚĞĚǀĞƌŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶĞǆĞƌĐŝƐĞĐŽŶĚƵĐƚĞĚƵŶĚĞƌƚŚĞĐŚĂƌŐĞŽĨǆƚĞůƚŚĂƚǁĂƐĐŽŵƉůĞƚĞĚŝŶ&ĞďƌƵĂƌǇϮϬϭϳ͘hŶĚĞƌŶŽ ĐŝƌĐƵŵƐƚĂŶĐĞƐƐŚĂůůƚŚŝƐǁŽƌŬďĞƵŶĚĞƌƐƚŽŽĚĂƐĂŶĂƵĚŝƚŽĨƚŚĞĨŝŐƵƌĞƐĐŽŶƚĂŝŶĞĚŝŶƚŚĞĞŶǀŝƌŽŶŵĞŶƚĂůŝŶĚŝĐĂƚŽƌƐŽƌĂŶĞǆŚĂƵƐƚŝǀĞƌĞǀŝĞǁŽĨ ƚŚĞŝŶƚĞƌŶĂůĐŽŶƚƌŽůŵĞĐŚĂŶŝƐŵƐĨŽƌƚŚĞŐĞŶĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͕ĂŶĂůǇƐŝƐ͕ĐĂůĐƵůĂƚŝŽŶĂŶĚĨŝůŝŶŐŽĨǆƚĞůΖƐŶŽŶͲĨŝŶĂŶĐŝĂůŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ͘ ĞϯŽŶƐƵůƚŽƌĂŵďŝĞŶƚĂůŝƐĂĐŽŵƉĂŶǇŝŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚĨƌŽŵǆƚĞů͘ ǀ͘/ŶƐƵƌŐĞŶƚĞƐ^ƵƌϭϲϳϯͲϰϬϱ͕Žů͘'ƵĂĚĂůƵƉĞ/ŶŶ͕Ğů͘ůǀĂƌŽKďƌĞŐſŶ͕͘W͘ϬϭϬϮϬ͕DĠǆŝĐŽ͘&͘ dĞů͘;ϱϱͿϱϲϲϭϲϮϬϬǁǁǁ͘ĞϯĐŽŶƐƵůƚŽƌĂ͘ĐŽŵ͘ŵǆ  AXTEL 2016 161 TECHNOLOGICAL CERTIFICATIONS Avaya • Platinum Partner • Small Medium Business Solution • Unified Communications Solution • Video Solution • Enterprise UC Expert Specialization • Mid Market UC Expert Specialization • Video Expert Specialization • DevConnect Cisco • Gold Certified Partner • Advanced Collaboration Architecture Specialization • Advanced Enterprise Networks Architecture Specialization • Advanced Security Architecture Specialization • Advanced Data Center Architecture Specialization • Cloud Services Reseller • Cloud and Managed Services Master • Telepresence Video Master Authorized Technology Provider (ATP) • Identity Services Engine Authorized Technology Provider (ATP) ICREA • Level IV: HS-WCQA • Level III: S-WCQA Uptime • Tier III Certification of Constructed Institute Facility • Tier III Certification of Design Documents 2016 CERTIFICATIONS BCS • Certified Energy Efficient Datacenter Award (CEEDA) Bronze Fortinet • Platinum Partner Check Point • Certified Support Provider (CCSP/CSP) • Specialization/Level: Three Stars Blue Coat • Partner Premier Soluciones de Seguridad SAP • MCaaS Partner Spamina • Partner Certificado Antispam en la Nube HP Enterprise • HP Cloud Agile Partner Trustwave • Partner Autorizado Symantec • Platinum Partner EMC • Silver Partner ITIL • Expert ITIL V3 LRQA • ISO 9001:2008 BSI • ISO 27001:2013 • ISO 20000-1:2011 IMT • Modelo Global CIC (MGCIC) Nestlé • Nestlé Responsible Sourcing Audit Plan 162 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT AXTEL EMPLOYEES’ CERTIFICATIONS In 2016, 410 of our employees were certified in several institutional tools such as Cisco, ITIL, Avaya, Microsoft, Isaca, EC-Council, ICREA, Fortinet, Check Point, Cobit, DCDynamics, Sourcefire, Blue Coat, PMI, Sonus, EMC, Suymantec, Compitia, Allot, Scrum, Meraki, Symantec, vmWire, Sun, Red Hat, Qualys, Polycom, ISO, TetraMap, 6 Sigma, TIA, ACME, and Oracle. ENVIRONMENTAL RECOGNITIONS • Transporte Limpio • Liderazgo Ambiental para la Competitividad • Programa GEI México DISTINCTIONS • Empresa Socialmente Responsable (ESR), Cemefi • CPI Sustainability Index, Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) • 1 percent Social Investment Company, Cemefi AXTEL 2016 163 • United Nations Global Compact • OECD Guidelines • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) • Programa GEI México • Programa Transporte Limpio • CANIETI (Mexican Chamber of Electronics, Telecommunications and Information Technology Industry) G4-15, G4-16 • AMIPICI (Mexican Internet Association) • CCE (Business Coordinating Council) • Nuevo León Software Council • AMCHAM (American Chamber México) ADOPTED ASSOCIATIONS AND INITIATIVES • Fiber to the Home Council • MEF (Metro Ethernet Forum) • Portability Committee, Numbering and Signage coordinated by the Instituto Federal de Telecomunicaciones • CANIETI’s National Telecommunications Advisory Council • Users Minimum Rights Letter pursuant to Art. 191 of Ley Federal de Telecomunicaciones y Radiodifusión • Guidelines for Collaboration on Justice Matters pursuant to Art. 189 and 190 of the Ley Federal de Telecomunicaciones y Radiodifusión • ––Technical specifications for 911 use implementation 164 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Cristina M. Cuéllar García SUSTAINABILITY ccuellar@axtel.com.mx Phone . +52 81 8114 1244 Nancy Llovera Tamez INVESTOR RELATIONS nllovera@axtel.com.mx Phone . +52 81 8114 1128 Julio Salinas Lombard MEDIA RELATIONS jusalinas@axtel.com.mx Phone . +52 81 8114 1144 Headquarters Blvd. Díaz Ordaz Km 3.33, L1 Col. Unidad San Pedro San Pedro Garza García, N.L. México, C.P. 66215 www.axtelcorp.mx/sustentabilidad G4-31 CONTACT INFORMATION AXTEL 2016 165
