COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From: January 21st 2017 To: December 21st 2017 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER December 21st 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that LE34 reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights • LE34 continues to ensure that employees are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work environment free from workplace harassment. Our commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact has been communicated to all employees and included in our employee manual, which governs the rights of all LE34 employees. • LE34 has taken measures to ensure leadership buy-in by including the Ten Principles in our 2020 Strategy, which involves the management across the company and requires them to include CSR goals in their respective 2018 action plans. • Our efforts to promote health and safety for all employees continue in the safety campaign Take care of my colleague. Managing Director Kenneth Norre is the campaign ambassador and is actively involved in the health and safety initiatives and in the reporting and analyses of safety issues alongside Human Resources and our internal working environment committee (AMU). The campaign has been launched by the managing director and communicates that the top management would never want an employee to expose him/herself or others to danger in order to deliver results. The campaign also include focus and reporting of near miss accidents. • LE34 is committed to contributing to responsible land governance and took part in the 18th Annual World Bank Land and Poverty Conference on March 20th to March 24th 2017 at the World Bank Headquarters in Washington D.C. Here, we reported on our thoughts and experiences on the role of the private land sector in supporting the 2030 global agenda in order to contribute to an evidence-based approach to achieving the SDG’s through proven land governance and land tenure principles. Labour • LE34 has performed control visits to sub-supplier of data processing Hitech Group in India to ensure that they comply with the Ten Principles. • LE34 does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour • LE34 complies with minimum wage standards • LE34 ensures that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. • LE34 has initiated LE34 Academy to further education for our employees and to improve the management skills of our management level employees who affect the working environment of their teams. In 2017, all team leaders and members of the management have completed their management education. • LE34 reports all occupational diseases and injuries to the national Labour Market lnsurance to promote transparency and to track development. Environment • As a consultancy, LE34 takes measures to ensure that our services affect the environment as little as possible. When we purchase new company cars, we opt for those with the least environmental impact (miles per gallon and co2 emission) • All LE34 offices comply with waste separation procedures • All cleaning agents have been replaced with green products • In 2017, we have invited one master student from the University of Aalborg to research our internal procedures in order to report to the management on how LE34 can become a more ‘green’ organization. LE34 have received a report on recommendations and will implement several of the actions. Anti-Corruption • LE34 has included the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Mention in our contracts with new business partners • LE34 ensures that internal procedures support our anti-corruption and transparency commitment 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • Leadership buy-in has been our first priority and we have actively involved local management by requesting a strategy involving the Ten Principles as well as short-term and long-term goals. This has resulted in a considerable improvement in awareness. • Demographics of employees have reached greater diversity and our local departments are continually becoming more open to recruiting non-Danish speakers as well as employees with special needs. We have always had great diversity in terms of age and gender but in these years we see a development, which includes diversity in ethnicity as well. • LE34 has become a member of the Global Compact Network Denmark and participated in the founding general assembly in 2017. • LE34 was represented by one of our young land governance experts at the UNLEASH 2017 – a global innovation network for the sustainable development goals. • Participation and speak in the 18th Annual World Bank Land and Poverty Conference on March 20 th to March 24th 2017 • Participation and speak in the FIG Conference (International Federation of Surveyors) in Finland on the 29th of May to 2nd of June 2017 to promote and encourage private companies to contribute to the SDG’s. • In 2017, LE34 has decided to sponsor the local foundation Julemærkefonden, which works to guard children from isolation, bullying and loneliness.
