2016 Compact Gute Reise! We make it happen 2016 Compact Gute Reise! We make it happen – that is our motto. In the “2016 Compact” report, we will show you the people behind this statement. The ID card is a symbol of being part of the Fraport Group and the common objective of a “Gute Reise”, which all employees are working towards. 2016 Compact 1 Foreword 2 Highlights 2016 6 Our mission statement 10 Our Group 14 Responsibility 22 Our program 28 Economic enhancement 35 Product quality and customer satisfaction 38 Economic efficiency 42 Growth and development in the Group 44 Ideas and innovation 46 Employees 51 Attractive and responsible employer 54 Contents Occupational health and safety Community 56 61 Value generation and engagement in the region 64 Noise abatement 68 Company Portrait Environment 75 Fraport USA Inc. 32 Climate protection 78 Aerodrom Ljubljana, d.o.o. 48 Conservation of nature and resources 80 Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. 58 Key figures 85 Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD 72 About this Report 93 Fraport Regional Airports of Greece 82 Imprint 94 2 Foreword 2016 Compact Foreword Dear Readers, We cannot simply be satisfied with our past success. Nevertheless, this success gives us a strong basis for coping with the changes in the aviation industry and for developing Fraport profitably in the future. Our mission is to be Europe’s best airport operator, set standards worldwide and to focus on the needs of our customers while doing so. We have summarized this in a single sentence in our new mission statement: “Gute Reise! We make it happen”. This places our customers even more strongly at the center of our activities than before. At the same time we will continue to develop our strategic direction in response to the changing environment and market conditions to ensure that Fraport is positioned for success in the aviation market over the long term. 2016 Compact Foreword 3 The trend towards the digitization of business processIn the “Aviation” section too, Fraport is responding to es is an opportunity for us to increase the efficiency of market changes by developing customized services our operations and to create new offers for our cusand the new charge table. Today, airlines expect airport tomers together with our business partners. We have operators to share in the cost of market entry when new added new products and services to the multichannel routes or stations are opened up. At the same time, platform already developed at Frankfurt Airport in the we have long been observing the trend on European past year. We are thus creating attractive, integrated routes that low-cost direct traffic is growing disprosolutions and at the same time using the synergies portionately at the expense of the established network of the digital and bricks-and-mortar business to airlines. The expansion of the low-cost segment at the strengthen profitability. We are a globally pioneering Frankfurt site is in line with what customers want and airport operator in this area, and we are delighted that ensures a growing transport offer and a wide variety our online shopping platform won the prestigious of connections. “Imagine Excellence Award” in the USA last year. 4 Foreword 2016 Compact The new charge table for Frankfurt Airport encourages the positive financial development were also made the use of low-noise aircraft even more than before. by the Group companies Lima in Peru and Twin Star To this end, airport charges based on the level of in Bulgaria, which significantly increased the relevant emissions were further increased and even more widely traffic figures and key financial figures compared to applied. An incentive program for equipping aircraft the previous year and together generated EBITDA of with a navigation technology that allows for low-noise over €150 million. In contrast, in view of the attacks in approach procedures was also launched. These and Turkey and intermittent tensions with Russia, the investother measures fulfill our responsibility towards those ment in Antalya recorded a sharp drop in traffic and who live near the airport. Together with our partners, earnings. Despite a significant decrease in passengers we continue to work hard to maintain and expand in late spring and summer, partly due to the attacks in Frankfurt Airport’s role as an international pioneer in the Belgium and France, Frankfurt Airport was again able fields of active noise abatement and noise reduction. to exceed the 60-million mark with some 60.8 million passengers, and only slightly fell short of the figure In terms of finances, the fiscal year 2016 was a thorfor the previous year, by 0.4 percent. However, cargo oughly successful one for Fraport in view of the tonnage increased by 1.8 percent to about 2.2 million difficult geopolitical environment. We generated a metric tons on the back of a stronger global economy. top performance as a result of the profitable sale of shares in the operating company of Pulkovo Airport In summary, the Fraport Group generated EBITDA of in St. Petersburg and the compensation payment €1,054 million and EBIT of approximately €694 million. from the Manila project. Particular contributions to The Group result improved significantly by almost 2016 Compact Foreword 5 »We particularly want to thank our employees in Frankfurt and around the world. Their steady, high levels of commitment, their abilities and their ideas ensure that we can generate such positive results.« 35 percent to a new record high of €400 million. The In addition to these objectives, and in terms of responsignificantly positive performance of the key financial sible corporate governance, Fraport is committed to figures is also reflected in increased value added. At complying with internationally recognized codes of approximately €169 million, this figure was approxiconduct. These include the ten principles of the UN mately €122 million above the already good level of Global Compact, to which we have been expressly the previous year. committed since 2007. In addition, Fraport is particularly committed to the UN’s Agenda 2030 and its We particularly want to thank our employees in FrankSustainable Development Goals. You will find more furt and around the world. Their steady, high levels information on the following pages about which of of commitment, their abilities and their ideas ensure these objectives we are placing a particular focus on. that we can generate such positive results. They are We hope you find this report informative and interestthe ones who ensure the successful development of ing, and we look forward to your responses. the Group airports and Group companies day in and day out and repeatedly turn in excellent performances even under adverse conditions. To maintain this performance and motivate our employees over the long term, we offer a wide range of Dr. Stefan Schulte Anke Giesen projects in the areas of professional training and health. Chairman of the Executive Director Our goal of further increasing the number of women Executive Board Operations in management positions will be applied to the entire Group in the future. Fraport aims at a proportion of 30 percent to 35 percent by no later than 2021. We are also vigorously pursuing the Group-wide goal of continuous reduction of accidents at work. The target Michael Müller Dr. Matthias Zieschang for 2020 is to have fewer than 25 accidents per 1,000 Executive Director Executive Director employees. Labor Relations Controlling and Finance We have also set ourselves new targets for CO2 reduction. Based on the Federal Government’s plans, we intend to reduce the CO2 emissions of Fraport AG at the Frankfurt site to 80,000 metric tons by 2030. This represents a 65 percent decrease compared to emissions in base year 1990. CO2 emissions are to be reduced to 0.9 kg CO2 per traffic unit (one passenger or 100 kg of cargo or mail). This would correspond to a reduction of 84 percent. 6 Highlights 2016 2016 Compact Highlights 2016 Jan Feb Mar Lufthansa’s first Airbus A320neo Award for initiative Frankfurt recognized as “International transferred to Frankfurt E-PORT AN Cargo Airport of the Year” The Airbus A320neo is one of the quietest Fraport and the Lufthansa Group are working Readers of the “STAT Trade Times Internaand most energy-efficient aircraft on short together at Frankfurt Airport to use more tional” named air cargo hub Frankfurt as the and medium-haul routes. According to the electric vehicles for aircraft handling, and best international cargo airport. The award manufacturer, the new aircraft has an almost thus make the processes on the apron more was presented at the “Air Cargo India 2016” 50 % smaller noise contour on take-off than environmentally friendly. The US trade magtrade fair in Mumbai, India. The “STAT Trade the previous model. All newly delivered azine Air Transport World (ATW) honored Times International” was founded in 1986 A320neo aircraft come equipped with vorthis commitment with the “Eco-Company and is the market leader in its field for the tex generators, which make an additional Partnership of the Year” award. In addition cargo industry. contribution to noise reduction. By the end to Fraport and Lufthansa, the state of Hesse of 2016, Lufthansa will station five of these and the “Rhine-Main Electromobility Model latest-generation aircraft in Frankfurt. Region” are part of the E-PORT AN initiative. Xi’an Airport named best regional airport in China Xi’an Xianyang International Airport in the major Chinese city Xi’an was named “Best Regional Airport in China 2016” with the prestigious “Skytrax World Airport Award”. The award is based on independent passenger surveys. 2016 Compact Highlights 2016 7 Apr May Jun Imagine Excellence Award for Multichannel Strategy and Online FRA: modernized arrivals area Shopping Concept Dividend per share of €1.35 maintained at Terminal 1 reopened Fraport was awarded the “Imagine Excellence At the 15th Annual General Meeting, the Since Easter 2015, the entire exterior area Award” for its new online shopping platform shareholders with a large majority discharged in the arrivals level of Terminal 1 has been at Frankfurt Airport. The award ceremony the Executive Board (99.96 %) and Supermodernized. The focus was on the clear was held at the “Imagine” convention in visory Board (97.12 %) for the 2015 fiscal design of the improved traffic flow of the Las Vegas, one of the largest e-commerce year. The dividend per share of €1.35 was 450-meter long covered terminal access congresses in the USA. Together with AOE, maintained. The last dividend increase dates road. In addition to the renovation of the the service provider responsible for the techback to the 2014 fiscal year. walkways and the road, more than 1,000 nical realization, Fraport took the prize in the square meters of new glass facade and 2,100 category “Best Omnichannel Experience”. square meters of metal facade were installed. 144,000 energy-saving LEDs are also used. 8 Highlights 2016 2016 Compact Jul Frankfurt Airport turns 80 On July 8, 1936, Frankfurt Airport was inaugurated at its current location with the first landing of a “Junkers Ju 52/3m”. As early as 1937, the airport had almost 71,000 passengers. In World War II, the airport was struck by approximately 2,000 bombs, which led to its almost complete destruction. After the airport was repaired and when regular passenger traffic resumed in 1950, the number of passengers grew steadily. Ten years later, the airport already had 2.2 million passengers, and in 1980 served 17.7 million air travelers. Within another 10 years, this figure doubled to almost 30 million passengers. In 2016, Frankfurt counted a total of just under 61 million passengers. Group’s own Aviation Academy at Ljubljana Airport Fraport AG opened an aviation center of Aug Sep excellence under the name “Fraport Aviation Academy” at the Group’s Ljubljana Airport. The academy is operated by Aerodrom Ljubljana d.o.o., which is Fraport’s subsidiary in Slovenia and the operating company of the airport. The establishment of the center of excellence takes account of the increased Half-year figures show solid Cooperation with Beijing Capital training and continuous education requireperformance Intl. Airport and Air China ments within the Group and by external customers. The Fraport Group recorded revenue of over In Beijing, representatives of Fraport AG, €1.2 billion in the first half of 2016. Adjusted Beijing Capital Intl. Airport and Chinese for changes in the scope of consolidation, airline Air China signed a memorandum of Investment in Pulkovo Airport reduced Group revenue increased by €19.2 million understanding. The core of the agreement (+1.6 %). Group EBITDA fell by 1.7 % to is the expansion of flight frequencies beFraport AG has agreed the sale of 10.5 % of €378.4 million. Group EBIT was €214.6 million tween Frankfurt and Beijing. In addition to the shares in Thalita Trading Ltd. with the (– 3.3 %). The slight improvement in the the coordination of joint communication Qatar Investment Authority. Thalita owns financial result and lower taxes on income led and marketing activities, the development Northern Capital Gateway, which in turn to a Group result of €99.7 million (– 3.2 %). of specially tailored passenger services for holds the 30-year operating concession Higher cash flow used in investing activities guests from each country will be intensified for Pulkovo Airport in St. Petersburg. This and one-time tax effects in the first quarter of at the Beijing and Frankfurt sites. reduced Fraport’s holding in Thalita from 2016 led to a €40.4 million decrease in free 35.5 % to 25 %. cash flow to €149.3 million. 2016 Compact Highlights 2016 9 Oct Nov Dec Compensation payments for Ryanair to fly from Frankfurt New retail subsidiary at Frankfurt terminal project in Manila starting in summer 2017 Airport Following the decision of the Supreme Court At the company’s headquarters in Frankfurt, The retail company Gebr. Heinemann SE of the Philippines, which became legally Chairman of the Executive Board Dr. Stefan & Co. KG and Fraport have agreed on the binding in April 2016, the Philippine govSchulte and Chief Commercial Officer of establishment of a joint venture “Frankfurt ernment paid compensation to the project Ryanair David O’Brien announced the comAirport Retail GmbH & Co. KG”. The new company PIATCO in connection with the mencement of passenger flights from Frankjoint venture, in which each partner holds terminal project at Manila airport. In addition, furt from the 2017 summer flight schedule. 50 %, operates 27 shops at Frankfurt Airport, Fraport sold shares in the companies in the This expands the flights on offer to include most of which are run under the brand name Philippines. Fraport AG will receive an amount flights from the largest European low-cost Heinemann Duty Free and Travel Value. Gebr. of approximately US$270 million from the provider. The initial destinations from FrankHeinemann is contributing all of its existing total transaction, of which the company will furt will be Palma de Mallorca (PMI), Alicante activities at the Frankfurt site as well as its have to repay up to approximately €40 million (ALC) and Málaga (AGP) in Spain, as well as approximately 750 employees to the new to the Federal Government in connection with Faro (FAO) in Portugal. company. a federal guarantee for investments abroad. Environment Award for Ljubljana Headcount at Frankfurt Airport rises again The Slovenian subsidiary Aerodrom Ljubljana, d.o.o. received the Environment Award from As at the reporting date of December 31, “Finance” magazine for its commitment to 2015, around 81,000 people – more than environmental protection. One of the factors ever before – were employed at the airport. in this decision that the “Green Team” jury A total of around 450 companies and instiwas especially impressed by was an annual actutions took part in the 2015 workplace and tion plan for reducing the company’s carbon employee survey. The result confirms the airfootprint. Aerodrom Ljubljana is ISO-14001 port’s position as the largest local workplace certified and has achieved Level 2 (Reduction) in Germany. A year earlier, the headcount was of the Airport Carbon Accreditation. approximately 80,000. 10 Our mission statement 2016 Compact Our mission statement Vision “Fraport – from Frankfurt to the world. international activities starts from there. We are Europe’s best airport operator and In Europe, Fraport measures itself against other set standards worldwide.” This is the new airport operators. Globally, Fraport is success­ vision for the Fraport Group. It emphasizfully expanding its network and setting es the Company’s close connection to its standards in the operation of international home site of Frankfurt. The impetus for the airports along with the associated services. Vision: Europe’s top airport operator Economically successful through Growth in Frankfurt and internationally Service-oriented airport operator optimal cooperation Fairness and recognition for partners and neighbors Learning organization 2016 Compact Our mission statement 11 The five goals are: 1. We grow in Frankfurt and internationally. Gute Reise! 2. We are a service-oriented airport operator and focus our processes on our customers. We make it happen 3. We act while keeping the entire company in view. By optimally collaborating within the Group, we remain competitive and do business successfully. 4. We are a learning organization developing in tandem with the market. 5. We treat one another, as well as our partners and neighbors, with fairness and respect. Implementation of the new mission statement At the end of 2015, the Fraport Group set our customers have a “Gute Reise”. The values To anchor the mission statement within down the guideline for future action in its misof competence, commitment, openness, relithe company, a roll-out process based on sion statement. This represents a shift towards ability, courage, and trust are the core values four pillars began in 2016: Communication, an even stronger focus on customer needs. As of Fraport culture. Five goals, the vision and the attitude change, strategic implementation a service-oriented service provider, the pronew slogan “Gute Reise! We make it happen” and monitoring. cesses and infrastructure are intended to help provide a clear orientation towards the future. 12 Our mission statement 2016 Compact »We serve our customers by successfully operating airports worldwide and providing relevant services. We create the prerequisites for international connectivity, economic growth, and prosperity.« Familiarity with the mission statement: Changing attitudes through dialog Based on the findings of the team dialogs Communication and discussions with the moderators who Team dialogs were carried out in the first provided support to the operational areas The company’s mission statement was half of 2016. Starting with the Executive in the implementation, connection concepts announced as part of a comprehensive Board, a total of more than 425 teams across are being developed in 2017. A starting point communication campaign. In addition to a all hierarchical levels Group-wide discussed is a “mission statement box” for managers. poster campaign and a film series, all means their contribution to a “Gute Reise” and the It contains cards with thematic suggestions of internal communication were continuously implementation of the mission statement in and interactive methods for further implemenused to report on the mission statement. In the working day. The purpose of the dialogs tation of the mission statement. Managers town halls, the Executive Board entered into was to trigger an effective, enduring change can select suitable themes, revise them, and a direct discussion with employees. A total in our own attitude to align with the spirit of thus move forward the joint learning and of 13 events, each with around 300 employthe mission statement. awareness processes for their teams in accor­ ees, were held during the year to discuss dance with their needs. the mission statement. The feedback was Many employees and managers viewed the mostly positive. discussion within the team dialogs as very positive. Initial skepticism and reservations Questions and concerns that employees adled to constructive discussions and creative dressed to the Executive Board were, where ideas. All of the teams documented their appropriate, passed on to the departments results – in particular the goals they set themand focal points were taken up by internal selves with regard to the mission statement. communication. The Executive Board will The results of the individual dialogs were continue to discuss the mission statement centrally evaluated and published in their with the employees in 2017. The poster entirety within the Group. This gives all emcampaign will be continued as a visible sign, ployees the opportunity to understand the as will the film series “Your contribution to a perspectives of other areas of the company good trip”. with which they work on a daily basis. 2016 Compact Our mission statement 13 Implementation at the strategic level Monitoring with the Culture Check The results of the Culture Check indicate areas of activity that are now being targeted. In 2016, approximately 50 managers from To measure the cultural change initiated with The most important points are the topics of the Group worked on the strategic direction the mission statement, an online survey on leadership/orientation, cost-consciousness/ of the company in four so-called mentor Group culture was conducted at the beadministrative expense as well as coopcircles along the five goals of the mission ginning of 2016. This “zero measurement” eration/service orientation, information statement. As a result of these mentor cirof company culture is a yardstick for future sharing and further development. Some cles, six so-called lighthouse projects were changes. Criteria for the measurement of of the lighthouse projects as defined in initiated with the aim of implementing the corporate culture were developed in advance the mentor circles are already supporting vision “We are Europe’s best airport operator and the desired target state was defined in the development of these areas of activity. and set standards worldwide.” In terms of advance. The Culture Check measures the A Group-wide survey has also shown that content, the focus of the lighthouse projects discrepancy between the actual and the numerous concepts and programs that are is also on the customer. Other focal points target culture. currently being implemented contribute to are the promotion of internal cooperation personnel and manager development. They and mutual learning. The result, with a response rate of around are now being further honed to specifically 40 %, indicates highly consistent results support the planned changes. The results of the mentor circles and the across all hierarchical levels and organizationannual strategy session of corporate manal units. It confirms that there is a high degree agement, supplemented by the findings from of recognition of the mission statement in the the lighthouse projects, feed into the further company (76 %). This recognition is greatest development of the Group strategy. among administrative employees (91%). It also meets with broad approval: 91% of the employees surveyed like the new mission statement. 77 % of employees who took part in the survey like the new slogan “Gute Reise! We make it happen”. 14 Our Group 2016 Compact From Frankfurt to the World The Fraport Group (hereinafter also referred indirectly holds the shares in the other Group Germany – and in this respect almost excluto as: Fraport) is among the leading global companies and has its head office in Frankfurt sively Frankfurt Airport – was once again the airport groups with its international portfoam Main. The Frankfurt site, including the most important site for the Group in the past lio. Fraport provides all airport and terminal subsidiaries, has 18,300 employees. Fraport fiscal year with a share of 63.7 % of the Group operation services and associated services. provides the entire range of airport and result (2015: 63.4 %). Compared with the Fraport also provides planning and conairport-related services there. previous year, the share of the Peru site rose sultancy services and has operational and from 15.5 % to 21.5 % and the share of the administrative activities. Passenger traffic, In addition to the Frankfurt site, Fraport was Bulgaria site rose from 4.8 % to 8.5 % In fiscal which impacts on a majority of the services also active at 13 further airports in 2016. year 2016, the sites in Turkey and the USA the Group provides, is key to the Group’s The most significant companies for the Group made a negative contribution to the Group revenue and earnings performance. result are the Group companies Lima, Antalya, result due to a sharp drop in passenger numTwin Star, Fraport USA Inc. (formerly AMU bers in Antalya as well as the unscheduled The Group’s business activities can fundaHoldings Inc), Ljubljana and Xi’an. Whereas depreciation and amortization in connection mentally be broken down by Group sites the Group companies Lima, Twin Star, Fraport with the Group company Fraport USA Inc. and by the services provided there. Here, USA Inc., and Ljubljana are fully consolidated the main site is Frankfurt Airport, one of the in the Fraport Group, Antalya (joint venture) biggest passenger and cargo airports in the and Xi’an (associated company) are accounted world. In contrast to time-limited airport by using the equity method. operating models, the Fraport Group parent company, Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport In April 2017, Fraport took over the 14 Greek Services Worldwide (Fraport AG), wholly regional airports and commenced their owns and operates Frankfurt Airport with operation. The airports include the mainland no time limits. With almost 10,500 employairports of Thessaloniki, Aktion, and Kavala, ees, Fraport AG, which has been stock exand the island airports of Chania on Crete, change-listed since 2001, is also the biggest Kefalonia, Kerkyra on Corfu, Kos, Mykonos, single company of the Group, which has Mytilini on Lesbos, Rhodes, Samos, Santorini, more than 20,300 employees. It directly or Skiathos and Zakynthos. Shareholder structure as at December 31, 2016 1) in % 35.19 Free float 31.32 State of Hesse 5.05 Lazard Asset Management LLC 20.00 Stadtwerke Frankfurt am Main Holding GmbH 8.44 Deutsche Lufthansa AG 1) The relative ownership interests were adjusted to the current total number of shares as at December 31, 2016 and therefore may differ from the figures given at the time of reporting or from the respective shareholders’ own disclosure. Shares below 3 % are classified under “free float”. 2016 Compact Our Group 15 »In the Supervisory Board, we regularly discuss the business development of the Fraport Group and its Group companies, with a particular emphasis on the traffic and earnings development at Frankfurt Airport. We are also closely following the expansion of the airport site to the south. The successful international involvement of Fraport AG is also a frequent topic within the Supervisory Board, as individual Group airports have to be closely monitored for particular geopolitical developments. The extension of the contracts of Dr. Matthias Zieschang and Michael Müller ensures the stable composition of the Fraport Executive Board.« Organization Fraport AG is a public limited company The Supervisory Board appoints the Execu­ Meeting takes place in the first six months of under German law – accordingly, the senior tive Board and monitors its activity. It exists each fiscal year and makes decisions on all management and control are divided up under German law and, as a result of the tasks assigned to it by law and the Group’s between three independent bodies. The size of the parent company, comprises articles of association, such as appropriation Executive Board is responsible for operational 20 members who are appointed or elected of profit, election and discharge of the Supermanagement and leads the Group. At the by shareholders and company employees in visory Board, and discharge of the Executive end of 2016, it comprised four members, equal numbers. Board. Each share provides one voting right. Dr. Stefan Schulte (Chairman), Anke Giesen (Operations), Michael Müller (Labor Relations), As an additional decision-making and control Our business activities are presented in four and Dr. Matthias Zieschang (Controlling and body, the shareholders of Fraport AG make segments: “Aviation”, “Retail & Real Estate”, Finance). use of their discussion and voting rights at the “Ground Handling”, and “External Activities & Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Services”. Segment structure Fraport Aviation Retail & Real Estate Ground Handling External Activities & Services – Airside and Terminal – Retail and Properties – Ground Services – Global Investments and Management, Corporate Management Safety and Security – Information and – Airport Security Management Telecommunication – Integrated Facility Management – Airport Expansion South – Corporate Infrastructure Management Revenue: €910.2 million Revenue: €493.9 million Revenue: €630.4 million Revenue: €551.7 million EBITDA: €217.9 million EBITDA: €368.0 million EBITDA: €34.7 million EBITDA: €433.5 million EBIT: €70.4 million EBIT: €283.6 million EBIT: – €5.5 million EBIT: €345.2 million Result contribution: > 90 % Frankfurt site > 90 % external business 16 Our Group 2016 Compact Strategy Fraport continues to guide its strategy by the Despite long-term growth forecasts, the Due to its position as an international hub, long-term forecasted development of the short-term future of aviation markets conat Fraport the aforementioned uncertainties global aviation market and its market trends. tinues to be marked by uncertainty. These particularly affect Frankfurt Airport. In Europe, Here, renowned aviation associations and primarily result from political crises, such as in there have also been shifts in passenger flows, aircraft manufacturers continue to expect Ukraine, Turkey, and the Middle East, the posmoving away from Turkey as a popular destilong-term stable growth of the aviation sible spread of epidemics and possible ternation for German tourists – Antalya Airport market. This is derived, in particular, from rorist attacks, but also from the economically has been significantly affected by this – projected global economic growth and the uncertain situations of various economies. towards alternative holiday destinations in the continuing global expansion of the middle In addition, the various companies in the western Mediterranean region. Due to the class that increases its consumption. Supair travel industry, in particular the airlines, high share of Russian-dominated traffic, porting effects continue to result from the have been negatively affected by continued the St. Petersburg, Varna, and Burgas sites are continuing internationalization of labor and intense competition, the introduction of also heavily influenced by political uncertaineducation. Increasing traffic is also forecasted national taxes, such as the German aviation ties in connection with Russia. from migration and tourism. The intense tax and labor disputes. As a result, these competition between airlines and business negative effects are resulting in a conservamodels that focus on pure transport also have tive and short-term volatile supply behavior the effect of promoting growth. This leads to of airlines. Positive and negative effects also relatively cheap ticket prices. Disproportionresult from the appreciation and depreciation ate growth is still expected from and in the of currencies as well as price fluctuations on economic emerging markets. the commodity markets. 2016 Compact Our Group 17 Integration of the mission statement Governance and compliance The modified general conditions in global area. This requires the entire company to As a company operating at a global level, air traffic influence the entire air transport place a much more in-depth focus on cusFraport bears national and international reindustry. Price wars between airlines and a tomers, whether they be passengers, airlines, sponsibility. Fraport understands compliance change in passenger travel behavior have led or shop operators. Fraport generates revenue to be the management of business activities to increased competition between airports. and its economic success from these diverse in accordance with the relevant key laws and At the same time, the quality of services as customer groups, and has incorporated these internal guidelines. The issues of compliance well as reliable and fast processes are becomchanged requirements into its Group mission and values management are brought togething increasingly important. statement “Gute Reise! We make it happen.” er in a values-based compliance management system (CMS). Thus, the preventive nature Within this scope, we have continued to The mission statement and its implemenof values management introduced in 2003 develop our corporate strategy by placing tation through the refined Group strategy enhances the overarching CMS. The commore focus on the changed framework and should help ensure that Fraport will continue mitment to compliance has been part of market conditions. The challenges for the to be one of the most important international employment contracts since 2005. future are significant: From the point of view airport operators. The Company seeks to of the passenger, airports are becoming inestablish itself as Europe’s top airport operIn addition to an internal confidant, Fraport creasingly exchangeable. Travelers can often ator, while at the same time setting global introduced an electronic whistle-blower choose between several airlines or alliances, standards. This will ensure the long-term system (BKMS® System) in 2009. An external and thus their hubs. To an increasing extent, sustainable development of the value of the ombudsperson was appointed in 2011, who they draw up their travel routes themselves company. Fraport has positioned itself as an in particular confidentially receives and legaland forgo any end-to-end offers from one attractive partner for all its customers, which ly examines tips on serious legal violations. single airline. The expansion of low-cost ensures it remains competitive. Detailed Suspected cases of compliance breaches carriers in the point-to-point market at other information on the contents can be found are processed by central case management. airports means that Frankfurt, without a correin the 2016 Annual Report, starting from Numerous communication measures and a sponding offer, is no longer the first choice for page 29. variety of on-site training as well as e-learning price-savvy passengers within its catchment courses aim to ensure prevention. 18 Our Group 2016 Compact In terms of responsible corporate gover(CMS) guideline rolled out in 2015 that is to Significant factors for supplier selection nance, Fraport has already long been combe implemented by the fully consolidated include the principles for awarding orders mitted to complying with internationally subsidiaries as a minimum requirement. based on the Act against Restraints of Comrecognized standards of behavior as listed in petition of the Federal Republic of Germany. the principles of the UN Global Compact, the When tendering, Fraport AG generally OECD Guidelines, and the ILO Core Labor Compliance with human rights guarantees compliance with national and Standards. In order to embed these rules international laws and agreements. even more strongly in the company, at the Fraport respects the cultural, ethnic, social, start of 2013 Fraport published two codes political, and legal diversity of all nations and We expect our suppliers to comply with our of conduct that require employees and supsocieties. As part of diversity management, Supplier Code of Conduct. It is a constitpliers to comply with these basic principles. we consciously make the diversity of our uent element of all tenders and contracts. employees part of our human resources Suppliers of product groups of a higher risk The Code of Conduct for Employees was strategy and organizational development. category and those from higher-risk countries revised in 2016 and covers the subjects of As the representative of the highest level in the are subject to a special review. In 2016, we compliance, working conditions, and huorganization, the Chairman of the Executive did not place any orders with companies man rights. The supplier code also contains Board is responsible for human rights issues from “countries of concern”. the aspects of environmental conservation in the Group. and climate protection. The content of the supplier code of the Fraport parent company Fraport respects the basic right of freedom has been substantially revised in terms of of association and the right to collective its effectiveness in the General Terms and bargaining agreement negotiations under Conditions in 2016. The obligations of our national agreements. Furthermore, we work business partners – including for the supply together openly in a spirit of mutual trust chain – were enhanced. An anti-corruption with democratically elected employee repclause that defines serious misconduct resentative bodies. In 2016, 99 % of Fraport (criminal offenses) has now been included in Group employees were covered by collective the revised supplier code. A breach of these agreements. can lead to the termination of the business relationship. Further, in the case of antitrust Wherever it can, Fraport supports the German violations and serious misconduct, a contracFederal Police in pursuing and combating tual penalty and flat-rate claim for damages international people trafficking at Frankfurt may be imposed. Airport, for example, by handing over raw video material in certain justified cases. Before The new supplier code is adapted to the any data are exchanged, the relevant data German legislation on general terms and protection officers are asked to review the conditions and applies in this form to the data and approve the transfer. Furthermore, Fraport parent company. It can be used by technical security systems were installed in the German investments. If these investcooperation with the German Federal Police ments do not have the power to enforce this and the German Customs Office. more stringent code with respect to their clients, the previously agreed supplier code applies. For foreign subsidiaries with other jurisdictions, the previously agreed codes of »Fraport respects the cultural, ethnic, social, political, conduct for suppliers apply. and legal diversity of all nations and societies.« The Fraport Policy forms the overarching structure for all commitments and the codes of the Group based on specific topic areas Procurement (see www.fraport.com/responsibility). The Code of Conduct reflects the values culture In 2016, Fraport’s parent company placed lived out at Fraport and provides our emorders with a total volume of around €833 ployees with a framework for dealing with million. Around 68 % of these were placed the economic, legal, and moral challenges with companies in the Frankfurt Rhine-Main of daily business life in a responsible and region; however, as a sector contractor, we correct manner. The acceptance of the are precluded from granting preference to codes of conduct is also a key element of companies in our immediate vicinity or the the Group Compliance Management System surrounding area. 2016 Compact Our Group 19 20 Our Group 2016 Compact Group airports (in which an investment of over 10 % is held) Frankfurt Ljubljana Lima Name Frankfurt Airport Name Ljubljana Jože Pucnik Name Aeropuerto Internacional Jorge Chávez Company Fraport AG International Airport Company Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. Type Group headquarters Company Aerodrom Ljubljana, d.o.o. Type Concession until at least 2031 Shares 100 % Type Group company Shares 70.01 % Employees 18,333 Shares 100 % Employees 498 Passengers 60,786,937 Employees 399 Passengers 18,844,534 Cargo (Freight + Mail) 2,113,594 metric tons Passengers 1,404,831 Cargo (Freight + Mail) 287,826 metric tons Movements 462,885 Cargo (Freight + Mail) 10,379 metric tons Movements 176,864 Movements 32,702 Hanover St. Petersburg Xi’an Name Hannover Langenhagen Airport Name Pulkovo Airport Name Xi’an Xianyang International Airport Company Flughafen HannoverCompany Northern Capital Gateway LLC Company Xi’an Xianyang Langenhagen GmbH Type Concession until 2040 International Airport Co. Type Group company Shares 25 % Type Group company Shares 30 % Employees 3,672 Shares 24.5 % Employees 671 Passengers 13,265,037 Employees 3,405 Passengers 5,408,814 Cargo (Freight + Mail) n/a Passengers 36,996,728 Cargo (Freight + Mail) 18,935 metric tons Movements 133,062 Cargo (Freight + Mail) 233,781 metric tons Movements 75,711 Movements 290,193 2016 Compact Our Group 21 Burgas/Varna Antalya Name Burgas/Varna Airport Name Antalya Airport Company Fraport Twin Star Airport Company Fraport IC Ictas Management AD Type Concession until 2024 Type Concession until 2041 Shares 51 % Shares 60 % Employees 403 Employees 1,006 Passengers 19,027,504 Passengers 4,568,478 Cargo (Freight + Mail) n/a Cargo (Freight + Mail) 14,170 metric tons Movements 124,883 Movements 35,691 Greek regional airports (e.g. Thessaloniki) Worldwide, Fraport operates airports on four continents through majority and minority investments, as well as under management contracts. As a full service provider, our portfolio includes airport operation and management, as well as consulting services for all airport-related areas such as ground services and terminal, retail, and property management. Company Fraport Greece 1) Type 40-year concession Shares 73 % Employees n/a Passengers 25,289,446 Cargo (Freight + Mail) n/a Movements 199,713 1) Fraport Regional Airports of Greece Management Company S. A. Fraport Regional Airports of Greece – A, S. A. Fraport Regional Airports of Greece – B, S. A. Start of concession: 2017 22 Our Group 2016 Compact Responsibility For us, acting sustainably means creating Stakeholder dialogs With its stakeholder dialog activities, Fraport the future responsibly. We understand susaddresses all of the company’s key stakeholdtainable development to be a continuous Airports are of great public importance. They ers in a targeted manner. These include pasprocess. We believe that the entrepreneurial regularly give rise to sociopolitical debates; sengers, business partners, analysts, owners, scope for action can only be ensured by naturally, this applies particularly to Frankfurt and representatives from the community, consistent incorporation of non-economic Airport, one of the largest hubs in Europe. politics, and the authorities. Special considaspects in management processes. As the operator, Fraport AG has to reconcile eration is paid to local residents affected by very different requirements. aircraft noise at our sites and the approxi­ The topic of sustainability or responsibility mately 81,000 employees at Frankfurt Airport, falls under the remit of the central unit For example, some of our stakeholders are Germany’s largest workplace, including, in “Corporate Development, Environment focused on global challenges such as climate particular, Fraport employees, for whom we and Sustainability”, which is assigned to the change, while for many of those living near are directly responsible. The Fraport Group Chairman of the Executive Board. The section airports, aircraft noise is most important. also maintains close contact with its main brings together the strategically relevant Other stakeholders are concerned with customers – airline companies – to regularly themes relating to responsible corporate issues surrounding the Group’s financial value exchange information on a range of issues governance and initiates their development. creation and its competitiveness, as well as and coordinate operational measures. It is also in charge for environmental managemaintaining and creating secure, attractive ment, and drawing up the materiality matrix jobs. The issues raised with us are highly We consider dialog to be an important tool and the program. Responsibility for reporting diverse and sometimes irreconcilable. that we use to obtain recommendations for and managing rankings and assessments the company’s strategic alignment and advice lies with the “Finance & Investor Relations” We can implement many suggestions, but on risk management. As a “learning organizasection. not all. Nevertheless, we firmly believe that tion”, we are also focused on advancements exchanging information contributes to muin science and technology. tual understanding and developing widely accepted solutions. 2016 Compact Our Group 23 Key stakeholder groups Local residents Authorities Airlines living near airports Politics Passengers Airport visitors Business Associations Community partners Value generation and Foundations engagement in the region Noise abatement Economic enhancement Shareholders Product quality and customer satisfaction Economic efficiency Responsible corporate governance Growth and Bank Environment at Fraport development in the Group representatives NGOs Climate protection Ideas and innovation Conservation of nature and resources Analysts Science Employees Attractive and responsible employer Occupational health Investors and safety Trade unions Employees Examples of stakeholder communications in 2016 External: Internal: –– Annual Report 2015 –– Employees meetings –– “2015 Compact” –– Management conference –– Abridged Environmental Statement 2016 –– “Fraport World” employee newspaper –– Noise abatement reports –– Internal “Skynet” and “Galaxynet” –– Website: www.fraport.com –– “Fraport Barometer” employee survey –– Customer advisory board for passengers –– “Ask the Board” dialog with Executive Board –– Air Cargo Community Frankfurt association members –– Customer magazines “Aviation World” –– Town halls on the new mission statement and “Retail World” –– Involvement in the Airport and Regional Forum (Forum Flughafen und Region) –– Information events for local residents living near airports –– Involvement with associations –– Talks with authorities 24 Our Group 2016 Compact Updating the materiality matrix The systematic exchange of information with Both groups were also asked to prioritize The updated materiality matrix was approved our internal and external stakeholders enables the topics. This revealed a wide consensus by the Executive Board in 2015. In 2016, us to develop perspectives for the strategic on the weighting of the areas of activity a check to ensure that the matrix is up to alignment of the company. Since 2010, we between management and stakeholders: date was made and the matrix’s validity was have used this to create a materiality matrix both consider “product quality and customer confirmed. that depicts the company’s future challenges. satisfaction” and “economic efficiency” to The matrix is reviewed annually to ensure it be the most important areas of activity for is up-to-date and, if necessary, adjusted. In Fraport’s sustainability; “ideas and innovathe course of aligning sustainability reporting tion” and “attractive and responsible employwith the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) er” were also deemed very important from G4 guidelines, in 2015, the materiality matrix both perspectives. Both groups felt “noise needed to be developed to focus it even abatement” and “value generation and enmore on the central areas of activity for the gagement in the region” were of moderate company’s sustainability. to low importance and “climate protection” and “conservation of nature and resources” Fraport’s management and representatives were also considered to be less important of our most important stakeholders (airline by both groups. companies, passengers, business partners, shareholders, analysts, employees, employee Conversely, the area of activity “growth and representatives, political bodies and authordevelopment in the Group” received varied ities, foundations, associations, scientific ratings, with management considering it bodies, NGOs, local residents living near more important. “Occupational health and the airport) confirmed the relevance of the safety”, on the other hand, was considered ten newly defined areas of activity for the more important by stakeholders. company’s sustainability. Definitions of the areas of activity Product quality and customer satisfaction: Ideas and innovation: Development of new Value generation and engagement in Continuous improvement of our services, reproducts or approaches that solve a problem the region: Positive contribution to the flected by a high level of customer satisfaction. more efficiently or fulfill a need better than economic development of the region. CharSafeguarding of the Frankfurt hub function existing solutions while bringing (added) itable involvement in the neighborhood of and preservation of the Group’s competibenefit. the airport and dialog with our stakeholders. tiveness. Attractive and responsible employer: Noise abatement: Noise abatement in nearEconomic efficiency: Return-oriented utiProtection of jobs across the Group and by residential areas and reduction of those lization of present and future assets while provision of a working environment that is affected by aircraft noise. securing profitability and liquidity. characterized by diversity, equal opportunities, fairness, and respect. Creating good Climate protection: Increase in energy effiGrowth and development in the Group: labor conditions and development opportuciency, monitoring and minimization of the Growth, consolidation, and expansion of the nities to recruit, qualify, and retain dedicated emission of climate-relevant gases caused by Group’s portfolio. personnel. airport operations (e.g. CO2). Occupational health and safety: MaintainConservation of nature and resources: ing and promoting the physical and mental Conservation of natural resources; minimizaperformance of our employees by means of tion of waste and emissions of air pollutants suitable measures in the areas of safety at caused by airport operations as well as mainwork and health. tenance and improvement of the biodiversity of the airport grounds. 2016 Compact Our Group 25 Materiality matrix Economic Product quality and enhancement customer satisfaction Economic efficiency Growth and development in the Group Ideas and innovation Attractive and Employees responsible employer Occupational health and safety Value generation and Community engagement in the region Noise abatement Climate protection Environment Conservation of nature and resources Management Stakeholders High priority Our program Our program regarding strategically importGroup. The responsibility for implementing ant topics for responsible corporate goverthe measures and achieving the targets lies nance is structured analogously to the areas with the relevant departments. You can find of activity included in the materiality matrix. the complete program on pages 28 to 31. We have set concrete targets and defined the measures required to achieve them. Each tarWe report key opportunities and risks in our get is measurable and recorded using at least current Annual Report, available in the “Invesone key performance indicator (KPI). The tor Relations” section at www.fraport.com. KPIs enable the degree to which targets have been achieved to be shown transparently. The program is reviewed and updated annually. Its scope is essentially the Fraport Group, i.e., all companies that are included in the scope of consolidation for financial reporting. Nevertheless, there are targets that, at the current time, only apply to Group companies or the parent company at the Frankfurt site. These are identified in the program accordingly. For these targets, the aim is to gradually expand their scope to the whole 26 Our Group 2016 Compact Common goals for global challenges With Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development, the international community is expressing its conviction that global challenges can only be solved if we all work together. The Agenda provides the basis for making global economic progress in line with social justice and within the ecological limits of our planet. Agenda 2030 was adopted by all member In January 2017, the Federal Cabinet adopted Our focus is on the eleven SDGs listed below states at a United Nations summit in Septemthe “German Sustainability Strategy – Rethat are clearly within the sphere of influence ber 2015. The heart of the agenda consists of vised 2016”. This is much influenced by the of our actions. These are listed below. 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). UN Agenda 2030 and its SDGs. For the first time, the SDGs give equal weighting to all three dimensions of sustainability – As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, social, environmental, economic. Fraport AG is particularly committed to the objectives of Agenda 2030 and the SDGs. Fraport AG assumes responsibility for the Well-trained employees are required in a Fraport AG is committed to ensuring a health of its employees and offers comprespecialized field such as managing and operworking environment that is characterized hensive benefits to maintain and promote ating an airport. We therefore provide a wide by diversity, equal opportunities, fairness, their physical and mental performance. range of ongoing training opportunities and and respect. offer numerous places for apprentices every As transport hubs, airports are sites where year. We also support projects, institutions Area of activity resources are used intensively; it is our aim to and facilities that improve the employability –– “Attractive and responsible employer” organize this so that resources and nature are of young people in the region, as well as conserved as well as possible. Our ambitious research and environmental education activi­ noise abatement goals contribute to noise ties, through our own environmental fund. abatement in nearby residential areas and reduction in the number of those affected Areas of activity by noise at the Frankfurt site. –– “Attractive and responsible employer” –– “Value generation and engagement Areas of activity in the region” –– “Occupational health and safety” –– “Conservation of nature and resources” –– “Noise abatement” 2016 Compact Our Group 27 Operating an airport requires a lot of water The use of renewable energy is an essential Fraport is internationally one of the leading and, at the same time, produces a large component for achieving the climate procompanies in the airport business and has quantity of waste water. When dealing with tection targets of Fraport AG. We continually set itself the goal of profitable growth and the legally protected resource of water, examine the options for use of renewable enthe long-term achievement of a positive Fraport takes all aspects of modern water ergies and manage our electricity purchasing value added in all business fields (economic management into account and conserves portfolio to keep our emission factor below enhancement). This includes creating good natural resources. the national average. When our energy effilabor conditions and development opportuciency measures are exhausted, we increase nities to recruit, qualify, and retain dedicated Area of activity the renewable proportion in the purchasing personnel. –– “Conservation of nature and resources” portfolio to bridge the gap to achieving our climate protection targets. With our value generation, we also make a positive contribution to the economic deArea of activity velopment of the regions in which our sites –– “Climate protection” are located. Areas of activity –– “Economic efficiency” –– “Growth and development in the Group” –– “Product quality and customer satisfaction” –– “Attractive and responsible employer” –– “Value generation and engagement in the region” Innovations are a key to competitiveness for We want to operate our business model as Fraport AG. The aim is to introduce new techsustainably as possible. To this end, comnologies and continuously optimize complex pliance with international regulations on processes to meet a wide range of customer occupational health and safety is the obvious demands while staying true to our economic course for us. We consider ourselves responand business requirements. sible for protecting the environment, and we expect our suppliers and service providers to Area of activity do the same. –– “Ideas and innovation” Areas of activity –– “Occupational health and safety” –– “Climate protection” –– “Conservation of nature and resources” Operating an airport and air traffic have an imAs transport hubs, airports are sites where As a company operating at a global level, pact on the environment. Fraport considers resources are used intensively. We are comFraport bears national and international reitself responsible for taking the environmental mitted to the maintenance and improvement sponsibility. We have made a commitment challenges arising from this appropriately of the biodiversity of the airport grounds and to comply with internationally recognized into account. This includes, in particular, their surroundings. standards of conduct and are a member of increasing energy efficiency, monitoring and national and international working groups to minimization of the emission of climate-relArea of activity promote sustainable development. evant gases caused by airport operations. –– “Conservation of nature and resources” Area of activity –– “Climate protection” 28 Our Group 2016 Compact Our program Area of activity Target Performance Target value indicator Product quality and We want to maintain and Global satisfaction ≥ 80 % further improve our customers’ of passengers customer satisfaction satisfaction. Customer Service Greater than or equal to Index Airlines previous year (2015: 73.8 %) Economic efficiency We want to maintain our Group result 2016: at 2015 level or slightly better financial strength at a high 2016 adjusted: from approximately €400 million to level, despite future capital approximately €440 million expenditure, and increase the 2017: between around €310 million and company’s value in the long around €350 million 2) term. ROFRA 2016: at approximately the 2015 level or a slight decrease 2017: slightly below the previous year’s figure 2) Net financial debt 2016: decrease of up to approximately 10 % 2016 adjusted: decrease of up to approximately 15 % Free cash flow 2017: increase of approximately €900 million 2) 2016: once again significantly positive and approximately at 2015 level 2016 adjusted: significantly above previous year 2017: at level of previous year or slightly below it 2) Growth and development We want to increase Frankfurt 2016: growth of between approximately passenger numbers organically passengers 1 % and 3 % in the Group and optimize our portfolio. 2016 adjusted: Down slightly 2017: between 2 % and 4 % Group passengers 2016: growth at Group sites, though sites in Antalya and St. Petersburg will be impacted by geopolitical tensions and have a significantly negative outlook for 2016 2017: growth at Group sites, with a slight recovery expected for St. Petersburg and a recovery in a percentage range in the low double digits expected for Antalya Ideas and innovation We want to promote and exploit Benefit of at least €300,000/year the knowhow and skills of our implemented ideas employees and incorporate the (in €) input of our stakeholders. Attractive and We want to create good Employee Better than or equal to 3.0 labor conditions and increase satisfaction responsible employer employee satisfaction. We want to increase Women in 30 – 35 % the number of women in management management positions. positions We want to offer good Places on training ≥ 110 development opportunities courses to recruit and retain motivated staff. 1) Partial modification of the survey content on flight and terminal operations services; only limited comparability with Customer Service Index Airlines. 2) 2017 targets take into consideration possible effects from the closing of the transaction to operate the 14 Greek regional airports. 2016 Compact Our Group 29 Term Scope Measures Status Target (as at the end of 2016) as at the end achievement of 2016 as at the end of 2016 2017 FRA site ––“Great to have you here!” service initiative comprising around 82.0 % 100 individual measures and projects to improve services, ambiance, and hospitality (around two-thirds of these measures have already been implemented) 2017 FRA site ––Regular exchange of views with airline representatives 77.2 % 1) 2016 Group ––Achievement of growth at Group sites €400.3 million 2016 (see next area of activity) ––Focus on expansion of non-aviation business 2017 ––Development of the Group portfolio through company acquisitions and sales of shares (see next area of activity) ––Constant optimization of internal processes and structures 2016 Group ––Use of opportunities in terms of Group financing 11.4 % ––Continuous investment controlling 2017 2016 Group €2,355.9 million 2016 2017 2016 Group €301.7 million 2016 2017 2016 Frankfurt ––Creation and maintenance of the infrastructure to achieve growth – 0.4 % 2016 ––Maintenance and further intensification of the customer focus ––Active site marketing 2017 ––Development of the Group portfolio through company acquisitions and sales of shares 2016 Group ––Constant optimization of internal processes and structures Decreases in Frankfurt, Ljubljana, Antalya, Hanover, St. Petersburg 2017 2018 FRA site ––Award of an ideas and innovation prize €395,891 ––Topic-related action week to generate ideas on selected problems ––Expansion of the internal communication platform ––Implementation of an external ideas competition 2018 Group ––Joint project BASE of the Ground Services section and Group company 2.91 APS: as part of a pilot project, leaner processes and structures are tested with employee involvement. ––Implementation of a sustainable manager development program for the operating business fields at ASM and FraSec, starting at management level 4 to the level of the operations manager. ––Incorporation of more feedback loops after completion of a job or for project milestones in internal company communication. 2021 Group ––Review and improve existing instruments and measures for women’s 30.3 % professional development in management positions: ••Communication of the target in management training ••Safeguarding of transparency in selection procedures with regard to the consideration of qualified and suitable women for management positions ••Development of a structured process that enables women to qualify for management positions at all levels Group-wide 2018 FRA site ––Varied range of training with one-year job guarantee 110 places offered, ––Continuation of the vocational preparation program “Ready for Take-off” 105 places taken 30 Our Group 2016 Compact Our program Area of activity Target Performance Target value indicator Occupational health We want to continually reduce Work accidents per ≤ 25 work accidents. 1,000 employees and safety Value generation and engagement We want to make a Gross value > €3 billion 1) positive contribution to the generation (+20 % compared to 2014) in the region region’s economic and social development. Noise abatement We want to keep the number of Residents in ≤ 28,980/183,026 those affected by aircraft noise day protection under the figure stated in the zone 1/night capacity expansion plan 2) protection zone 3) and improve noise levels for affected residents. We want to continually Noise units/traffic – reduce the specific noise per units (TU: one traffic unit. passenger or 100 kg of cargo) Climate protection 4) We want to firmly incorporate Proportion of fully 100 % climate protection into Group consolidated airairport operations and rigorously ports in the Group develop related measures. with Airport Carbon Accreditation (level 2 or higher), weighted according to traffic units We want to reduce Fraport AG’s Absolute emissions 238,000 metric tons of CO2 CO2 emissions at the FRA site. 5) (total for scope 1 and 2) in metric tons of CO2 Relative emissions 2.6 kg CO2/TU (total for scope 1 and 2) in kilograms of CO2/TU Conservation of nature We want to perform our Proportion of 100 % services within the Group fully consolidated, and resources 4) while never losing sight of environmentally environmental concerns and relevant Group continually improve our companies with environmental performance. certified environmental management systems (EMAS or ISO 14001), weighted according to revenue. 1) Subject to maximum net financial debt of 4 – 6× EBITDA. 2) 701,000 aircraft movements. The plan scenario was also the basis of aircraft noise calculations to identify protection zones as per the German Aircraft Noise Act (Fluglärmgesetz) (night protection zone = 183,026 residents, day protection zone 1 = 28,980 residents). 3) Residents in the Leq contour, day = 60 dB(A)/contour of the envelope from NAT, night = 6 × 68 dB(A) Lmax and Leq, night = 50 dB(A) (daytime protection zone 1/night protection zone as per German Aircraft Noise Act). 4) Fraport AG’s full targets and measures regarding climate protection and the conservation of nature and resources can be found in the current Environmental Statement. Here, the “Group” scope comprises companies consolidated in the financial statements with a significant environmental impact. 5) The current climate protection targets of Fraport AG for target year 2020 were already fulfilled in the 2016 fiscal year. As of fiscal year 2017, new climate protection targets and a new target year (see chapter “Climate protection”) will apply. 2016 Compact Our Group 31 Term Scope Measures Status Target (as at the end of 2016) as at the end achievement of 2016 as at the end of 2016 2020 Group ––Reduction of workplace-related risks through rigorous implementation of 23.9 the measures stated in the risk assessments ––Enhancement of the prevention culture through targeted training measures and projects with managers ––Rigorous development of the instruments of the occupational safety management system and their implementation in all Group companies ––Implementation and development of load-reducing technical solutions for ground services 2020 Group ––Operational and financial development of Group sites approximately ––Capital expenditure on existing airports to meet the future €2.9 billion transport requirements of the particular regions and markets ––Development of the Group portfolio, e.g., through acquisitions Until full FRA site ––Active noise abatement measures, such as targeted use of runways 9,560/68,571 capacity and routes to create noise breaks ––Raising approach glide slope for Runway Northwest to 3.2 degrees ––GBAS-based noise-reducing approach procedure, in particular raising approach glide slope for Runway South to 3.2 degrees ––Incentivization of GBAS: As a component of the application for airport charges proposal for financial support for equipment of aircraft with GBAS, the required activation and the license for the operation of the system by the cockpit crew ––Financial resources for passive noise abatement ––Dialog in Airport and Regional Forum (Forum Flughafen und Region) ––Active information and communication Ongoing FRA site ––Development and coordination of a procedure to establish noise units for Two alternative as– continuous application to annual traffic and the traffic units sessment procedures are currently being examined. Deciding on application by summer 2017 2020 Group ––Maintenance of accreditation for FRA and LJU sites 76 % ––Compiling of additional documentation for accreditation of LIM site 2020 Fraport AG 209,257 metric tons of CO2 ––Improvement of energy efficiency in terms of running buildings and airport infrastructure 2020 Fraport AG ––Increased use of electric vehicles and ground handling equipment 2.56 kg CO2/TU 2020 Group ––Assessment of Group companies in terms of their environmental relevance 95 % ––Expansion of environmental management systems in Group companies that are environmentally relevant based on their portfolio 32 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Portrait Fraport USA Inc. (formerly AMU Holdings Inc.) Fraport USA/Airmall was founded in 1992 at “Gute Reise! We make it happen”, the conIn 2014, Fraport took over the parent Pittsburgh International Airport. Its area of cept of service and customer satisfaction are company of Airmall, which at the time still activity is marketing retail areas at American always at the forefront. operated under the name “AMU Holdings”, airports. At all sites, Fraport USA/Airmall and renamed it “Fraport USA Inc.” in 2016. has succeeded in revolutionizing the retail As one of the leading providers for the marAnother milestone was also reached in 2016 and food and beverage landscape in the keting and development of retail areas at US when US airline JetBlue Airways nominated terminals. For example, the shopping areas airports, Fraport USA/Airmall now operated Fraport USA/Airmall as the preferred bidder in the terminals, which previously had only at a total of four airport sites: Baltimore/ for the development of the retail and catering had small stores, were expanded to include Washington, Boston (Terminal E and B), concessions at the company’s headquarters major brands for the first time. In a joint effort Cleveland and Pittsburgh. The company in Terminal 5 of New York’s JFK airport. After with the operators of each airport, Fraport currently managed more than 270 retail issuing a new tender, the Massachusetts Port USA/Airmall is also developing creative and food and beverage establishments on Authority (Massport) decided by vote in April retail and food and beverage concepts an area of approximately 34,000 square 2017 against extending the contact for the that appeal to both domestic passengers meters in the passenger terminals of the four management of these airports by Fraport and a broad international audience. At the airports. These establishments are operated USA/Airmall and instead awarded the tender same time, healthy, positive competition by regional, national and international conto a competitor. After seventeen years, the between the individual concessionaires cessionaires. Nearly 60 million passengers company’s contract in Boston will end on is being promoted at each site. Based passed through the terminals of the four October 31, 2017. on the mission statement of Fraport AG, aviation hubs in 2016. 2016 Compact Company Portrait 33 Tina LaForte, Vice President, Fraport USA/Airmall, Cleveland Airport »We attach great importance to our ACDBE programs to promote disadvantaged groups, because both our company and society as a whole benefit from them. This is why we have already achieved good results in this area and have acquired a correspondingly positive reputation.« Revenue per passenger at record levels At the Pittsburgh International Airport (IATA Social Engagement Code: PIT), “revenue per passenger” is curAs the largest airport in the metropolitan area rently significantly above the national average In particular, Fraport USA/Airmall promotes around the US capital of Washington D.C., and in 2016 it reached US$15.35, one of the small businesses, minority-owned businesses, Baltimore/Washington (IATA code: BWI) is highest in North America. This exceptionally and businesses whose owners are part of used by more than 25 million passengers solid performance is due, among other faca disadvantaged population group (for each year. This includes a high proportion of tors, to the customer surveys carried out by example, by offering training courses or passengers from the largest low-cost carrier Fraport USA/Airmall and the subsequent adcontact exchanges). Fraport USA/Airmall thus in the US, Southwest Airlines, for which Baltiaptation of the product portfolio. Continuous fulfills the policy goals summarized under more/Washington is an important hub on the capital expenditure in the development of the abbreviation ACDBE (Airport Concession East Coast of the United States. In close cothe passenger areas, the central marketplace Disadvantaged Business Enterprise) and is operation with Southwest Airlines and other and the baggage claim area also contributed now in fact one of the leading US companies key partners, such as the Maryland Aviation to the positive performance. Just recently, in this area. And the engagement is paying Administration, Fraport USA/Airmall won outan additional US$10 million was invested to off: At Cleveland Airport, for example, 40 % of standing new concessionaires for the airport improve the retail offer. The improvements revenue is generated by ACDBE businesses. (such as Baltimore’s famous Obrycki’s, The included the installation of two six-meterAt all airports where Fraport USA/Airmall is Silver Diner, and Phillips Famous Seafood). high video walls, from which passengers can active, the company regularly offers activiAlso thanks to a two-year renovation that cost interactively obtain information about the ties for young entrepreneurs, women and approximately US$15 million, Fraport USA/ retail offers at the airport. There were also a members of minority groups from across the Airmall has doubled its sales at the site since number of new openings of premium brands country who already manage a company or the take-over in 2003 and set a new “revenue at the airport, including the first “Bottega dei who want to start a business. The objective per passenger” record of US$10.53 in 2016. Sapori” shop in the US. The new concessionis to encourage small business owners who As a result, the retail business grew by 15 % aires also include well-known brands, such contribute their entrepreneurial potential more than pure passenger numbers. This was as Collezioni – The Beauty Gallery, Furla, and high levels of motivation, and to support achieved through a targeted development Desigual, Armani Jeans and Hugo Boss. The them in developing their businesses. of space to adapt it to changing passenger artistic design of the new terrazzo floor in flows and target group-oriented marketing. the central marketplace of the terminal even attracted the attention of specialist design magazine “Architectural Digest”. 34 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Airport Passengers Fraport USA Inc. Baltimore/Washington Boston (Terminal E and B) ~60.0 million Cleveland Pittsburgh Women in management positions Airport Revenue News Physicians Committee for 2016 PIT: Responsible Medicine (PCRM) 50 % Best dining and shopping options 2014 and 2015, BWI and BOS: Airports with the best selection of healthy food USA Today 10 Best Readers’ Choice Awards 2016 PIT: Best airport bar/ Best restaurant waiters: Bar Symon Condé Nast Traveler 2016 PIT: Readers’ Choice award: Top 10 domestic airports Baltimore/Washington 2016 Compact Economic enhancement 35 Economic enhancement We consider “economic enhancement” to mean the continuous increase of our company’s value and the safeguarding and improvement of profitability while maintaining a financial balance. The goal of economic enhancement is to achieve profitable growth and the long-term generation of a positive value added in all business segments. As such, we manage the Group’s development according to the principles of value management. The key figure for this is the Fraport value added. 1) We use retained profits as the basis for future capital expenditure and to further increase the company’s value. 1) Fraport value added means the difference between EBIT and capital costs (= Fraport assets × cost of capital). As of the beginning of fiscal year 2015, pre-tax results and the carrying amounts of Group-companies accounted for using the equity method have been added to EBIT and Fraport assets. In this way, Fraport takes account of both consolidated companies and companies accounted for using the equity method in value management. 36 Economic enhancement 2016 Compact Specialist in loudspeakers and clocks Athanasios Girousis has held the title of “Group Leader for Electroacoustic Systems/Tower Crash/CAT lll/ Clock Technology” for four years. Since then, the electrical engineer has been working at Fraport. Prior to that, he was employed by an external company involved in the construction of Pier A-Plus. After that job was completed, he joined Fraport. The cumbersome job title encompasses a multitude of responsibilities, mainly related to the dissemination of information to passengers and safety at Frankfurt Airport. Athanasios Girousis: “‘Electroacoustic systheir primary purpose. The system is used Girousis and his team are responsible for tems’ means all loudspeakers in the terminals. in an emergency to warn and direct passenensuring that the control panel and all The passengers mostly know them from gate gers. If a terminal has to be evacuated, the connected loudspeakers are functioning calls. The lovely music in the connecting fire department and the police will use these properly. Almost 30,000 loudspeakers can tunnel between the A and B terminals is loudspeakers to provide the information.” be found at all levels in both terminals, so played through our system. But that is not even the furthest reaches of the airport can be reached in an emergency. 2016 Compact Economic enhancement 37 Another emergency warning system is the Athanasios Girousis: “Time is one of the most so-called “crash horn”, which every airport sensitive issues at an airport. Passengers are is required to have in accordance with the constantly wondering whether they will make regulations of the International Air Transport it to the gate on time, how long the security Association. A stuck landing gear, a warning check will take, how much time they have left light on the braking system – any of these to shop or to grab a snack, and, of course, events could lead to an emergency on board whether the plane is on time. However, you an aircraft. In such event, the pilot alerts the will not find digital clocks in the terminals. tower during the approach to the airport, That would only lead to confusion among and this in turn triggers the “crash horn”. passengers who are unfamiliar with our 24Long before the plane touches down, all the hour system. Anyone can read a dial clock, necessary emergency services are readied to no matter what country they come from.” mitigate the emergency. The signal is tested once every morning. If the system reports an error, it is up to Girousis and his three employees to find and fix it. Another safety system only activates during bad weather. If fog or snowfall restricts the view of the runway to under 200 meters, »My contribution to pilots are required to use special approach procedures. On the apron, red warning signs having a ‘Gute Reise’ labeled “CAT III” light up. The abbreviation is ensuring that the designates the different levels for the instrument landing system. CAT I is the simplest safety systems work category. For CAT II and III, aircraft and crew and the passengers need special authorizations and navigational devices. As soon as CAT III is displayed, trips at our airport can be which are not absolutely necessary for diskept informed at all patch and maintenance purposes may not be carried out for safety reasons. This applies, for times.« example, to visitor tours and camera crews. Athanasios Girousis: “The signal comes from the weather station on the airport apron. We are responsible for ensuring that all lights work. If one is defective, we immediately go out and repair it, but that is the exception. Our regular, strictly controlled maintenance procedures virtually eliminates such failures.” In addition to these safety-related systems, Girousis and his team also service all the clocks in the two terminals. Each has its own control panel, which receives the radio signal from the atomic clock via an antenna on the roof. This ensures that the correct time is displayed on all of the approximately 1,700 clocks. If one is defective, Girousis’ colleagues fix it right away. Especially when working in the building interiors, the wrong cable can be quickly snipped by accident. 38 Economic enhancement 2016 Compact Product quality and customer satisfaction Continuous improvement of our services, reflected by a high level of customer satisfaction. Safeguarding of the Frankfurt hub function and preservation of the Group’s competitiveness. Customer service comes first The customer is our top priority. This is also “Air Cargo India 2016” trade fair in Mumbai, At the same time, the new “Inflight Shopreflected by our new mission statement, India. The prestigious “STAT Trade Times ping” service was tested in a pilot project. “Gute Reise! We make it happen”. We considInternational” was founded in 1986 and is This service enables Lufthansa’s long-haul er passengers, airlines, the freight community the market leader specialist publication for passengers to shop online in more than and the retail concessionaires to be our main the cargo industry. 300 stores before landing in Frankfurt. The customers, and we intend to win them over selected products are then delivered at the through attractive offers and the best service. arrival gate using the new “Gate Delivery” Tenants find Fraport AG’s sites are an optimal Online shopping on the plane logistics concept immediately after landing. environment for their business. We cooperate Visitors and passengers who shop at the closely with the authorities, especially in The multichannel strategy has systematically airport both in person and online benefit terms of security. We consider the satisfaction been further developed since the comprefrom the “Frankfurt Airport Rewards” bonus of our customers to be a key measure of our hensive redesign of the Frankfurt Airport and loyalty program, which is the only such success. In 2016, passengers at our Frankfurt website and app in the previous year. The program of its kind worldwide. It has been site once again confirmed their satisfaction purpose of this is to ensure that passengers so well received that additional partners and with us, with global satisfaction at 82 %. This and customers are offered an optimal shopnew bonuses are already being planned. means we have reached our ambitious target ping experience at all times during their trip. (≥ 80 % global satisfaction) for the fifth year For example, the “Lounge Shopping” project in a row and increased it by 2.0 percentage was the result of a new digital cooperation points compared to the previous year. with Lufthansa. In selected lounges, travelers can shop at the airport shops via iPad or their We also maintain outstanding customer own cellphone and the products are delivservice in the cargo sector. Readers of the ered to the lounge within half an hour. The “STAT Trade Times International” once again pilot phase of the project ended successfully named FRA 2016 as the best international carin 2016, and implementation into regular go airport. The award was presented at the operation is planned for 2017. 2016 Compact Economic enhancement 39 In 2016, the modernized access road to the arrivals level at Terminal 1 was reopened. The outdoor area is now reminiscent of a modern city center, where barrier-free access, digital information services and a reduction in traffic significantly enhance the experience of pedestrians. 82 % passenger satisfaction The Service Quality Committee, an associapossible experience for travelers and guests, tion of companies and partners at Frankfurt with the goal of using a positive experience With the “Great to have you here!” service Airport, was also established. The aim is to to make a connection between the airport initiative launched in 2010, passenger satisstrengthen the partnership-based cooperaand the customer in order to improve the faction at Frankfurt Airport in terms of quality tion in the interest of the common customers, airport’s competitive position. and service has increased over the last six guests and travelers. Service guidelines were years from 70 % to 82 %. In five sub-initiatives, defined and adopted. In them, the particiEven employees who are not in daily contact directions and signposting, ambiance and pating partners affirm their desire and joint with passengers contribute to the airport’s comfort in the terminal, and the range of responsibility to further develop the Frankfurt positive image. In the year under review, over relaxation, working, and entertainment opAirport site. The focus is always on the trav1,000 of them have been trained as “service tions on offer were all significantly improved. elers and guests from all over the world and ambassadors” already. Whether they are on Because employees are such a key factor for on ensuring the consistently high quality of their way to appointments or staying in the customer satisfaction in the terminals, there all processes. Achieving this requires solid terminal after finishing work, they are always is also a sub-initiative for employees. 1,300 cooperation in a spirit of trust between the available to talk to passengers and will gladly employees already participated in this propartners, authorities, and service providers. provide assistance. gram in 2016. The objective is to provide the most seamless 40 Economic enhancement 2016 Compact Largest pharmaceutical hub in Europe Aircraft do more than just make travel possible for passengers in all countries all over the world. As the largest German cargo hub – and one of the most important sites in Europe – Frankfurt Airport provides the infrastructure that the export-oriented German economy needs to be able to react quickly with its goods and services in the major growth markets. Automotive and IT products as well perishable goods and products of the pharmaceutical industry are transported via this major hub. In 2016, around 100,000 tons of vaccines, pharmaceuticals and other pharmaceutical products were handled at Frankfurt Airport, making Frankfurt the largest pharmaceutical distribution hub in Europe. Transporting this sensitive cargo requires particularly reliable and professional handling. FRA has more than 7,000 m² of certified, temperature-controlled handling areas. At the end of this year, more than 10,000 m² will be available. During transport on the apron, special thermo transporters guarantee a constant temperature of – 30 to +30 degrees Celsius before the goods are loaded into the aircraft’s cargo space, which is brought to the correct temperature in advance. To expand its leading market position, Fraport and Air Cargo Community Frankfurt are seeking continuous certification of the process chain. In 2017, 95 % of the freight handling and 85 % of transports on the apron will be awarded the CEIV (Center of Excellence of Independent Validators) pharmaceutical certification of the International Air Transport Association (IATA). 2016 Compact Economic enhancement 41 Joint marketing and optimization goods, and the handling of animals. The relevant shipment data between companies. of the equipment fleet reliability of the freight processes received Freight forwarders, cargo handlers, and especially high praise. Our customers gave customs are also connected to the system. Our Customer Service Center offers our this area the best grades compared to other This causes simplified interfaces and improved airline customers a direct point of contact European competitors. processes. The standardization already paid for operational problems and a source of off in 2016: The processes were significantly advance information for building works or The CargoCity User Committee was launched streamlined overall. The system was well operational changes. Fraport also supports last year at the request of our customers to received among users and they reported and advises airlines on their strategic planmeet customer needs for more personalized 30 % more shipments via FAIR@Link than in ning in relation to the FRA hub. Together service and to strengthen participation in the the previous year. with airlines, we celebrate the introduction discussion on the development and design of new aircraft or the opening of new routes, of the site. The parties involved meet up to In an innovative promotion of the further such as the first Lufthansa flight to Panama discuss concerns such as catering and infradevelopment of the site in the air freight or the opening of the Frankfurt – Shenzhen structure connection. sector, Fraport, working with the DVV Media route by Air China. With Air China and BeiGroup, sent out invitations to the first Frankjing Airport, Fraport has also agreed on the furt Air Cargo Innovation Lab in 2016. Sector expansion of frequencies between Frankfurt IT innovations in the cargo sector leaders met with industry and academia to and Beijing. In addition to joint marketing discuss how digitalization, big data and new activities, passenger and VIP services in parThe airport’s “FAIR@Link” cargo community technologies will change the air cargo supply ticular will be adapted to the specific needs system, launched in 2015, is one of the most chain and what new business models may of the countries. comprehensive IT systems in the world. arise from it. The data platform allows users to exchange A new IT system for ground services enables optimized allocation of the ground support equipment (GSE) fleet. In 2014, pallet loaders and ground power units were already fully equipped with onboard modules. Operating hours, operational and maintenance status data, as well as fault notifications and location information via GPS via the signals transmitted are visualized in the system and in reports. A digital airport map displays all equipment. The new system has increased availability and significantly optimized the fleet. Since 2016, the system has been linked to the IDD flight information service, meaning that aircraft and flight events and their individual status are shown on the digital airport map. The trial is already proving successful. In addition, a further 320 onboard modules were installed in equipment types such as container loaders, belt loaders, and passenger stairways, meaning that over 520 pieces of equipment are now included in the system. Good grades for FRA as a cargo site A customer satisfaction analysis was carried out for the cargo sector in 2016 for the first time in several years. In the customer barometer for cargo, in which more than 90 FRAbased airlines, general sales agents, freight forwarders and cargo handlers were consulted, around 70 % of the customers were satisfied or very satisfied with the site and would recommend it to others. The respondents gave the best grades for the handling of specialty products, especially perishable 42 Economic enhancement 2016 Compact Economic efficiency Income-oriented utilization of present and future assets while securing profitability and liquidity. Group result in € million 251.8 297.0 400.3 2014 2015 2016 Group result significantly above previous year Financially, the Fraport Group had a positive There were also one-off effects on the were primarily based on significant growth in performance in 2016. This was due in particexpense side. To respond to the intense traffic. The Varna and Burgas airports beneular to two one-off effects. First, the sale of competition, particularly in the personnel-infited from the tense geopolitical situation in shares in Thalita Trading Ltd., the parent comtensive business units at the Frankfurt site, Turkey and North Africa. Due to the signifipany of the operating company of Pulkovo the Executive Board launched a personnel cantly lower traffic volume in international Airport in St. Petersburg, increased the Group restructuring program, which increased traffic, the Group company Antalya posted a result by €35.9 million. Second, the payment personnel expenses due to provisions in the sharp decline in financial figures, which negaof compensation in connection with the amount of €37.7 million. In addition, a total tively impacted the financial result by around Manila project had a positive effect on the of just under €30 million was recognized €16 million. With dynamic traffic growth result in the amount of €189.6 million. As a as an impairment of the goodwill of FraSec continuing to provide a positive impact, result, the Group result rose significantly by GmbH and the Boston concession within the investment in Xi’an contributed almost €103.3 million to €400.3 million, reflecting Fraport USA Inc. €3 million more to the Group result in 2016. slightly lower passenger numbers in Frankfurt. Net retail revenue per passenger was In connection with the Group-wide traffic €3.49 (previous year: €3.62) as a result of Strong result in Lima and Bulgaria growth expected for the 2017 fiscal year passenger development at Frankfurt Airport and the operational take-over of the Greek and lower spending behavior by travelers Group companies Lima (Peru) and Twin Star regional airports, the Executive Board expects from China, Russia, and Japan as well as the (Bulgaria) contributed just over €15 million a 2017 Group result of between around depreciation of various currencies against the to result growth and almost €20 million to €310 million and about €350 million. The Euro, which led to a loss of purchasing power. EBITDA growth. These positive performances operational take-over and the related financing 2016 Compact Economic enhancement 43 of the concessions will also simultaneously equivalents (liquidity), in connection with offset by an EBIT including earnings before have a negative impact on the financial result. the compensation payment from the Manila taxes of the Group companies accounted for The uncertainties the Fraport Group faces in project. Relative to the shareholders’ equity using the equity method in the amount of 2017 are mainly due to the difficulty in fore(excluding the minority interests and the €691 million. Using a pre-tax cost of capital casting the development of tourist markets amount planned for dividends), this means (WACC) for Fraport of 8.6 %, in 2016 the as a result of terrorist attacks. that leverage (a gearing ratio) is around 65 %. ongoing capital costs to achieve the adjusted Compared with the previous year, this is a EBIT amounted to €522 million. The EBIT beFor detailed information on the development decrease of almost 19 percentage points. yond this amount of €169 million means that of the result in the past fiscal year and the outThis was 2.2 times EBITDA (the operating Fraport once again earned its capital costs look for 2017, please refer to the “Results of result before interest, taxes, depreciation, in the past fiscal year and “created value” operations” and “Business outlook” chapters and amortization). In the previous year net Group-wide. This economic enhancement in the 2016 Annual Report. financial debt was 3.3 times EBITDA. is also visible in the “ROFRA”, the return on Fraport assets, which was 11.4 % in the past For the fiscal year 2017, the Executive Board fiscal year and exceeded the pre-tax cost of Group debt is declining expects a sustained positive free cash flow capital by 2.8 percentage points. that will be at or slightly below 2016 levels. Over the past fiscal year, Fraport Group With the operational take-over of the 14 Greek With regard to the company’s business fields, generated operating cash flow of around regional airports, there will be a significant the Group segments Retail & Real Estate and €583 million. The reasons for this decline increase in net financial debt and the leverage External Activities & Services recorded a were higher taxes on income paid comin fiscal year 2017. sustained high ROFRA of 14.9 % and 31.0 %, pared to the previous year. After deducting respectively, in 2016, whereas the Aviation capital expenditure in Frankfurt and the and Ground Handling segments did not earn airport investments – taking account of divROFRA of 11.4 % signals economic their cost of capital in the past fiscal year with idend inflows from Group companies – the enhancement a ROFRA of 2.9 % and – 0.6 %, respectively. company still had free cash flow of almost The strong performance of the External €302 million. These funds were mainly To permanently increase the company’s Activities & Services segment is primarily the used again in 2016 to service the dividend value, Fraport specifically draws parallels beresult of the sale of shares in Thalita Trading payment for the 2015 fiscal year (just under tween the development of the results of opLtd. and the compensation payment from €139 million) and to repay financial liabilities. erations and the asset and financial position. the Manila project. These effects significantly In this context, Fraport calculates the ratio of increased the EBIT of the segment. In total, Fraport significantly reduced its the operating result achieved before interest net financial debt over the past year from and taxes (EBIT) to the capital that is used to Selected key financial figures can be found €2.77 billion to €2.36 billion. In addition to generate the result (value-oriented manageon p. 86 et seqq. of this report. the free cash flow, this positive development ment principle). In the past fiscal year, assets is the result of the increase in cash and cash totaling €6.07 billion (“Fraport assets”) were ROFRA 31.0 % 30 % Value-creating area 20 % 14.9 % 11.4 % 10 % WACC 8.6 % Value-destroying area 2.9 % 0% – 0.6 % Group Aviation Retail & Real Estate Ground Handling External Activities & Services 44 Economic enhancement 2016 Compact Growth and development in the Group Growth, consolidation, and expansion of the Group’s portfolio. Geopolitical crises change traffic flows Above all, the travel market was affected Slightly declining passenger numbers were down in 2016. Movements in Frankby geopolitical crises in 2016. A growing in Frankfurt furt decreased by 1.1 % compared to the intensity of terrorist attacks in certain traprevious year with approximately 463,000 ditional tourist destinations in the eastern Passenger demand was down slightly in the take-offs and landings. In contrast, the maxiMediterranean region and North Africa, as reporting year. This resulted in the second mum take-off weights increased slightly and well as a latent threat of terrorism in Western highest level of passenger numbers recordachieved a new record value of just over Europe led to increasing uncertainty among ed to date at Frankfurt Airport at just over 29.7 million metric tons (+0.4 %). travelers. This led not only to changes in 60.8 million passengers. This figure fell the choice of transport modes, but also to a short of the previous year’s level by around shift in traffic flows. Demand was down for 250,000 passengers (– 0.4 %). The year was Unequal dynamic at the Group sites destinations in the eastern Mediterranean once again characterized by cancellations region, while the western Mediterranean due to strikes. At Ljubljana Airport, passenger numbers enjoyed increased numbers. Insufficient in fiscal year 2016 were down by 2.3% capacity for accommodation there led to Cargo volume grew by 1.8 % in 2016 to compared to the previous year at around increased traffic to neighboring countries around 2.1 million metric tons. This perfor1.4 million. While there was an increase in (for example Austria) and a shift from air mance was noticeably better in the second the number of passengers on connections travel to car, bus and train travel. Individual half of the year at 2.8 % compared to the to Paris and Belgrade, the volume for condestinations outside Europe also benefited first six months (+0.7 %), which reflected the nections to and from Istanbul, Zurich, and from shifts in demand (for example Central recovery in the global economy that started Brussels declined. America). Overall, intercontinental traffic in the summer. After a weak start to the year, stagnated, however, as from the fall onwards the appreciation of the US$ in the second Lima Airport once again recorded strong demand for incoming travel, including from half of the year created a significantly positive growth in the number of passengers in fiscal the Far East and North America, dropped as stimulus for cargo loaded in Frankfurt bound year 2016 of 10.1 % to just over 18.8 million. a consequence of terrorist attacks in Europe. for the USA. In contrast to the previous year, Both domestic traffic (+10.1 %) and internaair freight traffic with China grew significantly tional traffic (+10.2 %) grew in the reporting European traffic (excluding Germany) dein 2016. period. Cargo throughput was around creased by 0.7 % in the reporting period. 288,000 metric tons. This figure was below Domestic traffic posted the highest growth As a result of the cancellations due to strikes the previous year’s level (– 4.3 %). rate at 0.9 %. Frankfurt benefited domestically and the trend of using larger aircraft that from transfer passengers bound for Berlin. extended to the autumn, aircraft movements 2016 Compact Economic enhancement 45 2016 passenger and cargo development at Frankfurt Airport percentage change compared to 2015 on monthly basis +2.2 +3.8 +3.9 – 2.5 – 5.5 – 4.1 – 2.0 – 5.0 +1.8 – 0.3 +4.9 +3.9 – 0.1 – 1.4 – 1.3 +5.0 – 1.3 +3.3 +1.5 – 0.1 +5.9 +4.8 – 2.1 +7.6 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Passengers Cargo The Bulgarian airports in Varna and Burgas At just under 13.3 million travelers, passenger 14 new Group airports carried around 4.6 million passengers in the traffic at St. Petersburg Airport saw a decrease reporting period and thus around 21.5 % in the past fiscal year of 1.7 % compared to In April 2017, Fraport took over the 14 Greek more than in the previous year. Both sites the previous year. Whereas international regional airports and commenced their benefited from the tense geopolitical situtraffic noticeably decreased by 11.1 % due to operation. The airports include the mainland ation in Turkey and North Africa. Travelers the difficult economic and political situation airports of Thessaloniki, Aktion, and Kavala, from Germany, Russia, Poland and the UK in Russia, national traffic increased by 5.0 %. and the island airports of Chania on Crete, in particular favored Bulgaria as a holiday Kefalonia, Kerkyra on Corfu, Kos, Mykonos, destination. Xi’an Airport continued to record dynamic deMytilini on Lesbos, Rhodes, Samos, Santorini, velopment as passenger numbers increased Skiathos and Zakynthos. At the time of the With just over 19.0 million passengers in fiscal by 12.2 % to approximately 37.0 million. take-over, Fraport Greece employed around year 2016, Antalya Airport posted a decline High-volume domestic traffic also rose by 450 people. Fraport expects capital expenof 30.9 %. While the number of passengers 12.0 % to around 35.0 million passengers. diture on the infrastructure of the airports of traveling within Turkey once again increased International traffic grew by 16.1 % to around around €400 million in the first four years. significantly by 10.4 % to nearly 7.0 million, 2.0 million passengers. In 2016, the overall portfolio posted signifthe number of international passengers fell icant growth in passenger numbers of 9 %. by 43.2 % to around 12.1 million. The drop In the reporting period, Delhi Airport Because of the operational take-over of the was primarily attributed to the lack of travelers achieved significant growth of 21.0 % com­ airports, the Fraport Group will generate coming from Russia and Western Europe. pared to the previous year with around additional revenue of around €200 million 55.6 million travelers, in particular due to and additional EBITDA of around €100 million With just over 5.4 million passengers in fiscal the strong growth of the Indian economy. in fiscal year 2017. year 2016, the Hanover site recorded a slight Noticeable growth continued to be reported decrease of 0.8 %. The significant decline in in domestic traffic, with a strong increase of tourist traffic to the eastern Mediterranean re26.2 %. International passenger numbers gion was not completely offset by the switch increased by 8.8 %. Freight volume also to alternative holiday destinations. showed a significant rise again (+9.5 %). 46 Economic enhancement 2016 Compact Ideas and innovation Development of new products or approaches that solve a problem more efficiently or fulfill a need better than existing solutions while bringing (added) benefit. Innovation through experience and creativity At Fraport, promoting innovation is an process improvements. This demonstrates Ideas that are proven to work are continued: integral part of the company's goals and the important role played by the experiFraport has been working with the “House of its management principles. The practical ence and internal knowledge of the staff. Logistics and Mobility” since its foundation implementation poses management and The 633 submitted ideas, of which 62 were in 2009. The platform for interdisciplinary employees of our company major challenges implemented, testify to their know-how and and cross-industry cooperation between because, for us, innovation is not an end in creativity in the year under review. business, science, politics, and civil society itself. The aim is rather to meet a wide range in the Frankfurt suburb Gateway Gardens is of both customer and business management In addition, new approaches have been located right next to the airport. The focus is requirements through the introduction of successfully tested: some business units on coordinated cooperation with other comnew technology and the ongoing optimizaare increasingly gaining experience in depanies and regional academic institutions. tion of complex processes. In order to make sign thinking in this way. The possibilities The aim is to support innovative logistics optimum use of all potential, the company’s for knowledge exchange and cooperation projects and technical developments and to idea management system brings together between units are supported, for example, further increase the appeal of the Frankfurt employee creativity, while innovation manby wikis, chats and temporary labs. At the site. Fraport also benefits from the academic agement is oriented towards projects with Fraport Innovation Challenge in the summer research at Frankfurt University of Applied partners or customers as well as close coopof 2016, for the first time external users subSciences, which is located at HOLM. Jointly eration with scientific institutions. mitted over 600 ideas – a record number. The defined problems are tackled on site at Frankdepartments have since then been examining furt Airport and managed by Fraport. These Over the past three years, the company the implementation of the winning ideas, include numerous academic theses. has succeeded in increasing the finane.g., creating an Innovation Space in the cial benefit of the ideas or maintaining terminal for targeted networking through to it at the target level. For example, many the possible development and testing of the employees have useful suggestions for first test products. 2016 Compact Economic enhancement 47 Using a fully functional model that they built themselves, Galip Özdemir and Andreas Breycha (from left) from the “Ground Services” section showed their idea for equipping the ground power unit with a warning signal. Warning before resumption of taxiing If aircraft are not docked directly at the terhow to prevent this: an acoustic warning secured on the power unit in order to shut minals but are instead parked on the apron, signal. If the connectors are not correctly off the warning signal and move the unit. a mobile ground power unit supplies them removed from the aircraft and stowed on In the future, this will prevent damage to the with power. In the past, the power unit or the ground power unit, the signal sounds as unit and to aircraft. the aircraft have been repeatedly damaged soon as the driver tries to dock the towbar by improper removal of the connector. Two from the power unit to the towing unit. The ground services employees had an idea on connectors have to be checked and correctly Installation help for restroom sinks Fraport has been renovating the restrooms in the terminals for some time. New sinks are being installed as part of the renovations and whenever there is damage to the bathrooms. Until now, the sinks have been difficult to install. It took two or three employees several hours to install a sink. This method bothered Joachim Saft, at Fraport subsidiary GCS (Gesellschaft für Cleaning Service). He worked on the project until he had developed a holder that enables a single employee to install the sink in a third of the time. In addition to the considerably reduced amount of work required, sinks are now less frequently damaged during installation, which helps avoid additional costs for replacements. 48 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Portrait Aerodrom Ljubljana, d.o.o. Aerodrom Ljubljana, d.o.o. operates the largThe strategic goals of the company with its based Aegean Airlines, have been added, est international airport in Slovenia. Letališce approximately 400 employees include suswhile low-cost carriers expanded their presJožeta Pucnika Ljubljana Airport is the airport tained growth in the passenger and cargo ence. Dutch airline Transavia announced new of the capital city of Slovenia and the home sector, the long-term development of the flights to Amsterdam starting from the 2017 base of Slovenian airline Adria Airways. The airport to an airport city and the successful insummer flight schedule. These and other company was founded in 1963 and has been auguration of the Fraport Aviation Academy. airlines that are expanding their routes or wholly owned by Fraport AG since 2015. starting to serve the airport will benefit from a new charge table, which entered into force The airport benefits from its strategically Traffic development and expansion in April 2017. attractive geographical location at the intersection of the traffic flows between the Aerodrom Ljubljana recorded a slight deSignificant steps for the future expansion Carpathian Basin and the Po Valley as well as cline in passengers in 2016, mainly due to of the airport were carried out in 2016, inthe corridor from the Middle East through the restructuring of the home carrier Adria cluding the construction of the new bypass. the Bosporus to the European Union. The Airways. There were also challenges, such Planning for a modification of the terminal airport had around 1.4 million passengers as increasingly high traffic peaks. infrastructure is in the final phase. Fraport and 32,700 aircraft movements in 2016. Aviation Academy, a newly established cenIn the summer, Ljubljana airport served 29 ter of excellence, is designed to meet the The management consists of Zmago Skobir, destinations in 22 countries with more than training needs of companies in the Fraport (CEO), Robert Gradišar (COO), Dr. Babett 220 flights per week; in the winter there were Group – in particular airport investments – Stapel (CFO and CCO), and Thomas Uihlein direct flights to 22 destinations in 18 counand of its customers. The Academy will pro(CAO). tries with more than 180 flights a week. Two vide training for airport-specific occupations new airlines, Poland-based Lot and Greeceand expertise. 2016 Compact Company Portrait 49 Robert Gradišar, Executive Director Operations »We are aware that sufficient noise abatement is highly important to the quality of life of our neighbors. In 2016, as part of our package of measures to reduce noise pollution from aircraft, we therefore built a noise-reduction forest at Ljubljana Airport together with our neighboring municipality of Šencur. It covers an area of 7.34 hectares and protects the population of the municipality in particular from ground noise generated by aircraft during engine test runs or while taxiing on the airfield. To this end, a total of 10,500 young trees and 2,400 shrubs were planted in the area. The plants were grown in Slovenia and are adapted to the plants typical to the region. In addition, the noise-reduction forest is designed in such a way that it can also be used as a recreational area by the municipality of Šencur.« Reducing CO2, increasing customer in accordance with the requirements of In accordance with national and international satisfaction passengers, airlines, and other business regulations, airport noise is measured at partners. Regular surveys show where action the four most exposed points below the Since 2013, Aerodrom Ljubljana has been is needed. approach and departure routes. Aerodrom continuously working to reduce its carbon Ljubljana regularly provides information footprint. As part of the ACI Airport Carbon The qualification and motivation of emabout these noise measurements and has Accreditation, the global standard for CO2 ployees are a prerequisite for long-term made an interactive application for noise reporting and management at airports, the successful development of a company. This monitoring available. In addition, in 2016 company was able to renew its Level 2 (“Reis why continuous education and training of the company launched a project to reduce duction”) certificate. The objective is to reach employees and measures for occupational noise pollution in the neighboring town with Level 3+ (“Neutrality”) by the year 2020. health and safety need to be standard. In a noise-protection forest. addition, Aerodrom Ljubljana makes it easAerodrom Ljubljana also continuously strives ier for its employees to achieve a work-life for high quality in the area of customer satis­ balance. The company was awarded the faction. As a part of these efforts, the plan “Family Friendly Company” certificate for its is for the airport to be further developed efforts in this area. 50 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Airport Passengers Aerodrom Ljubljana, d.o.o. Ljubljana Jože Pucnik International Airport ~1.4 million Women in management positions Job security is rated highly 29 % According to the 2016 employee survey, the employees were very satisfied with their employer. The aspects of innovation, loyalty, motivation and job security were particularly highly rated. Projects that are already under way, such as the development of a new corporate strategy and a new salary structure, are designed to contribute to the further improvement of employee satisfaction. CO2 emissions 2015: 3.42 kg/traffic unit 2016: 3.48 kg/traffic unit Awards – Environmental award in the category “Environmentally friendly company” by Finance (Slovenian business newspaper) – Awarded designation as “Respected Employer” 2016 Compact Employees 51 Employees > In light of the growing challenges, such as international competition in the aviation industry and the expectations of our passengers and airlines together with an ongoing focus on earnings, the objective is to support the personal, specialist, social, and methodological expertise of our employees. In this way, we can ensure the high quality of our services and also secure long-term, attractive jobs. 52 Employees 2016 Compact From the outlet to the apron lights Fraport AG offers 110 places for apprentices every year. Talented young people are being sought for work in 19 commercial and technical areas, such as IT, mechatronics, and facility cleaning services. There are also eight dual-study courses, including industrial engineering and aviation management. Three years ago, twins Adrian and Kevin Grellneth were among the “newbies” at the airport. Together they started training as electronics technicians for building and infrastructure systems. Adrian Grellneth: “Fraport guarantees each everyone will find a job that meets their The percentage who do not finish is exapprentice a job for one year. That’s a genpersonal expectations. The technical training tremely low. erous offer. I’m glad that we can continue to is supplemented by training courses at our be part of the Group for now.” cooperation partner Pittler ProRegion BerufKevin Grellneth: “What I enjoyed most was sausbildung GmbH in Langen. The company the time with the team that was responsible During their apprenticeships, the brothers is owned by the City of Langen (since 1997) for the maintenance of the parking garages. had the opportunity to familiarize themselves and the Foundation ProRegion of Fraport AG The work there was mostly about the mainwith different departments. Apprenticeships (since 2006). The many years of cooperation tenance or repair of the lighting and heating at Fraport are designed so that the apprenare paying off. Fraport’s apprentices regularly systems.” tices can work in as many technical areas as obtain the best grades at the exams of the possible. This maximizes the chances that Frankfurt Chamber of Commerce and Industry. 2016 Compact Employees 53 »Our contribution to ‘Gute Reise’ is that all systems that contribute to the comfort and safety of passengers are regularly maintained and that the passengers at Frankfurt Airport feel comfortable.« The twins also learned about the maintenance of the lighted emergency exit signs in the public areas as well as the maintenance of the HVAC systems that regulate temperature and humidity in the terminals. In Pier A-Plus, Adrian Grellneth worked in the department that checks the fire and gas detection systems. His tasks also included the repair of the employee time card readers. In another part of their apprenticeship, they learned how to check the pipe heating sysDuring their apprenticeships, Adrian and tems, which ensure that the water pipes do Kevin Grellneth serviced and repaired a wide not freeze. This task is scheduled for the fall variety of electrical systems at the airport. of each year. It is not an easy one when you They also worked on the apron. Under the consider the long distances on the airport guidance of the employees of the so-called site. Their duties also include maintenance lighting guidance system workshop, they of the elevators and escalators. The outlets inspected and repaired the components of in the terminals in which passengers charge the runway lighting guidance system, such their cellphones and other mobile devices as the blue taxiway edge lights. The towers must be regularly checked and damaged for the floodlights require the same regular components replaced. In addition to safety, inspections. passenger comfort is our top priority. 54 Employees 2016 Compact Attractive and responsible employer Protection of jobs across the Group and provision of a working environment that is characterized by diversity, equal opportunities, fairness, and respect. Creating good labor conditions and development opportunities to recruit, qualify, and retain dedicated personnel. Partnership-based corporate culture As a cosmopolitan company with an incan respond to the needs of their employees. was down in all overarching areas, with the ternational perspective, Fraport values the Their behavior is crucial in the creation of a greatest decrease coming from the issue of diversity of its employees. Diversity enriches framework for a flexible, family-conscious and “job security”. The response rate was 56 %, cooperation and promotes innovation and partnership-based corporate culture. which is also slightly lower than the previous creativity. We see the different cultural backyear’s figure of 60 %. After the target value grounds, experiences, and language skills of In terms of diversity management, Fraport of better than 3.0 was once again reached our employees as an opportunity to respond particularly focuses on the advancement of in the past fiscal year, the Executive Board is flexibly to the changing requirements in women into management positions. In 2015, targeting an improvement over the previous international markets and to benefit from we already achieved our goal set for 2021 to year’s figure. them. This is why diversity is a strategic issue increase the proportion at the Frankfurt site 1) Values excluding the Group companies Lima for Fraport which the Group systematically to between 25 % and 35 %, differentiated Airport Partners S.R.L. and Fraport Twin Star fosters in its diversity management program. by business, service, and central units. As a Airport Management AD, whose satisfaction The Group company agreement “Diversity, result, we increased it to 30 % to 35 % and ratings were not available by the editorial Equality and the Conduct of Partnership in extended it to the entire Group. In 2016, deadline. the Workplace” sets out the key principles the proportion of women in management for this. positions in the Group was 30.3 %. Specialized field We promote the building of mixed, diverse teams in a targeted way. Ensuring equal opEmployee satisfaction falls slightly Fraport is one of the biggest employers portunities for different groups of employees in the Frankfurt/Rhine-Main Region, with is essential for this. As far back as 2007, we Employee satisfaction in the Group is an approximately 18,300 employees at Frankcommitted to the “Charter of Diversity” – a important measure for us, which we collect furt Airport. The Fraport Group has around company initiative to promote diversity in with the Fraport Barometer, an online survey. 20,300 employees worldwide. Well-trained companies and institutions. This involves In 2016, the grade fell slightly to 2.91 1) employees are required in a specialized field recognizing and valuing employee diversity (2015: 2.85; index value in line with the such as managing and operating an airport. as well as including it in the corporate culture. German school grade system). Fraport aims We therefore provide a wide range of ongoThis goal is accommodated by countless to constantly improve employee satisfaction. ing training opportunities for our employees. offerings: flexible working hours and other Both company-wide activities and departefforts to help employees achieve a good ment-specific measures and the evaluation The average employee age is 43 at the work-life balance and health management, of these aim to contribute to this. Fraport Group, while at the Fraport parent intercultural events (e.g., interfaith memorial company, it is 46 – and rising. This is due to services), provision of prayer rooms at the The average grade for satisfaction by the the low employee turnover in the Company, airport and the integration of people with employees of Fraport AG was 2.90 in 2016, the increase in the retirement age without disabilities. Particular emphasis is put on adand therefore also slightly down on the deductions and demographic changes that vising and supporting managers on how they previous year’s figure of 2.78. Satisfaction are resulting in a significant increase in the 2016 Compact Employees 55 “Melting pot” airport The nationalities, cultures, and languages of the people we encounter every day in the airport are diverse. In addition to passengers from around the world, the airport is also a very attractive workplace for people of various nationalities. At the end of 2016, 1,672 employees of the Fraport parent company did not have a German passport. The largest share are Turkish (975), followed by Italian (142), Greek (89), and Spanish (78) employees 2). They are distributed throughout the company’s entire organization. 2) The figures refer to employees with a foreign passport. No data is collected on employees with an immigration background and German passport. proportion of older people in the population assistants since 1986 – around 400 so far. because retirements will increase starting in in the industrial nations. In order to remain Since 1996, Fraport has been cooperating 2019 and the average period of employment competitive and secure jobs in the long term with the University of Baden-Württemberg of the apprentices who complete our training in the aviation industry, with rising costs and in providing technical work/study programs is declining. competitive pressure, we are increasingly (dual study). And in 2006, the dual study emphasizing a lifecycle-oriented approach program “Aviation Management” was introto our personnel development and work duced together with Frankfurt University of Integration through training organization, and focusing on strengthenApplied Sciences and other partners from the ing the employer brand both internally and aviation industry. The influx of people from crisis areas around externally. the world also presents new challenges. In view of the demographic change, apprenTogether with companies from Frankfurt, ticeships are indispensable for bringing the the City of Frankfurt, the Federal Agency 50 years of apprenticeships next generation of young people into the for Labor, the Chamber of Industry and company. Training programs based on our Commerce, and Gesellschaft für JugendbesFraport AG has an almost 50-year tradition of requirements and training concepts that chäftigung, since 2015 we have developed apprenticeships. As one of the largest comare appropriate for the target groups make a qualification program for the professional panies offering apprenticeships in the region, a significant contribution towards meeting integration of young refugees (BIFF), which we provide at least 110 young people with an medium-term needs for qualified new emwe launched with nine young refugees in job opportunity in one of more than 30 trainployees. The key challenges of the coming cooperation with Pittler ProRegion Berufing courses or dual study courses each year. years, which will require additional efforts sausbildung GmbH in 2016. The program is This is up from just four careers at the beginand innovative pathways, especially in the designed for career orientation, preparation ning of the 1980s. There are also a number of area of recruitment, are declining secondfor apprenticeships and the improvement of special programs targeting the qualifications ary-school graduation rates, which result language skills. Following this measure, the of young people just starting out in their in a lower number of applications for our aim is to offer apprenticeships to as many of careers. The training program is based on technical apprenticeships, with a continuing the participants as possible. This program our own requirements, but it also has a high trend towards university attendance. complements the special programs that are level of continuity. Anniversary year 2016 already established: “Jugend Mobil” (since had the motto “30 – 20 – 10 years”. We have This also makes retaining trained young 1999) and “Startklar” (since 2012). been training air transport management people in the company more important, 56 Employees 2016 Compact Occupational health and safety Maintaining and promoting the physical and mental performance of our employees by means of suitable measures in the areas of safety at work and health. Enhancement of the prevention culture Accident prevention not only has the aim of Innovations in the baggage service personal safety, but is also very important from an economic point of view. Because The accident figures for the ground services processes that are appropriate for the ages only a fraction of the accidents can be at the Frankfurt site have recently declined of the employees and adapted to the aging attributed to technical causes in today’s significantly, including among the employees process. To this end, innovative solutions are world of work, modern concepts and pracof the FraGround subsidiary (formerly APS) required. At the Frankfurt site, Fraport has tical measures focus on the “human factor”. who work there. Nevertheless, the proporalready implemented initial measures in areas Good prevention culture means that safety tion of physically demanding components where it has direct influence. For example, and health are systematically and holistically is still very high. The activities of the operlifting aids for loading and unloading bagintegrated into the processes and structures ational employees have hardly changed for gage carts and containers were introduced, of the company. Increasing the independent either aircraft handling or baggage service and workplaces were redesigned to be more sense of responsibility of all employees, and in recent years. The increasing average age ergonomic. in particular of managers, is the primary goal. and decreased resilience require jobs and Comprehensive measures to ensure our high standards of work safety are required, for example, when handling hazardous materials, in ground services handling processes, in maintenance, in internal transport and traffic, and during infrastructure construction activities. The aim is to reduce the number of notifiable work accidents in the Group per 1,000 employees to below 25 in 2020 and for it to continue to reduce. 2016 Compact Employees 57 Reduce loads with exo-skeletons Together with institutes from science and production, Fraport has been conducting a feasibility study on the usability of exo-skeletons at the Frankfurt site since 2016. Worn on the body, the machine supports and enhances the movements of the wearer. Among other things, exoskeletons are developed for industrial applications, such as for lifting heavy loads. Available components are to be adapted for the work in aircraft handling and the baggage service, and a check will be made as to whether the physical stresses of our employees can be significantly reduced. In aircraft handling there are only limited with the changing age structure within the focused on increasing personal movement. possibilities for making workplaces more Group. Through our preventive health manEquipped with a step counter, participants ergonomic and safer. The airplanes are the agement, we contribute to maintaining the measured their daily activity levels and comproperty of the airlines, which equip them performance of our employees and prevent peted against each other in groups of seven according to meet their specific requirehealth risks arising at work. employees and against the teams of other ments. That is why we are looking for techcompanies around the world. In 100 days, nical measures that provide relief for loaders. The increasing requirements for efficiency 756 employees in administrative and opIn addition, Fraport is in talks with the airlines and flexibility as well as physically demanding erational areas increased their daily activity and the regulatory authorities to achieve activities are burdens that have to be dealt level from an average of 12,800 steps to the most long-term improvements possible with at an early stage. The rising average around 16,900. Other sports like swimming directly at the base. age of employees represents an additional or cycling were also taken into account. challenge. Our employees are therefore regThe “Weight Watchers at Work” program Accident trends show that our Group is on ularly informed about healthy measures and continues to be very popular. A seventh the right track with its measures. With a rate behaviors, and their workplaces are set up erseries of courses started in 2016. More than per 1,000 employees (number of notifiable gonomically, including in the administrative 800 employees have participated in the work accidents per 1,000 employees) at the area. To protect their health, our prevention courses so far. Frankfurt site of 25.9 and in the Group of program ranges from regular occupational 23.9, we reached record low levels in 2016. health checks to tailor-made offerings. In 2016, Fraport offered supplementary Tailor-made offerings occupational health insurance to all Group employees at the Frankfurt site. Checkups, Maintaining the long-term health, perfordentures, non-medical practitioners and mance, and therefore the productivity of eyeglasses are reimbursed at moderate our employees is now more than ever the premium rates. Families can also join in the focus of our HR management when faced insurance. The Global Corporate Challenge 58 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Portrait Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. Jorge Chávez International Airport (JCIA) was grams. The airport had around 18.8 million infrastructure. The Peruvian Ministry of opened on December 30, 1965. In 2001, the passengers and 177,000 aircraft movements Transport and Communications (MTC) has Peruvian government transferred the concesin 2016. This means that air traffic has quadrualready started to provide the necessary land sion right for the operation and management pled since 2001. Jorge Chávez International for the expansion. In 2016, the LAP team of the airport to Lima Airport Partners S.R.L Airport was voted the best South American responsible for the airport expansion was (LAP), a company whose majority shareairport for six consecutive years as part of primarily concerned with the conception holder is Fraport AG, for a term of 30 years. Skytrax’s World Airline Awards. In 2016 apand design of the second runway and the The first modernization work undertaken on proximately 500 employees worked at LAP. new terminal building, with an emphasis on the airport infrastructure included updating The company is led by CEO Juan José Salmón. efficiency and safety. the sanitary facilities, the electrical and communications systems and the technical The airport now almost reaches its capacity equipment. limits in peak times. To ensure quality of Discussion on airport expansion service and to meet the increasing demands Since the concession was taken over, the area of passengers and airlines, LAP has launched Important projects in 2016 included informof the airport has almost doubled and the an extensive expansion program. The expaning the public and strengthening relations operation has been aligned with international sion includes a new passenger terminal and with the neighboring communities around standards as part of two investment proa second runway, along with the necessary the airport. The focus was on providing 2016 Compact Company Portrait 59 Carlos Gomez, Human Resources »In Human Resources, we focused on renewing our processes, improving the management skills of our senior managers and promoting the development of our employees.« information on LAP’s compliance with envi“Club LAP” and “Academia LAP” LAP was included on the list of the 50 best ronmental obligations and answering quesfor employees employers in Peru in 2016. LAP received the tions on the expansion. In a two-day period, award during the renewal of the certificate employees conducted 30 interviews with “Club LAP” is company’s extensive program for “Business Activities” from the Peruvian interest groups representing the residents of optional supplementary benefits for all Asociación de Empleadores (Employers of the surrounding towns. About 600 citiemployees. The frequency of shift changes Association). zens from the 23 neighboring communities was increased to help employees create a participated. better work-life balance. Among other meaThe number of work accidents fell to just sevsures, specific sports programs and additional en in 2016 from 18 in the previous year. The Another project focusing on dealing with opportunities for the employees to particiissue of sun protection is of particular imporpassengers was the “Smile – a fresh breeze pate in sports are offered on the renovated tance because of the location of the airport. is blowing at the airport” initiative. It encoursports field. A new bus line was also set up Among other measures, LAP installed devices aged local residents to be friendly towards for employees. As part of the “Academia that continuously measure UV radiation and passengers and visitors at the airport. The LAP” training program developed by Human display the figures on a display panel. The initiative is designed to promote the peaceful Resources in 2016, employees in operational goal is to increase awareness about the risks coexistence of residents and visitors in all arareas are offered specific training courses for of UV radiation. This particularly applies to eas of the airport and provide a regulated and soft skills and dealing with customers. employees and contractors who are exposed swift flow of traffic and efficient operations in to direct sunlight, for example, when they are the terminal. Based on the results of a survey on the subject on the apron. of the working environment, for the first time 60 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Airport Passengers Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. Aeropuerto Internacional Jorge Chávez ~18.8 million Women in management positions Awards 38 % – Best South American Airport 2009 – 2015, 2nd place 2016 (Skytrax Research) – Best Airport Personnel 2009, 2011 – 2014 (Skytrax Research) – Leading South American Airport 2009 – 2013 (World Travel Awards) CO2 emissions 2015: 0.40 kg/traffic unit 2016: 0.38 kg/traffic unit Customer satisfaction 2016 96 % Employee satisfaction 2016 79 % 2016 Compact Community 61 Community > Fraport is internationally one of the leading companies in the airport business and, with Frankfurt Airport, operates one of the world’s most important aviation hubs. About 81,000 people work at Frankfurt Airport and 18,300 of these work solely for Fraport. As an active partner for the region, we support sports, social, and cultural clubs and institutions. In addition, Fraport has also always been committed to contributing to the reduction of aircraft noise pollution. We are continuously attempting to reduce noise pollution through active and passive noise abatement measures. 62 Community 2016 Compact Transparency is paramount when it comes to aircraft noise Daphne Goldmann is a physicist, and she understands the issues of aircraft noise and noise abatement from many angles. Before joining Fraport in 2001, she worked as a noise abatement specialist and expert for different engineering firms. Today, she manages the Aircraft Noise Measurement and Assessment department. Her team, which consists of seven aircraft noise controllers and two specialists for evaluation and reporting, has a core mission: It operates a monitoring system around the clock for the automatic measurement of aircraft noise. Daphne Goldmann: “Measuring, assessing in the area surrounding the airport and inried out in 1964. The measuring network has and reporting regularly on aircraft noise is forming local residents. I am also a member of been continuously adapted and expanded part of the public service mission of each research committees and involved in various since then. Five additional measuring stations airport. This is a service for the airlines, the programs for active noise abatement.” have been installed since the inauguration supervisory authority, the commission for of Runway Northwest in the fall of 2011. protection against aircraft noise and the Frankfurt Airport is an international pioneer To achieve a high level of data quality, reliability municipalities – and especially for the people in the field of noise abatement and has been and transparency, the stations use special in the Rhine-Main region. Transparency is setting standards for aircraft noise monitoring high-sensitivity, weatherproof microphones, paramount. This is why I am often underway for decades. The first measurements were carpowerful data analysis devices and storage 2016 Compact Community 63 Fraport’s flight and measurement data are accessible to everyone via the FRA.NoM devices and precisely defined measuring (Fraport Noise Monitoring) information service available on the Internet. Users can methods. Huge amounts of data are generfind information about the destination or origin of an aircraft, its speed and altitude ated every day, which are checked, evaluated as well as the noise level from it detected at the measuring points on the ground. and processed by her team. Daphne Goldmann: “Today, we measure aircraft noise using a total of 31 stationary measuring stations within a radius of 20 kilo­meters around the airport. For comparison: The stationary measuring network is suppleIn addition, the mobile measuring systems The second largest airport in Germany, mented by three mobile measuring devices. are used during tests of new flight control located in Munich, operates 16 measuring The aircraft noise situation can vary dramati­ technologies or flight procedures. For the stations. With the two measuring stations cally from place to place. For questions SESAR Augmented Approach to Land remost recently inaugurated next to Runway concerning the concrete noise level situsearch project, during which satellite-based Northwest, we have been testing an innovaation in individual municipalities, flexibly curved approach procedures were tested at tive measuring method for the detection of employable measuring systems that provide Frankfurt Airport from May to August 2016, reverse thrust on landings since May 2015. the same technical performance and data five mobile measuring devices were used in Based on a field study, we developed criteria quality as the stationary installations are addition to the stationary ones. The goal of to be able to distinguish between reverse used. Municipalities can apply for the mobile measuring the demonstration flights was to thrust with idling load levels or higher load measurement of aircraft noise for a period of determine the noise emissions of the aircraft levels during landing.” three months. along the new approach routes. All Fraport measuring systems continuously transmit the recorded noise data to the control center. In addition to the exact sound profile, the systems also provide data on individual noise events, their duration and maximum level. However, the data process»My contribution to ing is not fully automated. A great deal of detail work and supplementary research is ‘Gute Reise’ is the required to create the best possible data greatest possible transquality after the data is collected. Ambient and aircraft noise are identified using special parency about aircraft testing processes in the subsequent analysis noise. This is part of the and comparing that with information from the flight plan as well as the radar data from public service mission of German Air Traffic Control (DFS). an airport operator. This data set offers many possibilities for Together with the airlines, analysis. They are used, for example, to exwe can test new noise amine the impact of active noise abatement measures such as aircraft modifications or reduction procedures modified flight procedures. The average and routes.« sound levels of the aircraft types are used for classifying aircraft into different noise classes for noise-related takeoff and landing charges. The amount of the fees to be paid is graduated depending on the noise class. Daphne Goldmann: “It is important that the measured noise be correctly assigned to the aircraft that caused it or to other sources of noise. Our measurement data forms the basis for the noise classifications of the charge table. The airlines can count on the high data quality of the measurement results.” 64 Community 2016 Compact Value generation and engagement in the region Positive contribution to the economic development of the region. Charitable involvement in the neighborhood of the airport and dialog with our stakeholders. Airport location factor Airports are important business locations and transport business. Other industries not only benefit from having a short journey and contribute directly and indirectly to include authorities and institutions, caterto fly away on holiday or on business trips, economic and social value generation. ing, security services, personnel services, many of them also work in a company that Frankfurt Airport, for example, with more than consulting, hotels and restaurants, freight benefits from proximity to the airport. 81,000 direct employees, is the largest local handling, cleaning companies and retail place of work in Germany. The latest survey services. Growth potential exists primarily at provides insight into the sectors in which companies providing security services and the jobs at the site can be found. Two-thirds at authorities. The approximately 5.4 million of the employees surveyed work for an airpeople who live in the metropolitan area line, in airport operations or in the shipping around the airport also benefit from this. They Employees at Frankfurt Airport 1980 – 2016 31,800 53,300 62,500 71,000 78,000 80,400 81,000 1980 1990 2000 2010 2012 2014 2016 2016 Compact Community 65 Our company performance (gross value generation) in € million Direct value generation 1,066.7 Employees 113.8 Lenders (interest) 132.8 211.7 Shareholders Other operating expenses 2,934.9 123.8 State (taxes) 621.9 Cost of materials 358.2 Retention (retained generated value) 306.0 Capital expenditure In total, around 38 million inhabitants live in At our international sites, the nearby regions the catchment area of Frankfurt Airport within also benefit from the economic performance a radius of approximately 200 kilometers. of the airport. The companies located at the The central location and high demand mean airport and their economic enhancement that more international and intercontinental as well as consumption by the employees destinations can be reached from here than directly and indirectly contribute to the posifrom many other airports around the world. tive economic development of the respective The hub function plays a key role here: More regions. Fraport’s direct value generation than half of passengers change planes in includes payments for personnel, capital exFrankfurt. That also makes the airport attracpenditure, tax, interest, and dividends to its tive as a cargo transfer location. Around half shareholders. The total amounted to around the annual figure of over 2 million metric €2.1 billion in the past fiscal year. tons of cargo is transported in the “belly” of passenger planes. Shippers of cargo use the large range of connections at Frankfurt Airport to transport their goods quickly to their destination. FRA therefore also ranks among the world’s most important sites for air freight and is number one in Europe. This benefits the export-oriented German economy, which needs the connection to other markets. 66 Community 2016 Compact Painting up a storm Personal commitment was needed for the “Maltese Social Day”, which was attended by five administrative employees of Fraport subsidiary FraGround Fraport Ground Services GmbH (formerly Airport Personal Service GmbH). The kindergarten of the Protestant parish Auferstehungsgemeinde in the Praunheim district in Frankfurt had asked for help with renovation work. The employees painted the workshop and its washroom. The Company gave the employees the day off to do this work. On this day, approximately 1,100 participants spent 4,000 working hours carrying out about 100 projects in the Frankfurt area. At home in Frankfurt For historical reasons, Fraport feels a parlocations. One result of the collaboration is minorities, and the socially disadvantaged. ticular commitment to Frankfurt and the the House of Logistics and Mobility (HOLM) Fraport is particularly active where clubs Rhine-Main region. We are committed to center of excellence at its site at the airport. and voluntary organizations depend on the business location and the metropolitan This economic initiative is also a project aid to carry out their work. The so-called area. These activities include participation in partner for the further development of the “Neighborhood Framework” forms the geothe economic initiative “Wirtschaftsinitiative RhineMain Regional Park, the largest project graphic border for our funding activities. We FrankfurtRheinMain”, in which 150 compasponsored by the Fraport Environmental supported more than 1,800 projects of difnies are involved. As a co-founder, Fraport Fund. ferent clubs and associations with donations has been active in it since 1996 and provides or sponsorship involvement amounting to a the executive management. The initiative With our motto “Active for the Region”, we total of €5.3 million in 2016. works towards making the metropolitan area are known for our community, cultural and more attractive at the economic, academic, social engagement. We support regional and cultural level, thus positioning it in the children’s and youth projects, initiatives for best possible way compared to competitor people with an immigration background, 2016 Compact Community 67 In the Rhine-Main region, Fraport is one of the scapes through gardens and parks to historic largest supporters of sport; our involvement sites. A quick example is the new Scientific extends to both amateur and professional Garden at Goethe University in Frankfurt, sport. Well-known names include FRAPORT where students can learn about ecology in SKYLINERS and Eintracht Frankfurt. At both a hands-on experience. The garden is also clubs, in addition to the national league used in practice-oriented teacher training. teams we also support young talent and At the opening, the “Learning Environmental projects for the motor skill development and Behavior” project, which has already been social integration of children. In the fields of completed, was also honored with the award culture and education, Fraport is involved for “Outstanding Project of the UN Decade in, among other things, the Rheingau Music on Biodiversity”. With the support of the Festival and the Weilburger Schlosskonzerte environmental fund, a practice-oriented series of concerts. We also maintain longteaching format was developed over three term partnerships with Frankfurt cultural years, in which students developed environinstitutions the Städel Museum, Schirn Kunsmental education concepts and tested them thalle, and Liebieghaus sculpture collection. with school classes. Since the environmental fund was established, more than 950 projects have been funded with a total of almost Foundation activities bundled €37 million. Since 1988, through the Erich Becker Foundation, Fraport has been making awards Solidarity with refugees and grants for academic work with a theme related to air transport, logistics and mobilThe number of refugees seeking asylum ity. Funds of approximately €3 million have in Germany is falling, but remains high. been approved since the funding activities Since 2015, Fraport has set an example of commenced. In 2016, the Foundation’s comsolidarity with people seeking protection. mittees decided to dissolve the Foundation The activities are bundled under the motto and transfer its capital to the ProRegion Foun“#Refugeeswelcome: Fraport helps”. In varidation. By bundling the activities, Fraport ous towns and cities in the neighborhood of would like to focus its commitment even the airport, Fraport is supporting the estabmore on the integration of young people lishment of accommodation and the care of and young adults into the world of work. refugees. Employees who volunteer in the As one of the largest employers in Hesse, field of refugee aid are each able to apply Fraport intends to focus more strongly on for a donation of €1,000 for their association. these issues, especially against the backdrop In total, Fraport made donations of more of the collective societal task of supporting than €47,000 available for this purpose in young refugees in gaining vocational qualifithe reporting year. cations and integrating into society. Since 1999, ProRegion has been promoting projects that contribute to improving the training and employability of young people and young adults. The Foundation will have capital of €7.6 million. Since 2006, the Foundation has invested €1 million in Pittler Pro Region Berufsausbildung GmbH in Langen, and thus now holds almost 45 % of the shares in the company. In the past 17 years, funding of €7.5 million has been awarded, including €617,000 for 33 projects in 2016. The largest recipients of funding are based in Frankfurt am Main. With the environmental fund, Fraport has supported nature and environmental conservation projects, research, and environmental education projects since 1997. The best-known project is the RhineMain Regional Park, which extends between Rudesheim, Wetterau, the Kinzig Valley and Ried in Hesse. The route, which is 1,200 The RhineMain Regional Park, which extends between Rudesheim, Wetterau, kilometers long, leads from cultural landthe Kinzig Valley and Ried in Hesse. 68 Community 2016 Compact Noise abatement Noise abatement in nearby residential areas and reduction of those affected by aircraft noise. Reducing noise Civil aviation makes global mobility possible, Our aim is to remain below the noise polWe want to demonstrate how successful we represents the fulfillment of a wide variety of lution level calculated and assessed in the are with our noise abatement measures even transport needs, and is fundamental for the planning approval process for the airport exmore transparently in future. To do this, we economy nationally and globally. However, pansion on the basis of a traffic forecast. This will develop a procedure that enables monairports that are near metropolitan areas also is to be achieved in particular through active itoring of specific noise development per mean a burden for many local residents. noise abatement measures. In active noise traffic unit (defined as one passenger with abatement, the noise is reduced directly baggage or 100 kg of air freight). At our main site, Frankfurt, this area of tenat the source or through noise-reducing sion is becoming particularly clear. Fraport operating concepts and take-off and landing is aware of its responsibility for tens of thoumethods. Passive noise abatement is targeted sands of jobs there, as well as the economic toward reducing noise at the location where significance of its largest airport for Germany the noise pollution is experienced. We are as an exporting country and for the prosactive beyond the legal requirements in perity of the Rhine-Main region, but also for financing noise abatement construction the noise pollution for residents living in the measures. region around the airport. Breakdown of aircraft movements by runway and operating direction (2016 summer timetable) Runway Northwest = 25R/07L Runway Center = 25C/07C Runway South = 25L/07R Take-off Runway West = 18 West Takeoffs Landings STT 2015 STT 2016 2016 Compact Community 69 49 different approach routes possible Assistance for quieter landings the system. The test flights have provided the first evidence of the amount of noise reducWith the inauguration of the “Ground-Based The goal in a joint research project of the tion that can be realized. In order to quantify Augmentation System” (GBAS) navigation German Center for Aviation and Space Travel this as realistically as possible and, above all, system in 2014, Frankfurt Airport was the (DLR) and the Environment and Neighborto test the usefulness and usability of the first international air traffic hub in Europe hood House (Umweltund Nachbarschaftssystem in daily operations, the Airbus A321 to enable satellite-supported precision aphaus – UNH) in Kelsterbach is to reduce airCondor fleet will be equipped with LNAS. proaches. Together with our project partners, craft noise over inhabited areas while saving This trial operation will also be supported Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS) and Lufthanjet fuel. During landing, it is often difficult for by UNH and DLR. UNH has so far provided a sa, we expect an important contribution to pilots to choose when to activate the landing total of €560,000 in funding for the project. more efficiency and further noise-reducing flaps and lower the landing gear with the The Perspective working group of the approach procedures from GBAS. An importoptimum timing so that the engines can be Active Noise Protection expert committee ant aim is the development of GBAS-based operated in a quiet and fuel-efficient idling from the Airport and Region Forum have approaches with 3.2 degree approach angles mode during as much of the landing phase provided technical support for the project. for all runways. These are currently possible as possible. The LNAS (Low Noise AugmenRepresentatives of the aviation industry work only on Runway Northwest using conventation System) assistance system, which the together with authorities and representatives tional ILS technology (instrument landing pilots view in a cockpit display, indicates at of municipalities, DLR and the Aircraft Noise system), and are already integrated into which points they have to perform what acCommission on measures for active noise normal operations. From the second quarter tion to make an optimal descent. This system abatement with a medium to long-term of 2017, we want to test steeper approaches is the practical result of a doctoral thesis at the implementation perspective. on the other runways as well. In addition, DLR Institute for Flight Systems Engineering up to 49 different approach routes can be in Braunschweig. In the fall of 2016, in coopsupported from just one ground station with eration with German Air Traffic Control and Noise absence model 4 confirmed GBAS. In order to make GBAS more attractive Frankfurt Airport, tests were carried out on for airlines, its use was incentivized in the new how the weather conditions, poor visibility, Noise absence model 4, which is recomcharge table, which entered into force at the the weight of an aircraft and the requirements mended for trial by the Frankfurt Aircraft start of 2017. of air traffic control affect the new assistance Noise Commission (FLK, Frankfurter Fluglärmsystem, and how professional pilots react to kommission) and Forum Airport and Region 70 Community 2016 Compact Number of average takeoffs and Distribution of airplane movements landings per day based on operation direction Easterly operation direction = BR 07 Westerly operation direction = BR 25 STT 2015 STT 2016 (FFR, Forum Flughafen und Region), has the approach of locally creating times with for the first time, compensation for the use been tested in operating direction west, i.e., reduced noise pollution in low traffic periods of the outside living area affected by aircraft the airport’s main operating direction, since through alternating the use of runways. noise in day protection zone 1 of the noise April 23, 2015. This means that individual protection area of Frankfurt Airport. This runways are not used early in the morning affects a total of about 12,500 households, and late in the evening, in alternation. Passive noise abatement and outdoor mainly in Florsheim, Frankfurt, Nauheim, Frankfurt is the first major international airport living area compensation Neu-Isenburg, Rüsselsheim and Raunheim. that uses a night-time operating restriction side by side with a runway use concept that Measures for passive noise abatement have The amount of compensation is determined extends the night-time quiet period in the the aim of reducing the noise level inside either by means of a legal flat rate, dependapproach corridors by one hour. buildings through construction measures. ing on the type of property, or by an expert At the Frankfurt site, Fraport has compreopinion on the market value of the property. Southern Frankfurt and the north of Offenhensive legal obligations for around 86,000 Applications for this compensation can be bach in particular benefit from bundling households. Their entitlement is defined via submitted to the competent Regional Counlandings on Runway South in the evening a noise protection area set by the Hesse state cil of Darmstadt. The outdoor living area infrom 10 to 11 p.m. However, the exclusive government in accordance with the strictest cludes, for example, lawns, gardens, terraces, use of this runway means that Neu-Isenberg Aircraft Noise Act regulations. We fulfill these balconies, roof gardens and similar shared and southern Offenbach are more heavily entitlements to their full extent. In addition, outdoor facilities, such as playgrounds at an affected during this hour. Nevertheless, the together with the Hesse state government apartment building. The buildings can be night-time quiet period was also extended we set up a regional fund of €265 to €270 residential houses or apartments, or facilities beyond the core period of 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. million, which will finance the more far-reachsuch as kindergartens and schools. The claim, here by Runway South not being used for ing measures. however, applies only to property on which landings between 5 and 6 a.m. Morning structures were erected before October 13, approaches are then brought in via Runway Statutory services for passive noise abate2011, the date the noise protection area was Northwest and Runway Center. The monitorment and the services of the regional fund established, or for which a building permit ing results obtained during the trial operation are only provided on application. In order existed before this date. confirmed the previously calculated potential to support local residents in determining for burden reduction, so that the “noise abtheir rights and to assist with applications, The entitlement is graduated by the intensence” concept was adopted into the regular Fraport provides an extensive range of inforsity of the noise pollution. The claim for all operation after the one-year trial operation. mation and services on the Group website of day protection zone 1 has been in place www.fraport.com/en/responsibility/airsince October 13, 2016. Fraport had already In operating direction east, the “DROps craft-noise-infoservice/noise-abatement.html. received 2,700 applications by the start of the Early Morning” (Dedicated Runway Operadeadline in October 2016. The deadline for tions) procedure has been back in use since On August 29, 2013, the Regulation on Outthis application is October 12, 2021. OwnOctober 2015. It had to be temporarily susdoor Living Area compensation came into ers can determine whether their property is pended in connection with the trial of noise force as the third implementing regulation of located in one of the zones by entering the absence model 4. This procedure also follows the Aircraft Noise Act. It legally introduced, respective address in the noise protection 2016 Compact Community 71 The noise protection portal (www.rp-darmstadt.hessen.de) can be used to determine whether a property is located in one of the protection zones of the noise protection area and which passive noise abatement measures apply. The Regional Council of Darmstadt also provides information by mail. The address is: Wilhelminenstraße 1 – 3, 64283 Illustration: Day protection zone 1 of the Frankfurt Main Airport. Darmstadt or via email (Schallschutzprogramm@rpda.hessen.de). portal of the Regional Council of Darmstadt 4,097 people addressed their concerns about at times submitted more complaints than (see box for further information). aircraft noise to Fraport. there were actual flight movements in FRA, the overall statistics are clearly distorted. In However, there was a massive increase in order to describe and quantify the impact of Focus on specific complaints the number of notifications received in flight operations in the region in the form of 2016 with declining complainant numbers citizen complaints, we are focusing on those In 2016, a total of 2,339 individuals submitted and unchanged aircraft noise pollution. This complaints with specific reference to flight complaints and questions about the flight development is due to the fact that more and events. This figure has also fallen steadily in operations to Fraport. This is a continuation more frequent complainants are submitting recent years, and was 1,462,838 in 2016. of the long-term trend of a decrease in the an increasingly greater number of complaints number of complainants, which is now condaily. The number of complaints from fresiderably lower than the number before the quent complainants has almost doubled inauguration of the new runway: that year, since 2015. Since frequent complainants 72 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Portrait Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD The German-Bulgarian company Fraport Fraport Twin Star is responsible for the operaThe company policy of Fraport Twin Star Twin Star Airport Management AD (Twin tion, management and expansion of the two is the provision of high-quality services on Star) concluded the 35-year concession gateways to the Black Sea. The responsibilities an international level. Continuous process agreement for the operation of the Burgas include boosting the quality of service and optimization taking into account the inter(BOJ) and Varna (VAR) airports with the Buloverall passenger comfort, the modernizaests of employees, customers, owners, the garian government in 2006. Fraport AG holds tion, technologization and expansion of environment and society are therefore of a majority stake of 60 % in the consortium, airport facilities and infrastructure and the paramount importance. The fundamental with 620 permanent employees and up to ongoing training of employees. In 2016 VAR values of the company serve as the basis: hon1,200 additional seasonal employees. The and BOJ together posted a historic record of esty, integrity, trustworthiness, responsibility, management of the company is composed 4.6 million passengers (22 % growth) and transparency, loyalty and fairness. of Ulrich Heppe (Chief Executive Officer and over 35,000 dispatched flights from approxinterim Chief Business Development Officer), imately 95 airlines to a total of 174 destinaRossen Philipov (Chief Financial Officer) and tions in Europe, Asia, and Africa. Nikolay Sekalov (Chief Coordination Officer). 2016 Compact Company Portrait 73 Ulrich Heppe, CEO of Fraport Twin Star Airport Management »We made a real breakthrough this year and we intend to continue building on this achievement at the Twin Star airports. Together with our partners along the travel chain, we are working hard to expand the Varna and Burgas airports as a popular year-round gateway to Bulgaria’s leading tourism region. I’m proud that we’ve already achieved our first major successes.« 10 years of Fraport Twin Star serve to fill capacity by adding new airlines Compact in the areas of human rights, labor and destinations and extending seasons. standards, environmental protection and 2016 marked the first decade of successful The establishment of a base by Wizz Air and combating corruption. Fraport Twin Star also operation of the Burgas and Varna airports. the start of flight connections by Ryanair are adheres to the core labor standards of the During this time, Fraport Twin Star invested scheduled for the Varna site for 2017. International Labor Organization (ILO), the almost €180 million in the development United Nations Conventions and the OECD and modernization of the two airports. New Fraport Twin Star operates its own aircraft Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises with terminals were inaugurated at both sites in noise monitoring system. With regard to regard to working conditions. 2013 – passengers and airlines alike benefit exceeding the 85 db(A) limits for flights over from their flexible and customer-friendly fathe cities of Burgas and Varna, information is The continuous training and qualification of cilities. The remaining infrastructure was also actively exchanged with the airlines to preairport personnel is a key element for comoverhauled. These improvements include vent future deviations and negative impacts pany policy and the success of the company. an updated runway at Varna Airport, the for residents. The newly built career development center is extension of the apron to increase capacity another component in this effort. at Burgas Airport and newly constructed serThe company has committed itself to comvice buildings. Targeted marketing activities plying with the principles of the UN Global 74 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Airport Passengers Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD Burgas Airport Varna Airport ~4.6 million Women in management positions Passenger satisfaction: 37 % Every year Twin Star surveys passengers and airlines about their satisfaction with the services provided at the Varna and Burgas airports. As in previous years, the results of the passenger survey indicate an average rating of “very good”. Only a few aspects, such as the value for money of the restaurants and the shopping opportunities, were “only” rated “good”. The aspects that are most important for passengers, such as security and waiting times at check-in, were highly praised at both airports. CO2 emissions Varna Airport 2015: 2.96 kg/traffic unit 2016: 2.56 kg/traffic unit Burgas Airport 2015: 1.79 kg/traffic unit Burgas 2016: 1.48 kg/traffic unit Award for “Overall Contribution to the Development of Tourism at the Black Sea” by the Bulgarian Hotel and Restaurant Association, 2016 Award for “Best German Company of the Year”, 2016 Varna 2016 Compact Environment 75 Environment > Operating an airport and air traffic have an impact on the environment. Fraport considers itself responsible for taking the environmental challenges arising from this appropriately into account. Our activities focus on targeting the conservation of the climate and nature, and the careful use of resources. 76 Environment 2016 Compact Saving energy with the weather forecast Climate protection is an important point in Fraport AG’s sustainability program at the Frankfurt site. By the year 2030, CO2 emissions are planned to be reduced to 80,000 metric tons a year. Different projects are contributing to reaching this goal, including the increased use of electric vehicles and ground handling equipment. The biggest item, however, is the improvement of energy efficiency in the operation of buildings and airport infrastructure. Markus Petith works as an operational energy Markus Petith: “On our team, I’m the one The night flight ban in Frankfurt means that manager in the Integrated Facility Managewho has been working longest at Fraport. there are many ways to save energy, whether ment area. As a true “Fraport child”, the I’m familiar with the processes and needs of by simply switching off unnecessary lighting technical management expert completed his the different users of our facilities. We look or turning off the heating or air conditioning apprenticeship as a mechatronics technician for optimization potential everywhere. The in rooms that are not being used. There is in 2004 and, after several internal job changes facilities have to function in accordance a great deal of potential in reviewing and and training courses, has been part a team with the requirements. One issue is specific readjusting the HVAC systems. Working with five other employees since 2016. All of user behavior. If an office is not used at with the employees of the “Central Infrathem were specially selected to develop and night, the HVAC system doesn’t have to run structure Management” (CIM) section, the implement energy saving measures. continuously.” energy managers use computer programs to 2016 Compact Environment 77 »Our contribution to ‘Gute Reise’ is ensuring that our customers, whether passengers, tenants or co-workers, are not even aware of the energy savings measures in place – and if they are, then that they have a positive perception of them.« simulate how the facility values change when successful energy management. We were Previously only disturbances and excess temthe settings are changed. able to predict demand for heating or coolperatures were visible in the control room. ing on the basis of the weather forecast. After reprogramming, the amount of energy For example, for several months, they checked If sunshine is forecast for midday on a winter consumed and the forecast use for the next the room climate in the “Airport City Mall” day, the heating system turns itself down in three days now appear. underground shopping center between the morning and makes optimal use of the Terminal 1 and the parking garages. Temperaenergy input. The sunshine, in combination Because modern technology was already ture, humidity and CO2 levels in the air were with the morning heating, is then sufficient for installed there, the headquarters were used measured and the values were compared. controlling the temperature of the building. to test this procedure. The only thing needThe goal was to realize savings without comWith the simulation program, we can predict ed for the changeover was new software. promising the comfort of the passengers and the energy needs of the building up to three Although the building was constructed in the employees in the restaurants and shops. days in advance.” accordance with modern energy standards, They improved interaction and heat recov12 % energy savings were achieved comery by reprogramming the HVAC systems. Before that, the systems were set accordpared to 2014. Lower costs mean that the The reward was around 40 % lower energy ing to the current temperatures. If the sun conversion of the facilities will have paid off consumption compared to the previous came out on a cold day, the control systems in three years. The room climate for the users month. were unable to respond to it. The solar heat of the building also improved significantly. would overheat sunny areas, causing the air More buildings will follow. The equipment One of the people Petith works with is conditioning to cool the rooms. The setup is of fire station 4 on Runway Northwest will be Rüdiger Schröder from CIM. Since 2008, the different now. Data from the German Weather changed over in 2017, for example. experienced graduate in supply engineering Service is evaluated at 15-minute intervals, has been working to measure, control and future energy requirements are calculated regulate the buildings at Fraport. and sent to the management and control systems in the form of optimized operating Rüdiger Schröder: “The new Fraport headtimes and setpoint values. A further advantage quarters is a particularly good example of of the new software is energy monitoring. 78 Environment 2016 Compact Climate protection Increase in energy efficiency, monitoring and minimization of the emission of climate-relevant gases caused by airport operations (e.g. CO2). New climate protection objectives Air traffic and the operation of airports have on the corresponding targets of the Federal in aircraft handling. New battery-powered an impact on the environment. As an airGovernment, we intend to reduce the CO2 vehicles are being tested for everyday use, port operator with numerous international emissions by Fraport AG at the Frankfurt site which are funded by the German Federal sites, Fraport considers itself responsible for to 80,000 metric tons by 2030. Compared to Government within the scope of the “Elecminimizing the environmental impact of its emissions in the base year of the International tromobility Model Regions” program. They activities. This also applies to CO2 emissions, Climate Agreement (1990), this corresponds replace fuel-powered vehicles. This reduces whose reduction is a key challenge of our to a reduction of 65 %. CO2 emissions are CO2 emissions, air pollution and noise, which time. Along with emissions of other greento be reduced to 0.9 kg CO2 per traffic unit in addition to the environmental footprint house gases, CO2 emissions contribute to (one passenger or per 100 kg of cargo or also improves working conditions on the global warming. mail). Compared to emissions in the base apron. year of 1990 (5.51 kg CO2/traffic unit), this The German government’s aim is to reduce corresponds to a reduction of 84 %. German CO2 emissions by 55 % by 2030 Certified CO2 reporting and by as much as 80 % to 95 % by 2050 To this end, we will continue to work on imcompared to the level of 1990. In order to proving the energy efficiency of our buildings, Airport Carbon Accreditation, a program achieve this, the government has enacted facilities and processes. Using our opera­ to whose development Fraport made a key several laws, such as the Renewable Energies tional energy management system, we contribution, has developed into the global Act and the Energy Saving Act. Voluntary recontinuously identify savings potential in the standard for CO2 reporting and manageduction targets by German companies make building and facilities portfolio and realize ment at airports since 2010. Fraport AG an important contribution to implementing them as far as possible. In the vehicle fleet has decided to certify all fully consolidated national policy. Fraport has also committed and in our ground processes, we examine airports in accordance with Airport Carbon to do this. the possibilities of using alternative energies, Accreditation. The intention is to achieve in particular electricity, as a substitute for at least Level 2 (Reduction). To receive this petroleum-based fuels. New buildings are certificate for the first time, airport operators Stricter CO2 targets set planned and constructed taking into account are required to formulate climate protection energy efficiency considerations. targets and establish a carbon footprint and We are pleased that the climate protection CO2 management system. In subsequent targets for the year 2020 for Fraport AG at years, they must also demonstrate a continuthe Frankfurt site that were formulated in Electric vehicles for aircraft handling ous reduction in their CO2 emissions. Finally, 2008 were fulfilled in the year under review. Level 3 (Optimization) can be achieved by At 209,257 metric tons (absolute) and “E-PORT AN” is a joint initiative by Fraport, including key stakeholders. If an airport op2.56 kg CO2/traffic unit, CO2 emissions were Lufthansa, the state of Hesse and Rhine-Main erator completely reduces its CO2 emissions very significantly below the target values. Electromobility Model Region. The aim of the to zero, it achieves Level 3+ (Neutrality). We various projects bundled under its umbrella already reached Level 3 at the Frankfurt site In January 2017, we used this as an opportuis the reduction of CO2 emissions in aircraft in 2012. Ljubljana Airport reached Level 2 nity to set new CO2 reduction targets. Based handling. Up to 20 different vehicles are used in 2015 as a result of appropriate measures. 2016 Compact Environment 79 Fraport parent company Frankfurt Airport carbon footprint carbon footprint 61.9 % Electricity consumption (scope 2) 2.3 % 15.5 % Scope 1 (own consumption District heating consumption (scope 2) by Fraport parent company) 209,257 15.1 % Operation of vehicles and equipment metric tons (scope 1) 10.7 % 1.61 million Scope 2 (external procurement of energy by Fraport parent – 4.8 % 5.1 % in comparison metric tons company) to previous year District cooling consumption (scope 2) 2.4 % – 3.4 % Other (scope 1): in comparison Operation of grid to previous year replacement facilities (0.5 %) Operation of fire drill facilities (0.1 %) Operation of combustion facilities (1.8 %) 87.0 % Scope 3 (third parties at the airport including air traffic in the landing and take-off cycle) Since 2006, Fraport has taken part in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the leading global climate reporting initiative of the financial economy that analyzes companies and their strategies with respect to climate change and CO2 reporting. In 2016, Fraport reached Level C “Awareness”. The scoring is a reflection of a company’s transparency and activities in climate change matters. By bike to the airport A good network of cycle paths is interesting not just for sports enthusiasts or recreational cyclists. Commercial and industrial locations is funded by the Federal Ministry of Transport usefully integrated into the airport site. The can also benefit from increased transportaand Digital Infrastructure (BMVI) with funding project “bike+business 2020” is intended as tion options. This is why the FrankfurtRheinfor the implementation of the 2020 National a model for setting out a new strategy for Main Regional Authority launched a project Cycling Plan as well as with EU funding to imland planning for other companies at the together with the city of Frankfurt am Main, prove bicycle infrastructure in the immediate airport. “bike+business” certification is the Gateway Gardens Grundstücksgesellschaft vicinity of the airport. fruit of more than ten years of successful mbH, Fraport AG and the Hesse German cooperation between the regional authority cyclists’ association Allgemeiner Deutscher The project includes the development of an and the ADFC. Gateway Gardens will serve Fahrrad-Club (ADFC) Hesse. The goal is to app for employees cycling on the site and as a pilot area, and as such will be the first implement the bicycle as an attractive and an interactive online mapping tool, where cycling-friendly service and industrial site to environmentally friendly means of transport everyone can enter their experiences on be established and certified in Germany. A new at Frankfurt Airport. This will contribute to a regular basis. We will also examine the cycle bridge over Kapitän-Lehmann-Straße improving the performance of the transport potential of pedelec users in a radius of will complement the planned cycle path infrastructure in the region while providing up to 12 km around the airport and how concept and connect the two Airport City individual and societal benefits. The project “pedelec-capable infrastructure” can be sites of Gateway Gardens and THE SQUAIRE. 80 Environment 2016 Compact Conservation of nature and resources Conservation of natural resources; minimization of waste and emissions of air pollutants caused by airport operations as well as maintenance and improvement of the biodiversity on the airport grounds. Responsibility for protecting the environment Operation and expansion of an airport goes roofs are planned for the new buildings in wetlands, and low-nutrient habitats are hand-in-hand with large-scale intervention CargoCity South. being developed. The compensation for in nature. As a transportation hub for tens the construction of the new Terminal 3 is of thousands of people, take-off and landing In close proximity to the airport and further already included in this extensive package of point for hundreds of flights and a hub for afield, as part of the mitigation and cohermeasures. In addition, we support projects thousands of tons of goods per day, airports ence measures in the zoning plan for the for preserving and promoting ecosystems are intensive in their use of resources. The expansion, a total area of 2,312 hectares was and biodiversity in the Rhine-Main area with goal at all Fraport AG sites is to treat the upgraded for nature protection. High-quality funds from the voluntary Fraport Environenvironment as gently as possible. We conhabitats such as deciduous forests, orchards, mental Fund. sider ourselves responsible for protecting the environment and expect the same from our suppliers and service providers. Conservation of resources and environmental protection are therefore included in our Code of Conduct for suppliers that has been in force for the Frankfurt site as of 2013 and Group-wide as of 2014. In Frankfurt, a detailed record was made of the local flora and fauna as part of the zoning plan for the expansion of the airport in 2005. In addition, we have been carrying out intensive environmental monitoring around the airport as of 2010. The first conclusive findings are to be expected from about 2020 onwards. FRA is one of the most compact major airports A rare guest in the world with an area of around 22 square kilometers. Of this terrain, approximately half In the autumn of 2016, a rare guest stopped over at Frankfurt Airport for a few weeks. is unpaved. The largest continuous open A hermit ibis had discovered the airport site and made it into its new habitat. The bird, also area is in the area around the runways. This known as a bald ibis, was regarded as a delicacy in the Middle Ages and has been extinct extensively maintained permanent grassland in Germany for 300 years due to intensive hunting. Its marker ring gave it away: It “broke is a high-quality habitat which is home to rare out” of the Amersfoort Zoo in the Netherlands and had somehow found its way to Frankfurt. and endangered animal and plant species. It was most often sighted in Cargo City South, or on the south runway. In consultation with Where possible we expand green spaces. the zoo and the state bird shelter, no attempts were made to capture the animal. The bird For example, several environmental green was not a hazard to air traffic, because it spent most of its time near the ground. 2016 Compact Environment 81 Unattractive for flocks of birds recycling systems in vehicle washing faciliOld work uniforms recycled ties. In addition, where possible we use raw Collisions with individual large birds or flocks water instead of drinking water. To do this, In 2016, Fraport distributed redesigned of birds are a hazard for aircraft. Because stawe collect rainwater in CargoCity South and work uniforms to employees who come tistically around two-thirds of all bird strikes Terminal 2 and supplement it from our own into contact with customers. This move take place at airports or neighboring areas, groundwater wells or with treated water generated tons of old clothing that needas an airport operator Fraport is obliged to from the River Main. We use the raw water in ed to be disposed of. Because the clothes minimize this risk. In contrast to many intersprinkler systems, toilets, and for irrigation of have the Fraport logo on them and may national airports, in Frankfurt we focus on green areas. The raw water supply in Cargo­ not be used by third parties, it was not special biotope management. This involves City South is being expanded across the legally possible to donate them to charity. making the airport area unattractive to relboard. In the north, Terminal 2 is supplied Sending them to a certified waste disposal evant animals, i.e., minimizing or avoiding with raw water, and Terminal 1 and the neighcompany for shredding would be the most nesting, resting, and feeding opportunities. boring office building are 70 % connected. In cost-effective method, but it was rejected The bird strike rate based on verified reports the past 16 years, raw water as a percentage because of sustainability considerations. by the Deutscher Ausschuss zur Verhütung of Frankfurt Airport’s total consumption has The solution was found in collaboration von Vogelschlägen im Luftverkehr (German increased to around 20 %. with Behinderten-Werk Main-Kinzig (BWMK) Committee for the Prevention of Bird Strikes and the K+G disposal company, which in Aviation – DAVVL) has been at between provides containers for the collection free three and five cases per 10,000 aircraft Air pollutants continuously of charge. In a workshop for the disabled in movements in Frankfurt for the past few years. monitored Langenselbold, BWMK employees sort the parts of the old Fraport uniform and remove Air pollutants arise at airports primarily in the logo. The employees of the integration Modern water management connection with flight operation, but apron firm “Heinzelmännchen Wäscheservice und and vehicle traffic also lead to the emission Hausdienstleistungsgesellschaft mbH” in Operating an airport requires a lot of water of pollutants into the air. At Frankfurt Airport Wächtersbach, also a subsidiary of BWMK, and, at the same time, produces a large quanwe have been continuously monitoring emisthen take over the further processing. The old tity of waste water. When dealing with the sions of pollutants as of 2002 at up to five air Fraport work uniforms are cleaned, ironed, legally protected resource of water, Fraport measurement sites. The measurement results folded, and provided to various charitable ortakes all aspects of modern water manageprove that air quality on the airport site has ganizations. Around 4,000 pieces of clothing ment into account. This includes managing remained at city level since the commencehave already been delivered to the workshop consumption and quality control of the water ment of monitoring. The use of electrically for the disabled. that enters the ecosystem. powered apron vehicles also contributes to the reduction of emissions on the apron. We use water sparingly at Frankfurt Airport and employ, among other things, watersaving techniques in sanitary facilities and 82 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Portrait Fraport Regional Airports of Greece Fraport Regional Airports of Greece (Fraport While all essential administrative functions €330 million in the updating and developGreece) was founded in 2015. As of 2017, are carried out within the management ment of the infrastructure by 2020 alone. it takes over responsibility for the operation company, Fraport Greece A is responsible for Around 170 employees currently work at and management of 14 Greek regional airoperating the airports of Thessaloniki (SKG), the company’s headquarters in Athens, and ports for 40 years. The consortium partners Aktion/Preveza (PVK), Kavala (KVA), Chania/ employment contracts have already been Fraport AG (73.4% share) and the Greek Crete (CHQ), Kerkyra/Corfu (CFU), Kefalonia concluded with more than 380 employees company Copelouzos Group (26.6 %) have (EFL) and Zakynthos (ZTH). Fraport Greece B at the 14 airports. already successfully collaborated on a joint will operate the airports on Kos (KGS), Mytiliproject at Pulkovo Airport in St. Petersburg. ni/Lesbos (MJT), Mykonos (JMK), Rhodes The management of Fraport Greece includes (RHO), Samos (SMI), Santorini/Thira (JTR) Alexander Zinell (Chief Executive Officer), Fraport Greece is made up of three comand Skiathos (JSI). Bill Fullerton (Chief Technical Officer), panies: Fraport Regional Airports of Greece Vangelis Baltas (Chief Financial Officer) and Management Company S. A. (Fraport Greece In addition to airport operations, Fraport Ian Matheson (Chief Operations Officer). ManCo), Fraport Regional Airports of Greece A Greece will be responsible for the mainteS. A. (Fraport Greece A) and Fraport Regional nance and development of the airports over Airports of Greece B S. A. (Fraport Greece B). the next 40 years and will invest more than 2016 Compact Company Portrait 83 Kelly Pyrpili, Environmental expert at Fraport Greece »Our work demonstrates how modernization and the efficient operation of an airport can go hand in hand with environmental protection. Fraport Greece focuses on a sustainable future and makes it the basis for our day-to-day business. We want to contribute to improving operations at the 14 airports, ensure compliance with regulatory requirements and create sustainability targets. The environmental approval of the upcoming work is the basis for achieving these objectives. It is a further building block of a very complex structure. Its conclusion will be accompanied by positive changes for both Greece and its aviation industry.« Professional management and The 14 airports are located in attractive tourist airports, the expansion and modernization airport expansion regions or national economic centers and of airport infrastructure and process optimiwere used by over 25 million passengers in zation. The aim is to ensure high quality of The privatization of the 14 Greek regional 2016. In the future, even more passengers, service that meets international standards. airports is one of the largest investments to mostly tourists, are expected in Greece, strengthen the Greek economy. The partwhich will benefit other sectors such as agriThe development plans for the 14 airports nership between Fraport and Copelouzos culture, fisheries, construction, retail, service include the modernization or expansion of will support Greece’s important tourist inproviders and the real estate market. Fraport infrastructure. The planned measures range dustry, strengthen its competitiveness and Greece will work closely with the cities and from the renovation of existing terminals to create new jobs. In addition, the cities and municipalities at the respective airport sites the construction of new airside and landside regions around the airport sites will benefit and promote local businesses and service facilities. A total of eight runways are being from the increase in passenger numbers and providers. renovated at the sites. Ten airports will get the expansion of the travel season through new or expanded terminals, and the termiprofessional airport management. The airports themselves will profit from the nals will be renovated at the remaining four extensive experience of the two consortium airports. partners in the operation of international 84 Company Portrait 2016 Compact Company Airport Passengers Fraport Regional Airports of Greece Thessaloniki, Aktion/Preveza, Kavala, Chania (Crete), Kerkyra ~25.3 million (Corfu), Kefalonia, Zakynthos, Kos, Mytilini (Lesbos), Mykonos, Rhodes, Samos, Santorini (Thira), Skiathos Women in management positions 33 % Thessaloniki 2016 Compact Key Figures 85 Key Figures > 86 Key Figures 2016 Compact Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at December 31, 2016 Assets € million December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Non-current assets Goodwill 19.3 41.7 Investments in airport operating projects 516.1 500.9 Other intangible assets 146.7 161.2 Property, plant, and equipment 5,954.2 6,045.4 Investment property 79.6 74.5 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 209.7 237.6 Other financial assets 561.7 659.2 Other receivables and financial assets 173.3 167.0 Income tax receivables 0.2 5.4 Deferred tax assets 36.9 33.4 7,697.7 7,926.3 Current assets Inventories 37.9 42.8 Trade accounts receivable 129.6 154.0 Other receivables and financial assets 259.7 310.8 Income tax receivables 11.9 7.4 Cash and cash equivalents 736.0 406.0 1,175.1 921.0 Total 8,872.8 8,847.3 2016 Compact Key Figures 87 Liabilities and equity € million December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Shareholders’ equity Issued capital 923.6 923.1 Capital reserve 596.3 594.3 Revenue reserves 2,220.4 1,919.9 Equity attributable to shareholders of Fraport AG 3,740.3 3,437.3 Non-controlling interests 101.1 74.4 3,841.4 3,511.7 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 3,236.9 3,273.8 Trade accounts payable 41.8 42.5 Other liabilities 408.0 447.7 Deferred tax liabilities 173.6 172.2 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 33.2 30.7 Provisions for taxes on income 71.8 62.1 Other provisions 147.2 201.6 4,112.5 4,230.6 Current liabilities Financial liabilities 366.5 543.6 Trade accounts payable 146.7 143.1 Other liabilities 145.7 129.4 Provisions for taxes on income 42.9 56.0 Other provisions 217.1 232.9 918.9 1,105.0 Total 8,872.8 8,847.3 88 Key Figures 2016 Compact Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows € million 2016 2015 Profit attributable to shareholders of Fraport AG 375.4 276.5 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 24.9 20.5 Adjustments for taxes on income (not including Manila) 112.9 136.8 Depreciation and amortization 360.4 328.3 Interest result 106.9 125.6 Gains/losses from disposals of non-current assets – 31.4 – 2.8 Others – 8.9 5.8 Earnings effect of the Manila project Compensation payment – 241.2 Refund GKA 34.1 Refund GKA (change to provisions) 8.3 Reclassified currency differences 9.2 Taxes on income 68.2 – 121.4 Changes in the measurement of companies accounted for using the equity method 4.6 – 37.6 Changes in inventories 4.9 0.9 Changes in receivables and financial assets 12.6 12.3 Changes in liabilities – 10.0 – 15.3 Changes in provisions – 21.0 – 6.3 Operating activities 809.9 844.7 Financial activities Interest paid – 113.8 – 131.3 Interest received 10.9 16.0 Paid taxes on income (not including Manila) – 123.8 – 77.2 Cash flow from operating activities 583.2 652.2 Investments in airport operating projects – 32.2 – 16.1 Capital expenditure for other intangible assets – 6.2 – 15.7 Capital expenditure for property, plant, and equipment – 266.9 – 247.1 Capital expenditure for “Investment property” – 0.7 – 10.2 Capital expenditure in companies accounted for using the equity method 0.0 – 2.0 Sale of consolidated subsidiaries 0.0 9.7 Sale of shares in companies accounted for using the equity method 40.1 0.0 Dividends from companies accounted for using the equity method 24.5 32.5 Revenue from disposals and repayments of loans to investments 57.1 0.0 Proceeds from disposal of non-current assets 4.3 4.6 Payments for the Manila project Compensation payment 241.2 Refund GKA – 34.1 Taxes on income – 68.2 138.9 Cash flow used in investing activities excluding investments in cash deposits and securities – 41.1 – 244.3 Financial investments in securities and promissory note loans – 129.8 – 312.8 Proceeds from disposal of securities and promissory note loans 260.6 441.4 Decrease in time deposits with a term of more than three months – 111.9 58.0 Cash flow used in investing activities – 22.2 – 57.7 Dividends paid to shareholders of Fraport AG – 124.6 – 124.6 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – 5.7 – 8.9 Capital increase 2.5 2.4 Capital contributions for non-controlling interests 5.6 0.0 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 0.0 – 4.2 Cash inflow from long-term financial liabilities 295.0 125.0 Repayment of non-current financial liabilities – 513.7 – 561.1 Changes in current financial liabilities – 6.7 29.6 Cash flow used in financing activities – 347.6 – 541.8 Change in cash and cash equivalents 213.4 52.7 Cash and cash equivalents as at January 1 230.7 167.8 Foreign currency translation effects on cash and cash equivalents 4.7 10.2 Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31 448.8 230.7 2016 Compact Key Figures 89 Consolidated Income Statement € million 2016 2015 Revenue 2,586.2 2,598.9 Change in work-in-process 0.4 0.5 Other internal work capitalized 34.9 29.9 Other operating income 332.9 49.8 Total revenue 2,954.4 2,679.1 Cost of materials – 621.9 – 610.4 Personnel expenses – 1,066.7 – 1,026.7 Depreciation and amortization – 360.4 – 328.3 Other operating expenses – 211.7 – 193.2 Operating result 693.7 520.5 Interest income 32.0 30.6 Interest expenses – 138.9 – 156.2 Result from companies accounted for using the equity method – 4.6 37.6 Other financial result – 0.8 1.3 Financial result – 112.3 – 86.7 Result from ordinary operations 581.4 433.8 Taxes on income – 181.1 – 136.8 Group result 400.3 297.0 thereof profit attributable to non-controlling interests 24.9 20.5 thereof profit attributable to shareholders of Fraport AG 375.4 276.5 Earnings per €10 share in € basic 4.07 3.00 diluted 4.06 2.99 EBIT (= operating result) 693.7 520.5 EBITDA (= EBIT + depreciation and amortization) 1,054.1 848.8 90 Key Figures 2016 Compact Non-financial performance indicators (see 2016 Annual Report) Unit Scope 2016 2015 Global satisfaction % Frankfurt 82 80 Punctuality rate % Frankfurt 79.5 80.3 Baggage connectivity % Frankfurt 98.7 98.8 Equipment availability rate % Frankfurt 96.7 98.9 Employee satisfaction 1) Group 2.91 2.85 Work accidents per 1,000 employees Group 23.9 25.8 2) 1) Values excluding the Group companies Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. and Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD, whose satisfaction ratings were not available by the editorial deadline. 2) 2015 figure adjusted. The figures reported for the previous year may be adjusted due to subsequently reported accidents. Key responsible corporate governance figures Economic enhancement Unit Scope 2016 2015 Global satisfaction of passengers % FRA site 82 80 Customer Service Index Airlines % FRA site 77.2 73.8 Group result € million Group 400.3 297.0 ROFRA % Group 11.4 9.4 Net financial debt € million Group 2,355.9 2,774.3 Free cash flow € million Group 301.7 393.6 Frankfurt passengers Million Frankfurt 60.79 61.04 Benefit of implemented ideas € FRA site 395,891 545,000 Employees Unit Scope 2016 2015 Employees 3) Group Total 21,009 21,475 of which women % 24.2 24.2 Average age Years Group 43.0 42.8 Employee satisfaction 1) Group 2.91 2.85 Women in management positions As % of managers Group 30.3 29.3 Number of permanent Employee turnover employee leavers in % Group 10.4 11.2 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements As % of employees Group 98.7 99.6 Training days Days per employee Group 2.94 3.80 Places on training courses Group 317 321 Work accidents per 1,000 employees Group 23.9 25.8 2) Work accidents per 1,000 employees FRA site 25.9 27.8 As percentage of relevant jobs Percentage of persons with severe disabilities (all employees) Group 8.3 7.9 1) Values excluding the Group companies Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. and Fraport Twin Star Airport Management AD, whose satisfaction ratings were not available by the editorial deadline. 2) 2015 figure adjusted. The figures reported for the previous year may be adjusted due to subsequently reported accidents. 3) Reported as per the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (employee figures incl. temporary staff, apprentices, and employees on leave as at December 31). 2016 Compact Key Figures 91 Community Unit Scope 2016 2015 Corporate performance (gross value generation) € million Group 2,934.9 2,737.8 Cost of materials € million 621.9 610.4 Other operating expenses € million 211.7 193.2 Direct value generation € million 2,101.3 1,934.2 Employees € million 1,066.7 1,026.7 Capital expenditure € million 306.0 295.3 Shareholders € million 132.8 131.1 State (taxes) € million 123.8 77.2 Lenders (interest) € million 113.8 131.3 Retention (retained generated value) € million 358.2 272.6 Residents in day protection zone 1/night protection zone 4) FRA site 9,560/68,571 3,000/72,462 Environment Unit Scope 2016 2015 Absolute CO2 emissions Metric tons of CO2 Fraport AG 209,257 218,389 kg CO2 per Relative CO2 emissions traffic unit Fraport AG 2.56 2.67 Total energy consumption (scopes 1 and 2) TJ Group 3,031.8 3,014.6 Proportion of fully consolidated Group members with an environmental management system % Group 95 96 Proportion of fully consolidated airports with Airport Carbon Accreditation % Group 76 78 Total water withdrawal Group Million m³ 1.782 1.781 Liters per traffic unit 16.2 16.6 Waste water Group Million m³ 2.606 2.678 Liters per traffic unit 23.8 25.0 Waste 1,000 metric tons Group 25.29 28.66 Number per 10,000 Bird strikes 5) aircraft movements Frankfurt 4.86 2.61 4) Residents in the Leq contour, day = 60 dB(A)/contour of the envelope from NAT, night = 6 × 68 dB(A) Lmax and Leq, night = 50 dB(A) (daytime protection zone 1/night protection zone as per German Aircraft Noise Act). 5) The significant increase in the number of bird strikes corresponds to the trend across Germany. It can be assumed that the number of bird strikes has not increased, but rather the number of reports. This is because in accordance with EU Regulation 376/2014 and Implementing Provision (EU) 2015/1080 Annex IV beginning in November 2015 all airport operators, air traffic controllers, ground handling services and aircraft pilots in Europe are now uniformly required to report security-related incidents (here bird strikes). 92 Key Figures 2016 Compact Employees in the Fraport Group Employees December 31, 2016 Fraport AG 11,164 Fraport parent company 11,164 Subsidiaries Media Frankfurt GmbH 48 Airport Assekuranz Vermittlungs-GmbH 12 Airport Cater Service GmbH 137 GCS Gesellschaft für Cleaning Service mbH & Co. Airport 657 Flughafen Kanalreinigungsgesellschaft mbH 21 Air IT Services AG 20 FraSec – Fraport Security Services GmbH 3,538 APS Airport Personal Service GmbH 3,025 Fraport Passenger Service GmbH 118 FraCareServices GmbH 448 Fraport Casa GmbH 2 FRA-Vorfeldkontrolle GmbH 94 Fraport Casa Commercial GmbH 1 Fraport Group at Frankfurt site 19,285 Fraport Peru S.A.C. 7 Antalya Havalimani Uluslararasi Isletmeciligi 10 Twin Star Airport Management 613 Aerodrom Ljubljana 399 Lima Airport Partners S.R.L. 500 Fraport Saudi Arabia (FSA) Ltd. 2 Fraport USA Inc. 34 Fraport Regional Airports of Greece A S. A. 30 Fraport Regional Airports of Greece B S. A. 26 Fraport Regional Airports of Greece Management Company S. A. 103 Fraport Group outside the Frankfurt site 1,724 Fraport Group total 21,009 You can find many other key figures in our GRI Report at www.fraport.com/responsibility. 2016 Compact About this Report 93 About this Report The “2016 Compact – Gute Reise! We make the Fraport Group and the major objective corporate management. The reports are also it happen” report informs our stakeholders of a “Gute Reise”, which all employees are the basis and source of our statement of comand the interested public in brief form about working towards. pliance with the German Sustainability Code. the economic development of Fraport Group and its objectives, activities, and progress reThe selection of the report content is based The information in “2016 Compact” covers lating to responsible corporate governance 1). on the regular exchange of views with our all Group activities, products, and services We publish additional information using the stakeholders and a comprehensive materiality and all companies that are consolidated standard of the Global Reporting Initiative analysis. In this regard, we have defined imaccording to the regulations on finan(GRI) in a separate report in the core version portant areas of activity for Fraport and posicial reporting issued by the International of the GRI G4 guidelines, including the industioned them in a materiality matrix according Accounting Standards Board on the relevant try-specific additional indicators for airport to their importance for the stakeholders and balance sheet date or have significant enoperators on our website www.fraport.com/ the Group. As part of a program, Fraport has vironmental effects within this framework. responsibility. set objectives and performance figures for all As it is by far the largest Group site, Frankfurt areas of activity as well as defined measures is the focus of our reporting. You can find Our new slogan “Gute Reise! We make it for achieving the objectives. detailed information on our data collection happen” was launched in the “2015 Comin the GRI Report. pact” report. “2016 Compact” takes up the Fraport complies with and supports the ten subject again and explores it more in-depth. principles of the UN Global Compact, deOur reports are published annually in GerThe focus is on the second part: “We make velops and executes measures to implement man and English, and cover the reporting it happen”. Employee snapshots show who them, and contributes to their recognition, period of January 1 to December 31 of each is behind the “We”. The Group ID card at even beyond the company’s own limits. year. The editorial deadline for this report the Frankfurt Airport site serves as a stylistic This publication, alongside the GRI report, was April 2017. The previous report was device and unifying element throughout is also used as a progress report relating to published on May 4, 2016. the report. It is a symbol of being part of the implementation of the ten principles in 1) Where the statements made in this document relate to the future rather than the past, these statements are based on a number of assumptions about future events and are subject to a number of uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide and which could have the effect that the actual results will differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, the competitive environment in deregulated markets, regulatory changes, the success of business operations, and a substantial deterioration in basic economic conditions in the markets in which Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide and its Group companies operate. Readers are cautioned not to rely to an inappropriately large extent on statements made about the future. 94 Imprint 2016 Compact Imprint Editor Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide 60547 Frankfurt/Main Germany Phone: +49 (0) 1806 3724636 1) Website: www.fraport.com Investor Relations Contact Stefan J. Rüter Head of Finance and Investor Relations Phone: +49 (0) 69 690-74840 Fax: +49 (0) 69 690-74843 Website: www.fraport.com/responsibility E-mail: responsibility@fraport.de Concept and Design heureka GmbH, Essen Photography Michael Gernhuber, Essen Photo archive, Fraport AG Stefan Cop Fraunhofer-Institut für Produktionstechnik und Automatisierung IPA Printing WOESTE DRUCK + VERLAG GmbH & Co KG, Essen-Kettwig Publication Date May 2017 Editorial Deadline April 2017 1) 20 cents (€) per call from a German landline; maximum of 60 cents (€) per call from a German cell phone. Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide Finance & Investor Relations 60547 Frankfurt/Main www.fraport.com
