Annual Report 2017 2 3 CONTENTS DIRECTORS’ REPORT OUR BUSINESS RISK Who We Are 08 Risk Governance and Management 58 Our Values 11 Key Risks and Mitigation 60 Operational and Financial Performance 12 PERFORMANCE & OUTLOOK Performance Highlights 14 Chairman’s Report 16 Group Highlights 64 Group Chief Executive Officer and Development Performance & Outlook 66 Managing Director’s Report 18 Development Pipeline 68 Apartment Completion Profile 69 OUR STRATEGY Construction Performance & Outlook 70 Our Strategy 22 Investments Performance & Outlook 72 Global Trends Influencing Our Strategy 24 Financial Position and Cash Flow Movements 74 Global Presence, Gateway Cities 26 Group Funding and Debt Facilities 75 Development 28 GOVERNANCE Construction 30 Investments 32 Board of Directors’ Information 78 All financial amounts within this report are in Australian dollars unless otherwise specified. Case Study – Elephant & Castle 34 Remuneration Report 92 Lendlease Corporation Limited ABN 32 000 226 228 Incorporated in NSW Australia Directors’ Report 120 Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited PILLARS OF VALUE Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration 122 ABN 72 122 883 185 Pillars of Value 38 AFS Licence 308983 as responsible entity for Lendlease Trust FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 126 ABN 39 944 184 773 Health & Safety 40 ARSN 128 052 595 Financial 42 OTHER INFORMATION Our Customers 44 Securityholder Information 194 Front cover: International Convention Centre Sydney and Sofitel Sydney Darling Harbour Our People 46 Glossary 197 Circular Quay Tower, Sydney Sustainability 48 Corporate Directory 198 Artist impression as at 2017 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 5 ANNUAL REPORT About this Report 4. Risk Reporting Suite Lendlease presents its second integrated annual report (Annual An explanation of Lendlease’s approach to risk governance Lendlease’s Reporting Suite is the source that provides • Website www.lendlease.com: Includes additional Report) which will continue to evolve over time. Through this and management including an assessment of key risks and information about the Company and its key financial and information on sustainability reporting, corporate Annual Report we aim to communicate how we create long mitigation. operational achievements. The Reporting Suite includes governance, tax compliance and historical financial term value for our securityholders through five pillars of value. the following: information. The Annual Report is divided into several sections with all required elements of the Directors’ Report, including the 5. Performance & Outlook • The Annual Report: Includes information on the Company, its Operating and Financial Review (OFR), being covered on Commentary on Lendlease’s financial pillar and Portfolio strategy, integrated financial and operational performance, Future of Reporting Management Framework, including a performance overview corporate governance, Directors’ Report, Remuneration pages 8 to 123. This Annual Report sets out our competitive advantage and our for our three operating segments: Development, Construction Report and Financial Statements. commitment to creating long term value for our stakeholders, and Investments, as well as a summary of our financial position, • Bi-annual Results Presentation: Includes the current 1. Our Business funding and cash flow information. reporting period’s financial results, and detailed segment realised through our pillars of value. In future reports we will continue to enhance our measurement of Key Performance The Annual Report begins with an overview of who we are and information for projects, investments, and pipeline. Indicators (KPIs) for each pillar. our values. This is followed by a summary of our key operating and financial performance for the current reporting period, 6. Governance including performance highlights throughout the 2017 An overview of Lendlease’s governance and decision making financial year. Lendlease’s Chairman and Group Chief structures and remuneration information. Further information Executive Officer and Managing Director concludes this PILL ARS OF VALUE on governance can be found in the Corporate Governance section with their reviews of performance for the year. Statement on the Lendlease website. 2. Our Strategy Integrated Reporting An outline of our strategy and how we differentiate ourselves This Annual Report has been prepared with reference to the from our peers. This is followed by a description of the global International Integrated Reporting (IR) Framework. This trends that will influence our business and how we will leverage framework encourages businesses to consider what creates gateway cities to deliver our strategy. We explain in detail our value for them and how this value contributes to long term operating segments and conclude with a specific focus on our sustainable returns for securityholders. integrated model through the lens of Elephant & Castle, London. 3. Pillars of Value Materiality A matter is considered material if Lendlease’s senior A description of Lendlease’s five pillars of value that drive the management and those charged with governance believe it long term value of our business. Icons will be used throughout could significantly impact the value created and delivered by the Annual Report to link our business activities to these pillars. the relevant pillar in the short, medium and long term. An update of the performance in line with identified measures is Lendlease identifies and captures material matters through the provided on pages 38 to 55, with further information on financial following processes: performance included in the Performance & Outlook section on pages 64 to 75. A description of each pillar is provided below: • Project Control Group (PCG) sessions, which include key Health & Safety Financial Our Customers Our People Sustainability internal stakeholders and represent the governance structure for overseeing the completion of the Annual Report; Health & Safety We are committed to A strong balance sheet We adopt a collaborative Lendlease’s people are Sustainability is about • Capturing feedback through engagement and research We are committed to the health and safety of our people. This the health and safety of and access to third approach to our the greatest contributors enabling the creation of during the financial year from key external stakeholders means we focus on maintaining the health and wellbeing of our our people. This means party capital enables relationships, delivering to our success and the best places and including investors, analysts, and other relevant groups; people and those who engage with our assets. we focus on maintaining Lendlease to fund the high quality products underpin our ability to meeting future needs of • Engagement with the Board; and the health and wellbeing execution of its pipeline and services that deliver our vision to people. Globally, capital • Confirming the strategy and the global trends influencing our of our people and those and deliver quality respond to our create the best places. investors, policy makers Financial strategy are consistent and relevant with the information who engage with our earnings. customers’ needs. and communities are A strong balance sheet and access to third party capital collected above. assets. Satisfied customers seeking trusted partners enables Lendlease to fund the execution of its pipeline and The outcome of the above processes are the material issues drive long term value. who can deliver efficient, deliver quality earnings. noted on page 38 and the strategy and global trends influencing healthy, resilient, our strategy presented on pages 22 to 25. culturally and socially Our Customers inclusive outcomes which We adopt a collaborative approach to our relationships, delivering deliver long term value. high quality products and services that respond to our customers’ Directors’ Report and OFR needs. Satisfied customers drive long term value. The required elements of the Directors’ Report, including the OFR, which is part of the Directors’ Report, are included on pages 8 to 123 of this Annual Report and include the sections: Our People Our Business, Our Strategy, Pillars of Value, Risk, Performance Lendlease’s people are the greatest contributors to our & Outlook and Governance. The OFR is contained specifically success and underpin our ability to deliver our vision to create on pages 8 to 75. the best places. All non financial metrics included in the Directors’ Report on pages 8 to 61 have been verified through our internal Sustainability verification process. The Remuneration Report on pages 92 to Sustainability is about enabling the creation of the best places and 119 and the Financial Statements on pages 126 to 183 have been meeting future needs of people. Globally, capital investors, policy audited by KPMG. makers and communities are seeking trusted partners who can deliver efficient, healthy, resilient, culturally and socially inclusive outcomes which deliver long term value. 01 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 7 Our Business 432 Park Avenue, New York 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 9 We deliver places that inspire and enrich the lives of people around the world. Lendlease is committed to creating and delivering innovative and sustainable property and infrastructure solutions for future generations. Founded in Sydney in 1958 by Dutch immigrant and innovator Dick Dusseldorp, Lendlease was born out of a vision to create a company that could successfully combine the disciplines of construction, development and investment. Lendlease is a leading international property and infrastructure group with operations in Australia, Asia, Europe and the Americas. Our vision is to create the best places; places that inspire and enrich the lives of people around the world. We create places that leave a positive legacy with a focus on safety, innovation and sustainability, delivered by people who are respected for who they are and what they do. Headquartered in Sydney, Australia, Lendlease has approximately 12,000 employees internationally. Our regional head offices are located in New York, Singapore and London. Our core capabilities are reflected in our operating segments of Development, Construction and Investments. The combination of these three segments provides us with a sustainable competitive advantage and allows us to provide innovative integrated solutions for our customers. Our six global trends guide the implementation of our strategy. Our pillars of value, in conjunction with a strong risk management and governance framework, drive our approach to business and delivery of long term value for our securityholders. Who we are Our Vision: TO CREATE THE BEST PLACES 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 11 Our values Our core values guide our behaviours and underpin our Code of Conduct. These are the values we live by every day. RESPEC T BE DEDICATED TO RELATIONSHIPS INTEGRIT Y BE TRUE TO OUR WORD INNOVATION BE CHALLENGING IN OUR APPROACH COLL ABORATION BE ONE TEAM EXCELLENCE BE EXCEPTIONAL IN EVERYTHING WE DO Tun Razak Exchange (TRX) Lifestyle Quarter, Kuala Lumpur TRUST Artist impression as at 2017 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) BE OPEN AND TRANSPARENT 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 13 OPER ATIONAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HEALTH & SAFETY Earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation Profit after Tax 88% FY16 1 Percentage of operations without a critical incident2 90% FY17 FY16 FY17 Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 1.6 1.8 $1,201.8 FY16 MILLION 1,054.9 $758.6 FY16 MILLION 698.2 698.2 FY17 1,201.8 FY17 758.6 758.6 OUR PEOPLE Earnings per Security Distribution per Security FY16 FY17 Senior Executive positions held by women3 19.0% 20.6% For the sixth year running, we have been recognised as a top employer in the Australian Workplace Equality Index for Lesbian, Gay, Bi-sexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion. 130.1FY16 CENTS 120.1 66.0FY16 CENTS 60.0 FY17 130.1 FY17 66.0 Return on Equity Market Capitalisation1 SUSTAINABILITY 4 FY17 20% reduction by 2020 (against FY14 baseline) FY17 FY17 98% FY16 12.9% $9.7 18% 6% 15% 98% BILLION FY17 Total development FY16 13.0 FY16 7.3 pipeline achieved or targeting green FY17 12.9 FY17 9.7 certification. ENERGY WATER WASTE REDUCTION REDUCTION REDUCTION 1. Method to calculate percentage of operations for FY16 has been restated to reflect updated management information and methodology used for FY17. 1. As at market close on 30 June 2016 and 2017. 2. A critical incident is an event that had the potential to cause death or permanent disability. This is an indicator unique to Lendlease. 3. Employees who hold a position at Executive level according to the Lendlease Career Job Framework. This generally includes Regional Business Unit Heads, Regional Function Heads and in some cases, direct reports to Global Function Heads. 4. Further information on our targets can be found on page 48. The above performance is as at March 2017 and is a cumulative measure. Full FY17 performance will be subjected to Limited Assurance by KPMG and be available on www.lendlease.com in October 2017. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 15 PERFORMANCE HIGHL IGHTS PLACES WE CREATED PLACES WE WILL CREATE Lendlease creates places that leave a positive legacy with a focus on safety, innovation and By their nature, the projects we deliver can take years, if not decades to complete. sustainability. Our achievements are supported by pillars of value that enable us to apply a Maintaining an ongoing pipeline of work, supported by pillars of value is critical to maintaining balanced approach to driving successful outcomes. the sustainability of our earnings and the ultimate success of our business. Health & Safety Financial Our Customers Our People Sustainability Health & Safety Financial Our Customers Our People Sustainability A selection of recent highlights is included below. A selection of key opportunities expected to contribute to future earnings is included below. DELIVERED: TO B E D E L I V E R E D : 2,533 residential apartment 3,236 community and retirement $49.3 of Development pipeline: BILLION $20.6 Construction BILLION completions lots across 24 projects • Tun Razak Exchange backlog revenue: Lifestyle Quarter, Kuala Lumpur • Crown Sydney Hotel Resort, Sydney 109,000 sqm of commercial space completed • Victoria Harbour, Melbourne • Elephant & Castle, London • Riverline, Chicago • Northern Connector, Adelaide • Darling Square, Sydney • Paya Lebar Quarter, Singapore of construction work1 including: $12.6 BILLION • Tower One, International Towers Sydney, Barangaroo South • River Point Tower, Chicago • Stage 1 homes at Trafalgar Place, Elephant & Castle • Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, New York $3 in secured funds under management from More BILLION than urbanisation developments currently in delivery INCREASED: Our presence across Funds under management PREFERRED BIDDER: our gateway cities by 11% to $26.1 billion Development Construction • Haringey Development Vehicle, London • Tun Razak Exchange AWA R D E D : Lifestyle Quarter, Kuala Lumpur Preferred partner with Haringey Council for the $7 billion development1 • Google Headquarters, London • Top residential developer in the United Kingdom based on sustainability performance2 • Quay Quarter, Sydney • Top multi-unit residential contractor in the United States for 17 consecutive years3 •L  endlease managed funds ranked number one in each of five categories in the 2016 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark • Three bizSAFE Partner Awards for safe work in Asia • Infrastructure Partnerships Australia, National Infrastructure Award, Best Project for International Convention Centre Sydney 1. Based on Construction segment revenue. 1. The Haringey Development Vehicle is subject to contractual and financial close. Approximate number as at 30 June 2017 based on exchange rate at period end. 2. According to the Next Generation Initiative. 3. As ranked by ENR Sourcebook for Top 25 Multi-Unit Residential. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 17 CHAIRMAN’S REPORT Health & Safety Our People States, the United Kingdom and Asia. I am very saddened to report two fatal People are Lendlease’s greatest asset. He has deep experience in finance, incidents on Lendlease projects, the Their contributions bring our vision and risk management, strategy and first reportable fatalities on Lendlease strategy to life. Attracting and retaining funds management, which has been Lendlease delivered a strong result for the 2017 financial year with $758.6 million in Profit after Tax and operated projects in over four years. the best people is essential. We believe of significant benefit during Board discussions. Distributions per Security of 66.0 cents. Our vision and strategy is centred around innovative property These incidents are a tragic reminder that at Lendlease, our strategy, the The Board is committed to continually of the importance of pursuing an quality and depth of our pipeline and our and infrastructure solutions. Successful execution of this strategy, combined with a strong financial uncompromising approach to safety. culture of employee engagement and reviewing its composition and wellbeing are key ingredients. capabilities. position and robust risk management and governance frameworks, positions the Group to deliver attractive Lendlease’s Global Minimum Requirements remain the foundation This year it has given me great The Nominations Committee is focused securityholder returns. for this approach and provide a health satisfaction to observe Lendlease’s on maintaining the Board’s appropriate and safety risk management framework new workplace environment at its mix of skills, experience and diversity so where employees are empowered to international headquarters at Barangaroo that the Board can lead the Group for the effectively manage risk. South in Sydney. This collaborative benefit of securityholders. The Board is committed to constantly workspace not only encourages a The Directors have a range of local challenging health and safety more inclusive and flexible working and international expertise, as well performance and continues to work environment, but supports the physical as specialised skills. Eight out of 11 proactively with management to drive a and mental wellbeing of our people. Directors have considerable experience best practice safety culture. in one or more of the core Lendlease Sustainability operating segments of Development, Annual Report Long term value is generated by Construction and Investments. I am pleased to present Lendlease’s delivering outcomes that embrace The Board remains committed to second integrated Annual Report. This social, environmental and economic the Australian Institute of Company report is structured to demonstrate the factors. Lendlease’s Sustainability Directors target of 30 per cent female long term value creation capabilities Framework, which was endorsed Board members by the end of 2018 of Lendlease through its five pillars by the Sustainability Committee and expects to soon announce the of value: Health & Safety; Financial; of the Board in 2014, incorporates appointment of a Non Executive Our Customers; Our People; and four distinct elements that guide the Director, which will add further diversity Sustainability. Group’s sustainability agenda: climate and strength to the Board. change and environment; healthy Financial Strength buildings and communities; resilient and Outlook The Group delivered a solid performance affordable communities; and community I am extremely pleased with the progress for the financial year ended 30 June engagement. Through its many projects, the Group has made in delivering on its 2017, with Profit after Tax of $758.6 Lendlease is constantly engaged with strategy in recent years. Lendlease was million, up from $698.2 million in the community stakeholders and we seek to born out of a vision to create a company previous financial year. leave a positive legacy in the places we that successfully combine the disciplines create. Securityholders will receive a final of development, construction, and distribution of 33.0 cents per security, Lendlease launched its second investment. These skills, which we refer taking full year distributions to Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) in to as the integrated model, have been 66.0 cents per security. The payout ratio November 2016. The RAP is a key deployed around the world for decades. for the year was 51 per cent, which is component of Lendlease’s community The Board has supported the leadership within the Board’s stated target range of engagement and identifies business team in successfully extending the 40 to 60 per cent of earnings. opportunities and career development integrated model into targeted for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Lendlease enters FY18 in a healthy international markets in recent years. Australians. financial position. As at 30 June 2017, the Since 2011, the Group’s urbanisation Group had cash and cash equivalents of Governance and the Board pipeline has grown from an end $1,249.2 million and gearing of five per development value of approximately $16 After almost 13 years of service, David billion to approximately $35 billion. More cent. The resilience of the balance sheet, Ryan has decided that he will retire than 50 per cent of this pipeline is in along with continued capital partnering, at the conclusion of the 2017 Annual international markets. provides the financial flexibility to General Meeting. David has made an capitalise on growth opportunities Thank you to my fellow Board members, outstanding contribution to the Board generated by the integrated business as well as the Lendlease leadership team during his tenure, including chairing the model. and all employees, whose commitment Risk Management and Audit Committee until August 2016. He has provided and dedication have helped to achieve Our Customers our vision to create the best places valuable insight during his time on the Customers are a key contributor to Board and has mentored a number of the and continue to improve returns for the long term success and growth of newer Board members. On behalf of the securityholders. Lendlease. As an international business, Board, I thank David for his commitment our customer base is many and varied. and hard work, and for his enduring This year, in support of Lendlease’s support of Lendlease and its people. customer focused approach, the Board reviewed a range of activities and Philip Coffey was appointed to the initiatives designed to enhance the Board as a Non Executive Director on 1 January 2017. Philip has held a wide David Crawford AO way we engage with our customers. In range of management and executive Chairman addition, the Board undertook a number of client and site visits. roles throughout his career and has successfully led operations based in Australia, New Zealand, the United 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 19 GROUP CHIEF E XECU TIVE OFFICER Health & Safety We have been involved in some of Outlook Lendlease’s people are unquestionably the United States’ most recognisable Creating the best places, whether they its greatest asset and underpin our projects, including its tallest residential be workplaces or public facilities, roads AND MANAGING DIREC TOR’S REPORT ability to deliver our vision. There is tower at 432 Park Avenue in New York. or tunnels, communities, apartments or nothing more important than the health, Our Strategy mixed use precincts, remains at the core safety and wellbeing of our people and of Lendlease’s vision. those who work with us. Our integrated business model is defined by our ability to originate, fund, deliver Our efforts will focus on the delivery Lendlease has delivered strong financial performance for the year, reflecting the completion of It is therefore with profound sadness and manage major urbanisation projects. of quality outcomes for our many and I report the occurrence of two fatal varied customers, and in doing so we numerous development and construction projects and strong investment earnings. This year we made incidents during the period. The first We believe this provides a sustainable aim to deliver long term value to our competitive advantage and will drive significant progress on our international gateway cities strategy, securing or commencing projects in involved a sub contractor, working for long term securityholder value. securityholders. the Principal Contractor on one of our Our integrated capabilities across six target cities. Our focus continues to be on delivering strong performance for securityholders and community development projects in We continue transitioning our business property and infrastructure provide model into our gateway cities, where we creating quality outcomes for customers. Queensland. The second involved a direct employee on one of our engineering have a presence in 15 of our 17 identified a distinct competitive advantage and cities. Currently, we have 34 major our immense track record of delivery projects in New South Wales. excellence is underpinning opportunities apartment and commercial buildings in On behalf of the Board and management delivery in these cities around the world. to secure new work. This was recently team at Lendlease, I express my sincere demonstrated with the announcement of condolences to the families and friends Our activity in the Americas region was our preferred position on the Melbourne impacted by these tragic incidents. a standout with a number of projects Metro Tunnel project as part of the We continuously strive to do our best moving into delivery. Riverline in Chicago, $6 billion consortium with Bouygues, in safety with the aim that anyone who Clippership Wharf in Boston and 277 Fifth John Holland Constructions and works on or visits a Lendlease workplace Avenue in New York all broke ground. Capella Capital. or asset is safe from harm. We also secured our first development project in San Francisco on the West Our Development pipeline stands at These incidents serve as a sobering Coast of the United States. $49.3 billion in estimated end value, reminder of the critical importance of providing earnings visibility over working safely and further strengthen Our retail led Tun Razak Exchange the medium term. We have 13 major our resolve to achieve the elimination Lifestyle Quarter project in Kuala urbanisation projects across gateway of incidents and injuries from our Lumpur also moved into delivery. cities providing diversity across both operations. In London, we were delighted to be geography and sector. selected as the preferred development The outlook for our Construction Performance Highlights partner by the Haringey Council on their estimated $7 billion Haringey segment is robust, with backlog The business generated strong financial revenue of $20.6 billion. We have returns for securityholders for the year. Development Vehicle.1 been selected as preferred bidder on Earnings per security grew by eight per Sustainability a further $10 billion of work and see cent and we delivered a Return on Equity significant opportunities in some of our of 12.9 per cent, which is towards the Key to securing projects such as Haringey is our ability to address target sectors, particularly transport upper end of our target range of 10 to infrastructure. 14 per cent. the future needs of all stakeholders, particularly our clients and their Our Investments segment remains well The Australian region, driven by strong customers. Creating vibrant placed to continue to deliver a source of performances in the Development communities where people live, work recurring income, with growth in funds and Investments segments, was the and interact is what drives our business under management largely driven by our key driver of the result and accounted and we thrive on providing these own product creation capability. The for almost 80 per cent of operating opportunities. associated $1.5 billion of co-invested earnings. Our Americas Construction capital that supports this funds under segment was the largest contributor We have a strong tradition of skilling and training our workforce and the management, provides strong alignment from our international operations. with our investment partners and a high supporting communities in which This year, the full breadth and depth we have a presence. This year was quality income stream. of our delivery capabilities was no exception with the success of our A strong financial position provides the demonstrated with the completion of Barangaroo Skills Exchange which scope to fund, along with our investment many projects across multiple sectors provided training and employment for partners, our already secured pipeline as and geographies. over 10,000 construction workers. well as potential growth opportunities. Our contribution to residential development In Malaysia, we collaborated with the As always, we remain focused on was substantial, with the delivery of more Construction Industry Development operational excellence and this will be than 2,500 apartment units across Australia Board where we developed the Safety implemented via a rigorous approach and London, more than double the number Supervisor Apprenticeship Program. This to risk management and an unwavering completed last year. was the first formal safety partnership of commitment to health and safety. Our commercial developments in its type between the public and private On behalf of the Global Leadership Australia attracted tenant commitments sectors in Malaysia. Team, I thank our people for their of more than 90,000 square metres Another highlight has been our Northern tremendous contributions. I also thank and continue to set benchmarks for Connector road project in Adelaide, all securityholders for your ongoing collaborative, healthy and productive which is setting new benchmarks for support. working environments. local participation in infrastructure We proudly delivered several significant projects. This includes the upskilling social infrastructure projects including and employment of target groups the world class International Convention such as Indigenous workers, displaced Centre Sydney, and the Sunshine Coast automotive workers and people facing University and Bendigo Hospitals, which barriers to employment. Steve McCann collectively provide their communities Group Chief Executive Officer with more than 1,000 hospital beds. and Managing Director 1. The Haringey Development Vehicle is subject to contractual and financial close. Approximate number as at 30 June 2017 based on exchange rate at period end. 02 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 21 Our Strategy 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 23 OUR ST RATEGY Lendlease’s strategy is to pursue its integrated business model in targeted gateway cities around the world. This means leveraging more than one of our operating We are guided by a Portfolio Management Framework that Our ability to originate, fund, deliver and manage major When our pillars of value work together, we create segments of Development, Construction and Investments in provides for a diversified earnings base by both geography and urbanisation projects provides a sustainable competitive economic, safe and sustainable outcomes for our cities we believe are the most resilient and best performing. segment in order to maximise securityholder value. advantage. Our pillars of value, which can be found on customers and our people. Further information can be found on pages 28 to 33. pages 38 to 55, in conjunction with our strong risk We differentiate ourselves from our peers through our Our strategic intent is to deliver optimal performance in a safe integrated business model, financial strength and strong management and governance framework, described on and focused manner. We employ a disciplined approach to track record. When we leverage our integrated model we pages 58 to 61, drive our approach to business and delivery growing the business in sectors that are aligned to six key can deliver products more efficiently and offer our of long term value for our securityholders. global trends that can be found on pages 24 to 25. customers a streamlined approach. Strategic intent Business model Competitive advantage Pillars of value velopme INTEGRATED MODEL Health & Safety FOCUS Delivering optimal performance safely De n t Ability to deliver quality projects leveraging at our target returns Disciplined more than one of our segments. portfolio Financial tments management Cons FINANCIAL STRENGTH to maximise GROW tr securityholder ve s value Balance sheet strength and access Our Customers Disciplined growth in sectors aligned t to third party capital. In uc with global trends and with a focus on ion our target global gateway cities TRACK RECORD Our People Delivering quality design and sustainable outcomes safely. Sustainability Singapore skyline 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 25 GLOBAL TRENDS INFLU ENCING OUR S TR ATEG Y URBANISATION FUNDS GROWTH Urbanisation creates increasing pressure to plan for, and Global assets under management are forecast to rise to accommodate, a more dense population. By 2030, over 60 per US$102 trillion by 2020, up from US$64 trillion in 2012.4 cent of the world’s population is expected to live in urban areas.1 Where We Are Today Where We Are Today Our investment management platform spans Asia, Australia and Our urbanisation pipeline with an end value of $34.6 billion Europe, with $26.1 billion in funds under management (FUM). includes: We have deep and established relationships with approximately • Barangaroo South, Sydney 150 global institutional investors including sovereign wealth funds, large public and private pension and superannuation • Elephant & Castle, London funds and insurance companies. • Paya Lebar Quarter, Singapore • Riverline, Chicago The Opportunity Provide institutional investors with tailored global real The Opportunity estate and infrastructure solutions, via our product creation Expand our globally recognised urbanisation business. capability. Offer a broader range of investment products such as telecommunications and residential to rent. INFRASTRUCTURE SUSTAINABILITY Urbanisation and population growth are driving the need for In November 2016, the Australian Government reaffirmed Australia’s improved productivity, creating strong demand for infrastructure commitment to effective global action on climate change. at both the social and economic levels. Worldwide, infrastructure spending is expected to grow from Where We Are Today US$4 trillion per year in 2012 to more than US$9 trillion per year We are committed to mitigating climate change impacts and by 2025.2 proactively integrating adaptation into our operations. We have set ourselves a 20 per cent reduction target around energy, water Where We Are Today and waste consumption by 2020 and we continue to be a creator We have a strong infrastructure solutions capability in Australia of green certified buildings and precincts. We are also committed with $3.1 billion of Engineering backlog. We have delivered major to the creation of resilient and prepared communities and have projects, such as the Anzac Bridge and significant sections of the developed a comprehensive approach to the assessment of climate Pacific, Hume and Bruce Highways. Public Private Partnerships change risk on a number of our assets within the Investment are initiated through our Infrastructure Development business. Management business in Australia and on our major developments within our urbanisation businesses. The Opportunity Partner with governments and private institutions to meet the The Opportunity growing needs of cities and regional areas in Australia. To partner with federal, state, local and city policy makers, both in Australia and overseas, in providing effective solutions for the built environment, which directly respond to the challenge of climate change. AGEING POPULATION TECHNOLOGY The ageing population requires different housing solutions and Global investment in real estate technology startups has grown greater healthcare support services in all of our major markets. from $0.2 billion in 2012 to $1.7 billion in 2015.5 Internationally, people aged 60+ will grow the most in number between 2015 and 2050.3 Where We Are Today We are investing in deploying technology to support material Where We Are Today productivity gains in the way we construct buildings. We have We have the leading retirement living business in Australia with delivered engineered timber buildings around the world, most approximately 16,000 residents and 12,626 retirement units. recently Library at the Dock, Melbourne – Australia’s first public use timber building, and International House Sydney – Australia’s The Opportunity first engineered timber commercial office building. We are Consolidate our leading position in the Australian retirement leading the way in integrating new technologies in our products living sector and explore options to deploy our expertise in other to create great experiences for our customers. regions. The Opportunity To drive value by leading in the deployment of these technology enabled tools and techniques in our projects. 1. World Urbanization Prospects: The 2014 Revision, United Nations. 4. Asset Management 2020: A Brave New World, PwC 2014. 2. Capital project and infrastructure spending outlook to 2025, PwC 2015. 5. CB Insights: Real Estate Tech Start-ups Funding Overview 2016. 3. World Population Prospects: The 2015 Revision, United Nations. 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | LENDLEASE | PERFORMANCE & OUTLOOK | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | LENDLEASE | PERFORMANCE & OUTLOOK | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 GLOBAL PRESENCE, GATEWAY CITIES Our aim is to have a presence in the cities we believe will be the most resilient and best performing around the world. These ‘gateway cities’ can typically withstand property and economic cycles better than other cities. To form this view, we undertook an extensive global study and applied a number of filters. We then evaluated key metrics including economic, business climate and capital market indicators. This narrowed our focus to 38 global cities which were filtered on additional London metrics such as demographics, property Chicago Boston fundamentals, geopolitical risks and Milan Beijing Lendlease’s presence in a particular market. New York Rome Tokyo These cities were also reviewed from a San Francisco health and safety perspective, meaning any future opportunities, irrespective of Los Angeles Shanghai potential commercial returns, will only ever be taken on if we can commit to applying Lendlease’s Global Minimum Requirements (GMRs). The process identified an initial 17 gateway Kuala Lumpur cities for us to pursue our urbanisation projects. Singapore Playing into the breadth of Lendlease’s skill set, these cities typically contain large sites ripe for regeneration and infrastructure upgrades. We currently have a presence in 15 of our 17 gateway cities. A selection of our Brisbane urbanisation projects is featured below. Perth Sydney Melbourne AMERICAS EUROPE ASIA AUSTRALIA Clippership Wharf, Boston Riverline, Chicago Elephant & Castle, London International Quarter London, Tun Razak Exchange Lifestyle Paya Lebar Quarter, Singapore Victoria Harbour, Melbourne Darling Square, Sydney Stratford Quarter, Kuala Lumpur 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 29 DE VELOPMENT Development pipeline with a total end value of $49.3 Our Capability velopme De BILLION n Our Development segment consists of projects Our experience in delivering social t split across: urbanisation, communities, infrastructure is displayed by projects such Disciplined retirement living and infrastructure development. as the recently completed International portfolio tments Convention Centre Sydney – a multipurpose management We manage the entire development process from entertainment and events venue in the heart Cons to maximise securing land, creating masterplans, consulting tr securityholder of Sydney’s Darling Harbour. value with authorities and communities through to ve s project management, sales and leasing. t Americas In uc ion Our diverse skills help us find innovative solutions that enhance existing parts of cities. Our Development business in the Americas is focused on securing urbanisation projects in Urbanisation projects include large scale projects gateway cities. Residential projects are now in gateway cities. These cities often face various underway in Chicago, Boston and New York challenges, such as housing undersupply, skills where we have approximately 1,000 apartment shortages, and the need for economic and social units in delivery. Around three quarters of development. These projects create and shape these units are residential rental, or multifamily city skylines and urban precincts where people product. During FY17 we secured a project in San Financial returns for the want to meet, gather and spend time. Francisco, another of our target gateway cities. segment are generated Our Communities and Retirement Living We have entered the United States infrastructure sector with the acquisition of a mobile via Development margins, businesses have a strong presence throughout telecommunications tower portfolio. This Australia. We design the masterplan and deliver Development management an environment that provides a range of living acquisition will allow us to utilise our development options. expertise in what will be a new sector for our fees received from business in this region. Our Infrastructure Development business has external co-investors contributed to key parts of Australia’s social Asia and origination fees infrastructure. We have extended our expertise In Asia, we have a strong track record of into the development of telecommunications for the facilitation of infrastructure in the Americas. development. This includes our major retail developments of 313@somerset and Jem in infrastructure Public Australia Singapore. Private Partnerships We have active urbanisation projects in four We are currently delivering two large mixed use of our gateway cities. We partner with local projects being Paya Lebar Quarter in Singapore transactions. authorities to create workplaces, residential, retail and Tun Razak Exchange Lifestyle Quarter in and public spaces that regenerate precincts. Our Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. At Paya Lebar Quarter, development work is showcased at Barangaroo work is well underway on three South in Sydney. The recent completion of three office towers, three residential towers and new commercial office towers and our first associated retail mall. The Tun Razak Exchange engineered timber commercial office building, Lifestyle Quarter project went into delivery anchors a new extension to the central business towards the end of FY17 and includes a retail district. The precinct also includes a vibrant retail mall, six residential towers, a hotel and parkland. offering and complementary public amenity, in addition to waterfront apartment living. Europe We have created more than 50 masterplanned Our Development business in Europe has been communities over the last half century, with operating for more than two decades. 16 currently in development. We design the In 1999, Lendlease transformed a former chalk masterplan and deliver the streetscape, open quarry into the 240 acres of retail, leisure spaces and town centres to create an attractive and commercial enterprise that is Bluewater living environment that provides access to shopping centre. community facilities. More than a decade later, Lendlease partnered We sell individual blocks of land to future with Southwark Council to re-develop three sites residents and work with home builders to provide at Elephant & Castle, including Elephant Park, our customers with a total residential solution. Trafalgar Place and One The Elephant. Preferred bidder for the Our Retirement Living development pipeline, Today, we have multiple projects where we which is expected to create and upgrade are partnering with governments and local 7 thousands of units over the coming decade, is communities to create sustainable residential, $ BILLION a key part of our Development segment. The units we develop will add to and enhance our existing 71 retirement villages that form part of our Investments segment. The portfolio will commercial and retail precincts. This includes the Haringey Development Vehicle, where we were recently selected as the preferred bidder for the $7 billion project.1 continue to provide unique housing options for senior residents, enabling them to maintain Haringey Development independent lifestyles. We also have plans to grow a continuum of care offering by developing Vehicle, London1 and operating adjacent aged care facilities and/ or partnering with specialist providers to manage these facilities. International Convention Centre Sydney, Sydney 1. The Haringey Development Vehicle is subject to contractual and financial close. Approximate number as at 30 June 2017 based on exchange rate at period end. 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 31 CONS TRUC TION tments ve s De velopme n Disciplined portfolio management to maximise securityholder value t Cons t tr Our Capability Our Construction segment is well established in each of our regions. We operate primarily in the residential, office, retail, health, defence and transport sectors, and provide project management, design and construction services. In Australia, we also have extensive engineering and services capabilities. Americas In the Americas, we have helped cities grow with more than 3,500 construction projects completed nationwide over the past 20 years. Our execution excellence is supported by approximately 80 per cent of our Construction business being generated by repeat customers. We have been involved in some of the nation’s most recognisable $13.2 New work secured BILLION In uc We have delivered construction projects around ion the world for more than 59 years. We have been projects, including its tallest residential tower at 432 Park Avenue in New York. involved in the construction of some of the world’s most recognisable projects such as the We also secured a number of significant Sydney Opera House, National September 11 contracts in FY17 including the design and Memorial & Museum at the World Trade Center construction of the Jacob K. Javits Convention in New York, Petronas Twin Towers in Malaysia Center expansion in New York, which is being and the Athletes’ Village in the United Kingdom. delivered with a joint venture partner. Our Construction and Development businesses Asia partner to enable the delivery of multifaceted urbanisation projects. This is where our Our construction capability in Asia is well The financial returns integrated model is at its best; when our established, with a presence dating back to capabilities work in unison to deliver on a the 1970s. We have the longest track record in for the segment are shared vision for a project. Singapore, where we have delivered more than generated via project 400 projects across various sectors. Australia management and Our focus for construction in the region is now Our construction capability is brought to life on our internal pipeline and specialist sectors construction management in the places and structures we create such as for external clients such as pharmaceuticals and fees, in addition to offices, retail centres, residential apartments, telecommunications. Our internal urbanisation public buildings, roads, tunnels and railways. pipeline is currently supporting our Construction construction margin. We are renowned for creating many award business, providing approximately $680 million backlog of work to be delivered. winning places and in FY17 completed the Convention Centre, Exhibition Centre and Europe Theatre buildings (collectively known as International Convention Centre Sydney) at Our Construction business in Europe operates Darling Harbour in New South Wales and in both the private and public sectors. the Sunshine Coast University Hospital in We have an ongoing pipeline of development Queensland. We provide solutions for our work that has provided construction customers by managing the design and opportunities that help to create and shape construction of these places. areas across the United Kingdom. This includes We are a specialist in the construction of a new commercial district in Stratford, civil infrastructure and asset maintenance in International Quarter London. Australia through our engineering and services We have also been named the main contractor capabilities. for Google’s new headquarters at Kings Cross Transport infrastructure is our main area in London. This contract was awarded due to of expertise across road, rail and civil work our focus on innovation, highly collaborative including both bridges and tunnels. The Anzac approach, shared values, and our perceived Bridge and sections of the Pacific Highway are desire to challenge industry norms. just two examples of the major projects we have delivered. We then use our services capability to support and maintain the infrastructure and places we and others create. For example, our Services More than business works closely with our Engineering business on road projects and performs civil 3,500 works to prepare the land for our Communities business. Our services capability extends across transport, infrastructure property, telecommunications, utilities, industrial and resources, and renewable energy. construction projects completed in the Americas over the past 20 years International Quarter London, Stratford 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 33 INVES TMENTS Our Capability Americas velopme De n Our Investments segment owns or manages In the Americas, we have worked extensively t investments, predominately created by the with the Department of Defense through the Disciplined portfolio other parts of our business. Our ownership Military Housing Privatisation Initiative. We tments management interests include the $1.5 billion of cohave long term agreements to manage the Cons to maximise investments in our property and infrastructure housing on selected military bases and tr securityholder funds, providing alignment with our capital have an equity position in these assets. s value partners. We fully own our Retirement Living Our portfolio has grown to over 40,000 ve t business and have an equity position in our US residential units and apartments and more In uc ion Military Housing portfolio. than 12,000 hotel rooms. Our Investments segment also includes a We currently have approximately 850 wholesale investment management platform residential for rent apartments in delivery. operating in Australia, Asia and Europe. We On completion, these apartments will provide invest on behalf of pension funds, sovereign a source of investment income and potential wealth funds, investment managers and investment product for capital partners. insurance companies, offering approximately This is an example of our integrated model 150 institutional investors access to quality in action; the apartments were originated by Financial returns for property and infrastructure assets. the Development segment, they are currently being delivered by our Construction segment the segment include The product we create through our and will provide future income opportunities urbanisation projects is a differentiator for fund and property our Investments segment. It provides us for our Investments segment. management fees, yield with high quality investment income and our Asia capital partners with direct access to superior and capital growth on investment product. The conversion of our We have a strong track record of managing urbanisation pipeline is expected to underpin retail and commercial assets in Asia with more investment positions, future growth in investment income and funds than $5 billion of funds under management. and returns from the under management. These assets are predominantly retail malls and include projects developed by Lendlease Group’s retirement Australia such as 313@somerset and Jem in Singapore portfolio and US Military We are the largest owner, operator and and Setia City Mall in Malaysia. Housing operations. developer of senior living communities, Current development projects are a potential with 71 retirement villages making up our source for future growth in investment portfolio. This geographically diverse portfolio income and funds under management. In consists of 12,626 units across Australia. Our Singapore, the office led mixed use scheme retirement development pipeline will add to at our Paya Lebar Quarter project will provide this over time as completed units transition sector diversification opportunities upon into the investment portfolio. its completion. The retail mall that is now under construction at Tun Razak Exchange In 1959, we launched Lendlease’s first unlisted Lifestyle Quarter will add to our funds under property trust. Today, we manage a suite of management in future years. wholesale funds and mandates. Most of the funds are managed across the retail and office Europe sectors with capabilities also in industrial property and social infrastructure. In Europe, we manage $826.8 million in property assets via funds and separate Our business model is centred on managing mandates. We are exploring opportunities to assets for our third party capital partners and leverage our integrated model to grow our taking co-investment positions in these assets. Investments segment following the successful As our Development pipeline continues to disposal of the Bluewater retail asset in 2014 grow, opportunities for greater investment and the subsequent divestment of our Private will also emerge. Finance Initiative investments. Creating a residential for rent product in London provides a potential opportunity for new product, with some of our urbanisation projects well suited Approximately to this emerging asset class. Funds under management $ 11 BILLION equity raised over the past nine years $26.1 Island Palm Communities, Hawaii BILLION 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 35 C A SE S T UDY – EL EPHANT & C A S TL E BEFORE At Lendlease, we differentiate ourselves from our peers through our integrated model, financial strength and strong track record. The combination of our three operating segments, Development, The redevelopment of these sites will breathe new life into a Construction and Investments, provides a sustainable competitive special part of London. To do this, we are working extensively with advantage. Our capacity to originate, fund and deliver major the Council to achieve sustainable outcomes, including at least 25 urbanisation projects is what underpins our ability to drive long per cent affordable homes. The Elephant & Castle regeneration is term securityholder value. one of 19 projects from across the world chosen to be part of the C40 Cities Climate Positive Development Program. An example of this is Elephant & Castle in Central London. We are working in partnership with the London Borough of Southwark to deliver a $3.9 billion1 urbanisation project across three sites: Elephant Park, Trafalgar Place and One The Elephant. Pre redevelopment Outcomes to Date • Legacy of large, single use buildings and traffic dominated road network Trafalgar Place chosen by the • Last redeveloped in the 1960s Mayor of London as ‘London’s Best New Place to Live’ as part The Opportunity of the London Planning Awards. • Breathe new life into a special part of Central London, Heygate Estate, Elephant & Castle making Elephant & Castle one of London’s most Elephant & Castle has so exciting places to live, work or visit far provided work for “Lendlease has proven itself to be a key partner for the Council, with the capability and skill set to drive the project forward and deliver our shared vision.” Our Approach • Lendlease’s masterplan responded to the Council’s aspirations for jobs, housing, community safety, 817 local residents 353 of whom were Eleanor Kelly, Chief Executive Officer, Southwark Council previously unemployed. AFTER transport, education, shopping and health • Delivery through Lendlease’s integrated mixed use capabilities A portion of the townhouses within • Extensive development and construction expertise Elephant Park will be the first new • Deep third party capital relationships homes in Central London to be delivered to Passivhaus standard, a rigorous, Agreement voluntary standard for energy efficiency. • $3.9 billion1 urbanisation project with Southwark Council 19 projects worldwide included • 15 year development agreement One of in C40 Cities Climate Positive • Three sites: Elephant Park, Trafalgar Place and Development Program. One The Elephant • Approximately 3,000 homes, including at least 25 per cent affordable homes  Financial returns on the project • Shops, restaurants and community facilities have been in line with the expected return • 4.5 hectares of community space, parks, hurdles established at project inception. squares and gardens • Improved public transport, pedestrian and cycle paths 83% • Focus on activation of place and strong links with local  Our Critical community Incidents have reduced against the prior year. Elephant & Castle, London Artist impression as at 2017 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) 1. Approximate number as at 30 June 2017 based on exchange rate at period end. 03 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 37 Pillars of Value Paya Lebar Quarter, Singapore Artist impression as at 2017 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 39 PIL L ARS OF VALUE At Lendlease we have determined five pillars of value that drive the long term value of our Innovation is part of our heritage business. When our pillars of value work together, we create economic, safe and sustainable and is embedded in our approach outcomes for our customers and our people. to business. Within the following pillars of value pages we have Health & Safety Financial Our Customers Our People Sustainability highlighted an innovation with a These pillars, supported by disciplined governance and risk management, drive our approach to lightbulb icon. business and delivery of long term value for our securityholders. Material Issue How the Pillar is Delivered Value Created by the Pillar How We Measure Value Non Financial Percentage of projects with no critical incidents: A critical incident Ability to operate safely across our We are committed to the safety of our people. is an event that had the potential to cause death or permanent operations and projects. Through our Global Minimum Requirements (GMRs) Operating safely helps people feel valued and cared disability. This is an indicator unique to Lendlease. Maintaining the health and wellbeing of we operate to a consistent standard across all of our for, but fundamentally makes us more consistent, more Health & Safety our employees and those who engage with our assets. operations. These GMRs extend not only to physical safety but also to people’s health and wellbeing. reliable and more efficient in everything we do. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: An indicator and industry standard measuring a workplace injury which prevents a worker from returning to duties the next day. Return on Equity: The annual Profit after Tax attributable to Delivering securityholder returns. Margins, fees and ownership returns across securityholders divided by the arithmetic average of beginning, half Financial We deliver returns to our securityholders and adopt a prudent approach to capital management with a view Development, Construction and Investments. year and year end securityholders’ equity. Maintaining strong capital management to enable investment in to maintaining a strong balance sheet position Our Portfolio Management Framework sets target Earnings per Security: Profit after Tax attributable to securityholders Financial our future pipeline. throughout market cycles. guidelines for how we manage our portfolio. divided by the weighted average number of securities on issue during the year. A bottom up, top down customer framework is applied Improved accountability at an individual level to deliver a Understanding our customers and We measure customer satisfaction at the regional and business at the local level. satisfied customer, enabling us to win more work. responding to changes in the market. unit level. Our Customers A consistent international framework which focuses on By obtaining feedback from our customers, we gain Ability to deliver customer driven It is proposed that in FY18 our businesses will measure their level of listening, understanding, acting and measuring our learning opportunities, to inspire future innovative solutions. customer satisfaction through an advocacy score. customers’ satisfaction. customer solutions. Non Financial Employee engagement score: Demonstrates overall employee Ability to attract and retain the best We attract, nurture and retain the best people by Engaged, capable and motivated people are more satisfaction across our business. people. building a culture of collaboration and continuous productive and more committed to the long term success Percentage of women in Senior Executive positions: Our People Ensuring we have the right capability learning, where successes are recognised and people of our business. are rewarded. Demonstrates our ongoing commitment to increasing female across the organisation. representation across our business. We are committed to creating the best places and a 2020 targets: Meaningful progress against our 20 per cent by 2020 Ability to manage and optimise our sustainable future for people. We see these things as Recognised leadership in sustainability enhances our reduction targets for energy, water and waste. sustainability performance through being mutually inclusive of each other and so consider brand and is a competitive differentiator. environmental, social and economic outcomes Total development pipeline targeting green certification: delivering economical, social and Being sustainable means we win work and we attract Sustainability throughout our lifecycle. Demonstrates our commitment to green building across our total environmentally sustainable capital from investors with Environmental, Social and development pipeline. outcomes. Sustainability is one enabler of the best places and Governance (ESG) mandates. central to our overall approach of creating shared value. Governance: Our disciplined approach to governance aligns decision making to strategy. This includes strong risk management to proactively manage and address risks. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 41 HEALTH & SAFETY Introduced biometric site access controls via facial recognition at Paya Lebar Quarter We are committed to the health and safety of in Singapore to help us manage worker our people. This means we focus on maintaining fatigue, track training and competence. the health and wellbeing of our people and those who engage with our assets. Safety Incidents It is with great sadness that we report the first corporate In FY17, we have seen the rollout of mobility based technology reportable fatalities on our operations in more than four years. for reporting incidents and observations, completing inspections, The first event claimed the life of a plant maintenance mechanic and providing access to GMR related information and other working for a subcontractor appointed by the Principal important documents whilst in the field. Efficiencies gained from Contractor on a Lendlease development project in Queensland. the rollout include significant time saving, a shift away from burdensome paper based systems and an increase in the amount The second event occurred when a Lendlease employee was of safety observations recorded (covering both ‘safe’ and ‘at risk’ conducting work on a reticulated water system for our scenarios) across our operations – data that is critical in helping Engineering business in New South Wales. These events us to better understand and manage our exposure to critical risk. provided tragic reminders of why we must continue to pursue our uncompromising approach to safety. By reducing the need for burdensome process, we have enabled our people to remain focused on being proactive and adopting Our Approach to Health and Safety our risk management culture. These tragic events have given rise to a re-examination of our Notwithstanding the two tragic incidents that occurred during overall approach to health and safety. Since 2015, our focus has FY17, our frequency rate for both Critical Incidents and Lost Time been on the management of Critical Risk Events, as outlined in Injuries decreased across the Group by 26 per cent and 11 per our Global Minimum Requirements (GMRs). Following this cent respectively. review, we have re-confirmed that the GMRs remain the What this financial year has sadly brought home to us is, that foundation to our overall approach to health and safety. despite the significant efforts put in, by both our people and For the coming year we will focus on: those from our supply chain, in keeping people safe, there is always the need and the opportunity to do more. • Consistent application of the relevant GMR controls and performance standards. This year has been a sobering reminder of why safety must always remain our number one priority and why we must strive to • A proactive risk management culture to provide people with eliminate all incidents and injuries from across all of our sites. the opportunity to pause and reflect, think about the decisions they are about to make, or the activity they are about to undertake, and seek to identify the worst thing that could occur. This ‘dual action’ approach will require a commitment, by both our people and our supply chain, to embrace and apply this in equal measure, across the full lifecycle of what we do. Key Performance Highlights 88%1 90% FY17 FY16 Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Operations without a FY16 1.8 Critical Incident FY17 1.6 1. Method to calculate percentage of operations for FY16 has been restated to reflect updated management information and methodology used for FY17. Pacific Highway, Nambucca to Urunga 2. A critical incident is an event that had the potential to cause death or permanent disability. This is an indicator unique to Lendlease. 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 43 FINANCIAL We introduced our refreshed Portfolio Management Framework A strong balance sheet and access to third in FY17. party capital enables Lendlease to fund the execution of its pipeline and deliver quality earnings. Our Approach to Financial Performance How We Measure Financial Performance Our Development, Construction and Investments businesses When measuring financial performance, we focus on Return on with operations in Australia, Asia, the Americas and Europe are Equity and Earnings per Security to measure the returns we supported by a disciplined governance framework and the achieve for our securityholders. Portfolio Management Framework introduced during FY17. We The Portfolio Management Framework outlines target returns generate earnings for our securityholders and deliver value for at a segment level. These returns are used to derive a Return on our customers through these businesses in their own right. Equity target within the 10 to 14 per cent range and Earnings When these businesses combine and leverage the competitive per Security used to make distributions within the 40 to 60 per advantage of our integrated model, value can be enhanced for our cent payout ratio target. securityholders, delivery partners and the community. Award winning and innovative design excellence, creation of better public Detailed Financial Performance & Outlook places, integrated transport solutions and superior sustainable solutions are some of the key value creators Lendlease delivers for For more detailed information on our Portfolio Management its stakeholders. Framework and FY17 performance, refer to Performance & Outlook on pages 64 to 75 and the financial statements on pages 126 to 183. Financial Strategy During the year, the Group introduced a refreshed Portfolio Portfolio Management Framework Summary Management Framework. This is the core of our financial strategy and is designed to work with the strategic framework of ‘Focus & Grow’. The framework sets target guidelines and is designed to: 1. Capital allocation • Maximise long term securityholder value through a well • Focused on gateway diversified, risk adjusted portfolio; cities • 50-70% capital in • Leverage the competitive advantage of our integrated model; Australia • Optimise our business relative to the outlook for our • 20% maximum per markets on a long term basis; and international region • Provide financial strength to execute our strategy 2. Business model and maintain a strong financial profile with 5. Distribution policy • Integrated model flexibility to withstand shocks. synergies • Payout 40-60% of earnings • Target EBITDA mix: • Capital 35-45% Development Maximising 30-40% Investments management Key Performance Highlights discipline long term 20-30% Construction securityholder value 4. Capital structure Return on Equity (%) • Investment grade 3. Target returns credit rating • Group ROE 10-14% • Optimised • Development ROIC 9-12%1 FY16 13.0 Weighted Average • Investments ROIC 8-11%1 Cost of Capital • Construction EBITDA FY17 12.9 • Gearing2 10-15% margin 3-4% (max 20%) Earnings per Security (cents) FY16 120.1 FY17 130.1 Paya Lebar Quarter, Singapore 1. Through-cycle target based on rolling three to five year timeline. 2. Gearing definition: Net debt to total tangible assets less cash. Artist impression as at 2017 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 45 OUR CUSTOMERS Our approach to the Darling Harbour Regeneration was an Integrated approach between Public Private Partnership and Property Island Palm Communities Case Study We adopt a collaborative approach to our enabling a differentiated product for our customers. relationships, delivering high quality products and The Brief: Our Solution: services that respond to our customers’ needs. A US$2.0 billion, 12 year initial development and an additional In the early stages of the project, a planned five megawatt thin US$5.0 billion over the remaining 38 year project term, Island film rooftop Photovoltaic (PV) system earned IPC the reputation of Satisfied customers drive long term value. Palm Communities (IPC) is the largest Military Housing being one of the largest solar powered communities in the world. Privatisation Initiative (MHPI) project awarded by the Army. Never satisfied by the status quo, we continued to work with solar Energy costs in Hawaii are among the highest in the nation, and energy providers and our partner to enhance our PV program. Customer Snapshot1 powering a community of what will be nearly 8,000 families Today, we are on track to install systems with a capacity in excess APPROXIMATELY MILITARY HOUSING FOR APPROXIMATELY APPROXIMATELY APPROXIMATELY APPROXIMATELY poses a great risk to the financial health of the community. With of 20 megawatts, which will save our project approximately 280 125,000 430,000 150 16,000 MILLION an energy bill that was nearly US$30 million a year, more than a US$174 million over the system’s life. third of the annual operating expenses, an innovative solution The Building Energy Management System (BEMS) which was was needed. installed in homes, will control our mechanical and hot water heating systems to create efficiencies and utilises smart RETAIL VISITORS RESIDENTS IN THE UNITED STATES RESIDENTS ACROSS APARTMENTS GLOBAL INSTITUTIONAL RETIREMENT LIVING ANNUALLY AND COMMUNITIES2 CAPITAL PARTNERS RESIDENTS technology to provide real time energy data to residents. Darling Harbour Regeneration – a Public Private Partnership with the New South Wales (NSW) State Government Case Study “We’re pleased to work with a partner that continues to pursue and test new technologies – offering solutions to reduce energy consumption in our communities. Enhancing energy efficiency is an important mandate of the Department of The Brief: Our Solution: Defense, and we value programs that can assist us in achieving our energy reduction goals across Garrison operations.” The NSW Government saw the redevelopment of this 20 At the bid stage we assembled a consortium of industry leaders Colonel Stephen Dawson, Commander, United States Army Garrison, Hawaii. hectare precinct at Darling Harbour as a once in a generation to form Darling Harbour Live which featured: Lendlease, AEG opportunity for all of Sydney and NSW. The existing Ogden and Spotless. We worked closely with Government, who convention, exhibition and entertainment facilities were state of procured the International Convention Centre Sydney using an the art when they were developed in the 1980s. But the industry output focused approach where it specified the minimum has shifted since then – delegates want a different kind of performance requirements at a high level, enabling maximum conference, more flexible spaces and better technology. flexibility in how the market responded. The project involved the redevelopment of the Sydney This enabled Lendlease to tailor our proposal to not only meet Convention and Exhibition Centre, the Sydney Entertainment the Government’s minimum requirements but deliver significant Centre, car park and surrounding public realm with the aim of additional community amenity and renewal from the project for creating an integrated and world class convention, exhibition the Darling Harbour precinct. and entertainment precinct. Through leveraging the benefits of our integrated model, with work being done by our Development, Construction and Investments businesses, we were able to deliver the State Government’s vision. “This is the biggest and most exciting change to Darling Harbour in 25 years. International Convention Centre Sydney will reinstate Sydney as the one of the world’s premier business events destinations, boosting the economy by at least $200 million each year.” Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Andrew Constance International Convention Centre Sydney, International Exhibition Centre Island Palm Communities, Hawaii 1. As at 30 June 2017. Internal data capture, not audited. 2. An estimate of current and future residents based on our projects to date and existing pipeline. 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 47 OUR PEOPL E In FY17 Lendlease’s people are the greatest contributors 66% of employees around the to our success and underpin our ability to deliver world took wellbeing leave. our vision to create the best places. Our Approach to People Diversity & Inclusion At Lendlease we believe an inclusive work environment inspires Diversity and inclusion is at its best when people encourage employees to perform better which drives business growth. We difference, but work together. We embrace this by sourcing talent further support our people by providing learning and development from diverse backgrounds, skills and experiences which creates opportunities, which lead to higher performance and future career diversity of thought and innovative solutions for our customers. progression and we recognise and reward exceptional Our Diversity & Inclusion strategy focuses on: flexible work, achievements. inclusive leadership and gender equity. Employee Wellbeing We encourage flexible working at Lendlease. It is a key enabler for diverse talent and provides an attractive and inclusive place to We believe in taking care of our employees, supporting their work. This year we have focused on key initiatives to increase physical and mental wellbeing through our focus on healthier access to flexible working arrangements on our construction sites. minds, bodies, places and cultures. We are committed to a level playing field, giving men and women We offer eligible employees industry leading wellbeing leave which the same chance to succeed. It means we address any potential encourages them to take a proactive and preventative approach to imbalances in benefits available to men and women. their own health. In FY17, 66 per cent of our employees around the world took wellbeing leave. For the year ended 30 June 2017: Whilst we have a holistic approach to health and wellbeing, mental • Two out of our 10 Non Executive Directors are female; health has been a growing area of focus. Mental Health First Aid •A t a senior management level, three members of our Global training has become a cornerstone of these efforts with over 950 of Leadership Team are female; and our employees trained around the world to be competent in mental health first aid. •3 1 per cent of our employees are women and Lendlease has again been recognised as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality Understanding our Workforce by the Australian Workplace Gender Equality Agency. We review our workforce as part of the strategic business planning For the sixth year running, we have been recognised as a top and review process. We continue to invest in growing our core employer in the Australian Workplace Equality Index for Lesbian, capabilities of project management and property development Gay, Bi-sexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion. through active talent management and targeted employee development. We are developing a new approach to measuring employee engagement and as a result of this change we did not conduct an We recognise that the availability of professional development employee engagement survey in 2017. opportunities significantly enhances employee engagement and retention, and provides appropriate talent pools for management and executive management succession planning. We have continued to grow our pipeline of successors for key roles and have increased the number of females in our succession pool. Key Performance Highlights Senior Executive positions held by women1 For the sixth year running, we have been FY16 19.0% recognised as a top FY17 20.6% employer in the Australian 1.8 Workplace Equality Index for Lesbian, Gay, Bi-sexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion. 1. Employees who hold a position at Executive level according to the Lendlease Career Job Framework. This generally includes Regional Business Unit Heads, Regional Function Heads and in some cases, direct reports to Global Function Heads. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 49 SUS TAINABIL IT Y Cross Laminated Timber (CLT) at International House Sydney has a Sustainability is about enabling the creation of the best places and meeting future needs of people. 40% decrease in embodied carbon when compared Globally, capital investors, policy makers and with traditional construction materials. communities are seeking trusted partners who can deliver efficient, healthy, resilient, culturally and socially inclusive outcomes which deliver long term value. Our Approach to Sustainability 2. Healthy Buildings and Communities We remain committed to managing and optimising our We are working toward built environments that have a positive sustainability contribution and performance through delivering impact on people’s health and wellness. Globally, there is a economic, social and environmentally responsible outcomes. wellness and mobility transformation in the built environment, meaning the buildings and communities we create need to Our Sustainability Framework introduced in 2014 can be split into respond by delivering healthier outcomes for the people who the following areas: use them. This includes an ongoing focus on designing for 1. Climate Change and the Environment indoor environment quality, as well as innovating through 2. Healthy Buildings and Communities procurement and operating policies and procedures. 3. Resilient and Affordable Communities 4. Community Engagement International Towers Sydney at Barangaroo South is undertaking Performance Verification for Core and Shell 1. Climate Change and the Environment certification under the WELL Building Standard, the first project globally to do so. Our own tenancy at Barangaroo We aim to eliminate waste from our business, use clean energy and South in Australia is targeting WELL Platinum for its fit out. use it wisely, create more clean water than we use, and continue to respect the value of nature. On our urbanisation projects around the world, we will To measure our progress, we are pleased to report meaningful continue to strive for healthier outcomes for residents and progress against our 20 per cent by 2020 reduction targets for customers. energy, water and waste. We also have the aim that all the buildings and communities we produce and operate are independently rated 3. R esilient and Affordable Communities as achieving green building status. We are designing and building We believe integrating environmental and social value helps us places with lighter environmental footprints by using more with our aspiration of creating the best places for people now renewable energy and materials with lower energy impacts. and into the future. Recently, some of our projects have been built using materials with As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we a low environmental impact, including Engineered Timber and Low remain committed to the continuous improvement of our Carbon Concrete, where appropriate. This form of smart and operations. We are also focusing on our value chain in the areas environmentally responsive construction was seen at International of human rights, the environment, anti corruption and House Sydney. Cross Laminated Timber (CLT) provides responsible labour practices. approximately half the waste in construction when compared to traditional techniques and a safer and quieter construction We are also investing in skilling and training programs for our environment, with lower community impact, as a result of smart people and subcontracted workforce to create an adaptive construction and supply chain innovation. capacity and to attract the best people, as well as developing In FY17, we have used less energy and water, produced less waste, socially inclusive developments and communities. as well as promoted environmental efficiency and awareness. 20% reduction by 20201 (against FY14 baseline) 98% FY17 FY17 FY17 FY16 18% 6% 15% 98% FY17 Total development pipeline achieved or targeting green certification ENERGY WATER WASTE REDUCTION REDUCTION REDUCTION 1. The above performance is as at March 2017 and is a cumulative measure. Full FY17 performance will be subjected to Limited Assurance by KPMG and be available on www.lendlease.com in October 2017. International House Sydney, Sydney 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 51 Sustainability – Community Engagement Lendlease Foundation Springboard Social Return on Investment Case Study 4. Community Engagement Springboard is a five day personal development experience for our employees that incorporates a The Growth in Social Impact Assessment More Milestones at Our Skilling & highly interactive and rewarding volunteering Community creation and social value are at the heart of our Employment Centre in St Marys component. approach to sustainability, along with the understanding of how Since 2005, the Skilling & Employment Centre has assisted This year, in addition to the usual pre and post program to direct our efforts and measure our impact. When Lendlease’s more than 4,500 people to achieve jobs. 1,600 people have survey feedback, a Social Return on Investment (SROI) pillar of values are deployed, we create the best places that offer undertaken skilling courses that support job readiness in the assessment was undertaken on the Springboard program, economic, safe and sustainable outcomes for our customers, our areas of: construction, first aid, computer skills, networking, for the period of FY14 to FY16. The assessment evaluated the communities, our people and our securityholders. resume preparation, and interview techniques. social value created for key stakeholders of the program. Whilst this aspect of creating the best places has long been a Safety Supervisor Apprenticeship The SROI Report documents a social return on investment part of the way we do business, it is an area of focus that has ratio of: $1: $3.60. For every $1 invested: Springboard Program (SSAP) in Malaysia rapidly emerged as a priority for our customers and end users, as created $3.60 of social and economic value.1 evidenced in several major bids undertaken in FY17. In collaboration with Malaysia’s, Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB), we developed the Safety Much of the value is created for our employees who attend The Haringey Development Vehicle, London, where Lendlease has the program, through personal and professional Supervisor Apprenticeship Program (SSAP). As the first formal preferred bidder status, was a clear demonstration of this shift in development, as well as cultural awareness. However, apprenticeship collaboration between the public and private customer focus, with the local authority allocating a 20 per cent Springboard also creates value for Lendlease through sectors in Malaysia, the program focuses on the safety needs of weighting to the social value creation and community investment employee retention, wellbeing and driving connections the construction industry. dimensions of the bid assessment process. This significant across the international business. In the Tasman weighting acknowledged the project’s vision based on the The structured program provides industry recognised training Peninsula, community youth and adult volunteers principle that social and economic benefits, as well as growth in (encompassing both theoretical and onsite training components) were also found to benefit from improved new homes and jobs, are essential to the future of the borough. through an integrated approach by Lendlease and CIDB. intergenerational communication and social Apprentices who successfully complete the SSAP will receive a bonds, with the local businesses experiencing Internal Expertise formal CIDB and Lendlease SSAP qualification. The successful a direct economic benefit from completion also earns the trainee various certifications from the Springboard’s investment in the region. Recognising the growth in demand for more tangible social impact Department of Occupational Safety and Health (DOSH) and evaluation and the ability to better design, forecast and quantify National Institute of Occupational Safety. social value creation, we have developed in house expertise to undertake social impact measurement for programs, projects and Training Academy at bids across the organisation. Social Impact Measurement or Social Return on Investment (SROI) enables us to capture the outcomes Paya Lebar Quarter and value beyond the traditional balance sheet. At Paya Lebar Quarter, we aimed to raise the bar in worker engagement and set new standards for the construction industry in Skilling and Training Singapore. To do this, we introduced the Training Academy. Open to all workers, the daily courses covered low risk awareness and We have a long and strong tradition of skilling and training our high risk tolerance topics including Frontline Leaders, Incident & workforce and supporting the communities in which we have a Injury Free and Cranes & Lifting. With over 25,500 hours presence through improved education and employment completed in FY17, new standards for worker competency have opportunities. This year was no exception, with our commitment been established in the Singapore construction market. to skilling and training evident around the world. Southwark Construction Skills Barangaroo Skills Exchange (BSX) Centre at Elephant Park In Sydney, the Barangaroo Skills Exchange (BSX) has delivered We were proud to open the Southwark Construction Skills skills training to 10,8721 site workers to date. It was established Centre at Elephant Park on 8 September 2016. The Centre is a to provide significant skilling and training to onsite workers for partnership between Lendlease and Southwark Council and the construction of Barangaroo South. aims to train up to 1,000 people each year. The skills centre is The SROI evaluation estimates the BSX has created over made up of seven modular buildings located at the entrance to $78.5 million2 in socio-economic value for all stakeholders the Elephant Park site and includes classrooms, a building during the three years of operation (2013-2015). For every workshop and an outdoor training yard. $1 invested in the program, $11.76 net additional social and economic benefit was generated.3 Since its inception, we have delivered 113,306 total learning outcomes and 20,387 1 new accredited skills qualifications. 26,0034 students are currently learning about the project, including safety leadership training, basic digital literacy, construction trades and skill sets. 1. Data collected and reported by TAFE NSW. 2. Barangaroo Skills Exchange Social Return on Investment Analysis Summary Highlights. Assured by Social Value International. 1. The Report has been independently verified, having received a Statement of Report Assurance from Social Value International in February 2017. 3. Barangaroo Skills Exchange Social Return on Investment Analysis Summary Highlights. 4. Internal data capture not audited. 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 53 Sustainability – Community Engagement Lendlease Foundation Addressing Community Community engagement is critical to informing what is valued by Challenges in the Americas the people in the places we create, just as progressive and active The Lendlease (US) Community Fund (LLCF) is a non profit community partnerships are essential to helping us deliver and organisation that focuses its efforts on supporting military men scale that value, to create meaningful and sustained social impact. and women who live in homes or stay in hotels Lendlease has built, For more than 30 years, the Lendlease Foundation, has provided an as well as supporting the communities where Lendlease important vehicle for the Company to realise its community employees work and live. engagement and partnership objectives. LLCF supports community growth and development by funding Two of Lendlease Foundation’s leading programs are Community projects that address community challenges in the areas of Day and Springboard, which together with a range of other fresh housing, education, health, economic development and ideas, programs and partnerships are all helping to shape our environmental sustainability, and creates or supports programming social impact agenda and bring health and happiness not only to that improves the quality of life for military families. our employees, but to their families and the communities where we live and work. In partnership with Lendlease’s Privatisation of Army Lodging (PAL) program, LLCF has contributed nearly $60,000 to various causes at PAL installations to date. Community Day This year, over 5,000 people participated in Community Day Environment at the Centre of Paya Lebar across 262 projects, around the world. Our projects ranged from Quarter’s Community Creation renovating buildings for those struggling with homelessness or domestic violence, to restoring important green spaces, and Originally from India, the Banyan tree received its name from the assisting children with special needs. This annual international Baniyas (or Indian traders) who sat below the tree’s valuable shelter event, is an opportunity for our employees to work alongside their conducting their business. Village meetings and other useful colleagues, community partners, families and suppliers. community gatherings would also take place in its shade. In Singapore, as part of the Paya Lebar Quarter (PLQ) project, a Springboard series of initiatives are underway to create an active, green and Springboard is one of Lendlease Foundation’s flagship programs engaged community. One such initiative, called Project Banyan, is aimed at respecting the life of a Banyan tree located on the site by Community Day 2016 and is unique to Lendlease. Each year, approximately 250 employees from around the world have the chance to participate in giving it a new lease of life in the Paya Lebar community. this intensive five day personal development experience, This initiative involves cultivating cuttings from the original Banyan structured to help employees deal with personal change, explore tree to be cared for by the project team and community until PLQ is hidden potential, develop greater confidence and self awareness completed. At least 20 of the saplings will be grown and nurtured and live a more sustainable life. The program is also designed to at the PLQ site offices, with the best Banyan sapling to be replanted generate a positive legacy for our community partners by offering a in the new public realm and the remaining saplings to be gifted highly interactive and rewarding volunteering and community back to the local community. engagement component to the Springboard experience. FY17 was the third year the program has taken place in the Tasman Peninsula Enterprise Educational Workshops in community of Tasmania, Australia, with a continued commitment the United Kingdom in place until the end of FY18. Our business in Europe has demonstrated its commitment to Recognising Volunteering Efforts education and the local community through collaboration with through Community Grants Enabling Enterprise. To date, the engagement has seen the United Kingdom business welcome more than 200 primary school students Volunteering our time and skills positively impacts both us and our to over 10 educational workshops at our offices or project sites. communities. To recognise and reward the volunteering efforts of our employees, Lendlease Foundation runs Community Grants The workshops involve our employees sharing their expertise to programs around the world to aid charities and communities in coach the children through a series of exciting activities that which our employees volunteer their time. In the Australian region mimic the processes of design, costing materials, construction this year, 20 community groups were given a much needed financial and pitching for investment – all of which highlight the roles of boost for addressing community need in one or more of the numeracy and literacy in the working world. The program is following areas: aimed at inspiring the students, feeding their inquisitive minds, challenging their thoughts and driving creativity and innovation. • Community development • Diversity & Inclusion • Skilling, training and employment • Health & Wellbeing Community Grants recipients, Camp Quality Queensland 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 55 Sustainability – Community Engagement Reconciliation Action Plan 2. We will increase the number of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employees in our Australian business. Our vision for reconciliation remains one that drives all our employees to acknowledge and celebrate the proud heritage of • Approximately two per cent of all Lendlease Australian Australia’s First Peoples and promotes opportunities for career employees are Indigenous. development, sustainable business growth and economic • We have four formal partnerships with organisations that work to participation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians. improve attendance and completion rates of young Indigenous Our second Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), ‘Building Respect: people at school, university and other further education Past, Present, Future 2016 – 2018’, was launched in November 2016. institutions. This will help us to create a future pipeline of The RAP has achieved an ‘Elevate’ status by Reconciliation Australia, Indigenous Lendlease employees. positioning Lendlease within the elite group of leaders driving 3. We will increase procurement from, and support the reconciliation in our sector. Lendlease is one of 201 corporate development of, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses organisations in Australia to achieve this level of leadership, in Australia. recognising our willingness to significantly invest in reconciliation. • Lendlease was announced as a finalist in two categories of the The RAP identifies how, by providing sustainable opportunities in 2017 Supply Nation National Indigenous Procurement Awards education, employment and business for Aboriginal and Torres – Corporate Partner of the Year and Procurement Professional of Strait Islander people, the economic benefits flow both ways. As a the Year. builder, developer and manager of assets all over Australia, we also • Procurement from certified Indigenous business (products and recognise the importance of engaging with the traditional owners services) was in excess of $26 million in FY17. and custodians of the land to incorporate Indigenous culture, heritage and values at the heart of these assets. Gymea Bringing RAP to Life Our Elevate RAP builds upon our key learnings through the We have developed and are beginning to implement the Gymea opportunities and successes since we released our first RAP in 2011. strategy, where a cohort of prequalified Indigenous suppliers will With Australian Federal and State Governments increasingly be strategically aligned to Lendlease business units to drive specifying mandatory Indigenous employment, training and contract opportunities to increase capacity and grow these economic participation targets as part of their Indigenous businesses over a five year timeframe. Participation Policies for procurement, and with financial Gymea Indigenous Suppliers penalties for non compliance, our approach provides us with an CareerTrackers opportunity to meet our obligations in this area. At the same time, we are working to build capacity in the industry to respond CareerTrackers is a national not for profit organisation that and ‘raise the bar’. creates internship opportunities for Indigenous university students. ‘Building Respect: Past, Present, Future 2016 – 2018’ features a clear set of goals applying to all our Australian operations: We have had 74 CareerTrackers interns working across our Lendlease businesses since 2011. Of these interns, eight have 1. All Lendlease employees in Australia will be invited to participate completed their studies and converted to full time employment in cultural awareness and engagement learning. at Lendlease, 16 are currently working casually whilst studying • We are advanced in delivering face to face learning, and we are and 10 have secured a place on the 2018 Graduate Program. working towards achieving our 2018 goal of providing 100 per cent of Australian employees with cultural learning experiences Bourke NSW Aboriginal Community through online and immersion opportunities. We are working with the Bourke NSW Aboriginal Community as • We have supported the development of Arrilla Digital, an online part of a collective collaboration, including the participation and cultural awareness and learning platform that will be made support of the NSW Government, to prove that a justice available to all Australian employees to provide a baseline of reinvestment approach can prevent more young Aboriginal cultural understanding. people from entering the justice system. The project aims to reduce the $4 million annual cost to the NSW Government by incarcerating fewer young people from Bourke. Barangaroo Street Fair 2016 1. As at 30 June 2017. 04 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 57 Risk Lendlease’s Nashville office, Nashville 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 59 RISK GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT Lendlease has an overarching and multi layered approach to the identification, management Accountability and responsibility for risk governance and management is held at various levels across the business including the and mitigation of external, corporate and operational risk to support our five pillars of value. Board and Board Committees, Group Leadership, Regional Leadership, Business Units and Specialist Functions such as Risk, Internal Audit and Centre of Excellence. The Lendlease risk management approach recognises the • Providing a clear understanding of risk limits and where Our Risk Management Approach is supported by: nature and level of risk that the Company is willing to accept to zero tolerance applies; achieve its strategic goals and key performance targets to Structure • Providing context for the identification, reporting and create securityholder value. management of risks; The objectives of our approach to risk management include: Board Risk Management & Reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management system and seeks assurances that • Creating a workplace culture of risk awareness. Audit Committee material risks are identified and appropriate risk management processes are in place. • Ensuring that there is alignment of Board and management to Risk awareness, improvement and governance are key elements drive informed and consistent decision making; Liaises with regional Chief Executive Officers and risk specialists on both business specific and of the Lendlease approach. • Effective and efficient allocation of capital and resources; Group Risk Function enterprise wide risks in order to assist the Group’s businesses to further develop their risk management processes. Internal Audit Formal processes provide supplementary assurance to operational businesses. External Audit Formal independent regular reviews. Risk Awareness Policy and Procedure The Board has matters that are reserved for its determination under the Risk Appetite of Lendlease, and further, under the Limits of Authority. The Board Approval Process is set up so decisions and Board Approval Process commitments of a predetermined magnitude require express Board approval, thereby supporting Assessment sound governance and continued alignment with strategy. Identification and Investment Committees are in place at regional and Group levels in order to assess and approve the Investment Committees Quantification feasibility of potential projects. Limits of Authority are in place to outline matters that are specifically reserved for determination by the Board Limits of Authority and those matters that are delegated to Board Committees, Global Leadership Team or other management. Risk Tools Lendlease uses a risk management platform throughout all our regions to allow consistent risk Risk Management Platform identification and assessment. Governance Strategic Framework Objectives & Performance Response and Measures Mitigation Stage Gates Across our property and construction businesses, the conversion and delivery of projects is governed by a number of gates utilising ce Ris proprietary and in house developed systems. an k Im ern ov pro kG Continued vem Ris Governance Committees Learning and en Business Project Review Improvement t development conversion Submit Execute Delivery lessons proposal contract pipeline process learnt 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Project Authority Construction Review Go/No Go to submit authorisation Point to customers Commit to Changes to Monthly Implement pursuit costs initial proposal project for new reviews projects Business unit milestone reviews/health checks and portfolio reviews during delivery 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 61 KE Y RISKS AND MITIGATION External Environment Explanation Mitigation Pillars of Value Macro Conditions Lendlease’s business activities are impacted by prevailing economic conditions in the regions in We have a strong pipeline of long dated integrated projects and a solid base of recurring earnings which Lendlease operates. The changes in the global political environment and the increased through our global Investments platform. We are focused on further diversifying the business frequency of unpredicted events creates greater uncertainty in the global economic environment. through targeted growth opportunities in our gateway cities where we can achieve our target returns and are able to implement our Global Minimum Requirements (GMRs). Capital Markets Property and infrastructure development and investment is capital intensive and dependent on We manage our capital prudently across debt, equity and third party capital partners and remain access to both equity and debt capital from third parties. Development and construction focused on maintaining our credit rating. activity is dependent on access to forms of credit support for performance. Political Environment In each of our operating regions we work with governments as a major customer and We have dedicated resources for government relations proactively liaising with all sides of stakeholder and as such, our business is susceptible to changes in the political environment. politics to support policies for long term property and infrastructure projects. Competitive Dynamics The extent to which we are facing competition in our existing markets and sectors, and the We are one of a few companies globally that is offering end to end property and infrastructure threat of new competition. solutions with a strong urbanisation delivery capability. We have a strong reputation for delivering our projects safely and we are a trusted partner. Our strong track record and access to capital along with our extensive integrated capabilities are also difficult to replicate. Climate Change and The world is experiencing the impacts of climate change. These impacts are likely to increase We are committed to reducing our contribution to human induced climate change. We Resilience in the future and pose an increased risk to the safety of communities as well as having the continually assess the impact of climate change on our operations and create mitigation plans for potential to damage real estate and infrastructure. our communities and business generally. Our capability in this space is a source of competitive advantage for our business. Materials and Supply Chain We understand that our environmental, social and governance goals and targets extend The environmental performance of any supplier and the sustainability of products and services is beyond our direct business operations to our supply chain. We work with suppliers to maintain considered in the Group’s selection process. continuous improvement and compliance with environmental, social and ethical considerations. Technology The emergence of digital business will disrupt current ways of working and offer opportunities Innovation and disruption is a core element of our ‘Focus & Grow’ Strategy. for Lendlease to innovate. Growth in this area encourages our people to adopt leading edge technologies to deliver innovative solutions for our customers and also provides avenues to new revenue streams in our These opportunities also illustrate areas of cyber risk, and the increasing dependence in technology will only see a rise in this risk in the short term. target growth areas. Cyber resilience and greater adoption of technology continue to be key focus areas globally. Internal Environment Explanation Mitigation Pillars of Value Delivery of Earnings Our ability to continue to deliver earnings across Development, Construction and Investments. Our GMRs allow the business to minimise risks of incidents and onsite injuries which in turn has increased productivity onsite. Strategies have been developed to mitigate the risk of settlement defaults within our residential business, and our non residential developments are mostly forward funded. We are diversifying our portfolio to provide for a portion of our operating EBITDA is recurring in nature. Maintaining Strong Customer and stakeholder focus is critical to delivering resilient products efficiently and on cost. We are building an international framework for consistent customer relationship management to Relationships enhance our strong engagement with customers. Training, Skills and The skills, experience and capabilities of our people influence our ability to deliver quality We continue to invest in the learning and development of our people to attract, retain and Employment projects and to deliver the Group’s strategy. grow the best people. We provide construction and property industry training through academies and various training programs. Eliminating Incidents The safety of our people, our supply chain, and the members of the public we interact with is We empower our people to use informed judgement to manage their health and safety risks using and Injuries paramount. As we undertake larger, more complex projects we must continue to evolve our our GMR Framework and have also introduced a Health & Wellbeing Framework to address the approach to managing health and safety. risks associated with mental health issues. 05 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 63 Performance & Outlook Sydney Darling Exchange, Sydney Artist impression as at 2017 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 65 GROUP HIGHL IGHTS We delivered a strong result for securityholders for the year ended 30 June 2017, with Profit after Tax of $758.6 million, up nine per The Americas Construction segment, which delivered more than $100 million of EBITDA, was the largest contributor from our PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK GROUP OUTLOOK cent on the prior year. international operations. This result represented an 87 per cent During the year we introduced a refreshed Portfolio We are well placed for future success. Earnings visibility remains Earnings per Security was 130.1 cents, up eight per cent on the increase on the prior year and was driven by both strong revenue Management Framework, which is designed to: strong with a record amount of Development work already prior year, and the distribution for the year of 66.0 cents per growth and performance upside on a number of projects that secured, a substantial Construction backlog and a solid base of • Maximise long term securityholder value through a well stapled security was up 10 per cent on the prior year. were closed out during the year. recurring earnings from our Investments segment. Our integrated diversified, risk adjusted portfolio; EBITDA of $1,201.8 million was up 14 per cent on the prior year, Corporate EBITDA costs declined by eight per cent on the prior capabilities across property and infrastructure provide a sustainable • Leverage the competitive advantage of our integrated model; driven by strong growth across all three operating segments. year to $154.4 million, with productivity savings realised during competitive advantage, while diversity by business and geography the year. Depreciation and amortisation costs were up on the • Optimise our business relative to the outlook for our markets is expected to support resilience across the business model. The result was underpinned by strong performance across the prior year by 19 per cent to $98.2 million, reflecting higher on a long term basis; and Australian region, accounting for more than three quarters of The development pipeline of $49.3 billion provides significant occupancy and technology related costs. • Provide financial strength to execute our strategy and earnings visibility provided we execute well. The origination focus Group operating EBITDA. Key highlights in the region included Net finance costs declined by 12 per cent on the prior year due to maintain a strong financial profile with flexibility to in recent years has turned towards our target international gateway strong contributions from both the Development and Investments lower average net debt over the year. Net debt ended the year at withstand shocks segments. cities, and the urbanisation projects secured in these cities are now $912.8 million, while the average cost of debt during the year was As a part of this framework, we set target guidelines on a starting to move into production. Capital and subsequent earnings Both commercial and residential development were strong in 4.9 per cent. number of key metrics, which are set out in the table below. are expected to re-balance towards our international operations as Australia. Net operating and investing cash flows across the Group were During the year ended 30 June 2017, our Return on Equity was these projects move further into delivery. In commercial, key highlights included significant leasing progress $216.1 million for the year. Cash inflows included proceeds 12.9 per cent, which is at the upper end of the 10 to 14 per Our Construction backlog revenue remains stable at $20.6 billion, across the commercial development portfolio and the completion received following the practical completion of Tower One at cent target range. This return was achieved using moderate with approximately $10 billion of preferred work globally at of Tower One at Barangaroo South. We sold down a majority Barangaroo South, apartment settlements on buildings completed financial leverage with gearing well below the 10 to 15 per cent balance date. The focus over the medium term will be on improving interest in the Circular Quay Tower development in Sydney. Tenant in both Australia and Europe, and proceeds from the sell down target range. commitments underpinned the forward sale of three office towers underlying performance across the segment. The pipeline outlook of a majority interest in the Circular Quay Tower development The distribution for the year of 66.0 cents per stapled at Brisbane Showgrounds in Brisbane, and Melbourne Quarter and in Sydney. These inflows were offset by continued investment remains strong particularly in the transport infrastructure space for Victoria Harbour in Melbourne. security, represents a payout ratio of 51 per cent for the year, the Australian Engineering business. in the development pipeline, with an increasing focus on our consistent with the target 40 to 60 per cent payout ratio. In residential, apartment buildings completed in Australia and urbanisation pipeline in international gateway cities. The $26.1 billion of funds under management and $3.3 billion of Other key metrics for the year were broadly in line with the Europe which drove a record 2,533 apartment completions for the The positive cash outcome supported the maintenance of our investments in our Investments segment provide a solid base of target guidelines. The regional capital mix in Australia reduced year, more than double the prior year result. strong balance sheet, with gearing at 5.0 per cent, cash and recurring earnings. These positions are expected to continue to during the year to the top end of the target guideline mix. The Australian Investments segment also performed strongly cash equivalents of $1.2 billion and total liquidity of $3.5 billion, The re-weighting of geographic capital exposure away from grow as we deliver on our development pipeline. across key components. The Retirement Living portfolio recorded representing cash and cash equivalents and undrawn debt Australia is expected to continue over the medium term with Financial strength will remain a priority for us to provide the strong underlying performance, and funds under management facilities, all improvements on the position from the prior year. an increasing focus on our international markets in order to flexibility to fund our existing and future development pipeline grew by 11 per cent on the prior year to $26.1 billion, while coachieve portfolio diversification. alongside capital partners. Operational excellence will be pursued investments delivered solid income growth over the year. through a rigorous approach to risk management, an unwavering commitment to safety, health and sustainability and a disciplined approach to origination. Key Financials Profit after Tax Development Pipeline $ 758.6 $ Percentage 49.3 FINANCIAL FY16 FY17 Movement CAPITAL FR AME WO R K Target FY16 FY17 BILLION Key Metrics Revenue1 $m 15,105.3 16,671.0 10% 698 759 Group Metrics Return on Equity 10-14% 13.0% 12.9% EBITDA $m 1,054.9 1,201.8 14% Dividend payout ratio 40-60% 50.0% 51.0% Profit after Tax (PAT) $m 698.2 758.6 9% FY16 FY17 Gearing 10-15% 6.5% 5.0% Operating and Investing MILLION cash flow $m 853.6 216.1 (75%) EBITDA Mix Net assets $m 5,614.7 6,166.5 10% Return on Equity Development 35-45% 40% 40% Construction Backlog 12.9 $20.6 Net debt $m 1,052.4 912.8 (13%) Construction 20-30% 23% 24% Effective tax rate2 Key Returns Earnings per Security Distribution per Security % cents cents 19.1 120.1 60.0 24.7 130.1 66.0 29% 8% 10% % 13.0% 12.9% Investments Segment Returns Development Construction 30-40% 9-12% ROIC 1,2 3-4% EBITDA 37% 11.7% 2.4% 36% 13.7% 2.7% BILLION FY16 FY17 Weighted avg Securities no.(m) 581.4 583.0 Investments 8-11% ROIC 1,2 11.2% 2 11.7% Segment Invested Capital Mix EBITDA Mix Earnings per Security Development 48% 48% Funds Under Management 130.1 $26.1 Investments 52% 52% FY17 Regional Invested Capital Mix BILLION 36% $1,386m 120.1 130.1 Australia 50-70% 74% 70% 40% Operating Asia 5-20% 8% 10% EBITDA Europe 5-20% 12% 12% 24% FY16 FY17 Americas 5-20% 6% 8% Development Construction Investments CENTS 1. Includes finance revenue. 2. Lendlease’s approach to tax and its policies are contained on the website (http://www.lendlease.com/investor-centre/taxation). 1. Target segment returns are through-cycle returns based on a rolling three to five year timeline. Details on tax balances are included within the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is calculated using the annual operating Profit after Tax divided by the arithmetic average of beginning, half and year end invested capital. FY16 Investments ROIC has been restated to include half year end invested capital in the calculation. 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 67 velopme DE VELOPMENT PERFORMANCE DE VELOPMENT OU TLOOK De n Disciplined portfolio t tments management Cons The Development segment delivered EBITDA of $552.4 million, up previously eliminated development profit. Also at Barangaroo The Development segment pipeline of $49.3 billion provides urbanisation projects. In the to maximise 10 per cent on the prior year. The segment accounted for 40 per South, the International House Sydney development, Australia’s significant earnings visibility. This comprises $34.6 billion of past year, London was the only tr securityholder cent of Group operating EBITDA. Development Return on Invested first engineered timber commercial office building, completed urbanisation projects and $14.7 billion in Communities and international gateway city in s value ve Capital was 13.7 per cent for the year, above the target range. during the year and is fully leased. Retirement projects. which we completed major t In uc The result was underpinned by strong performance in the We sold down a majority interest in the Circular Quay Across the urbanisation pipeline, we now have 13 major development product. ion Australian operations which delivered 27 per cent growth in Tower development in Sydney, while tenant commitments commercial buildings and 21 apartment buildings in delivery. This is expected to increase to EBITDA on the prior year. EBITDA for the European region was underpinned the forward sale of three office towers at Brisbane There is a further $24.3 billion of secured urbanisation pipeline six gateway cities over coming down following a strong result in the prior year. Asia and the Showgrounds in Brisbane, and Melbourne Quarter and Victoria to be converted and delivered in future years, representing years based on buildings currently Americas remained in the investing phase during the year. The Harbour in Melbourne. over 18,000 apartment units and approximately 513,000 square in delivery. In addition to being strong result in Australia was supported by a number of highlights In Australia, apartment buildings completed during the year, which metres of commercial space. diversified by location, the buildings across both commercial and apartment development. drove a record 1,807 apartment completions. These included These projects are typically held in capital efficient structures, in delivery are diversified across sectors with office, Office developments in Sydney and Melbourne drove a strong buildings at Darling Square in Sydney, Victoria Harbour and Toorak providing flexibility around delivery timing in line with market retail, residential for sale and residential for rent. commercial result. More than 90,000 square metres of office Park in Melbourne and Brisbane Showgrounds in Brisbane. Land cycles. We aim to deliver between 1,000 to 2,000 apartment We are well placed to further grow the development pipeline leasing was achieved on the Eastern Seaboard. In addition to lot completions across our Australian masterplanned communities units and commence two to three major commercial buildings with an ongoing focus on the international regions. securing tenants, our development risk was further mitigated by of 3,060 was down 10 per cent on the prior year, largely a result of per annum. We are currently preferred on the approximate $7 billion funding support from capital partners. production and related planning delays. The Australian operations are expected to remain a key Haringey Development Vehicle in London, which is expected Significant leasing progress was made at Tower One at In Europe, 726 apartment units were completed primarily at contributor to the Development segment earnings going to be secured within the next 12 months.* Barangaroo South, with new tenant commitments secured International Quarter London and Elephant Park. A further forward with a $30.9 billion pipeline in the region, including during the year (including Heads of Terms) taking the 1,124 presold apartment units in London will carry into FY18. In $16.2 billion of urbanisation projects. commercial leasing in the tower to approximately 80 per cent. addition, a joint venture partner was introduced to the residential The more recent origination focus on the international Tower One reached practical completion during the year, development project at Wandsworth in London. operations is expected to result in a growing offshore making all three office towers now operational. This shift to contribution over the medium term. The development pipeline * The Haringey Development Vehicle is subject to contractual and financial close. operational status across the towers facilitated the release of across the international regions represents $18.4 billion in Approximate number as at 30 June 2017 based on exchange rate at period end. Segment Snapshot EBITDA by Region ($m) Pipeline by Product Pipeline by Region 7% 9% 498 500 552 392 FY16 24% FY17 30% 22% FY16 16% FY17 40% of EBITDA 1 (19) (14) 139 68 (12) $48.8b Pipeline $49.3b Pipeline $48.8b Pipeline 59% 12% $49.3b Pipeline 63% 35% 12% ET G Australia Asia Europe Americas Total 76% 70% R 4 5 % TA FY16 FY17 Communities Urbanisation Australia Asia Europe Americas Invested Capital2 ($b) Return on Invested Capital Movement in Residential Presales and For Rent ($b) Residential Presales and For Rent by Region 2.9 3.0 5.9 (2.5) (0.3) 19% 10% 11.7% 13.7% 1.7 5.3 FY16 FY17 12% 5.2 0.51 16% TARGET 9% 3.9 $5.4b Residential 4% $5.3b Presales and 0.7 0.9 in Delivery For Rent FY16 Completions Sales FX FY17 81% 70% FY16 FY17 FY16 3 FY17 Communities (presales) Apartments for Sale (presales) Apartments for Rent1 Australia Asia Europe Americas Commercial Commencements ($b) Residential Completions (Units) Commercial Building Completion Profile Project Capital Model sqm ('000)2 Building FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 International Quarter London Fund through3 73 Stage 1 Commercial (2 buildings) 8 BUILDINGS 5,769 Paya Lebar Quarter Joint venture 84 Commercial (3 buildings) 5 BUILDINGS 176 185 4,790 29 Retail 1,203 2,533 Tun Razak Exchange Joint venture 154 Retail 3.8 Darling Square Fund through3 26 Commercial 4.5 37 Hotel 3,402 3,060 Melbourne Quarter Fund through3 26 One Melbourne Quarter FY16 FY17 Victoria Harbour Fund through3 38 839 Collins Street FY16 FY17 Circular Quay Tower4 Joint venture 55 Commercial Brisbane Showgrounds Fund through3 15 25 King Development End Value Communities Apartments Retirement4 Indicates expected building completion date during the year. 1. Represents the proportion of EBITDA from operating businesses. 1. Represents the estimated end value of the Apartments for Rent product commenced in the Americas during the year. 2. Represents securityholder equity plus net debt. 2. Floor space measured as Net Lettable Area. 3. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is calculated using the annual operating Profit after Tax divided by the arithmetic average of beginning, half year 3. A funding model structured through a forward sale to a capital partner resulting in staged payments prior to building completion. and year end invested capital. 4. Circular Quay Tower construction start remains subject to certain preconditions. 4. Retirement completions exclude resales; development activity only. 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 69 DE VELOPMENT PIPEL INE APARTMENT COMPL E TION PROFIL E Apartments for Sale Urbanisation Pipeline Profile Delivery3 Apartments Ownership Presold Presales2 Project Building Units1 (%) (%) ($m) FY18 FY19 21 major apartment buildings in delivery across 3,177 presold units and 850 units for rent, estimated completion FY18 to FY19 Darling Square, Sydney Darling House 334 100% 100% 402 22,352 Units Darling North, Harbour Place 3,177 Units presold 1 850 Units for rent 18,325 Units remaining and Trinity House 577 100% 100% 808 Darling Rise, $21.7b Barker House and Arena 391 100% 100% 493 $3.3b presold1 $0.5b for rent $17.9b remaining Victoria Harbour, Melbourne 883 Collins 528 100% 97% 358 Commercial Collins Wharf 1 321 100% 87% 255 13 major buildings in delivery, estimated completion FY18 to FY21 Brisbane Showgrounds, South Yard 193 100% 96% 101 sqm in sqm Brisbane 537,000 delivery 513,000 remaining 1,050,000 sqm Toorak Park, Melbourne Terrace Homes 18 100% 78% 35 Paya Lebar Quarter, Singapore Residential $6.5b in delivery2 $6.4b remaining $12.9b 429 30% 49% 228 Wandsworth, London Victoria Drive 110 50% 36% 41 Elephant Park, London South Gardens 155 100% 76% 101 Urbanisation Pipeline by Product ($b) Urbanisation Pipeline by Region ($b) West Grove (Buildings 1 and 2) 593 100% 80% 446 9% Fifth Avenue, New York 277 Fifth Avenue 12% 130 40% FY16 FY17 FY16 FY17 Clippership Wharf, Boston Building 3 80 100% 50% 42 44% $37.3b Urbanisation 56% 37% $34.6b Urbanisation 63% 28% $37.3b Urbanisation 47% 23% $34.6 b 47% Urbanisation Apartments for Rent Pipeline Pipeline Pipeline Pipeline 16% 18% Delivery3 Ownership Project Building Units (%) FY18 FY19 Apartments Commercial Australia Asia Europe Americas Clippership Wharf, Boston Buildings 1 and 2 398 100% Riverline, Chicago Building D 452 79% Communities Pipeline Profile 3 • Indicates profit expected to be earned in the year 57,115 Lots Lots Lots 3,896 presold 53,219 remaining $14.7b $0.9b presold $13.8b remaining 1. Represents presales balance on buildings in delivery only. 1. Excludes completions recognised in FY17. 2. Total end value of ~$8.0 billion, with ~$1.5 billion delivered to date. 2. Closing presales balance as at 30 June 2017. 3. Includes retirement units and built form units to be sold with land lots. 3. Based on expected completion date of underlying buildings, subject to change in delivery program. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 71 velopme CONS TRUC TION PERFORMANCE CONS TRUC TION OU TLOOK De n Disciplined portfolio t tments management Cons The Construction segment delivered EBITDA of $338.3 million, The Americas recorded a strong recovery, with EBITDA up The outlook for the Construction segment remains solid with In the Americas, we have an to maximise up 17 per cent on the prior year. Revenue grew by five per cent 87 per cent on the prior year to $105.4 million. Building backlog revenue of $20.6 billion. Backlog was broadly flat with established Construction tr securityholder and the EBITDA margin improved by 30 basis points to completions included two high rise apartment buildings in $13.2 billion of new work secured during the year. The backlog business with a strong market s value ve 2.7 per cent during the year. While the margin recovered, it New York: the prominent 432 Park Avenue, opposite Central position is well diversified by geography, sector and customer. share in our target sectors. t In uc remains below our target range. Park, and 56 Leonard Street. The strong result in the region was supported by performance upside on several projects that were There was a strong rise in the amount of work in preferred The majority of the current backlog is relatively lower risk construction ion Australia remains the largest contributor to earnings despite bidder status during the year, closing at approximately EBITDA being down 13 per cent to $201.4 million during the closed out over the year. $10 billion. We are well placed to convert a significant portion management activity. year, with the result impacted by the performance across a The European business has begun to recover from challenging of this work into backlog revenue over the coming year. We are seeking to extend our proven delivery capability small number of projects and increased bidding activity. market conditions in recent years, generating EBITDA of The Building business in Australia enjoyed a number of major into design and construct contracts that are typically higher In Building, several high profile and large scale projects $31.7 million. This was a solid outcome, given that the prevailing project wins during the year including Western Sydney margin projects, such as the Jacob K. Javits Convention were successfully completed over the course of the year. industry conditions continue to be challenging. Further volume is Stadium, Sunshine Plaza redevelopment and 839 Collins Street Center in New York. International Convention Centre Sydney is a world class required for the business to achieve scale and improve returns. at Victoria Harbour. Subsequent to balance date we were also In Europe, the backlog revenue has declined, however the conference, exhibition and entertainment facility. Both the Given the challenges associated with third party work in Asia, preferred on Sydney Metro Station, Martin Place. region is in a preferred position on a number of major projects Sunshine Coast University Hospital and Bendigo Hospital also apart from a few niche areas, we remain focused on delivering The decline in Engineering backlog revenue reflects the timing which we expect to convert over the coming year. During completed during the year, providing more than 1,000 new the internal development pipeline in the region. of major bid activity during the year in Australia. We remain the year, we were named a panel member on Scape Group’s hospital beds. Tower One at Barangaroo South, the third and optimistic regarding the medium term pipeline outlook for the approximately $11 billion construction framework for public final office tower, also reached completion. business, particularly in the transport sector. sector projects and we are in a preferred position to deliver Engineering revenue accelerated during the year as delivery Post balance date, the Cross Yarra Partnership, of which we are Google’s Headquarters in London. activity increased. We continued to invest in the business during an equal third partner, was selected as preferred bidder on the The strong internal development pipeline is expected to the year, including associated bid costs for the anticipated higher approximate $6 billion Melbourne Metro Tunnel project. We provide a solid backdrop for the Construction segment level of work over the medium term. The full benefit of this were also awarded the approximate $500 million Ballarat Line across all our regions. In particular, the Asia region remains investment is expected to be realised over future periods. Upgrade project as part of a consortium. predominantly focused on delivery of the internal pipeline. Segment Snapshot EBITDA by Region ($m) Backlog by Product Backlog by Region 288 338 8% 9% 232 FY16 FY17 FY16 FY17 % 201 15% TA R G E T 2 0 19% 32% 38% 24% of EBITDA 1 (6) (0) 6 32 56 105 $20.7b Backlog $20.6b Backlog $20.7b Backlog $20.6b Backlog Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 7% 58% 54% 30% Australia Asia Europe Americas Total 73% 76% 3% 4% 4% FY16 FY17 Building Engineering Services Australia Asia Europe Americas Revenue by Product EBITDA Margin Backlog1 by Sector Backlog1 by Client 8% 10% 5% 14% 5% 4% 18% 14% FY16 FY17 TARGET 17% 35% 3% 2.4% 2.7% Major Project Major Project $12.0b $12.6b 13% Backlog Revenue Backlog Revenue Revenue Revenue 38% 81% 6% 51% 85% FY16 FY17 Transport Residential Hotel/Entertainment Building Engineering Services Defence Commercial Other Lendlease Corporate Government New Work Secured by Product New Work Secured by Region Backlog Revenue Movement by Product ($b) FY17 Backlog Realisation 7% 8% 16% 8% 0.6 (0.8) FY16 FY17 31% FY16 FY17 20.7 19% 0.1 20.6 $20.6b $14.6b New Work Secured $13.2b New Work Secured $14.6b New Work Secured 57% 44% $13.2 b 45% New Work Secured 28% Backlog Revenue 56% Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 74% 9% 84% 3% 5% 6% FY16 Building2 Engineering2 Services2 FY17 Building Engineering Services Australia Asia Europe Americas FY18 FY19 Post FY19 1. Represents the proportion of EBITDA from operating businesses. 1. Includes all Construction projects with backlog greater than $100.0 million, which represents 78 per cent ($16.1 billion) of secured backlog. 2. Includes the impact of movement in foreign exchange rates, where applicable. 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 73 velopme INVES TMENTS PERFORMANCE INVES TMENTS OU TLOOK De n Disciplined portfolio t tments management Cons The Investments segment delivered EBITDA of $495.3 million, Operating EBITDA earnings increased by seven per cent to The Investments segment remains well placed to continue to are also being explored. While to maximise up eight per cent on the prior year. The segment accounted for $116.1 million during the year. Funds under management were deliver a solid base of recurring style earnings in the target range the market is in its early stages, tr securityholder 36 per cent of Group operating EBITDA, providing a solid base of up 11 per cent to $26.1 billion, generating solid fund and asset of 30 to 40 per cent of Group operating EBITDA. The integrated some of our urbanisation projects s value ve recurring style earnings. Investments Return on Invested Capital management fee growth. The completion of Tower One at business model and internal development pipeline is likely to are well suited to this asset class. t In uc was 11.7 per cent, above the target range. Barangaroo South was a key contributor to fund platform growth during the year. The US Military Housing operations continued remain the main source of future growth for the segment. Telecommunications infrastructure ion Ownership EBITDA earnings, increased by nine per cent to We closed the year with $26.1 billion in funds under management in the United States is a sector where $379.2 million during the year. Ownership earnings are derived to contribute a stable base of asset management earnings to the (FUM), with more than $3 billion of additional secured FUM we can deploy our integrated model. from our investment positions in Retirement Living, operating platform. based on urbanisation projects currently in delivery. The further We have recently begun the development of telecommunications co-investments and infrastructure including equity in the The Asia result in the prior year was impacted by a reduction conversion of the urbanisation pipeline together with our strong towers, and over time it is expected we will seek to introduce US Military Housing operations. The value of our investments in the value of our 25 per cent direct investment in 313@ network of third party capital, will provide future opportunities third party capital to support the growth of the business. increased by 11 per cent to $3.3 billion during the year. somerset in Singapore. In Europe, we divested our interest in the to continue to grow the platform. Investments managed on behalf of the Group closed the year The Retirement Living business delivered a strong contribution, Lendlease Private Financial Initiative/Public Private Partnerships The funds platform is well diversified across both geographies at $3.3 billion. We had $1.5 billion co-invested across the fund underpinned by an average 11 per cent rise in unit prices on resales Infrastructure Fund LP in the prior year. These items impacted the and sectors. The growth in the urbanisation pipeline across platform, providing strong alignment with investors and a high during the year. The underlying growth in the portfolio, combined year on year movement in these regions. our international regions is expected to support future quality income stream. The Retirement Living business largely with the acquisition of two additional retirement villages, resulted New equity of approximately $0.9 billion was raised offshore growth in the Investments segment. This will include accounts for the remainder of our current allocation to the in the value of the Retirement Living portfolio rising to $1.7 billion1. during the period. This was mainly attributable to equity opportunities in the traditional asset classes we have exposure Investments segment. Consistent with our business model, we Higher investment income was derived during the year from commitments relating to the sell down of the Circular Quay to, in addition to new asset classes including residential for rent are exploring the potential introduction of capital partners into our investment in Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust Tower development in Sydney. We maintain a strong network and telecommunications infrastructure. this business to support future business growth. and Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust, with of capital partners who provide additional capacity for us to In the Americas, we currently have 850 residential for rent the underlying commercial assets now having all moved into develop our pipeline of opportunities, as well as supporting a apartment units across three residential buildings in delivery. the operational phase. The equity returns from our US Military solid base of recurring income. This is a well established institutional asset class in the United Housing operations also remained solid. States. Potential opportunities for residential for rent in London Segment Snapshot EBITDA by Region ($m) Funds Under Management by Asset Class Funds Under Management by Region 458 495 4% 3% 3%2% 6% 5% 349 393 FY16 FY17 FY16 21% FY17 24% 36% 60 38% $23.6b Funds Under 55% 45% $26.1b Funds Under 50% $23.6b Funds Under $26.1b Funds Under of EBITDA 2 T 30 14 35 35 10 57 Management Management Management Management % 70% 74% GE AR T Australia Asia Europe Americas Total 40% FY16 FY17 Retail Commercial Industrial Other Australia Asia Europe Invested Capital3 ($b) Return on Invested Capital Investments1 by Product Investments1 by Region 3.3 2% 3.2 4% 5% 4% 4% 11.2% 11.7% 11% 10% 11% FY16 FY17 FY16 FY17 TARGET 8% 50% $3.0b Investments 46% 51% $3.3b Investments 44% $3.0b Investments $3.3b Investments FY16 FY17 FY164 FY17 83% 86% Co-investments Retirement ownership Infrastructure Australia Asia Americas Investments EBITDA by Activity ($m) Growth in Investments ($b) Growth in Funds Under Management ($b) Funds Under Management roll forward ($b) 350 379 3.0 3.0 3.3 26.1 2.7 2.6 21.3 23.6 2.1 (0.3) 0.8 (0.1) 26.1 15.0 16.3 23.6 108 116 Ownership Operating FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY16 Additions Divestments Revaluations Other2 FY17 interests5 earnings6 FY16 FY17 1. Excludes capital relating to Retirement development activities. end and year end invested capital. FY16 Investments ROIC restated 1. Represents the Group’s assessment of market value. 2. Represents the proportion of EBITDA from operating businesses. reflecting inclusion of half year end invested capital in calculation. 2. Includes the impact of movement in foreign exchange rates. 3. Securityholder equity plus net debt. Underlying investments value 5. Returns derived from co-investments, the Retirement Living business of $3.0 billion in FY16 and $3.3 billion in FY17. and equity returns from US Military Housing. 4. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is calculated using the annual operating 6. Earnings derived from the investment management platform and the Profit after Tax divided by the arithmetic average of the beginning, half year management of US Military Housing operations. 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 75 FINANCIAL POSITION AND GROUP F UNDING AND DEBT FACIL ITIES C ASH FLOW MOVEMENTS FY16 FY17 Percentage Percentage Financial Position $m $m Movement FY16 FY17 Movement Cash and cash equivalents 1,008.4 1,249.2 24% Net debt $m 1,052.4 912.8 (13%) Inventories 4,602.9 5,127.4 11% Borrowings to total equity plus borrowings % 26.6 25.9 (3%) Equity accounted investments 1,152.6 834.6 (28%) Net debt to total tangible assets, less cash % 6.5 5.0 (23%) Investment properties 5,940.7 6,967.4 17% Interest coverage times 8.0 10.3 29% Other assets (including financial) 5,888.3 6,675.6 13% Average cost of debt including margins % 4.6 4.9 7% Total assets 18,592.9 20,854.2 12% Average debt duration years 5.3 5.1 (4%) Borrowings and financing arrangements 2,031.3 2,152.4 6% Debt mix fixed: floating ratio 91:9 96:4 Other liabilities (including financial) 10,946.9 12,535.3 15% Undrawn facilities $m 2,172.6 2,225.2 2% Total liabilities 12,978.2 14,687.7 13% Our net debt and gearing position reduced during the year, driven by the positive net operating and investing cash flow position. Net assets 5,614.7 6,166.5 10% As a result, both gearing and interest cover improved as at 30 June 2017. The increase in our average cost of debt reflects lower drawings under floating rate bank facilities during the year. Average debt duration remains over five years due to the extension of the Club Revolving Credit Facility to FY22 and issuance of a new S$300.0 million 10 year 3.9 per cent bond. Inventories Investment Properties Inventories increased by 11 per cent on the prior year due to Investment Properties increased primarily due to acquisitions an increase in work in progress in relation to key Development and valuation growth on the Retirement Living properties on Debt Facilities1 ($m) projects including Darling Square in Sydney, Elephant Park in a gross basis. This increase was partly offset by an increase in London and Tun Razak Exchange Lifestyle Quarter in Resident Liabilities reported through Other Liabilities. Investment 1,500 properties also grew due to acquisition of a telecommunication Kuala Lumpur. tower portfolio in the Americas. Equity Accounted Investments Other Assets (including Financial) Equity Accounted Investments decreased by 28 per cent on the Other Assets increased by 13 per cent on the prior year 678 prior year following a change in the accounting classification of largely driven by the change in accounting classification of 505 505 514 514 476 476 our investments in the Lendlease International Towers Sydney our investments in the Lendlease International Towers Sydney 259 259 281 281 Trust and Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust. 76 This was due to all underlying assets now having moved to the Trust and Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust as 0 33 33 noted above. operational phase post completion. These investments are now reported within Other Financial Assets in the Statement ﻿Syndicated ﻿UK ﻿ lub C US$ ﻿US ﻿Singapore ﻿Singapore ﻿Australian of Financial Position. Multi Option Bond Revolving Reg. S Private Bond Bond medium term Facility Issue Credit Facility notes Placement S$275m S$300m notes Drawn Facility Cash Movements ($m) Debt Maturity Profile2 ($m) 146 70 9 16 1,249 Investing 1,008 Net cash inflow from investing activities during the year was primarily due to proceeds received from the sell down of a majority interest in the Circular Quay Tower development and 225 proceeds from the divestment of the New Zealand Retirement 602 Living business, which completed in the prior financial year. This is offset by capital expenditure and acquisition of 250 FY16 Operating Investing Financing Foreign FY17 telecommunication assets in the Americas. 76 exchange 900 impact Financing 600 678 259 509 520 Operating Net cash inflow from financing activities during the year was driven mainly by repayments on the Club Revolving Credit 33 283 Positive operating cash flow of $146.0 million was primarily Facility offset by proceeds from the S$300.0 million bond due to the cash proceeds received following the practical issued in April 2017. FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY26 FY27 completion of Tower One at Barangaroo South and apartment settlements in Australia and Europe. During the year, we also completed two PLLACes1 transactions; one within the European Apartment business in the first half and a second transaction Syndicated Multi Option Facility UK Bond Issue Club Revolving Credit Facility US$ Reg. S notes within the Australian business in June 2017. These items were offset by increased contributions in development projects in US Private Placement Singapore Bond S$275m Singapore Bond S$300m Australian medium term notes Undrawn production. 1. Transactions involve selling the presold apartment contracts for a specific development project to a third party for cash consideration. 1. Values are shown at amortised cost. 2. Values are shown at gross facility value. 06 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 77 Governance River Point, Chicago Artist impression as at 2017 (image subject to change and further design development and planning approval) 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 79 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ INFORMATION We are committed to exceptional corporate governance year, there was no change to the Board Governance policies and practices which are fundamental to the long Framework from the previous year. The Board’s four term success and prosperity of the Lendlease Group. In 2017 permanent committees continue to assist, advise and make the Board reviewed its corporate governance and reporting recommendations to the Board on matters falling within practices and the Corporate Governance Statement is their areas of responsibility. The Board delegates authority available on the Lendlease website at: www.lendlease.com/ for all other functions and matters necessary for the day to au/company/governance. Membership of the Board as at 28 day management of the Group to the Group Chief Executive August 2017 is set out below. For detailed information on the Officer, who delegates to senior management as required. skills, experience and qualifications of each of the Directors Limits of Authority are in place which outline the matters refer to pages 86 to 89 of the Annual Report. specifically reserved for determination by the Board and The Corporate Governance Framework is regularly assessed those matters delegated to Board Committees or Group and amended as required to remain current. During the Executive Management. These Limits of Authority are reviewed on an annual basis. 4 9 6 7 5 3 1 2 10 11 8 1. D A Crawford AO Chairman (Independent Non Executive Director) 6. D P Craig (Independent Non Executive Director) 2. S B McCann Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (Executive Director) 7. S B Dobbs (Independent Non Executive Director) 3. C B Carter AM (Independent Non Executive Director) 8. J S Hemstritch (Independent Non Executive Director 4. P M Coffey (Independent Non Executive Director) 9. D J Ryan AO (Independent Non Executive Director) 5. P M Colebatch (Independent Non Executive Director) 10. M J Ullmer (Independent Non Executive Director) 11. N M Wakefield Evans (Independent Non Executive Director) 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 81 BOARD SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE MATRIX The Board views ‘industry experience’ as skills or GENDER DIVERSITY experience gained in the core Lendlease operating Female Directors Target of The Directors have a range of local and international experience and expertise, as well as segments of Development, Construction and/or 18 % 30 % Investments. specialised skills to assist with decision making and leading the Group for the benefit of 70 securityholders. The table below sets out the skills and experience considered by the Board to be important for its Directors to have collectively. Skills/ Experience1 Comments Total % HAVE EXPERIENCE IN ONE OR MORE OF THE CORE SEGMENTS at August 2017 by end 2018 The Lendlease Board has adopted the Australian Institute of Company Directors initiative to improve gender diversity on of Directors the Board by committing to a target of 30 per cent female Board members by the end of 2018. Governance A commitment to and experience in setting corporate governance polices, practices and standards. 11 Industry Possesses industry knowledge, exposure and experience in the core Lendlease operating segments of Experience Development, Construction and/or Investments. This includes advisory roles for these industries. 8 DIRECTORS’ DIRECTORS’ AVERAGE TENURE EXPERIENCE IN International Exposure to international regions either through experience gained directly in the region or through GOVERNANCE, 1–3 3–6 6–9 9+ Operations management of regional client and other stakeholder relationships. 10 RISK MANAGEMENT YEARS YEARS YEARS YEARS AND STRATEGY 100 Health & Experience in programs implementing safety, mental health and physical wellbeing, on site and within Safety business. Monitoring the proactive management of workplace health and safety practices. Ability to identify economically, socially and environmentally sustainable developments. Ability to set 8 % 3 4 1 3 Sustainability and monitor sustainability aspirations. 9 The Board considers that it has an appropriate mix of new, mid and longer tenured Directors. experience The average term of the Board is six years. Developing, setting and executing strategic direction. Experience in driving growth and executing Strategy against a clear strategy. 11 Risk Experience in anticipating and evaluating risks that could impact business. Recognising and managing Management these risks by developing sound risk governance policies and frameworks. 11 Experience in the identification and resolution of legal and regulatory issues and having the ability to Legal assist the Board on these matters. 5 Human Experience in building workforce capability, setting a remuneration framework which attracts and Resources retains a high calibre of executives, promotion of diversity and inclusion. 11 Executive Skills gained whilst performing at a Senior Executive level for a considerable length of time including Leadership delivering superior results, dealing with complex business models, projects and issues. 11 Financial Understands the financial drivers of a business. Experience in financial reporting and corporate Acumen financial management. 11 Strong technology background including: online communications, change management, Information Technology Technology workplace knowledge, security and data analysis skills. 6 1. In facilitating the skills matrix, each Director undertook a self assessment of their skills and experience. Engagement by the Board The Chairman maintains an active and extensive engagement program to represent the interests of Lendlease at various industry functions and bodies. He acts as a spokesperson for Lendlease and regularly meets with customers, investors, Governments and media. In addition to these industry events, the Chairman and Board members also meet regularly with local Lendlease management and employees. These events typically take the form of employee ‘meet and greet’ sessions or smaller networking session targeting high potential or diverse employees. The Board members encourage employees to ask questions at these sessions and they provide the opportunity for open and honest debate on organisation culture. 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 83 BOARD REGIONAL PROGRAM 2016 – 2017 The Board program is formulated to reflect the geographic spread of the Lendlease businesses, with Board meetings scheduled Board Project Assessment – in Australia and each of the regions where Lendlease operates. Milano Santa Giulia, Milan In June 2017, Dan Labbad, Chief Executive Officer, International The Board received a number of papers and updates on the Generally, a Board program runs over two or three days and Operations and Europe, gave a presentation on the International opportunity and challenged the rationale for pursuing this comprises formal meetings, business briefings, presentations from Operations structure and contribution to the Group. As part of project. Several issues in connection with the project were external sources, project site visits and networking events with the presentation he spoke of a new opportunity, ‘Milano Santa considered at each of the meetings. A number of Board employees and key stakeholders. Board members attend program Giulia’, located in Milan, one of 17 gateway cities identified members attended a ‘deep dive’ session in April 2017 in Milan activities in addition to formal meetings. Where deeper project by Lendlease for the pursuit of urbanisation projects. This with senior management to gain deeper insight into the reviews are required, the program may take up to five days or site opportunity was to enter a joint venture where we would develop strategic opportunity. visits may take place outside of a scheduled Board program by the first phase, known as the ‘south area’, and offer Lendlease Presentations by senior management and a visit to the individual Directors. The varied program enables Directors to obtain exclusivity on the second phase, known as the ‘north area’. site were included as part of the ‘deep dive’ session. The a deeper understanding of the activities and operations within each region. Prior to approving the opportunity, the Board considered the assessment of Milano Santa Giulia is an example of how project at several meetings in 2016 and 2017 as part of the overall the Board oversees management delivery against strategy This covers the program from 1 January 2016 to 31 July 2017. international strategy and as a stand alone project. through its program activities. AUSTRALIA ASIA EUROPE AMERICAS • Darling Square and International Convention Centre Sydney, • Mitsubishi Estate mixed use development including residential, • International Quarter London, Stratford (January 2016) • 56 Leonard Street, New York (April 2016) Darling Harbour (May 2016) office premises and co-working lab (October 2016) • Elephant & Castle, London (July 2016) • Columbia Manhattanville, New York (April 2016) • Safety Induction Tour of International Towers Sydney, Tower • Softbank Telecommunications Towers (October 2016) • Rathbone Square, London (July 2016) • Riverline, Chicago (April 2016) Three and precinct (August 2016) • Board networking forum (October 2016) • Milano Santa Giulia urbanisation precinct (April 2017) • Clippership Wharf, Boston (April 2016) • International House Sydney, Barangaroo South – Cross Laminated • Board networking forum supporting employee diversity and • Regional reviews of Chicago and Boston businesses (April 2016) Timber building (August 2016) regional top talent (July 2016) • 277 Fifth Avenue , 217 West 57th Street, 220 Central Park South, • Victoria Harbour Sales Centre and precinct and 889 Collins Street Columbia Mind & Brain Institute, New York (July 2017) apartment (May 2017) • Board networking forum supporting employee diversity and • Caulfield to Dandenong Rail (June 2017) regional top talent (April 2016 and July 2017) • Review of Engineering businesses (January 2017) • Board networking forum (August 2016) • Networking session with CareerTrackers interns (January 2017) 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 85 FOCUS AREAS FOR THE BOARD SUPPORTING THE DELIVERY OF THE GROUP’S STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The Board recognises that the pillars of value, supported by disciplined governance and risk management, contribute to performance and drive the long term value of our business. During the year, in addition to the responsibilities and tasks set out in the charter documents, the Board and Board Committees deliberated on the following specific matters and undertook a number of activities in support of the value pillars. Health & Safety Financial Our Customers Our People Sustainability Material Issue: Ability to operate safely Material Issues: Delivering Material Issues: Understanding our Material Issues: Ability to attract and Material Issues: Ability to manage and across our operations and projects. securityholder returns. Maintaining customers and responding to changes in retain the best people. Ensuring we optimise our sustainability performance strong capital management to enable the market. Ability to deliver customer have the right capability across the by delivering economic, social and The Board and Sustainability Committee investment in our future pipeline. driven solutions. organisation. environmentally sustainable outcomes. undertook these activities as part of a review of the Lendlease Health & Safety The following activities were undertaken The Board undertook the following The Board, People and Culture The Board and Sustainability Committee Framework, an unwavering commitment by the Board and the Risk Management activities as part of its support of the Committee and Nomination Committee engaged in the following activities to to health and safety, and to help the and Audit Committee to help fulfil the Group’s customer focused approach. undertook the following activities to help deliver environmental, social and Group move towards operating incident Board’s oversight responsibilities in help create an engaged, diverse and economic value. • Continued to support the integrated and injury free. relation to the Group’s risk management capable workforce. model approach to deliver major • Endorsed Lendlease’s second and internal control systems, and to • Endorsed a global direction towards urbanisation projects in partnership • Oversaw a research project to support Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) help create sustainable returns for empowered safety thinking and with local government councils such effective knowledge management and and the goals to embed the RAP into securityholders. ‘informed judgement decision making’. as Elephant Park in Elephant & Castle capability development to optimise a business processes. • Endorsed and provided feedback on and the Haringey Development knowledge management model. • Undertook face to face re-certification • Received a presentation on the the approach to Integrated Reporting. Vehicle in London. training for the new Global Minimum • Attended Board and employee nationally recognised CareerTrackers Requirements (GMRs) for safety. • Approved a refreshed corporate • Approved the strategy to explore networking sessions in all the Indigenous Internship Program and reporting strategy to improve options in the retirement sector in regions to engage in discussion with attended a networking session with • Tested the Health & Safety culture disclosure and reporting. other regions to support the global employees around workplace culture. CareerTrackers interns. through regular visits of Lendlease trend of ageing population. projects. • Approved a refreshed Portfolio • Continued to review the Executive • Requested and received a report Management Framework to maximise • Endorsed the use of new technologies Reward Strategy to see if on the Social Return on Investment • Reviewed the Lendlease Health & long term securityholder value in the way we construct buildings, in enhancements can be made to further assessment of the Springboard Safety business management system through a well diversified, risk order to create great experiences for support the ‘Focus & Grow’ Strategy. program to evaluate social value and the processes for receiving and adjusted portfolio. our customers. created for key stakeholders of the considering information regarding • Following consultation with program. incidents, hazards and risks. • Reviewed the Group Return on Equity • Engaged with securityholders through securityholders and stakeholders, target in order to maintain sustainable meetings and events including the reviewed the current market practice • Continued to receive presentations cycle returns, based on a rolling three Annual General Meeting and webcasts. for the allocation basis for Long from each of the Business Chief to five year timeline. Term Incentive awards and approved Executive Officers on the ways that a move to face value allocation sustainability is embedded into each • Continued to review cyber resilience methodology for FY17. of the businesses. and security planning for the Company by endorsing the areas of • Refreshed the membership of the Risk • Supported the embedding of the focus for cyber security planning. Management and Audit Committee Health & Wellbeing Framework by appointing David Craig as the new across the Group which supports • Approved investment in relevant Chairman. healthier minds, bodies, places and technology to further protect and cultures. Demonstrated support enhance the Group’s cyber security • Appointed a new Non Executive by participating in programs such approach. Director, Philip Coffey, to the Board. as yoga in the workplace and a • Continued to review Board mindfulness exercise. composition and support the target of 30 per cent female Board members by the end of 2018. 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 87 BOARD OF DIREC TORS INFORMATION 1. D A Crawford AO 2. S B McCann 3. C B Carter AM 5. P M Coffey 4. P M Colebatch 6. D P Craig Chairman Group Chief Executive Officer and (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) Managing Director (Executive Director) Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Mr Carter joined the Board in April 2012. Mr Coffey joined the Board in January Mr Colebatch joined the Board in Mr Craig joined the Board in March 2016. Mr Crawford joined the Board in July Mr McCann was appointed Group Chief 2017. December 2005. 2001 and was appointed Chairman in Executive Officer (CEO) in December Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications May 2003. 2008 and joined the Board as Managing Mr Carter is one of the founding partners Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Mr Craig was the Chief Financial Director in March 2009. of The Boston Consulting Group in Mr Coffey served as the Deputy Chief Mr Colebatch has held senior Officer (CFO) of Commonwealth Bank Skills, Experience and Qualifications Australia, retiring as a Senior Partner in Executive Officer (CEO) of Westpac management positions in insurance of Australia, one of the world’s largest Mr Crawford has extensive experience Skills, Experience and Qualifications 2001, and continues as an advisor with Banking Corporation, from April and investment banking, and was banks by market capitalisation, until he in risk management and business Mr McCann joined Lendlease in 2005. that company. He has over 30 years of 2014 until his retirement in May 2017. formerly on the Executive Board of Swiss retired on 30 June 2017. He is a business reorganisation. He has acted as a Prior to his current role, Mr McCann experience in management, consulting As the Deputy CEO, Mr Coffey had Reinsurance company, Zurich. He was leader with a successful international consultant, scheme receiver and was Group Finance Director, appointed and advising on organisational strategy the responsibility of overseeing and previously on the Executive Board of career spanning over 35 years developed manager, and liquidator to many large in March 2007 and CEO for Lendlease’s and governance issues. His career has supporting relationships with key Credit Suisse Group, Zurich, where he in finance, accounting, audit, risk and complex corporations. Mr Crawford Investment Management business from included major projects in Australia and stakeholders of Westpac including was Chief Financial Officer, and was management, strategy and Mergers & was previously Australian National September 2005 to December 2007. overseas. Mr Carter has wide industry industry groups, regulators, customers subsequently CEO of Credit Suisse Asset Acquisitions. As the Commonwealth Chairman of KPMG. He was appointed Mr McCann has more than 25 years’ knowledge on corporate governance and government. He was also responsible Management. Bank CFO, he was responsible for leading an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) experience in real estate, funds issues and has carried out Board for the Group’s Mergers & Acquisitions Mr Colebatch has a Bachelor of Science the finance, treasury, property, security, in June 2009 in recognition for service in management, investment banking and performance reviews for a number of function. Prior to this role, Mr Coffey and Bachelor of Engineering from the audit and investor relations teams, and various fields including to businesses as a capital markets transactions. Prior to companies. He has co-authored a book held a number of executive positions University of Adelaide, a Master of liaised with a wide range of external Director of public companies, particularly joining Lendlease, Mr McCann spent on Boards, ‘Back to the Drawing Board’. at Westpac including Chief Financial Science from Massachusetts Institute of stakeholders including equity and debt through the review and restructure of six years at ABN AMRO, where his Mr Carter holds a Bachelor of Commerce Officer and Group Executive, Westpac Technology and a Doctorate in Business investors, regulators, government, media national sporting bodies, and to the roles included Head of Property, Head from Melbourne University and a Master Institutional Bank. He has successfully Administration from Harvard University. and customers. community through contributions to arts of Industrial Mergers & Acquisitions of Business Administration from Harvard led operations based in Australia, New Mr Craig’s previous leadership roles and educational organisations. Zealand, United States and the United Listed Company Directorships (held and Head of Equity Capital Markets for Business School, where he graduated have included CFO at Australand, Global Kingdom and Asia and has extensive within the last three years) Mr Crawford holds a Bachelor of Australia and New Zealand. Previous with Distinction and as a Baker Scholar. Transition Finance Leader for IBM Commerce and Bachelor of Laws from roles also include Head of Property at He is a Fellow of the Australian Institute experience in financial markets, • Non Executive Director of Man Group Business Consulting Service and the the University of Melbourne and is a Bankers’ Trust, four years as a Mergers & of Company Directors. funds management, balance sheet plc (appointed September 2007) Global CFO for PwC Consulting. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Acquisitions lawyer at Freehills and four management and risk management. He Other Current Appointments Listed Company Directorships (held began his career at the Reserve Bank Mr Craig holds a Bachelor of Economics Accountants. years in taxation accounting. within the last three years) • Board of Trustees for the Prince of from the University of Sydney, is a of Australia and has also held executive Listed Company Directorships (held Mr McCann holds a Bachelor of • Non Executive Director of SEEK Limited Liechtenstein Foundation and the LGT Fellow of the Institute of Chartered positions at Citibank. within the last three years) Economics (Finance major) and a (appointed March 2005) Group Foundation Accountants, Australia and a member Mr Coffey holds a Bachelor of Economics Bachelor of Laws from Monash University of the Australian Institute of Company • Chairman and Non Executive Director • Non Executive Director of Wesfarmers (Hons) from the University of Adelaide Board Committee Memberships in Melbourne, Australia. Directors. of South32 Limited (appointed May Limited (appointed October 2002, and has completed the Executive • Member of the Nomination Committee 2015) Other Directorships and Positions retired November 2014) Program at Stanford University Business Other Current Appointments • Member of the Risk Management and • Former Non Executive Director of BHP • Nil Other Current Appointments School. He is a graduate member of the Audit Committee • Non Executive Director of the Financial Billiton Limited (appointed May 1994, Australian Institute of Company Directors Executives Institute of Australia • President of Geelong Football Club and Senior Fellow of the Financial retired November 2014) • Non Executive Director of the Victor • Director of World Vision Australia Services Institute of Australasia. Other Current Appointments Chang Cardiac Research Institute Board Committee Memberships Other Current Appointments • Chairman of Australia Pacific Airports • Chairman of the Nomination Board Committee Memberships • Chairman of the Westpac Bicentennial Corporation Limited Committee • Chairman of the Risk Management and Foundation Board Committee Memberships • Member of the People and Culture • Non Executive Director of Hastings Audit Committee Committee Management Pty Ltd • Member of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Sustainability Board Committee Memberships Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 89 BOARD OF DIREC TORS INFORMATION 7. S B Dobbs 8. J S Hemstritch 9. D J Ryan AO 10. M J Ullmer 11. N M Wakefield Evans General Counsel and Company (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) (Independent Non Executive Director) Secretary Qualifications and Experience Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office Term of Office K Pedersen Mr Dobbs joined the Board in January Ms Hemstritch joined the Board in Mr Ryan joined the Board in December Mr Ullmer joined the Board in December Ms Wakefield Evans joined the Board in 2015. September 2011. 2004. 2011. September 2013. Ms Pedersen was appointed as Group General Counsel in January 2013. Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Skills, Experience and Qualifications Before that she was General Counsel Mr Dobbs was Senior Group President, Ms Hemstritch has extensive senior Mr Ryan has a background in commercial Mr Ullmer brings to the Board extensive Ms Wakefield is an experienced Nonand Company Secretary for other large Industrial and Infrastructure at Fluor executive experience in information banking, investment banking and strategic, financial and management Executive Director and was a Mergers & property and construction companies. Ms Corporation until his retirement in technology, communications, change operational business management. He experience accumulated over his career in Acquisitions (M&A) lawyer for 29 years Pedersen has a Masters of Law from the June 2014. Since joining Fluor in management and accounting. She has previously held senior executive international banking and finance. He was at King & Wood Mallesons where she University of Technology, Sydney and a 1980, Mr Dobbs was responsible also has broad experience across the management positions in investment the Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer was a partner for nearly 20 years. She Bachelor of Commerce/Bachelor of Laws for a wide diversity of markets financial services, telecommunications, banking, as well as being the Chairman or of the National Australia Bank (NAB) from has extensive experience as an equity from the University of New South Wales. including infrastructure, mining, government, energy and manufacturing a Non Executive Director of a number of 2007 until he retired from the Bank in capital markets and M&A lawyer, has been telecommunications, transportation, sectors and in business expansion in Asia. listed public companies. August 2011. He joined NAB in 2004 as involved in a number of significant and W Lee heavy manufacturing, healthcare, water During a 25 year career with Accenture Mr Ryan has been immersed in all Finance Director and held a number of ground breaking M&A transactions and Ms Lee joined Lendlease in September and alternative power. He served the and Andersen Consulting, Ms Hemstritch aspects of corporate life. From a key positions including Chairman of the has advised some of the largest companies 2009 and was appointed as a Company company in numerous locations including held a number of leadership positions corporate activity viewpoint he has subsidiaries Great Western Bank (United in Australia, Asia and globally. She has had Secretary of Lendlease in January the United States, China, Europe and within the company and was Managing been actively engaged in mergers, States) and JB Were. Prior to NAB, Mr extensive international experience having 2010. Prior to her appointment, Ms Lee Southern Africa. Director Asia Pacific for Accenture from acquisitions, divestments, initial public Ullmer was at Commonwealth Bank of worked in New York and Hong Kong, and was a Company Secretary for several Mr Dobbs is an industry expert in Public 2004 until her retirement in 2007. Ms offerings, equity and debt financing Australia, initially as Group Chief Financial is well known in Asia where she was the subsidiaries of a large financial institution Private Partnerships and Private Finance Hemstritch was a member of Accenture’s and raising including heavily structured Officer and then Group Executive with Managing Partner, International at listed on the Australian Securities Initiatives and has served as an advisor on Global Executive Leadership Team and recourse and non recourse transactions. responsibility for Institutional and Business King & Wood Mallesons, Hong Kong. In Exchange. She has over 10 years of these issues to a number of Government oversaw the management of Accenture’s In many cases he has been the Chair Banking. Before that he was a Partner at October 2012, Ms Wakefield Evans was company secretarial experience. Ms Lee ministries. He was a Governor of industry business in the Asia Pacific region which of the Due Diligence Committees that accounting firms KPMG (1982 to 1992) and included in the Australian Financial Review has a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of forums related to engineering and spanned 12 countries and included were formed to provide assurance and Coopers & Lybrand (1992 to 1997). and Westpac Group’s inaugural list of Laws from the University of Sydney, a construction at the World Economic 30,000 personnel. verifications to the stakeholders of these Mr Ullmer has a degree in mathematics ‘Australia’s 100 Women of Influence.’ She is Graduate Diploma in Applied Corporate Forum from 2008 to 2014 and served as Ms Hemstritch has a Bachelor of Science processes. from the University of Sussex. He is a member of Chief Executive Women Inc. Governance and is a Fellow of the Vice Chair of the Forum’s Global Agenda in Biochemistry and Physiology from the Mr Ryan has a Bachelor of Business a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Ms Wakefield Evans holds a Bachelor of Governance Institute Australia. Council on Infrastructure in 2013 and University of London and is a Fellow of from the University of Technology in Accountants and a Senior Fellow of the Jurisprudence and Bachelor of Laws from 2014. the Institutes of Chartered Accountants in Sydney, Australia, and is a Fellow of the Financial Services Institute of Australia. the University of New South Wales and is Mr Dobbs holds a Doctorate in Australia and in England and Wales. She is Australian Institute of Company Directors a qualified lawyer in Australia, Hong Kong Officers Who Were Previously Listed Company Directorships (held Engineering from Texas A&M University a Member Chief Executive Women Inc. and CPA Australia. and the United Kingdom. Partners of the Audit Firm within the last three years) and is a registered professional engineer Listed Company Directorships (held Listed Company Directorships (held • Non Executive Director of Woolworths Listed Company Directorships (held KPMG or its predecessors was appointed (retired). within the last three years) within the last three years) Limited (appointed January 2012) within the last three years) as Lendlease’s auditor at its first Annual Listed Company Directorships (held • Non Executive Director of Telstra • Non Executive Director of GTN Ltd • Non Executive Director of Macquarie General Meeting in 1958. within the last three years) Other Current Appointments Corporation Limited (appointed August (appointed June 2016) Group Limited (appointed February 2014) Mr Crawford was a Partner and Australian 2016) • Chairman of the Melbourne Symphony • Non Executive Director of Cummins Inc • Non Executive Director of Toll Holdings National Chair of KPMG. He resigned from Other Current Appointments Orchestra (appointed October 2010) • Non Executive Director of Tabcorp Limited (appointed May 2011, retired this position on 28 June 2001 prior to his Holdings Ltd (appointed November • Chairman of Sunshine Coast • Trustee of the National Gallery of Board Committee Memberships June 2017) appointment as a Director of Lendlease on 2008) Destination Limited Victoria 19 July 2001. Mr Ullmer was also a Partner • Member of the Nomination Committee • Director of First American Title Other Current Appointments • Non Executive Director of the Board Committee Memberships at KPMG from 1982 until October 1992. • Member of the Risk Management and Commonwealth Bank of Australia Insurance Company of Australia Pty Ltd • Director of Bupa Australia • Chairman of the Sustainability Audit Committee (appointed October 2006, retired • Director of First Mortgage Services Pty • Director of O’Connell St & Associates Committee • Member of the Sustainability March 2016) Ltd • Director of Asialink (University of • Member of the Nomination Committee Committee • Non Executive Director of Santos Melbourne) Board Committee Memberships • Member of the Risk Management and Limited (appointed February 2010, • Director of UNSW Foundation Limited • Member of the Nomination Committee Audit Committee retired May 2016) • Director of Australian Institute of • Member of the People and Culture Other Current Appointments Company Directors Committee • Member of the Advisory Board of • Member of the Sustainability Board Committee Memberships Herbert Smith Freehills Global LLP Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee • Chairman of Victoria Opera • Member of the Risk Management and Company Ltd Audit Committee • Council of the National Library of • Member of the Sustainability Committee Australia Board Committee Memberships • Chairman of the People and Culture Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 91 BOARD OF DIREC TORS INFORMATION Interests in Capital Attendance at Meetings of Directors 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 The interests of each of the Directors (in office at the date of this report) in the Stapled Securities of the Group at 28 August 2017 is set The number of Board and Board Committee meetings held, and the number of meetings attended by each Director during the out below. 2017 financial year, are set out in the tables below. Securities Held Securities Held Number of Number of Securities Held Beneficially/ Total Securities Held Beneficially/ Total Membership Meetings Held1 Meetings Attended Director Directly 2017 Indirectly 20171 2017 Directly 2016 Indirectly 20161 2016 Board D A Crawford (Chairman) 14 14 D A Crawford 926 80,437 81,363 887 78,501 79,388 S B McCann (CEO) 14 14 S B McCann 380,243 364,754 744,997 480,849 346,345 827,194 C B Carter 14 14 P M Coffey 2 7 7 C B Carter 15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 P M Colebatch 14 13 P M Coffey 2 4,810 4,810 D P Craig 14 14 S B Dobbs 14 14 P M Colebatch 6,712 11,611 18,323 5,144 13,179 18,323 J S Hemstritch 14 14 D P Craig 14,870 14,870 14,870 14,870 D J Ryan3 14 13 M J Ullmer 14 14 S B Dobbs 8,000 8,000 2,000 2,000 N M Wakefield Evans4 13 13 J S Hemstritch 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000 Board Subcommittee Meetings5 D A Crawford (Chairman) 3 3 D J Ryan 37,200 37,200 36,172 36,172 S B McCann (CEO) 3 3 M J Ullmer 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 C B Carter 3 3 P M Coffey 1 1 N M Wakefield Evans 16,131 16,131 12,517 12,517 P M Colebatch 2 2 D P Craig 1 1 1. Includes securities in the Retirement Plan beneficially held by D A Crawford, P M Colebatch and D J Ryan. 2. P M Coffey was appointed to the Board in January 2017. S B Dobbs 3 3 J S Hemstritch 3 3 M J Ullmer 4 4 Nomination Committee C B Carter (Chairman) 8 8 D A Crawford 8 8 P M Coffey 4 3 Directors’ Meetings P M Colebatch 8 7 D P Craig 8 8 Board Meetings People and Culture Committee S B Dobbs 8 8 The Board meets as often as necessary to fulfil its role. Directors The People and Culture Committee’s agenda reflects the J S Hemstritch 8 8 are required to allocate sufficient time to the Group to perform importance of human capital to the Group’s strategic and D J Ryan 8 8 M J Ullmer 8 8 their responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to prepare business planning and it assists the Board in establishing N M Wakefield Evans 8 8 for Board meetings. During the financial year ended 30 June 2017 appropriate policies for people management and remuneration fourteen Board meetings were held. Five of these meetings were across the Group. During the financial year ended 30 June 2017, People and Culture Committee J S Hemstritch (Chairman) 6 6 held in Australia, two in the United Kingdom and one in Asia. In six meetings of the People and Culture Committee were held. C B Carter 6 6 addition, six meetings were held via teleconference to discuss D J Ryan 6 6 Sustainability Committee Standing Invitees: specific matters, and matters were dealt with as required by circular resolution. Five Board subcommittee meetings were also constituted The Sustainability Committee consists entirely of Non Executive D A Crawford 6 6 to deal with specific matters. Directors. The Committee assists the Board in monitoring the S B McCann 6 6 decisions and actions of management in achieving Lendlease’s Risk Management and Audit Committee D P Craig (Chairman)6 4 4 The Board recognises the essential role of Committees in aspiration to be a sustainable organisation. During the financial D J Ryan6 1 1 guiding the Company on specific issues. Committees address year ended 30 June 2017, four meetings of the Sustainability P M Colebatch 4 3 important corporate issues, calling on senior management and Committee were held. S B Dobbs 4 4 external advisors prior to making a final decision or making a M J Ullmer 4 4 recommendation to the full Board. Nomination Committee N M Wakefield Evans 4 4 There are four permanent Committees of the Board. The Nomination Committee consists entirely of Non Executive Standing Invitees: Directors. The Committee assists the Board by considering D A Crawford 4 4 Risk Management and Audit Committee nominations to the Board which provide for an appropriate mix S B McCann 4 4 The Risk Management and Audit Committee consists entirely of expertise, skills and experience on the Board. During the Sustainability Committee M J Ullmer (Chairman) 4 4 of Non Executive Directors. The principal purpose of the financial year ended 30 June 2017, all eight meetings of the C B Carter 4 4 Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate Nomination Committee were held in conjunction with scheduled S B Dobbs 4 4 governance and oversight responsibilities in relation to the Board meetings and all Non Executive Directors routinely D J Ryan 3 3 Group’s risk management and internal control systems, attended. N M Wakefield Evans 4 4 accounting policies and practices, internal and external audit Standing Invitees: functions and corporate reporting. During the financial year D A Crawford 4 4 ended 30 June 2017, four meetings of the Risk Management and S B McCann 4 3 Audit Committee were held. 1. Reflects the number of meetings held during the time the Director held office during the year. Six out of the 14 meetings were out of schedule Board teleconferences constituted to address specific issues. 2.  P M Coffey was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2017. The number of meetings attended reflects the number of meetings since P M Coffey’s appointment. 3.  D J Ryan was unable to attend the out of schedule Board teleconference as this was called at short notice to address a specific issue. 4.  N M Wakefield Evans had a conflict of interest for one of the out of schedule Board teleconferences. She did not attend that meeting nor did she receive any of the materials for that meeting. 5. Four subcommittees of the Board were convened during the reporting period to address specific issues. Only the subcommittee members attended the relevant meeting. 6.  D P Craig took over as Chairman of the Risk Management and Audit Committee upon the retirement of D J Ryan as Chairman and a Member of the Risk Management and Audit Committee in August 2016. Accordingly, D J Ryan only attended one meeting of the Risk Management and Audit Committee during the reporting period. 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 93 REMUNER ATION REPORT Message from the Board Contents Welcome to the 2017 Remuneration Report where we explain how performance has been linked to reward outcomes for Key Executives and Non Executive Directors Covered by this Report 94 Management Personnel (KMP) at Lendlease this year. Lendlease has developed and embedded a competitive Executive Reward Strategy to deliver long term outperformance and with the aim of having the right people to lead the Group over the long term. Our approach to executive reward has been a key factor a. Executive Remuneration at Lendlease and 2017 Performance 95 in driving our success. Our Executive Reward Strategy, which consists of a framework and policy that governs how the key senior employees in the organisation are remunerated, has supported the achievement of Lendlease’s strategy by: b. Executive Remuneration Outcomes and Disclosures 100 • Driving strong individual and team performance; • Emphasising medium to long term performance, which recognises the investment cycle of a group such as ours; • Forging clear alignment between Senior Executives and securityholders; and c. Remuneration Governance 104 • Considering the interests of both internal and external stakeholders. For securityholders, this performance has been illustrated in Lendlease’s Total Securityholder Return (TSR) of 188.9 per cent over d. How Executive Rewards are Linked to Performance 108 the past five years, compared to 91.5 per cent for the ASX 100 accumulation index over the same period (see graph below). This has been supported by the design of incentives for the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Senior Executives. Short Term Incentive (STI) outcomes are strongly linked to business performance. During the year, Lendlease delivered Profit e. Executive Contracts 113 after Tax above the target set by the Board, progressed strategic initiatives and delivered strong operational outcomes including improvements in broader measures of safety performance. However, tragically, during 2017 there were two fatal incidents recorded, the first corporate reportable fatalities for four years. These incidents have been accounted for in the Board’s f. Equity Based Remuneration 114 determination of the overall incentive pool, the Board’s assessment of the STI payable to the CEO, and in STIs paid to other executives based on either accountability or having a responsibility for the safety outcomes of the Group. We are pleased to report that we received 98 per cent of votes cast in favour of our Remuneration Report at the 2016 Annual g. Non Executive Directors’ Fees 119 General Meeting (AGM). This report forms part of the Directors’ Report and has been audited in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001. Changes in 2017 There were no major changes introduced in 2017, however the Board has been actively reviewing the Executive Reward Strategy to see if enhancements can be made to further support the ‘Focus & Grow’ Strategy and drive continued success. Following stakeholder feedback, the Board resolved to allocate and disclose future Long Term Incentive (LTI) awards using face value. We have also reviewed the presentation and content of the Remuneration Report in order to simplify the report and align it with our overall approach to integrated reporting. We look forward to your comments on both our remuneration arrangements and the Remuneration Report. David Crawford, AO Jane Hemstritch Chairman Chairman, People and Culture Committee Comparative Total Securityholder Return Performance LLC vs ASX 100 Total Securityholder Return (TSR) 200% 150% 100% 50% 0% Jul 12 Dec 12 Jun 13 Dec 13 Jun 14 Dec 14 Jun 15 Dec 15 Jun 16 Dec 16 Jun 17 Source: Bloomberg 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 95 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued Executives and Non Executive Directors Covered by this Report a. Executive Remuneration at Lendlease and 2017 Performance The following Executives and Non Executive Directors were considered Key Management Personnel (KMP) for the year ended 30 Lendlease’s Executive Reward Strategy on a Page June 2017 and are covered by this report. The following provides a high level overview of the key aspects of Lendlease’s Executive Reward Strategy, guiding principles and remuneration components. CEO and Senior Executives Current Executives Vision To create the best places. Stephen McCann Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (CEO) Strategic To be the leading international property and infrastructure company. Tarun Gupta Group Chief Financial Officer Direction Denis Hickey Chief Executive Officer, Americas Underpinned by Daniel Labbad Chief Executive Officer, International Operations and Chief Executive Officer, Europe Our Executive A remuneration framework which attracts and retains high calibre executives needed to Anthony Lombardo Chief Executive Officer, Asia Reward Strategy deliver on the strategy and aligns rewards with sustainable performance. Kylie Rampa Chief Executive Officer, Property Australia Applying principles of Former Executives Executive Simplicity Responsiveness Balance Governance and Risk Management Reward Simple, transparent and Considers the interests of A significant portion of Clear practices that minimise Rodney Leaver Chief Executive Officer, Asia until 30 April 2016 and ceased employment with the Group on 14 July 2016 Strategy easy to communicate. internal and external remuneration is at risk, but can potential conflicts of interest and Principles stakeholders. be earned by achieving enable effective decision making Robert McNamara Group Chief Risk Officer until 31 March 2017 outstanding performance. by the Board and management. Note: the term Senior Executives when used throughout this report refers to all the Executives listed above, unless specifically stated otherwise. Delivered through remuneration components of Key Fixed remuneration. Short Term Incentives STI delivered as deferred Long Term Incentives (LTI). Non Executive Directors Remuneration (STI) delivered as cash. securities. Components Current Non Executive Directors With business and operational risks managed by David Crawford Independent Chairman Business and Performance Robust forfeiture Substantial Key Performance Qualitative Board discretion Colin Carter Independent Non Executive Director Operational Risk hurdles that and malus Mandatory Indicators that focus overlay built into to reward good Philip Coffey Independent Non Executive Director (appointed 1 January 2017) appropriately provisions and Securityholding for on key operational performance decisions, reflect the ‘long deferral of the CEO and Senior risks including assessment to account for Phillip Colebatch Independent Non Executive Director tail’ of risk and incentives for up Executives. safety. provide a unforeseen profitability in our to four years. balanced and circumstances David Craig Independent Non Executive Director business. holistic and appropriately assessment. manage windfall Steve Dobbs Independent Non Executive Director gains. Jane Hemstritch Independent Non Executive Director While aligning management and securityholders through David Ryan Independent Non Executive Director Alignment with Mandatory securityholding for the CEO Use of Total Securityholder Return and Significant deferral of incentives into Michael Ullmer Independent Non Executive Director Securityholders and Senior Executives. Return on Equity as LTI performance hurdles. Lendlease securities. Nicola Wakefield Evans Independent Non Executive Director Driving performance through Short Term Incentives Short Term Industry specific measures Financial measures Strategic, operational Incentives To focus management on That measure both the quality and people measures building a healthy development and growth in earnings and To focus management on a pipeline and backlog (which are have a qualitative overlay that balance of measures that key to long term sustainable reviews the overall financial health underpin the growth and value creation). of the business. sustainability of the Group including operational efficiency, safety and leadership. And long term securityholder value creation through Long Term Incentives Long Term Performance period of three Relative Total Securityholder Return Average Return on Equity Incentives to four years Only rewards the CEO and Senior An important long term measure of how Reflects an appropriate balance Executives for delivering returns that are well the management team generates between reward that motivates greater than a securityholder could achieve earnings from capital invested and executives while reflecting the long in the market and encourages management rewards decisions in respect of term ‘tail’ of profitability and risk to maintain a strong focus on securityholder developing, managing, acquiring and associated with ‘today’s decisions’. outcomes. disposing of assets. While maintaining the highest standards of governance Governance The Board holds ultimate discretion. Strict protocols in place for interactions with the Board’s remuneration advisor. 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 97 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued a. Executive Remuneration at Lendlease and 2017 Performance continued Five Year Performance Summary Performance and Funding for Short Term Incentives 2017 Performance & Outlook The graphs below outline some key indicators of Group Incentives are funded by an incentive pool which represents a performance over the past five years. maximum that can be spent on incentives. Using an incentive pool For a detailed analysis of our Group and segment Performance & Outlook, please refer to pages 64 to 75. We have included provides for a fair sharing of profits between securityholders and a summary here. Statutory Profit after Tax Attributable to employees by capping the amount of profits that can be paid to Securityholders (A$m) employees. It also forges a strong link between Group performance and Short Term Incentive (STI) outcomes because STI outcomes are Key Financials Profit after Tax 822.9 758.6 influenced (up or down) by the available pool. $ 698.2 758.6 Percentage 549.0 618.6 Group Profit after Tax (PAT) is one factor that determines the overall FINANCIAL FY16 FY17 Movement size of the STI pool. An assessment of overall profit make up, the quality and sustainability of earnings and other financial and non Key Metrics Revenue1 $m 15,105.3 16,671.0 10% 698 759 financial factors are also considered. Group PAT was above target for 2017. Following an overall EBITDA $m 1,054.9 1,201.8 14% FY131 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 assessment of performance and in particular acknowledging the Profit after Tax (PAT) $m 698.2 758.6 9% two fatal incidents which occurred, the Board approved an overall Total Dividends/Distributions (A$m)2 FY16 FY17 Operating and Investing MILLION incentive pool that will deliver lower average STI awards compared to 2016, whilst PAT increased by 8.7 per cent. cash flow $m 853.6 216.1 (75%) Net assets $m 5,614.7 6,166.5 10% Return on Equity 409.8 349.1 384.9 CEO Scorecard and Performance in 2017 313.2 12.9 Net debt $m 1,052.4 912.8 (13%) STI outcomes are based on both individual performance against % 241.5 Effective tax rate2 % 19.1 24.7 29% personal Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and on the performance of the Group (and the respective region for executives with regional Key Returns Earnings per Security cents 120.1 130.1 8% 13.0% 12.9% responsibility). Personal KPIs for the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Senior Executives are contained in a scorecard. The Board has FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 a rigorous process for the setting of scorecards at the beginning of Distribution per Security cents 60.0 66.0 10% FY16 FY17 the year and for the evaluation of scorecards at the end of the year. Weighted avg Securities no.(m) 581.4 583.0 Earnings per Stapled Security (EPSS) (cents)3 In 2017 a simpler approach to goal setting was introduced for Senior Executives, which focused efforts on fewer critical financial, people (Excluding Treasury Securities) and strategic objectives. EBITDA Mix Earnings per Security They include items such as: 130.1 150.8 FY17 112.4 126.3 135.2 • Financial performance; 36% 101.2 • Health and safety; $1,386m • Delivery of key projects; Operating EBITDA 40% 120.1 130.1 • Sale of key assets; • Embedding operational excellence; and • Investing in people. FY131 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 24% FY16 FY17 The Board also assesses the CEO and Senior Executives against CENTS Lendlease’s defined: Development Construction Investments Annual Total Securityholder Return (%)4 • Leadership capabilities (including health and safety, sustainability and diversity); 1. Includes finance revenue. 2. Lendlease’s approach to tax and its policies are contained on the website (http://www.lendlease.com/investor-centre/taxation). 62 • Values; and Details on tax balances are included within the Consolidated Financial Statements. • Leadership behaviours. 22 20 38 In this way, the STI outcome rewards ‘what’ is achieved as well as ‘how’ it is achieved. (13) Lendlease is committed to the safety and wellbeing of all of its employees. The Board considers safety leadership behaviours and FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 outcomes in assessing the overall performance of the CEO and each Senior Executive. While the assessment is not structured formulaically or as a ‘gateway’ measure, expectations are clearly communicated to the CEO and Senior Executives that poor health and Return on Equity (ROE) (%)5 safety outcomes may lead to reduction in STI outcomes for the year. The two fatal incidents in 2017 have been considered in assessing 18.2 the CEO’s STI award. Notwithstanding the increase to PAT and 13.6 12.4 13.0 12.9 continuing strong scorecard results, these incidents have contributed to the CEO’s STI award for 2017 being 100 per cent of the CEO’s target compared to an award of 125 per cent of target in 2016. The Board’s assessment of the CEO’s scorecard is included over the page. FY131 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 1. 2013 has been adjusted to reflect the impact of first time adoption of the revised AASB 119 Employee Benefits standard and the new AASB 11 Joint Arrangements standard in 2014, with retrospective adjustment from 1 July 2012. 2. A$165.8 million company unfranked dividend was declared subsequent to the reporting date for June 2017. 3. EPSS (Earnings per Stapled Security) is calculated using the weighted average number of securities on issue excluding treasury securities. EPSS, including treasury securities, is reported in the Performance & Outlook section of this report. 4. Represents the movement in the Group’s security price, distribution yield and any return on capital during the financial year. 5. ROE is calculated as the annual Statutory Profit after Tax attributable to securityholders divided by the arithmetic average of beginning, half year and year end securityholders’ equity. 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 99 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued a. Executive Remuneration at Lendlease and 2017 Performance continued CEO Scorecard and Performance in 2017 continued The Board has assessed the Chief Executive Officer’s 2017 scorecard and made an overall judgement as to whether the scorecard results fully June 2017 was A$1,750,000 (being the combined cash and deferred components of his STI), which equated to 100 per cent of the CEO’s reflect performance and appropriate management of risk. Following the Board’s assessment, the CEO’s STI awarded for the year ended 30 target STI award. Refer to the table Remuneration Awarded by the Board on page 101 to see the total remuneration awarded to the CEO for 2017. PERFORMANCE MEASURES PILLARS for year ended 30 June 2017 OF VALUE REASON CHOSEN RESULT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Financial performance A  range of financial measures that include A breadth of financial measures, in A summary of the result against each financial measure is below: specific targets for: combination with the forward looking Profit after Tax assessment of the financial health of the Profit after Tax Ahead of Target Actual Profit after Tax was $758.6 million, up 8.7 per cent on FY16 and ahead of target business, focuses the Chief Executive EBITDA $ EBITDA $ Ahead of Target An increase of $146.9 million, up 13.9 per cent on FY16 and ahead of target Officer on the delivery of financial results EBITDA Margin in the short term whilst taking decisions Return on Equity EBITDA Margin On Target 7 per cent which was slightly ahead of target with an emphasis on the long term Cashflow from operating and investing interests of securityholders. Return on Equity On Target At 12.9 per cent the result was towards the upper end of the stated target range of 10 to 14 per cent Overheads BELOW ABOVE Cashflow Ahead of Target Strong management of settlement risks and cashflow  Overheads Ahead of Target Business efficiencies delivered that saw overheads lower than targeted An assessment of the overall financial health of the business: The Group continues to deliver results in line with its Portfolio Management Framework achieving or exceeding all financial measures outlined above, with strong Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) performance in the Development and Investments segment and an improving Comparing the quality of the result in Construction EBITDA margin. These results, combined with a very strong balance sheet that provides future capacity (gearing at 5 per cent comparison with the targets set and cash and cash equivalents of $1.2 billion), support the Board’s assessment of the Group’s financial performance as strong. Non financial performance Health & Safety We are committed to the health and safety The CIFR has decreased 26 per cent compared to FY16 – ahead of the 15 per cent target. of our people. The Critical Incident Notwithstanding the very positive outcome during 2017, there were two fatal incidents recorded, the first corporate reportable fatalities for four Frequency Rate (CIFR) helps us assess how years. These tragic incidents in 2017 have been considered in assessing the CEO’s overall performance and STI outcome. effective we are at eliminating life BELOW ABOVE threatening incidents. Strategic initiatives focused on capital Effective capital management drives The Portfolio Management Framework has been refreshed to provide greater discipline around capital allocation and target financial returns. Key allocation and alternative sources of capital longer term securityholder returns. outcomes included a targeted increased weighting to international markets as well as to higher recurring earnings through our Investments segment. During the year, three commercial fund transactions were completed with existing and new capital partner relationships and a number of capital BELOW ABOVE solutions were completed across the Development pipeline, demonstrating increasing breadth and diversification across capital sources. Customers & Innovation Satisfied customers drive long term value. Customer is embedded into relevant metrics across all parts of the business with strong progress in customer engagement and focus across all Innovation contributes to better business and senior leadership teams. performance – capturing and responding The Group built capability across more than 300 employees to support innovation. Our innovation laboratory and funding have supported some to disruption creates opportunity. of the following initiatives during FY17: Affordable housing Online apartment sales Intelligent work sites BELOW ABOVE Design Make factory established driving innovation in building materials and offsite fabrication. People Having the right people in leadership roles The average number of unique successors for senior leadership roles has increased across most business units. is critical to long term success. 29 per cent of regional leadership team successors are female – a 16 per cent increase on the prior year. The CEO sponsors key people initiatives The Group continues to invest in tailored talent development programs for Project Directors and other targeted groups. Attrition of critical and supports the internal movement of talent (those individuals identified in targeted groups) is 7.2 per cent, which is well within the target range of less than 10 per cent. resources. Progress has been made on reshaping the organisation to streamline decision making and communication and generate cost benefits through The CEO actively promotes diversity and improved spans of control. inclusion to grow capability. The Group continues to address the issue of gender pay equity and the Group Chief Executive Officer is a leading member of the Property Male BELOW ABOVE Champions of Change group. Sustainability Capital investors, policy makers, Barangaroo South continues to deliver world class sustainable outcomes. International House Sydney is the first timber commercial office customers and communities are seeking building in Australia to achieve a 6 Star Green Star rating. partners who can deliver efficient, healthy, Meaningful progress towards achieving a 20 per cent reduction for energy, water and waste by 2020 (against FY14 baseline) has been achieved. resilient, culturally and socially inclusive Results for FY17 as at March 2017 are as follows:1 outcomes that deliver long term value. – Energy (18% reduction) – Water (6% reduction) – Waste (15% reduction) Lendlease achieved recognition at the 91st percentile of scores on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. BELOW ABOVE Lendlease maintained a leadership position against these Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmarks (GRESB): – APPF Commercial was ranked Australia/New Zealand sector leader for the third year in a row and ranked 3rd of 759 funds globally. – In Asia, in the private retail funds category, five Lendlease funds took the top spots. 1. The above performance is as at March 2017 and is a cumulative measure. Full FY17 performance will be subjected to Limited Assurance by KPMG and be available on www.lendlease.com in October 2017. 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 101 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued b. Executive Remuneration Outcomes and Disclosures Remuneration Awarded by the Board for the Year Ended 30 June 2017 The Remuneration Awarded by the Board to the CEO and Senior Executives during this year is set out in the table below. Comparison of Remuneration Tables In this section, the value of remuneration for the CEO and each Senior Executive is included. In addition to the required statutory table A$000s1 SHORT TERM ‘AT RISK’ – DEFERRED TO FUTURE PERIODS STI OPPORTUNITY (based on the accounting disclosures), we have included a further table setting out the Remuneration Awarded and a graph showing Total Potential Total Potential % of % of the Actual Remuneration Received to provide a more complete illustration of our approach to executive remuneration. An explanation Fixed STI STI LTI Fair Remuneration4 LTI Face Remuneration4 Target Maximum of the differences between the tables is set out below. Name Remuneration2 Cash3 Deferred Value4 (Fair Value) Value4 (Face Value) STI Paid STI Paid Stephen McCann 2,034 875 875 2,300 6,084 3,303 7,087 100% 67% Disclosure Awarded Table and Remuneration Received Graph Statutory Tarun Gupta 1,100 578 660 625 2,963 897 3,235 125% 83% Denis Hickey 1,447 628 648 425 3,148 610 3,333 105% 70% Period covered Remuneration disclosed will relate to both the time in their Only shows remuneration for the time the current role (as KMP) and any other role they have held at executive was KMP. Daniel Labbad 1,067 538 627 520 2,752 747 2,979 130% 87% Lendlease during the financial year. Anthony Lombardo 1,000 343 343 500 2,186 718 2,404 80% 53% Robert McNamara 5 1,099 500 1,599 718 1,817 0% 0% Fixed Includes the contractually awarded amount of Total The Statutory disclosures include a value for remuneration Package Value/Base Salary from 1 September 2016 or later. cash salary, non monetary benefits, Kylie Rampa 920 442 469 360 2,191 517 2,348 110% 73% It excludes annual leave and long service leave accruals. For superannuation and other long term benefits in individuals employed for part of the year, only remuneration line with statutory remuneration disclosure Actual Remuneration Received during 2017 paid during the employment period is included. requirements. Non monetary benefits also includes the movement in annual leave accrual. The graph below outlines the Actual Remuneration Received by the CEO and by Senior Executives during the year. Actual Remuneration received is different from: Short Term The cash portion of the 2017 STI award that will be paid in The cash portion of the 2017 STI award that will • The Remuneration Awarded by the Board in 2017 as Actual Remuneration includes remuneration for this and previous years, whereas Incentive September 2017 in respect of the 2017 financial year. be paid in September 2017 in respect of the 2017 the Remuneration Awarded is wholly in respect of the current year; and (STI) cash financial year. • The Statutory Remuneration disclosures (on page 102) which are prepared in accordance with the relevant accounting standards. STI Deferred In the Remuneration Awarded table, the deferred securities The accounting expense attributed to this portion of the STI earned in respect of the year ended 30 financial year for Deferred STI granted in June 2017 but deferred until September 2018 and September 2015 and September 2016. September 2019. 2,021 Long Term In the Remuneration Awarded table, the estimated fair value The accounting expense attributed to this A$000s1 Incentive and face value of 2017 LTI grants made in September 2016. financial year for LTI awards made in the 2013, 3,724 (LTI) These vest in September 2019 and September 2020 and are 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 financial years. 375 196 384 368 217 subject to relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and 875 1,051 861 1,062 939 357 697 average Return on Equity (ROE) hurdles (explained in detail 1,067 on page 111). 578 628 538 343 442 2,034 1,100 1,447 1,067 1,000 1,099 920 Prior STI and LTI In the Remuneration Received graph, the value of any Stephen Tarun Denis Daniel Anthony Robert Kylie Awards Deferred STI awards and LTI awards which vested during McCann Gupta Hickey Labbad Lombardo McNamara5 Rampa this financial year. The value shown represents the value of the awards at the grant date. The Deferred STI awards which vested in September 2016 Fixed Remuneration2 STI Cash3 Prior STI and LTI Awards Security Price Growth and Distributions were granted in September 2014 and September 2015. The LTI's which vested in September 2016 were granted in September 2012 and September 2013. 1. All executives are paid in local currency but reported in the above table and graph in AUD based on the following 12 month average historic foreign exchange rates: GBP 0.60 (applied to Daniel Labbad), SGD 1.05 (applied to Anthony Lombardo), USD 0.76 (applied to Security Price In the Remuneration Received graph, the value of security Robert McNamara and Denis Hickey). Growth and price growth between the grant date and the vesting date 2. Fixed remuneration includes the contractually awarded amount of Total Package Value (including the value of any benefits salary Distributions and the value of distributions for the same period for prior sacrificed) but excludes any allowances or non monetary benefits. STI and LTI awards. 3. STI cash refers to the portion of the STI award for the year ended 30 June 2017 that will be paid in cash in September 2017. As outlined on page 108, the STI cash portion reflects half of the STI awarded up to an executive’s target STI and one third of the STI awarded above their target. 4. LTI awards were granted on 1 September 2016. LTI allocation was made on a fair value basis in FY17. The value in the table above reflects the estimated fair value as distinct from the accounting fair value used in the Statutory Disclosures on page 102. The allocation was made on a fair value basis to provide a value per performance security reflective of the target value in the hands of the executives based on an estimate of the impact of the performance hurdles. Refer to page 111 for a detailed explanation of the rationale and allocation methodology. Face value is calculated using the security price at the date of grant (A$13.49). Following stakeholder feedback, the Board has resolved to allocate and disclose future LTI awards using face value. 5. Robert McNamara was KMP until 31 March 2017 when he ceased to be Chief Risk Officer. The amounts in the table represent the total remuneration awarded or received and are not pro rated for his time as KMP. 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 103 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued Reconciliation of 2017 Statutory Remuneration with Actual Remuneration Received for the CEO b. Executive Remuneration Outcomes and Disclosures continued The following table shows the difference between the CEO’s Actual Remuneration Received (page 101) and the Statutory Remuneration disclosure (page 102). Statutory Disclosures – Remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Executives for the Years Ended 30 June 2017 and 2016 POST-EMPLOYMENT A$000s1 SHORT TERM BENEFITS BENEFITS SECURITY BASED PAYMENTS 6 8,654 (3,342) Non Other Cash Monetary STI Long Term Name Year Salary2 STI Cash3 Benefits4 Superannuation5 LTI Deferred Benefits7 Total 2,342 6,471 (2,403) Chief Executive Officer 1,190 Stephen McCann 2017 2,014 875 20 2,342 1,190 30 6,471 30 000 2016 2,015 1,021 26 19 2,006 1,423 30 6,540 Senior Executives Tarun Gupta 2017 1,080 578 20 533 725 16 2,952 Total Remuneration LTI Defered Leave Defered LTI Total 2016 1,064 611 6 19 411 708 16 2,835 Received Vesting STI Vesting Expense STI Expense Expense Statutory Denis Hickey 2017 1,503 628 98 11 395 686 3,321 Less Add 2016 1,648 654 177 11 296 739 3,525 Daniel Labbad8 2017 1,088 538 47 117 456 585 2,831 Long Term Incentive Performance 2016 1,306 573 65 179 373 717 3,213 During the current year, two LTI awards were subject to performance testing. The outcomes are shown below. Anthony Lombardo 2017 1,000 343 246 496 551 2,636 2013 Award 2016 1,288 506 54 16 413 559 15 2,851 The 2013 LTI award (granted in September 2012) was subject to a relative Total Securityholder Return (TSR) performance hurdle over a three and four year performance period (50 per cent each). Kylie Rampa9 2017 900 442 3 20 264 575 13 2,217 The four year relative TSR test was conducted in September 2016. Lendlease’s relative TSR performance achieved the 70th percentile 2016 135 82 3 33 78 2 333 when compared to the comparator group. As a result, 90 per cent of the tested award vested. Former Executives 2014 Award Rodney Leaver 10 2016 1,236 70 668 (83) 1,891 The 2014 LTI award (granted in September 2013) is subject to a Relative TSR performance hurdle and an average Return on Equity (ROE) performance hurdle. Each hurdle is tested over a three and four year performance period. Robert McNamara11 2017 1,099 211 7 1,198 906 3,421 The three year Relative TSR test was conducted in July 2016. Lendlease’s relative TSR performance achieved the 74th percentile when 2016 1,389 688 420 8 372 745 3,622 compared to the comparator group. As a result, 98 per cent of the tested award vested. 1. All executives are paid in local currency but reported in the above table in AUD based on the following 12 month average historic foreign The three year average ROE test was also conducted in July 2016. Lendlease’s three year average ROE performance was 14.5 per cent. exchange rates: GBP 0.60 (applied to Daniel Labbad), SGD 1.05 (applied to Rodney Leaver and Anthony Lombardo), USD 0.76 (applied to As a result, 90.6 per cent of the tested award vested. Robert McNamara and Denis Hickey). 2. Cash salary includes the payment of cash allowances such as motor vehicle allowance and holiday pay on termination. 3. Short Term Incentive (STI) Cash refers to the portion of the STI award for the year ended 30 June 2017 that will be paid in cash in September 2017. As outlined on page 108, the STI cash portion reflects half of the STI awarded up to an executive’s target STI and one 100 90.6 per cent vested third of the STI awarded above their target. 90 4. Non monetary benefits may include items such as car parking, relocation and expatriate benefits (such as house rental, health insurance, shipping of goods and tax return preparation), motor vehicle costs, travel benefits and annual leave. 80 5. Superannuation includes the value of pension contributions for non Australian based executives. % of tested awards vesting 6. The amounts for security based payments reflect the accounting expense on a fair value basis. 70 2013 2014 7. Other long term benefits represent the accrual of long term leave entitlements (e.g. long service leave). 4 year 3 year 60 8. Superannuation benefit includes an allowance paid in lieu of pension contributions. Relative Relative 9. K  ylie Rampa became KMP on 1 May 2016 when she was appointed to the role of Chief Executive Officer, Property Australia. The TSR TSR 2014 3 year average 50 information for 2016 reflects her remuneration for the time she was KMP being the period 1 May 2016 to 30 June 2016. Test Test ROE performance 10. Rodney Leaver was KMP up until 30 April 2016 when he ceased to be CEO, Asia. The information for 2016 reflects his remuneration for 90% 98% 40 14.5 per cent the time he was KMP, being the period 1 July 2015 to 30 April 2016. The security based payment expense for the 2016 period has been vested vested recalculated, in line with accounting standards, to reflect full entitlement to the unvested LTI securities (but still subject to the original 30 vesting conditions) through to the date on which he ceased to provide services to the Group. 11. Robert McNamara was KMP until 31 March 2017 when he retired. The information for the current year represents remuneration whilst he 20 was KMP, being the period 1 July 2016 to 31 March 2017. The security based payment expense for 2017 reflects the full entitlement to the unvested LTI securities and Deferred STI (but which are still subject to the original vesting conditions). 10 0 10% 11% 12% 13% 14% 15% 16% Average ROE achieved over performance period 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 105 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued c. Remuneration Governance Setting Remuneration Levels Robust governance is a critical part of Lendlease’s approach to executive remuneration. Board We benchmark our remuneration mix and levels to confirm we provide market competitive total rewards for on target performance, and total rewards above the market median if outstanding performance is achieved The Board has overall responsibility for executive remuneration at Lendlease. The Board assesses the performance of, and determines the remuneration outcome for, the Chief Executive Officer. Remuneration is reviewed annually by the P&C Committee for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Executives (or during the year if People and Culture (P&C) Committee there are any role changes or new executive appointments). The Committee’s agenda reflects the importance of human capital to the Group’s strategic and business planning and it assists the Board in establishing appropriate policies for people management and remuneration across the Group. A description of the P&C Primary sources The P&C Committee typically uses a number of sources for benchmarking CEO and Senior Executive Committee’s scope can be found on page 90. of data remuneration including: Management • Data provided by the Board’s remuneration advisor, PwC, about remuneration for similar roles in companies of Management makes recommendations to the P&C Committee in relation to developing and implementing the Executive Reward a similar size: Strategy and structure. The CEO also provides his recommendations on fixed pay and Short Term Incentive (STI) outcomes for his – for Australian based executives, we refer to companies listed on the ASX that are ranked between 26 and 75 direct reports for approval by the P&C Committee. by market capitalisation (excluding companies domiciled overseas and property trusts where management Independent Remuneration Advisor (PwC) is not typically employed by the trust);  he Board has appointed PwC as its independent remuneration advisor. Strict governance protocols were observed to ensure PwC’s T – comparable roles in ASX listed companies with revenue of between 50 and 200 per cent of Lendlease’s advice to the P&C Committee was made free from undue influence by Key Management Personnel (KMP). During the year, PwC did revenue; and not provide a remuneration recommendation as defined in section 9B of the Corporations Act 2001. – relevant local comparator groups for executives based in other countries. PwC provided advice on aspects of the remuneration of the KMP including commentary on positioning of the CEO's and Senior Executives’ remuneration against the market. • Publicly available data for comparable roles at organisations in Australia such as CIMIC (formerly Leighton), Mirvac and Stockland; and The following arrangements were made to ensure that PwC’s advice was free of undue influence: • Published remuneration surveys, remuneration trends and other data sourced from Mercer, Aon Hewitt, FIRG, • PwC was engaged by, and reported directly to, the Chair of the P&C Committee; Hay Group, Avdiev and others. • The agreement for the provision of remuneration consulting services was executed by the Chair of the P&C Committee on behalf of the Board; Market positioning Fixed remuneration is set with reference to the market median and 75th percentile. The positioning will depend • Reports delivered by PwC were provided by PwC directly to the Chair of the P&C Committee; and upon the specific nature of the role, the individual’s performance and the overall remuneration mix. • PwC was permitted, where approved by the P&C Committee Chair, to speak to management to understand company processes, The remuneration outcomes for each Senior Executive will also take into consideration the target remuneration practices and other business issues and obtain management’s perspectives. mix in the Executive Reward Strategy. As a consequence, the Board is satisfied that advice and market data provided by PwC was made free from undue influence from any of the KMP. Application of The P&C Committee has applied a number of principles when applying remuneration benchmarks to Lendlease data to Lendlease roles. These principles include: CEO and Senior Executives • Understanding the relative size, scale and complexity of the organisations in the data set (so that a fair comparison can be made to organisations with similar global breadth and operational complexities as Lendlease); • Understanding the relative size, scale and complexity of the roles in the data set; • Recognising an individual’s tenure, position, experience and performance; • Differentiating risk profiles between roles when reviewing pay mix; • Considering key talent, including an emphasis on where we source talent from and where we lose talent to; and • Considering internal relativities, role and/or person criticality and key talent and succession risk. In addition to the above, when setting remuneration levels, the P&C Committee takes into account Group and regional performance and the positioning of the Senior Executive relative to the market. 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 107 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued c. Remuneration Governance continued Mandatory Securityholding Remuneration Mix The Mandatory Securityholding requires the CEO and Senior Executives to hold a minimum amount of Lendlease securities so that they have a significant personal investment in Lendlease. Along with the Deferred STI and LTI, the Mandatory Securityholding provides Securityholder alignment and longer term focus through significant incentive deferral additional alignment with securityholders and encourages the CEO and Senior Executives to consider long term securityholder value when making decisions. The remuneration mix is structured so that a substantial portion of remuneration is delivered as Lendlease securities through either Since the 2013 financial year, the CEO and other Senior Executives are required to accumulate and maintain a holding of Lendlease Deferred Short Term Incentives (STI) or Long Term Incentives (LTI). This, along with the Mandatory Securityholding requirement securities calculated with reference to their fixed remuneration (divided by the security price to determine a number of securities that (set out on page 107), aligns the interests of executives with securityholders. Remuneration Awarded (refer to page 101) to executives must be held). In the case of: is delivered over a period of up to four years, over which time executives are exposed to movements in the security price on any • The CEO – the requirement is 150 per cent of Total Package Value (TPV); and deferred amounts. • Senior Executives – the requirement is 100 per cent of TPV or 100 per cent of base salary for Senior Executives outside of Australia. The mandatory holding for each Senior Executive is outlined in the Equity Based Remuneration tables on page 118. Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 and beyond Personally held securities may be counted towards the requirement. Unvested deferred securities and unvested LTI awards do not count Fixed remuneration toward this mandatory holding. Until such time as the Senior Executive meets the Mandatory Securityholding requirements, Lendlease imposes a disposal restriction Cash STI on 50 per cent of any Senior Executives’ Deferred STI or LTI that vest (for Senior Executives based in Australia). This disposal restriction means that the Senior Executive will not be able to sell these securities until such time as Lendlease agrees to lift the disposal restriction. Deferred STI for 1 year The Chief Executive Officer and Senior Senior Executives based outside of Australia are required to achieve the mandatory holding requirement within six years of their Executives must maintain a holding of Deferred STI for 2 years appointment as Key Management Personnel (KMP). Lendlease securities until the Mandatory LTI 3 year performance period Securityholding requirement is achieved Securities Trading Policy LTI 4 year performance period The Lendlease Securities Trading Policy applies to all employees of the Lendlease Group. In accordance with the policy, Directors and Senior Executives may only deal in Lendlease securities during designated periods. Directors and Senior Executives must not enter into transactions or arrangements that operate to limit the economic risk of unvested entitlements to Lendlease securities. No Director or The remuneration mix has been specifically designed to align to the execution of Lendlease’s business strategy Senior Executive may enter into a margin loan arrangement in respect of Lendlease securities. The Executive Reward Strategy provides for a target remuneration mix that links remuneration outcomes to the execution of business strategy over the short (one year), medium (two to three years) and long (three to four years) term. The target remuneration mix for FY17 Hedging for the Group CEO is shown below. Deferred STI and LTI awards are subject to the Securities Trading Policy which prohibits executives from entering into any type of ‘protection arrangements’ (including hedging, derivatives and warrants) in respect of those awards before vesting. Percentage of Total Target Remuneration The FY17 Actual remuneration mix for the Group CEO is compared to the target remuneration mix for the same period. Group CEO FY17 Actual 33.4% 14.4% 14.4% 37.8% 000 Group CEO FY17 Target 33.4% 14.4% 14.4% 37.8% Fixed Remuneration STI Cash STI Deferred LTI The target remuneration mix for FY17 for Senior Executives is shown below. Fixed Remuneration STI cash Deferred STI LTI Senior Executives 40% – 55% 20% – 25% 20% – 25% 20% The remuneration mix reflects the desired remuneration mix for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Executives. To the extent that any Senior Executive is not currently paid in line with this preferred remuneration mix, it is intended that future adjustments to remuneration will be made so as to, over a period of time, move the Senior Executive toward the desired remuneration mix (while taking into account the market benchmarking outlined on page 105). Market adjustments in 2017 have been focused on moving Senior Executives towards this desired remuneration mix and substantial progress has been made in this area. The Board has continued to shift the mix of total target remuneration towards LTI, and for the CEO, LTI has increased from 36 per cent in FY16 to 38 per cent in FY17. 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 109 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued d. How Executive Rewards are Linked to Performance Short Term Incentives (STI) STIs are based on performance against a scorecard of financial, strategic and non financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and Group and regional performance STI design How the STI works STI funding • The pool of funds available to reward executives under the STI plan is determined by direct reference to Group financial performance and, where relevant, regional financial performance. • In determining the pool of funds available, the Board also considers the overall profit make up, the quality and sustainability of earnings and other financial and non financial factors. STI targets & • STIs are based on ‘target opportunities’ which are set using the remuneration mix outlined on page 106. opportunity • The minimum possible STI outcome is zero and the maximum STI outcome is generally limited to 150 per cent of the Chief Executive Officer’s (CEO) and Senior Executives’ target STI opportunity. A payment above 150 per cent of target may be made if the Group has performed at a level considerably in excess of target and the Senior Executive has made a significant contribution to the result. STI Key • STI outcomes are based on performance during the financial year, primarily measured through the use of Performance the CEO and Senior Executive scorecards. Indicators • The CEO 2017 scorecard (approved by the Board) and performance against the scorecard is set out in summary on pages 98 and 99. • Lendlease is committed to the safety and wellbeing of all of its employees. The Board considers safety leadership behaviours and outcomes in assessing the overall performance of the CEO and each Senior Executive. While the assessment is not structured formulaically or as a ‘gateway’ measure, expectations are clearly communicated to the CEO and Senior Executives that poor health and safety outcomes may lead to reduction in STI outcomes for the year.  The two fatal incidents in 2017 have been considered in assessing the CEO’s STI for FY17. Notwithstanding the increase to Profit after Tax (PAT) and continuing strong scorecard results, these incidents have contributed to the CEO’s STI award being 100 per cent of the CEO’s target compared to an award of 125 per cent of target in 2016. • The P&C Committee also assesses each Senior Executive against Lendlease’s defined leadership capabilities (including safety, sustainability and diversity), values and behaviours. In this way, the STI rewards ‘what’ is achieved as well as ‘how’ it is achieved. How the STI is • The STI award is delivered as a mix of cash and Deferred STI. The Deferred STI may be settled in Lendlease delivered securities or in cash as determined by the Board. The significant portion (at least 50 per cent) delivered as Deferred STI encourages executives to deliver sustainable performance. • For STI awards up to ‘target’, 50 per cent of the STI awarded is paid in cash in September following the end of the performance year. The remaining 50 per cent is deferred. 50 per cent of the deferred portion (i.e. 25 per cent of the total award) vests one year after the grant and the other half of the deferred portion vests after two years. Deferred STI awards are held in an employee share plan trust until vesting. • For ‘above target’ STI awards, the above target portion is delivered one third as cash and two thirds deferred on the same basis as set out above. • Distributions are not paid on any unvested Deferred STI for the CEO and Senior Executives, however in calculating the amount of Lendlease securities or cash provided on vesting of any Deferred STI, the value of any distributions made during the vesting period is taken into consideration. • The Board's current intention is to deliver Deferred STI as Lendlease securities and Lendlease intends to purchase securities on market around September each year to satisfy these awards. Malus • The Board has the discretion to forfeit part or all of any unvested Deferred STI awards prior to their vesting where it transpires that the award(s) would provide a participant with a benefit that was unwarranted or inappropriate.1 The Board may delay vesting of any unvested Deferred STI in the event it is reviewing whether to exercise discretion to reduce or forfeit unvested awards. Termination • Malus provisions work alongside the Deferred STI terms to provide discretion for the Board to adjust unvested awards on termination of employment. In particular: − If an employee is terminated for fraud or other serious misconduct, unvested deferred securities will lapse; − Where an employee is terminated for poor performance, the number of unvested deferred securities can be adjusted downwards; and − Deferred STI awards are forfeited by the individual if they resign during the vesting period. • For ‘good leavers’, the Deferred STI grant may remain on foot until the original vesting date, subject to the original terms. • In exceptional circumstances (such as death or total and permanent disablement), the Board may exercise its discretion and pay the award at the time of termination of employment. 1. In particular, in circumstances where there has been a material misstatement in the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements or the participant has engaged in misconduct or dereliction of duty. Brisbane Showgrounds, Brisbane 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 111 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued d. How Executive Rewards are Linked to Performance continued LTI design How the LTI works Performance Long Term Incentives (LTI) hurdle – This is an absolute measure. The vesting schedule is shown below: Average Return on Equity LTI is designed to reward our Senior Executives for achievement of long term value creation for securityholders 100 In this section, we summarise the key features of the 2017 LTI plan (granted September 2016). The same features apply to LTI plans on % of tested awards vesting foot granted in September 2014, 2015 and 2016. The table on page 112 demonstrates the key differences between these awards and other awards that remain on foot. 75 The key features of the 2017 LTI plan (granted September 2016) are: 50 LTI design How the LTI works Overview • LTI awards are designed to reward executives for delivering on Lendlease’s long term strategy and for 25 delivering sustained long term securityholder value. • LTI awards align the interests of Senior Executives and securityholders because of the Senior Executives’ exposure to the Lendlease security price and through performance measures strongly tied to securityholder value. 0 • Half of the LTI will be tested against a relative Total Securityholder Return (TSR) hurdle and half against an 10% 11% 12% 13% 14% 15% 16% average Return on Equity (ROE) hurdle. • Half of the LTI for each performance hurdle is tested after three years and half after four. Average ROE achieved over performance period • Relative TSR is measured against the Standards & Poor’s (S&P)/Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) 100 companies. Performance • The Board believes that these measures, combined with other features of ‘at risk’ remuneration at Lendlease, • Average ROE is measured against an absolute measure with progressive vesting when average ROE over hurdle selection provide a suitable link to long term securityholder value creation because: the performance period is between 11 and 15 per cent. The use of relative Total Shareholder Return incentivises Senior Executives to deliver returns that outperform what a securityholder could achieve in the market and ensures management maintains a strong Performance • An annual grant of ‘performance securities’ is made to a limited number of executives. focus on securityholder outcomes; and securities • The allocation for FY17 is made on a fair value basis to provide a value per performance security more Return on Equity (ROE) reflects the capital intensive nature of Lendlease’s activities and is an important reflective of the target value in the hands of the executives. The fair value is based on an estimate of the long term measure of how well the management team generates acceptable earnings from capital invested impact of the performance hurdles. A discount of 35 per cent is applied to the relative TSR portion and a and rewards decisions in respect of developing, managing, acquiring and disposing of assets. discount of 25 per cent is applied to the ROE portion. This discount was determined to be appropriate after • The Group’s currently stated ROE target is 10 to 14 per cent which was amended from 11 to 15 per cent when the Board took extensive advice from external valuation experts. the Group’s Portfolio Management Framework was refreshed in October 2016. The amendment was made • The Board intends that the awards be settled in Lendlease securities, although the award may be settled in after the ROE hurdle was set for the 2017 LTI plan. The Board is comfortable that the vesting range (11 to 15 cash or other means at the Board’s discretion. per cent) provides a realistic goal at the lower end (in the context of lower risk free rates of return, cost of capital and market consensus and bearing in mind that only 25 per cent vests on achievement at the low end of the range) and a realistic stretch at the upper end. Performance • 50 per cent of the performance securities are assessed over a three year period. period • The hurdles are reviewed annually by the Board with the aim of setting an average ROE hurdle range that will drive • The remaining 50 per cent of the performance securities are assessed after four years. outperformance without incentivising excessive risk taking. The Board also has governance protocols in place to • There is no retesting on any portion of the LTI grant. If the performance hurdle is not met at the time of monitor levels of net debt and is conscious of the impact that debt can have on the ROE result. testing, the awards are forfeited. • While the Board appreciates that there are at times different views held by different stakeholders, we believe • The performance period was chosen as the Board believes that the timeframe appropriately reflects a that these measures provide the appropriate balance between market and non market measures. balance between reward that motivates executives while reflecting the long term ‘tail’ of profitability and risk associated with ‘today’s decisions’. Distributions • Distributions are not paid on unvested performance securities. • In calculating the value of the awards which vest, the value of any distributions made during the performance Performance The vesting schedule is shown below: period is taken into consideration. hurdle – Relative TSR 100 Malus • The Board may adjust the number of performance securities downwards prior to the date of vesting in the case of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial accounts. % of tested awards vesting • The Board may adjust the number of LTI awards downwards where the Board reasonably determines that delivery of part, or all of, an LTI award would result in the Senior Executive receiving an inappropriate or unwarranted benefit (having regard to their personal performance, the performance of the Group and all other benefits they have received). 50 Termination of • If the executive is terminated for cause, the unvested LTI is forfeited. employment • If the executive is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust unvested LTI prior to the vesting date. • For ‘good, leavers’, including executives who resign but do not engage in activities that are competitive with 0 the Group, the LTI grant may remain on foot subject to the original performance hurdle. 25 50 75 100 • In exceptional circumstances (such as death or total and permanent disability), the Board may exercise its discretion and pay the award at the time of termination of employment. Percentile achieved – relative TSR vs ASX 100 Companies 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 113 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued d. How Executive Rewards are Linked to Performance continued e. Executive Contracts Prior Year Long Term Incentive Awards (2013 plan) CEO Contract Key features of the 2013 plan (granted 1 September 2012) are the same as the 2017 LTI plan except for the items included in The Board and the CEO entered into a new employment contract effective 1 September 2013. The key terms are summarised below: the table below. Fixed The contract provides for fixed remuneration of A$2,034,000, including superannuation. LTI design How the LTI works remuneration There has been no change to the CEO’s fixed remuneration since this contract was agreed on 1 September 2013. Performance All Performance Securities are subject to a relative Total Securityholder Return (TSR) performance hurdle. hurdle There is no average Return on Equity (ROE) hurdle. Incentives STI and LTI plan participation is at the Board’s discretion. The CEO’s target Short Term Incentive (STI) for 2017 Malus The Board may adjust the number of performance securities downwards prior to the date of vesting in the case was A$1,750,000 and target Long Term Incentive (LTI) for 2017 was A$2,300,000 (with the number of awards of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial accounts. determined on a fair value basis). This results in a target 2017 remuneration package of A$6,084,000. Termination of For ‘good leavers’, the LTI grant may be pro rated upon termination of employment and remain on foot subject employment to the original performance hurdle. Notice The contract has no fixed term. The notice periods under the contract are as follows: periods Notice by CEO 6 months How Risk Management is Incorporated into Executive Reward Notice by Lendlease 12 months The Board has placed a significant focus on incorporating risk management into the reward framework. Payment in lieu of notice Where the CEO is not employed for the full period of notice, a payment in lieu of notice may be made. The payment in lieu of notice includes pro rata fixed Remuneration How risk management is incorporated into the remuneration component remuneration and the cash value of statutory entitlements and benefits. Non compete period 12 months Short Term • The total value of STI awards is strongly linked to Profit after Tax (PAT) and there are limits on the total Incentive incentive pool and individual STI payments. Non solicitation period 12 months (STI) • In determining the pool of funds available, the Board also considers the overall profit make up, the quality Treatment of incentives The CEO may continue to receive an STI award for the latest financial year and sustainability of earnings and other financial and non financial factors. based on an assessment of his performance by the Board. LTI awards will be • STI outcomes are based on performance and are determined based on a scorecard of financial and non treated in accordance with the plan rules at that time. Deferred STI awards will financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). These KPIs are structured as ‘building blocks’ to achieve remain on foot in certain mutually agreed termination circumstances. Lendlease’s short, medium and long term strategic and business goals. • STI outcomes are modified based upon an assessment of the Senior Executive against Lendlease’s defined leadership capabilities (including safety, sustainability and diversity), values and behaviours. In this way, Senior Executives’ Contracts the STI rewards ‘what’ is achieved as well as ‘how’ it is achieved. Senior Executives are typically employed on contracts that have no fixed term. Benefits may include health/life insurance, car allowances, • A significant portion (at least 50 per cent) of the actual STI award is retained and deferred into securities. In this motor vehicle leases and salary. way, Senior Executives continue to be incentivised to drive performance and are exposed to movements in All Senior Executives have termination benefits that are within the limit allowed by the Corporations Act 2001 without securityholder the Lendlease security price. approval. • STI awards are subject to a malus clause which enables the Board to adjust downwards the Deferred STI that vests to an individual in certain circumstances. This provision operates alongside provisions in the Termination clauses in each contract describe treatment on termination based on the reason for termination (e.g. resignation, with notice, Deferred STI terms that allow the Board to adjust unvested awards on termination of employment. In due to illness, or immediate termination for cause). particular: The Group may make a payment in lieu of notice. The notice period for each Senior Executive is shown below: – If an employee is terminated for fraud or other serious misconduct, unvested Deferred STI will be Notice by Notice by Senior forfeited; and Senior Executives Lendlease Executive Treatment on termination with notice by Lendlease – Where an employee is terminated for poor performance, the Board can adjust the Deferred STI at the time of termination. Current Executives Long Term • 50 per cent of the LTI is assessed over a three year period and 50 per cent is assessed over a four year Tarun Gupta 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on Total Package Value. Payment for accrued Incentive (LTI) period. There is no retesting. leave is based on Total Package Value less superannuation. • As performance is assessed based on a combination of relative TSR and average ROE, any adverse Denis Hickey 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on base salary and other minimum benefits as financial, reputational or other events that could occur over the vesting period should be reflected in the required by applicable United States legislation. number and value of LTI performance securities that ultimately vest. Daniel Labbad 9 months 6 months Notice payment and accrued leave is based on base salary. • Malus provisions apply to unvested LTI awards (see page 111). Anthony Lombardo 12 months 6 months Notice payment and accrued leave is based on base salary. Kylie Rampa 6 months 6 months Notice payment is based on Total Package Value. Payment for accrued Mandatory • Senior Executives are subject to a Mandatory Securityholding Policy that requires them to accumulate and leave is based on Total Package Value less superannuation. Securityholding maintain a holding of Lendlease securities. This encourages them to take a long term perspective when Former Executives making decisions and strengthens alignment with securityholders. Robert McNamara 3 months 3 months Notice payment is based on base salary and other minimum benefits as required by applicable United States legislation. 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 115 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued f. Equity Based Remuneration Deferred Securities continued Fair Total Fair Expense For Deferred Securities Value Per Value At The Year In 2017, Deferred Short Term Incentive (STI) awards were granted to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Executives based on the STI award Deferred Grant Ended 30 value of the 2016 STI award that was deferred. Performance Grant Vesting Number Security1 Date1,2 June 2017 % % Name Plan Year Date Date Granted A$ A$ A$ Vested Forfeited Details of Deferred STI awards are set out in the following table: Fair Value Total Fair Expense For Kylie Rampa Deferred STI 2014 Sept 2014 Sept 2016 16,445 13.53 222,501 100% Per Value At The Year Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2016 17,636 13.47 237,502 100% STI Award Deferred Grant Ended 30 Performance Grant Vesting Number Security1 Date1,2 June 2017 % % Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2017 17,636 13.47 237,502 118,751 Name Plan Year Date Date Granted A$ A$ A$ Vested Forfeited Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2017 22,062 13.79 304,239 304,239 Chief Executive Officer Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2018 22,062 13.79 304,239 152,120 Stephen McCann Deferred STI 2013 Sept 2013 Sept 2016 76,180 8.97 683,335 100% Total 95,841 1,305,983 575,110 Deferred STI 2014 Sept 2014 Sept 2016 47,414 13.53 641,511 100% Former Executive Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2016 43,304 13.47 583,171 100% Robert McNamara3 Deferred STI 2014 Sept 2014 Sept 2016 27,600 13.53 373,428 100% Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2017 43,304 13.47 583,171 291,586 Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2016 26,911 13.47 362,408 100% Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2017 43,434 13.79 598,964 598,964 Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2017 26,911 13.47 362,408 181,204 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2018 43,434 13.79 598,964 299,482 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2017 26,269 13.79 362,255 362,255 Total 297,070 3,689,116 1,190,032 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2018 26,269 13.79 362,255 362,255 Current Senior Executives Total 133,960 1,822,754 905,714 Tarun Gupta Deferred STI 2014 Sept 2014 Sept 2016 24,834 13.53 336,004 100% 1. The fair value at grant date is the value of the Deferred STI award (as advised to the Executive). 2. At vesting, the minimum value is nil and the estimate of the maximum value is the fair value multiplied by the number of securities granted. Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2016 26,733 13.47 360,011 100% 3. The expense for the year ended 30 June 2017 reflects the full entitlement to Deferred STI which is still subject to the original vesting conditions. Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2017 26,733 13.47 360,011 180,005 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2017 26,324 13.79 363,013 363,013 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2018 26,324 13.79 363,013 181,507 Total 130,948 1,782,052 724,525 Denis Hickey Deferred STI 2014 Sept 2014 Sept 2016 22,018 13.53 297,904 100% Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2016 29,193 13.47 393,139 100% Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2017 29,193 13.47 393,139 196,570 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2017 23,642 13.79 326,028 326,028 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2018 23,642 13.79 326,028 163,014 Total 127,688 1,736,238 685,612 Daniel Labbad Deferred STI 2014 Sept 2014 Sept 2016 23,862 13.53 322,853 100% Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2016 27,521 13.47 370,623 100% Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2017 27,521 13.47 370,623 185,311 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2017 19,302 13.79 266,178 266,178 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2018 19,302 13.79 266,178 133,089 Total 117,508 1,596,455 584,578 Anthony Lombardo Deferred STI 2014 Sept 2014 Sept 2016 22,765 13.53 308,010 100% Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2016 20,050 13.47 270,011 100% Deferred STI 2015 Sept 2015 Sept 2017 20,050 13.47 270,011 135,006 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2017 20,121 13.79 277,473 277,473 Deferred STI 2016 Sept 2016 Sept 2018 20,121 13.79 277,473 138,736 Total 103,107 1,402,978 551,215 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 117 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued f. Equity Based Remuneration continued LTI Awards continued Fair Value Expense For Long Term Incentive Awards Per Total Fair The Year Fair Value Expense For Performance Value At Ended 30 Per Total Fair The Year Plan Grant Vesting Number Security 1 Grant Date1,2 June 2017 % % Performance Value At Ended 30 Name (for the year ended) Date Date Granted A$ A$ A$ Vested Forfeited Plan Grant Vesting Number Security1 Grant Date1,2 June 2017 % % Name (for the year ended) Date Date Granted A$ A$ A$ Vested Forfeited Anthony Lombardo June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 19,216 5.53 106,262 4,428 90% 10% June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 25,988 7.71 200,375 11,132 95% 5% Chief Executive Officer June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 25,990 7.80 202,714 50,679 Stephen McCann June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 85,965 5.53 475,384 19,808 90% 10% June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 21,226 11.14 236,458 78,819 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 140,067 7.71 1,079,924 59,996 95% 5% June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 21,226 11.27 239,111 59,778 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 140,069 7.80 1,092,530 273,133 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 23,679 10.34 244,722 81,574 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 106,128 11.14 1,182,266 394,089 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 23,679 10.56 249,932 62,483 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 106,128 11.27 1,195,532 298,883 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 26,618 11.33 301,449 83,736 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 101,818 10.34 1,052,289 350,763 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 26,618 11.44 304,510 63,440 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 101,818 10.56 1,074,689 268,672 Total 214,240 2,085,533 496,069 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 122,440 11.33 1,386,633 385,176 Kylie Rampa 3 June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 15,806 5.53 87,410 3,642 90% 10% June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 122,440 11.44 1,400,714 291,815 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 14,325 7.71 110,450 6,136 95% 5% Total 1,026,873 9,939,961 2,342,335 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 14,326 7.80 111,739 27,935 Current Senior Executives June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 9,552 11.14 106,409 35,470 Tarun Gupta June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 18,596 5.53 102,836 4,285 90% 10% June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 9,552 11.27 107,603 26,901 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 25,988 7.71 200,375 11,132 95% 5% June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 9,472 10.34 97,893 32,631 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 25,990 7.80 202,714 50,679 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 9,472 10.56 99,977 24,994 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 21,226 11.14 236,458 78,819 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 19,165 11.33 217,044 60,290 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 21,226 11.27 239,111 59,778 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 19,165 11.44 219,248 45,677 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 23,679 10.34 244,722 81,574 Total 120,835 1,157,773 263,676 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 23,679 10.56 249,932 62,483 Former Executive June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 33,272 11.33 376,805 104,668 Robert McNamara4 June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 17,412 5.53 96,286 4,012 90% 10% June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 33,272 11.44 380,632 79,298 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 24,011 7.71 185,133 10,285 95% 5% Total 226,928 2,233,585 532,716 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 24,013 7.80 187,294 54,627 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 19,634 11.14 218,723 85,059 Denis Hickey June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 20,009 7.71 154,273 8,571 95% 5% June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 19,634 11.27 221,177 119,804 June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 20,010 7.80 156,074 39,019 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 20,128 10.34 208,023 150,239 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 18,573 11.14 206,903 68,968 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 20,128 10.56 212,451 168,190 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 18,573 11.27 209,225 52,306 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 26,618 11.33 301,449 301,449 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 16,576 10.34 171,313 57,104 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 26,618 11.44 304,510 304,510 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 16,576 10.56 174,960 43,740 Total 198,196 1,935,046 1,198,175 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 22,626 11.33 256,239 71,178 1. The fair value at grant date represents an actuarial valuation of the award using assumptions underlying the Black-Scholes methodology to produce a June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 22,626 11.44 258,841 53,925 Monte-Carlo simulation model in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards rounded to two decimal places. 2. At vesting, the minimum value is nil and the estimate of the maximum value is the fair value multiplied by the number of securities granted. Total 155,569 1,587,828 394,811 3. Numbers reported in ‘Number Granted’ column differ from 2016 Annual Report due to a production error. The ‘Total Fair Value At Grant Date’ and ‘Expense For The Year Ended 30 June 2016’ were correctly reported in the 2016 Annual Report. Daniel Labbad June 2013 LTI (50%) Sept 2012 Sept 2016 20,146 5.53 111,405 4,642 90% 10% 4. The expense for the year ended 30 June 2017 reflects the full entitlement to the unvested LTI securities which are still subject to the original vesting June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2016 25,988 7.71 200,375 11,132 95% 5% conditions. June 2014 LTI (50%) Sept 2013 Sept 2017 25,990 7.80 202,714 50,679 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2017 18,573 11.14 206,903 68,968 June 2015 LTI (50%) Sept 2014 Sept 2018 18,573 11.27 209,225 52,306 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2018 18,943 10.34 195,776 65,259 June 2016 LTI (50%) Sept 2015 Sept 2019 18,943 10.56 199,943 49,986 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2019 27,683 11.33 313,510 87,086 June 2017 LTI (50%) Sept 2016 Sept 2020 27,683 11.44 316,694 65,978 Total 202,522 1,956,545 456,036 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 119 REMUNER ATION REPORT continued f. Equity Based Remuneration continued g. Non Executive Directors’ Fees Non Executive Directors receive a Board fee and fees for chairing or participating on Board Committees. The Chairman does not Equity Holdings and Transactions for the Year Ended 30 June 2017 receive extra fees for participating in or chairing Committees. Number Of Securities Required Under The The maximum aggregate remuneration payable to Non Executive Directors is $3.5 million per year, as approved at the 2015 Annual Securities Held Securities Other Net Securities Held Mandatory Securityholding At Beginning Of Received During Change To At End Of General Meeting. Year as at Period End1 Financial Year The Year2 Securities Financial Year Board and Committee Fees Non Executive Directors Nomination People and Culture Risk Management and Sustainability D A Crawford 2017 79,388 1,975 81,363 Board Committee Committee Audit Committee Committee 2016 77,858 1,530 79,388 Chair fee $ 640,000 36,000 48,000 48,000 48,000 C B Carter 2017 15,000 15,000 Member fee $ 160,000 Nil 36,000 36,000 36,000 2016 15,000 15,000 P M Coffey3 2017 4,810 4,810 During 2016, the Board determined that the fees payable to the Chair and Members of the Sustainability Committee should be aligned with those paid to the Chair and Members of the People and Culture Committee and the Risk Management and Audit Committee. This P M Colebatch 2017 18,323 18,323 change recognised the similar workload requirements, complexity and importance of each Committee to Lendlease. The change was 2016 18,323 18,323 effective from 1 July 2016. D P Craig 2017 14,870 14,870 As an international company and having regard to the material scale of individual projects, the Board program is formulated to reflect the 2016 14,870 14,870 geographic spread of the Lendlease businesses. Board meetings are scheduled in Australia and in each of the regions where Lendlease S B Dobbs 2017 2,000 6,000 8,000 operates. Generally, the program runs over two or three days and includes a number of activities outside of the formal meeting. These include 2016 2,000 2,000 business briefings, presentations from external sources, project site visits, client meetings and networking events with employees and key stakeholders. Where deeper project reviews are required, the program may take up to five days. J S Hemstritch 2017 20,000 20,000 All Directors are required to travel to attend Board meetings. This can involve significant additional time, particularly when visiting project 2016 20,000 20,000 sites in the regions where Lendlease operates. Where significant additional time has been spent travelling to fulfil the requirements of the D J Ryan 2017 36,172 1,028 37,200 program, fees are paid to compensate Directors for the extra time commitment. 2016 35,312 860 36,172 The program is an important element of the Board’s activities to enable the Directors to obtain the required deep understanding of the M J Ullmer 2017 50,000 50,000 operations within the regions. 2016 50,000 50,000 Fee (each way) A$ N M Wakefield Evans 2017 12,517 3,614 16,131 Travel less than 4 hours Nil 2016 4,000 8,517 12,517 Travel between 4 and 10 hours 2,800 Executive Director Travel over 10 hours 6,000 S B McCann 2017 234,000 827,194 417,803 (500,000) 744,997 2016 195,000 712,487 315,625 (200,918) 827,194 Board and Committee fees are paid as cash. Non Executive Directors are no longer entitled to retirement benefits. However, some Directors have retirement benefits or securities accrued previously. Executives T Gupta 2017 84,000 116,850 104,467 (110,830) 110,487 Remuneration of Non Executive Directors for the Years Ended 30 June 2017 and 2016 2016 70,000 75,760 91,090 (50,000) 116,850 SHORT TERM BENEFITS POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS D Hickey4 2017 112,000 26,271 33,931 (22,000) 38,202 Committee 2016 87,000 22,250 26,021 (22,000) 26,271 Committee Membership A$000s Year Base Fees Chair Fees Fees Travel Fees Superannuation1 Total D Labbad4 2017 100,000 161,139 59,870 (120,782) 100,227 D A Crawford 2017 640 36 20 696 2016 79,000 100,415 60,724 161,139 2016 640 48 19 707 A Lombardo 2017 80,000 247,308 61,030 (133,658) 174,680 C B Carter 2017 160 36 72 24 20 312 2016 67,000 173,251 96,057 (22,000) 247,308 2016 160 36 56 48 19 319 K Rampa5 2017 70,000 34,081 34,081 P M Coffey 2 2017 80 10 90 2016 P M Colebatch 2017 160 36 72 20 288 Former Executive 2016 160 36 59 19 274 R McNamara4,6 2017 340,749 57,025 397,774 D P Craig 2017 160 40 6 30 20 256 2016 80,000 267,185 73,564 340,749 2016 53 12 12 7 84 Total 2017 1,967,781 768,207 (869,843) 1,866,145 S B Dobbs 2017 160 72 90 20 342 Total 2016 1,573,841 663,081 (269,141) 1,967,781 2016 160 56 66 19 301 1. Mandatory Securityholding requirements are reviewed in August each year. J S Hemstritch 2017 160 48 36 20 264 2. For the Executive Director, Executives and Former Executives, securities received relate to security entitlements under employee benefit vehicles. 3. P M Coffey joined the Board in January 2017. 2016 160 48 48 19 275 4. Securities received during the period were after withholding tax obligations. D J Ryan 2017 160 8 66 30 20 284 5. K Rampa became a Key Management Personnel (KMP) from 1 May 2016. Mandatory Securityholding requirement for K Rampa was set for the first time in August 2016. 6. R McNamara was a KMP until 31 March 2017. 2016 160 48 36 48 19 311 M J Ullmer 2017 160 48 36 36 20 300 Loans to Key Management Personnel 2016 160 36 36 48 19 299 No loans were made to Key Management Personnel or their related parties during the current year or prior year. N M Wakefield Evans 2017 160 72 30 20 282 Other Transactions with Key Management Personnel From time to time, Directors and executives of Lendlease or its consolidated entities, or parties related to them, may purchase goods from the 2016 160 56 48 19 283 Consolidated Entity. These purchases are on terms and conditions no more favourable than those entered into by unrelated customers. 1 . Directors have superannuation contributions paid on their behalf in accordance with superannuation legislation. 2. P M Coffey was appointed to the Board in January 2017. 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 121 DIRECTORS’ REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT continued The Directors’ Report for the financial year ended 30 June 2017 has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the g. Non Audit Services Corporations Act 2001. The information below forms part of this Directors’ Report: During the year, KPMG, the Company’s auditor, performed certain other services in addition to its statutory duties. • Principal activities on page 8; The Board has considered the other services provided during the year by the auditor and, in accordance with written advice provided • Operating and Financial Review on pages 8 to 75 incorporating the Performance & Outlook on pages 64 to 75; by resolution of the Risk Management and Audit Committee, is satisfied that the provision of those services during the year by the • Biographical information for the Directors and Company Secretary on pages 86 to 89; auditor is compatible with, and did not compromise, the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 for the • Officers who were previously partners of the Audit Firm on page 89; following reasons: • Directors’ interests in capital on page 90; • All other services were subject to the corporate governance procedures adopted by the Group and Risk Management and Audit • Board and Committee meetings and attendance on page 91; Committee is satisfied that those services do not impact the integrity and objectivity of the auditor; and • Remuneration Report on pages 92 to 119; and • The other services provided do not undermine the general principles relating to auditor independence as set out in APES 110 Code of • Auditor’s Independence Declaration on page 122. Ethics for Professional Accountants, as they did not involve reviewing or auditing the auditor’s own work, acting in a management or decision making capacity for the Group, acting as an advocate for the Group or jointly sharing risks and rewards. a. Dividends/Distributions A copy of the Lead Auditor's Independence Declaration, as required under Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001, is included at The 2016 final dividend/distribution of $174.7 million (30.0 cents per security, unfranked) referred to in the Directors’ Report dated the end of the Directors’ Report. 19 August 2016, was paid on 14 September 2016. Details of dividends/distributions in respect of the current year are as follows: Details of the amounts paid to the auditor of the Company, KPMG, and its related practices for audit and other services provided A$m during the year are set out below. CONSOLIDATED Interim dividends/distributions of 33.0 cents per security (unfranked) paid on 24 March 2017 1 192.4 Final dividends/distributions of 33.0 cents per security (unfranked) declared by Directors to be payable on 20 September 20172 June 2017 June 2016 192.5 A$000s A$000s Total dividends/distributions 384.9 Audit and Other Assurance Services 1. Comprised of an unfranked dividend of 29.762322 cents per share paid by the Company and a trust distribution of 3.237678 cents per unit paid by Lendlease Trust. 2. Comprised of an unfranked dividend of 28.419521 cents per share payable by the Company and a trust distribution of 4.580479 cents per unit payable by Audit services 5,922 5,536 Lendlease Trust. Other assurance services 485 683 b. Significant Changes in State of Affairs Total audit and other assurance services 6,407 6,219 There have been no significant changes in the Group’s state of affairs. Non audit services 280 c. Events Subsequent to Balance Date Total audit, non audit and other assurance services 6,687 6,219 There were no material events subsequent to the end of the financial year. d. Security Options h. Rounding Off No security options were issued during the year by the Company or any of its controlled entities, and there are no such options on issue. Lendlease Corporation Limited is a company of the kind referred to in the ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors' Reports) Instrument 2016/191 dated 24 March 2016 and, in accordance with that Instrument, amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements e. Indemnification and Insurance of Directors and Officers and this report have been rounded off to the nearest tenth of a million dollars or, where the amount is A$50,000 or less, zero, unless Rule 12 of the Company’s Constitution provides for indemnification in favour of each of the Directors named on pages 86 to 89 of this specifically stated to be otherwise. report; the officers of the Company or of wholly owned subsidiaries or related entities of the Company (Officers) to the extent This report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors and is signed for and on behalf of the Directors. permitted by the Corporations Act 2001. Rule 12 does not indemnify a Director, Company Secretary or Officer for any liability involving a lack of good faith. In conformity with Rule 12 of the Company’s Constitution, the Company has entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Insurance and Access with each of the Directors named on pages 86 to 89 of this report and for offices of the Company and Directors of related entities of the Company. The indemnities operate to the full extent permitted by law and are not subject to a monetary limit. The Company is not aware of any liability having arisen, and no claims have been made during or since the financial year under the Deeds of Indemnity, Insurance and Access. For unrelated entities in which the Group has an interest, Deeds of Indemnity may be entered into between Lendlease Corporation D A Crawford, AO Limited and the Director or Officer. Since the date of the last report, the Company has not entered into any separate Deeds of Indemnity with a Director or Officer of an unrelated entity. Chairman No indemnity has been granted to an auditor of the Company in their capacity as auditor of the Company. In accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, Rule 12 of the Constitution also permits the Company to purchase and maintain insurance or pay or agree to pay a premium for insurance for Officers against any liability incurred as an Officer of the Company or of a related body corporate. This may include a liability for reasonable costs and expenses incurred in defending proceedings, whether civil or criminal, and whatever their outcome. Due to confidentiality obligations and undertakings of the policy, no further details in respect of the premium or policy can be disclosed. S B McCann f. Environmental Regulation Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director The Group is subject to various state and federal environmental regulations in Australia. Sydney, 28 August 2017 The Directors are not aware of any material non compliance with environmental regulations pertaining to the operations or activities during the period covered by this report. In addition, the Lendlease Group is registered and publicly reports the annual performance of its Australian operations under the requirements of the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Act 2007 and Energy Efficiency Opportunities (EEO) Act 2006. All Lendlease businesses continue to operate an integrated Environment, Health and Safety Management System, ensuring that non compliance risks and opportunities for environmental improvements are identified, managed and reported accordingly. 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 123 Lead Auditor’s Independence Declaration under Section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 To the Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, in relation to the audit of Lendlease Corporation Limited for the financial year ended 30 June 2017 there have been: i. no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements as set out in the Corporations Act 2001 in relation to the audit; and ii. no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. KPM_INI_01 KPMG Duncan McLennan Partner This page is intentionally left blank. Sydney 28 August 2017 KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG Liability limited by a scheme approved under International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Professional Standards Legislation. 07 124 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 125 Financial Statements 313@somerset, Singapore 126 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Table of Contents Income Statement Consolidated Financial Statements Year Ended 30 June 2017 Income Statement 127 June 2017 June 2016 Statement of Comprehensive Income 128 Note A$m A$m Statement of Financial Position 129 Statement of Changes in Equity 130 Revenue 4 16,659.0 15,088.5 Statement of Cash Flows 132 Cost of sales (14,841.0) (13,388.5) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 133 Gross profit 1,818.0 1,700.0 Notes Index Share of profit of equity accounted investments 5 77.9 151.6 Section A: Performance Other income 6 247.2 256.9 1. Segment Reporting 134 Other expenses (1,039.5) (1,136.3) 2. Dividends/Distributions 136 3. Earnings per Share/Stapled Security 136 Results from operating activities 1,103.6 972.2 4. Revenue 137 Finance revenue 8 12.0 16.8 5. Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments 138 Finance costs 8 (108.6) (126.2) 6. Other Income 141 Net finance costs (96.6) (109.4) 7. Other Expenses 142 8. Finance Revenue and Finance Costs 144 Profit before Tax 1,007.0 862.8 9. Taxation 145 Income tax expense 9 (248.3) (164.7) 10. Events Subsequent to Balance Date 148 Profit after Tax 758.7 698.1 Section B: Investment 11. Inventories 149 Profit after Tax attributable to: 12. Equity Accounted Investments 150 Members of Lendlease Corporation Limited 645.7 557.8 13. Investment Properties 154 Unitholders of Lendlease Trust 112.9 140.4 14. Other Financial Assets 156 Profit after Tax attributable to securityholders 758.6 698.2 Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital 15. Cash and Cash Equivalents 158 External non controlling interests 0.1 (0.1) 16. Notes to Statement of Cash Flows 158 Profit after Tax 758.7 698.1 17. Borrowings and Financing Arrangements 159 18. Issued Capital 160 Basic/Diluted Earnings per Lendlease Corporation Limited Share (EPS) 19. Capital Management 161 Shares excluding treasury shares (cents) 3 115.1 100.9 20. Liquidity Risk Exposure 161 Shares on issue (cents) 3 110.8 95.9 21. Commitments 162 22. Loans and Receivables 163 Basic/Diluted Earnings per Lendlease Group Stapled Security (EPSS) 23. Trade and Other Payables 164 Securities excluding treasury securities (cents) 3 135.2 126.3 Section D: Risk Management Securities on issue (cents) 3 130.1 120.1 24. Financial Risk Management 165 Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company) is incorporated 25. Hedging 167 and domiciled in Australia. The consolidated financial report 26. Fair Value Measurement 168 of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2017 comprises the Company and its controlled entities including 27. Contingent Liabilities 169 Lendlease Trust (LLT) (together referred to as the Consolidated Section E: Basis of Consolidation Entity or the Group). The Group is a for profit entity and is 28. Consolidated Entities 170 an international property and infrastructure group. Further 29. Employee Benefit Vehicles 171 information about the Group’s primary activities is included in Note 1 ‘Segment Reporting’. Shares in the Company and units 30. Parent Entity Disclosures 172 in LLT are traded as one security under the name of Lendlease 31. Related Party Information 173 Group on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). The Section F: Other Notes Company is deemed to control LLT for accounting purposes 32. Intangible Assets 175 and therefore LLT is consolidated into the Group’s financial 33. Defined Benefit Plans 177 report. The issued units of LLT, however, are not owned by the Company and are therefore presented separately in the 34. Employee Benefits 179 Consolidated Entity Statement of Financial Position within 35. Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards 181 equity, notwithstanding that the unitholders of LLT are also the 36. Other Significant Accounting Policies 182 shareholders of the Company. The consolidated financial report Directors’ Declaration 183 was authorised for issue by the Directors on 28 August 2017. The accompanying notes form part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 128 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 129 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Financial Position Year Ended 30 June 2017 Year Ended 30 June 2017 June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 2016 Note A$m A$m Note A$m A$m Profit after Tax 758.7 698.1 Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents 15 1,249.2 1,008.4 Other Comprehensive Income/(Expense) After Tax Loans and receivables 22 2,749.2 2,785.0 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Inventories 11 2,152.0 1,923.0 Movements in fair value revaluation reserve 9b (1.7) Other financial assets 14 33.0 50.7 Movements in hedging reserve 9b 19.0 8.9 Current tax assets 21.6 Movements in foreign currency translation reserve 1 9b (41.0) 16.0 Other assets 77.9 69.2 Total current assets 6,261.3 5,857.9 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss2 (22.0) 23.2 Non Current Assets Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Loans and receivables 22 507.7 285.4 Movements in non controlling interest acquisition reserve 9b 2.8 0.5 Inventories 11 2,975.4 2,679.9 Defined benefit plan remeasurements 9b (11.6) 38.3 Equity accounted investments 12 834.6 1,152.6 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (8.8) 38.8 Investment properties 13a 6,967.4 5,940.7 Other financial assets 14 1,203.3 628.8 Total comprehensive income after tax 727.9 760.1 Deferred tax assets 9c 129.4 109.5 Total comprehensive income after tax attributable to: Property, plant and equipment 425.8 432.3 Members of Lendlease Corporation Limited 615.0 619.5 Intangible assets 32 1,415.1 1,446.8 Unitholders of Lendlease Trust 112.9 140.4 Defined benefit plan asset 33 64.3 7.5 Total comprehensive income after tax attributable to securityholders 727.9 759.9 Other assets 69.9 51.5 Total non current assets 14,592.9 12,735.0 External non controlling interests 0.2 Total assets 20,854.2 18,592.9 Total comprehensive income after tax 727.9 760.1 Current Liabilities 1. Includes A$(0.1) million relating to external non controlling interests (June 2016: A$0.3 million). Trade and other payables 23 5,578.8 4,328.8 2. Includes A$(8.6) million (June 2016: A$15.2 million) relating to share of other comprehensive income of Equity Accounted Investments. Resident liabilities 13b 4,573.0 4,119.5 Provisions 285.6 292.4 Borrowings and financing arrangements 17a 291.9 Current tax liabilities 6.4 Other financial liabilities 22.0 83.6 Total current liabilities 10,757.7 8,824.3 Non Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 23 1,772.1 1,909.4 Provisions 58.4 70.6 Borrowings and financing arrangements 17a 1,860.5 2,031.3 Defined benefit plan liability 33 3.4 Other financial liabilities 0.8 9.7 Deferred tax liabilities 9c 238.2 129.5 Total non current liabilities 3,930.0 4,153.9 Total liabilities 14,687.7 12,978.2 Net assets 6,166.5 5,614.7 Equity Issued capital 18 1,289.8 1,276.3 Treasury securities (24.7) (99.5) Reserves (5.3) 98.0 Retained earnings 3,686.6 3,289.6 Total equity attributable to members of Lendlease Corporation Limited 4,946.4 4,564.4 Total equity attributable to unitholders of Lendlease Trust 1,117.0 1,048.6 Total equity attributable to securityholders 6,063.4 5,613.0 External non controlling interests 103.1 1.7 Total equity 6,166.5 5,614.7 The accompanying notes form part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. The accompanying notes form part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 131 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued RESERVES Statement of Changes in Equity Foreign Non Controlling Members of External Fair Value Currency Interest Equity Other Lendlease Unitholders Non Year Ended 30 June 2017 Issued Treasury Revaluation Hedging Translation Acquisition Other Compensation Compensation Retained Corporation of Lendlease Controlling Total Capital Securities1 Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Earnings Limited Trust Interests Equity A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Balance as at 1 July 2015 1,256.3 (89.9) 31.5 (55.3) (39.9) (89.4) 111.7 78.7 54.4 2,936.0 4,194.1 968.0 6.1 5,168.2 Total Comprehensive Income Profit for the year 557.8 557.8 140.4 (0.1) 698.1 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of tax) (1.7) 8.9 15.7 0.5 38.3 61.7 0.3 62.0 Total Comprehensive Income – – (1.7) 8.9 15.7 0.5 – – – 596.1 619.5 140.4 0.2 760.1 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of tax) Fair value gains 2.0 2.0 2.0 Fair value hedging (1.0) (1.0) (1.0) Net investment hedging (9.6) (9.6) (9.6) Effect of foreign exchange movements (2.7) (0.1) 25.3 0.6 23.1 0.3 23.4 Effective cash flow hedges 9.0 9.0 9.0 Defined benefit plans remeasurements 38.3 38.3 38.3 Other movements (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) Other Comprehensive Income (Net of Tax) – – (1.7) 8.9 15.7 0.5 – – – 38.3 61.7 – 0.3 62.0 Transactions with Owners of the Company Distribution reinvestment plan (DRP) 20.0 20.0 4.6 24.6 Dividends and distributions (242.5) (242.5) (64.4) (306.9) Treasury securities acquired (49.7) (49.7) (49.7) Treasury securities vested 40.1 40.1 40.1 Fair value movement on allocation and vesting of securities 2.9 2.9 2.9 Asset disposal and transfers 10.82 (30.2)2 (19.4) (19.4) Other movements (0.6) (0.6) (4.6) (5.2) Total other movements through reserves 20.0 (9.6) – 10.8 (30.2) – – 2.9 (0.6) (242.5) (249.2) (59.8) (4.6) (313.6) Balance as at 30 June 2016 1,276.3 (99.5) 29.8 (35.6) (54.4) (88.9) 111.7 81.6 53.8 3,289.6 4,564.4 1,048.6 1.7 5,614.7 Balance as at 1 July 2016 1,276.3 (99.5) 29.8 (35.6) (54.4) (88.9) 111.7 81.6 53.8 3,289.6 4,564.4 1,048.6 1.7 5,614.7 Total Comprehensive Income Profit for the year 645.7 645.7 112.9 0.1 758.7 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of tax) 19.0 (40.9) 2.8 (11.6) (30.7) (0.1) (30.8) Total Comprehensive Income – – – 19.0 (40.9) 2.8 – – – 634.1 615.0 112.9 – 727.9 Other Comprehensive Income (Net of tax) Fair value gains (4.9) (4.9) (4.9) Fair value hedging 6.4 6.4 6.4 Net investment hedging 22.6 22.6 22.6 Effect of foreign exchange movements (1.5) (0.3) (63.5) 2.8 (62.5) (0.1) (62.6) Effective cash flow hedges 19.3 19.3 19.3 Defined benefit plans remeasurements (11.6) (11.6) (11.6) Other Comprehensive Income (Net of Tax) – – – 19.0 (40.9) 2.8 – – – (11.6) (30.7) – (0.1) (30.8) Transactions with owners of the Company Capital contributed by non controlling interests 101.3 101.3 Distribution reinvestment plan (DRP) 13.5 13.5 3.1 16.6 Dividends and distributions (320.9) (320.9) (47.6) (368.5) Treasury securities acquired (4.6) (4.6) (4.6) Treasury securities vested 40.8 40.8 40.8 Fair value movement on allocation and vesting of securities 6.3 6.3 6.3 Asset disposal and transfers (19.6)2 0.12 (19.5) (19.5) Other movements 38.63 (0.2) (5.6) (11.4)3 (53.8)3 83.83 51.4 0.1 51.5 Total other movements through reserves 13.5 74.8 (19.6) 0.1 – (0.2) (5.6) (5.1) (53.8) (237.1) (233.0) (44.5) 101.4 (176.1) Balance as at 30 June 2017 1,289.8 (24.7) 10.2 (16.5) (95.3) (86.3) 106.1 76.5 – 3,686.6 4,946.4 1,117.0 103.1 6,166.5 1. Opening balance for number of Treasury Securities at 1 July 2016 was 29.2 million (1 July 2015: 28.8 million) and closing balance at 30 June 2017 was 4.3 million. 2. These movements in reserves were transferred to profit and loss in the year. 3. Other movements in Treasury Securities, Reserves and Retained Earnings relate to the deconsolidation of the Lendlease Retirement Benefit Plan and the disposal of Lendlease securities previously held by the Lendlease Employee Investment Trust. Refer to Note 29B for further detail. The accompanying notes form part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 133 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Cash Flows Basis of Preparation Year Ended 30 June 2017 The consolidated financial report is a general purpose financial report which: June 2017 June 2016 • Has been prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards (AASBs) adopted by the Australian Accounting Standards Board, Note A$m A$m and the Corporations Act 2001; • Complies with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board; Cash Flows from Operating Activities • Is presented in Australian dollars (A$), with all values rounded off to the nearest tenth of a million dollars unless otherwise indicated, Cash receipts in the course of operations 16,254.6 16,028.4 in accordance with ASIC Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Directors’ Reports) Instrument 2016/191; and Cash payments in the course of operations (15,928.7) (15,154.9) • Is prepared under the historical cost basis except for the following assets and liabilities which are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, fair value through profit or loss investments, available for sale investments, investment properties, resident liabilities, Interest received 9.9 12.8 and liabilities for cash settled share based compensation plans. Recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are stated at fair value Interest paid (120.4) (134.8) in respect of the risk that is hedged. Refer to the specific accounting policies within the notes to the financial statements for the basis of Dividends/distributions received 75.4 90.0 valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value. Significant accounting policies have been: Income tax (paid)/received in respect of operations (144.8) 11.5 • Included in the relevant notes to which the policies relate, while other significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 36; and Net cash provided by operating activities 16 146.0 853.0 • Consistently applied to all financial years presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements and by all entities in the Group, except as explained in Note 35 ‘Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards’. Cash Flows from Investing Activities The preparation of a financial report that complies with AASBs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions. Sale/redemption of investments 164.9 330.5 • This can affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results Acquisition of investments (257.3) (563.2) may differ from these estimates. Acquisition of/capital expenditure on investment properties (244.4) (25.7) • Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively. • The significant accounting policies highlight information about accounting judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most Net loans from associates and joint ventures 5.7 38.6 significant effects on reported amounts and further information about estimated uncertainties that have a significant risk of resulting in Disposal of consolidated entities (net of cash disposed and transaction costs) 548.4 382.5 material adjustments within the next financial year. Disposal of property, plant and equipment 13.1 16.7 The Group presents assets and liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position as current or non current. Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (136.4) (132.7) • Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or use in, the course of the Group’s operating cycle. All other assets are classified as non current. Acquisition of intangible assets (23.9) (46.1) • Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the Group’s Net cash provided by investing activities 70.1 0.6 operating cycle and those liabilities due within one year from the reporting date. All other liabilities are classified as non current. Further detail on classification of resident liabilities is provided in Note 13 ‘Investment Properties’. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Proceeds from borrowings 2,800.6 5,327.6 Repayment of borrowings (2,576.8) (5,626.0) Dividends/distributions paid (337.9) (293.2) Proceeds from sale of treasury securities 106.5 Other financing activities (20.9) (28.8) Increase in capital of non controlling interest 37.0 Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities 8.5 (620.4) Other Cash Flow Items Effect of foreign exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents 16.2 25.1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 240.8 258.3 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 1,008.4 750.1 Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 15 1,249.2 1,008.4 The accompanying notes form part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 134 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 135 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section A: Performance The following tables set out other financial information by reportable segment. Depreciation Non Current Profit after Tax (PAT) is the key measure used to assess the Group’s performance. This section of the Financial Report focuses on Segment Finance Finance Share of and Material Non Segment Group Total disclosure that enhances a user’s understanding of PAT. Segment reporting provides a breakdown of profit and revenue by the operational Revenue1 Revenue Expense Results EAI2 Amortisation Cash Items3 Assets4 Assets activity. The key line items of the Income Statement along with their components provide detail behind the reported balances. Group A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m performance will also impact the earnings per stapled security and dividend payout, therefore disclosure on these items has been included in this section. Further information and analysis on performance can be found in the Performance & Outlook section of the Year Ended June 2017 Directors’ Report. Development 3,433.0 1.2 39.4 (4.0) 36.7 4,164.5 6,637.9 Construction 12,644.5 0.4 (0.9) 4.7 (34.7) (45.0) 1,718.2 4,988.2 1. Segment Reporting Investments 566.7 1.6 32.5 (8.3) (8.0) 7,044.8 8,520.3 Total segment 16,644.2 3.2 (0.9) 76.6 (47.0) (16.3) 12,927.5 20,146.4 Accounting Policies The Group’s segments are Development, Construction and Investments. The Group has identified these operating segments based on Corporate activities 26.8 8.8 (107.7) 1.3 (51.2) 6.6 268.4 707.8 internal reports that are reviewed and used by the Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (the chief operating decision Statutory result 16,671.0 12.0 (108.6) 77.9 (98.2) (9.7) 13,195.9 20,854.2 maker) in assessing performance and in determining the allocation of resources. Segment performance is based on PAT. PAT is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most Year Ended June 2016 relevant in evaluating the results of certain reportable segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries. The Group Development 2,543.9 3.3 (0.2) 91.3 (4.0) (22.4) 3,314.8 5,667.8 does not consider corporate activities to be an operating segment. Construction 12,032.4 1.1 (0.1) 3.1 (37.9) (99.0) 1,641.3 4,499.1 The operating segments are as follows: Investments 510.5 4.1 (0.1) 58.3 (6.9) (21.3) 6,786.0 7,959.4 Development Total segment 15,086.8 8.5 (0.4) 152.7 (48.8) (142.7) 11,742.1 18,126.3 Operates in all four geographic regions. It is involved in the development of communities, inner city mixed use developments, apartments, Corporate activities 18.5 8.3 (125.8) (1.1) (33.9) 25.6 247.1 466.6 retirement, retail, commercial assets, and social and economic infrastructure. Statutory result 15,105.3 16.8 (126.2) 151.6 (82.7) (117.1) 11,989.2 18,592.9 Construction 1. Segment revenue as disclosed in the Performance & Outlook is comprised of Revenue and Finance Revenue. 2. Equity Accounted Investments. Operates across all four geographic regions to provide project management, design and construction services, predominately in the 3. The material non cash items relate to impairments and provisions raised or written back, unrealised foreign exchange movements and investment property infrastructure, defence, mixed use, commercial and residential sectors. fair value gains or losses. 4. Excludes deferred tax assets, financial instruments and defined benefit plan assets. Investments Owns and/or manages investments across all four geographic regions. The Investments segment includes a leading wholesale investment The operating segments generate earnings in the following regions. management platform and also includes the Group’s ownership interests in property and infrastructure co-investments, Retirement Living and US Military Housing. REVENUE1 NON CURRENT ASSETS2 Financial information regarding the performance of each reportable segment and a reconciliation of these reportable segments to the June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 2016 financial statements is included below. A$m A$m A$m A$m PROFIT INCOME TAX PROFIT Financial Disclosure BEFORE TAX BENEFIT/(EXPENSE) AFTER TAX Australia 10,029.7 8,665.1 9,936.5 9,600.4 June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 2016 Asia 574.2 406.6 860.6 517.6 A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Europe 1,328.8 1,798.1 1,135.7 1,047.0 Development 549.4 499.3 (151.6) (132.9) 397.8 366.4 Americas 4,711.5 4,217.0 994.6 577.1 Construction 303.1 251.3 (91.4) (60.4) 211.7 190.9 Total segment 16,644.2 15,086.8 12,927.4 11,742.1 Investments 488.7 454.8 (107.3) (84.1) 381.4 370.7 Corporate activities 26.8 18.5 268.5 247.1 Total segment 1,341.2 1,205.4 (350.3) (277.4) 990.9 928.0 Statutory result 16,671.0 15,105.3 13,195.9 11,989.2 Reconciling Items 1. Segment revenue as disclosed in the Performance & Outlook is comprised of Revenue and Finance Revenue. 2. Excludes deferred tax assets, financial instruments and defined benefit plan assets and is based on the geographical location of assets. Corporate activities (334.3) (342.5) 102.0 112.7 (232.3) (229.8) No revenue from transactions with a single external customer amounts to 10 per cent or more of the Group’s revenue. Statutory result attributable to securityholders 1,006.9 862.9 (248.3) (164.7) 758.6 698.2 External non controlling interests 0.1 (0.1) 0.1 (0.1) Statutory result 1,007.0 862.8 (248.3) (164.7) 758.7 698.1 136 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 137 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section A: Performance continued 4. Revenue 2. Dividends/Distributions 1 Accounting Policies COMPANY/TRUST Revenue from the provision of services is recognised in the Income Statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the Cents June 2017 June 2016 transactions at the balance sheet date. Per Share/Unit A$m A$m • For Construction and Development: the value of work performed using the percentage complete method, which is measured Parent Company Interim Dividend by reference to costs incurred to date as a percentage of total forecast costs for each contract. This measurement is an accounting December 2016 – paid 24 March 2017 29.8 173.5 judgement as management uses judgement to estimate expenses incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated costs. It also includes origination fees for infrastructure services rendered. December 2015 – paid 15 March 2016 21.4 124.1 • For Investments: funds, origination and asset management fee entitlements are recognised for services rendered. Investments also Lendlease Trust Interim Distribution includes Retirement Living Deferred Management Fees (DMF). A typical DMF contract provides for an annual fee for a fixed period December 2016 – paid 24 March 2017 3.2 18.9 on the property occupied by a resident (e.g. three per cent per annum of purchase or resale price for a period up to 10 to 12 years, or December 2015 – paid 15 March 2016 8.6 50.3 30 per cent to 36 per cent in total) plus a share of the capital gain realised on turnover. For both owned retirement villages (investment property) and managed retirement villages, DMF income is recognised on an annual accrual basis based upon the expected term of the Parent Company Final Dividend resident’s licence and estimates of capital growth since the resident first occupied the unit. June 2017 – declared subsequent to reporting date2 28.4 165.8 Revenue from the sale of development properties is recognised in the Income Statement when: June 2016 – paid 14 September 2016 27.5 160.0 • The significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer; Lendlease Trust Final Distribution • The Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control June 2017 – provided for (payable 20 September 2017) 4.6 26.7 over the development properties sold; June 2016 – paid 14 September 2016 2.5 14.7 • The revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the Group will receive the consideration due; and 384.9 349.1 • The Group can reliably measure the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction. The measurement of revenue from the sale of development properties is another accounting judgement as it requires management to 1. Final and interim dividends/distributions were not franked in the current and prior year. 2. No provision for this dividend has been recognised in the Statement of Financial Position at 30 June 2017, as it was declared after the end of the financial year. exercise judgement in valuing the individual components of a development property sale, given the due consideration to cost inputs, market conditions and commercial factors. Dividend Franking Rental revenue, including lease incentives granted, is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the term of the The amount of franking credits available for use in subsequent reporting periods as at 30 June 2017 is A$13.0 million, based on a 30 per cent lease. tax rate (30 June 2016: A$4.8 million). This is calculated after adjusting for franking credits which will arise from the payment of income tax Other revenue primarily includes dividends/distributions and miscellaneous items. Dividend/distribution revenue is recognised when the provided in the financial statements in the current financial year. right to receive payment is established, usually on declaration of the dividend/distribution. 3. Earnings Per Share/Stapled Security (EPS/EPSS) Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m Accounting Policies The Group presents basic and diluted EPS/EPSS in the Income Statement. This is a key performance measure for the Group. Refer to Revenue from the provision of services further details in the Finance Pillar section of the Annual Report on page 42. Construction 12,646.5 12,029.8 Basic EPS/EPSS is determined by dividing Profit/(loss) after Tax attributable to members of the Company and Group, excluding any costs of servicing equity other than ordinary shares/securities, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares/securities outstanding Development 581.6 325.3 during the financial year, adjusted for bonus elements in ordinary shares/securities issued during the financial year. Investments 507.0 460.0 Diluted EPS/EPSS is determined by adjusting the Profit/(loss) after Tax attributable to members of the Company and Group, and the Total revenue from the provision of services 13,735.1 12,815.1 weighted average number of ordinary shares/securities outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares/securities. The Group currently does not have any dilutive potential ordinary shares/securities. Dilution occurs when treasury shares and employee share Revenue from the sale of development properties 2,829.3 2,202.5 options are included in outstanding shares. Rental revenue 23.3 11.4 The issued units of Lendlease Trust (LLT) are presented separately within equity, and therefore the profit attributable to LLT is excluded from the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per Company share presented in the Income Statement. Other revenue 71.3 59.5 Total revenue 16,659.0 15,088.5 JUNE 2017 JUNE 2016 Financial Disclosure Shares/ Shares/ Securities Securities excluding Shares/ excluding Shares/ Treasury Securities Treasury Securities Securities on Issue Securities on Issue Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) Profit attributable to members of Lendlease Corporation Limited (Company) A$m 645.7 645.7 557.8 557.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares m 561.0 583.0 552.6 581.4 Basic/Diluted EPS cents 115.1 110.8 100.9 95.9 Basic/Diluted Earnings Per Stapled Security (EPSS) Profit attributable to securityholders of Lendlease Group A$m 758.6 758.6 698.2 698.2 Weighted average number of stapled securities m 561.0 583.0 552.6 581.4 Basic/Diluted EPSS cents 135.2 130.1 126.3 120.1 138 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 139 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section A: Performance continued b. Joint Ventures1 June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m 5. Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments Australia Accounting Policies Development Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. The share of profit recognised under the equity Sunshine Coast University Hospital2 7.2 method is the Group’s share of the investment’s profit or loss based on the ownership interest held. Associates (including partnerships) are entities in which the Group, as a result of its voting rights, has significant influence, but not control or joint control, over the financial and International Convention Centre Sydney (Darling Harbour Live) 2 6.5 operating policies. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the Other 6.6 7.8 net assets of the arrangement. Investments For associates, this is from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases, and for joint ventures, this is from the date joint control commences until the date joint control ceases. Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust3 17.6 53.3 Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust 3 (0.3) 6.2 Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 Total Australia 23.9 81.0 A$m A$m Asia Associates Development Share of profit 20.7 13.8 Other (4.8) (4.5) Joint Ventures Investments Share of profit 57.2 137.8 CDR JV Ltd (313@somerset) (3.5) (16.5) Total share of profit of equity accounted investments 77.9 151.6 Total Asia (8.3) (21.0) Europe a. Associates1 June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m Development Stratford City Business District Limited (International Quarter London) 37.1 69.4 Australia Other 2.0 Development Investments Lendlease Communities Fund 1 (0.2) 0.1 Majadahonda Hospital 0.5 Investments Other 0.5 7.8 Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund 3.2 3.8 Total Europe 39.6 77.7 Total Australia 3.0 3.9 Americas Asia Development Investments Other 2.0 0.1 Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 2 0.5 (0.8) Total Americas 2.0 0.1 Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 3 14.9 5.0 Total share of profit from joint ventures 57.2 137.8 Total Asia 15.4 4.2 Total share of profit from equity accounted investments 77.9 151.6 Europe 1. Reflects the contribution to the Group’s profit, and is after tax paid by the Equity Accounted Investment vehicles themselves, where relevant. However, Development for various Equity Accounted Investments, the share of tax is paid by the Group and is included in the Group’s current tax expense. Other 3.3 2. Joint venture sold as part of the Australian Private Public Partnership entities sale in June 2016. 3. As a result of reaching the operational phase for the three International Towers Sydney, the governance structures of Lendlease International Towers Total Europe – 3.3 Sydney Trust and Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust changed. The Group reassessed its joint control conclusions, and determined that joint control no longer exists. As a result, these investments have been reclassified from Equity Accounted Investments to Other Financial Assets measured at fair value through profit and loss. The Group has recorded its share of comprehensive income in relation to these investments for the period joint control Americas was maintained. Investments Other 2.3 2.4 Total Americas 2.3 2.4 Total share of profit from associates 20.7 13.8 1. Reflects the contribution to the Group’s profit, and is after tax paid by the Equity Accounted Investment vehicles themselves, where relevant. However, for various Equity Accounted Investments, the share of tax is paid by the Group and is included in the Group’s current tax expense. 140 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 141 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section A: Performance continued 6. Other Income 5. Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments continued Accounting Policies c. Material Associates and Joint Ventures Summarised Financial Information Other Income Net gains or losses on sale/transfer of investments, including Equity Accounted Investments, available for sale financial assets and The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are material to the Group. Refer to Note consolidated entities are recognised when an unconditional contract is in place. 12c ‘Equity Accounted Investments’ for determination of material associates and joint ventures. The information disclosed reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint ventures and associates and, where indicated, the Group’s share of those amounts. They Net gains or losses on fair value remeasurements are recognised in accordance with the policies stated in Note 13 ‘Investment have been amended to reflect adjustments made by the Group when using the equity method, including fair value adjustments and differences in Properties’ and Note 14 ‘Other Financial Assets’. accounting policies. The nature and principal activities of the material associates and joint ventures is development of property assets. STRATFORD CITY BUSINESS Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 DISTRICT LIMITED A$m A$m (INTERNATIONAL QUARTER LONDON) Income Statement June 2017 June 2016 Net gain on sale/transfer of investments A$m A$m Equity accounted investments 36.8 Revenue from provision of services 693.5 543.7 Other assets and liabilities 2.0 21.5 Interest income 0.3 1.8 Consolidated entities1 94.5 163.3 Depreciation and amortisation (3.0) (0.1) Available for sale financial assets 23.2 15.8 Other expenses (597.8) (371.7) Total net gain on sale/transfer of investments 119.7 237.4 Income tax expense (18.8) (34.9) Net gain on fair value measurement Profit for the year 74.2 138.8 Investment Properties 22.5 Other comprehensive income (3.6) (13.8) Fair value through profit or loss assets 55.1 11.9 Total comprehensive income 70.6 125.0 Total net gain on fair value measurement 77.6 11.9 Group’s ownership interest 50.0% 50.0% Other 1 49.9 7.6 Group’s total share of: Total other income 247.2 256.9 Profit 37.1 69.4 1. Net gain on sale of consolidated entities includes a A$66.2 million gain on sale of the Circular Quay Tower entities in December 2016 and A$14.7 million Other comprehensive income (1.8) (6.9) gain on sale of Victoria Drive Wandsworth entities in June 2017. Other income includes the related revaluation gain on the retained Equity Accounted Investment in the entities (Lendlease Circular Quay Trust A$16.7 million and Victoria Drive Wandsworth A$16.6 million). The majority of cash was received Total comprehensive income 35.3 62.5 for these transactions during the year ended 30 June 2017. Dividends received from associates and joint ventures (40.0) The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are individually immaterial to the Group. ASSOCIATES JOINT VENTURES June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 20161 Income Statement A$m A$m A$m A$m Aggregate amounts of the Group’s share of: Profit from continuing operations 20.7 13.8 20.1 78.3 Other comprehensive income/(expense) (11.1) 5.0 4.3 10.2 Aggregate amounts of Group’s share of total comprehensive income of individually immaterial equity accounted investments 9.6 18.8 24.4 88.5 1. June 2016 comparatives included Stratford City Business District Limited (International Quarter London) as an immaterial joint venture, this investment has been disclosed as a material joint venture for June 2017. Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust and Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust were disclosed as material joint ventures for June 2016 and the Group’s share of total comprehensive income relating to these investments was A$53.3 million and A$6.2 million respectively. No figures in the above table have been restated. 142 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 143 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section A: Performance continued Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m 7. Other Expenses Profit before income tax includes the following other expense items: Accounting Policies Employee benefit expenses1 2,330.4 2,079.2 Other expenses in general are recognised as incurred. Superannuation accumulation plan expense 56.2 54.2 Employee Benefit Expenses Net defined benefit plans expense 5.4 6.5 Employee benefits are expensed as the related service by the employee is provided and includes both equity and cash based payment Expenses include impairments raised/(reversals) relating to: transactions. Employee benefits recognised in the Income Statement are net of recoveries. Loans and receivables 0.7 (0.2) For cash bonuses, the Group recognises an accrued liability for the amount expected to be paid. This is based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit attributable to the Group’s securityholders after certain adjustments. Refer to Note 34a ‘Short Term Incentives’ for Property inventories (31.6) (7.4) further detail. Property, plant and equipment 1.5 Share Based Compensation Equity accounted investments (4.0) (3.3) The Group operates equity settled share based compensation plans that are linked to Lendlease’s security price. The fair value of the equity received in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense and a corresponding increase in equity, in the Equity Compensation Other financial assets 3.4 Reserve. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the securities granted. Net fair value loss on investment properties 2.2 The fair value is primarily determined using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. Refer to Note 34c ‘Amounts Recognised in the Financial Statements’ for further detail. Management considers the fair value assigned to be an area of estimation uncertainty as it requires Operating lease expense 99.3 84.9 judgements on Lendlease’s security price and whether vesting conditions will be satisfied. Depreciation and amortisation 98.2 82.7 At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the entitlement due. It recognises the impact of revision of original Net foreign exchange loss 11.4 2.7 estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. Changes in entitlement for equity settled share based compensation plans are not recognised if they fail to vest due to market conditions not being 1. Total expense before recoveries through projects. met. Superannuation Accumulation Plan Expense Auditor’s Remuneration June 2017 June 2016 A$000s A$000s All employees in the Australia region are entitled to benefits on retirement, disability or death from the Group’s superannuation accumulation plan. The majority of these employees are party to a defined contribution plan and receive fixed contributions from the Amounts received or due and receivable by the auditors of Lendlease Group for: Group. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due. The Group also operates a defined benefit superannuation plan, membership of which is Audit and Other Assurance Services now closed. Refer to Note 33 ‘Defined Benefit Plans’ for further detail. Audit services 5,922 5,536 Impairment Other assurance services 485 683 The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, subject to impairment tests, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. The calculation of this recoverable Total audit and other assurance services 6,407 6,219 amount is dependent on the type of asset. The material assets’ accounting policies will contain further information on these calculations. Non audit services 280 – An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are Total audit, other assurance and non audit services 6,687 6,219 recognised in the Income Statement unless an asset has been previously revalued through reserves. Reversals of Impairment Impairment losses on assets can be reversed (other than goodwill) when there is a subsequent increase in the recoverable amount. The increase could be due to a specific event, the indication that impairment may no longer exist of if there is a change in estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Operating Lease Expense Payments made under operating leases, including lease incentives, are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. Depreciation and Amortisation Depreciation is charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment, and major components that are accounted for separately. Amortisation is provided on leasehold improvements over the remaining term of the lease. Most plant is depreciated over a period not exceeding 20 years, furniture and fittings over three to 15 years, motor vehicles over four to eight years and computer equipment over three years. 144 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 145 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section A: Performance continued 9. Taxation 8. Finance Revenue and Finance Costs Accounting Policies Income Taxes Accounting Policies Income tax on the profit or loss for the financial year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the Income Finance revenue is recognised as it is earned using the effective interest method, which applies the interest rate that discounts estimated Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Under current future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument. The discount is then recognised as finance revenue over the Australian income tax law, Lendlease Trust (LLT) is not liable for income tax, including capital gains tax, to the extent that unitholders are remaining life of the financial instrument. attributed the taxable income of LLT. Finance costs include interest, amortisation of discounts or premiums relating to borrowings and amortisation of costs incurred in Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the financial year, using applicable tax rates (and tax laws) at the connection with the arrangement of new borrowings facilities. Costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings are balance sheet date in each jurisdiction, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years. capitalised and amortised over the life of the borrowings. Finance costs are expensed immediately as incurred unless they relate to acquisition and development of qualifying assets. Qualifying assets are assets that take more than six months to prepare for their intended Deferred tax is the expected tax payable in future periods as a result of past transactions or events and is calculated by comparing the use or sale. Finance costs related to qualifying assets are capitalised. accounting balance sheet to the tax balance sheet. Temporary differences are provided for any differences in the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities between the accounting and tax balance sheets. The following temporary differences are not provided for: • The initial recognition of goodwill; Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 • The initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit; and A$m A$m • Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they are not likely to reverse in the foreseeable future. Measurement of deferred tax is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, Finance Revenue using applicable tax rates (and tax laws) at the balance sheet date. Related parties 1.1 Recognition of deferred tax assets is only to the extent it is probable that future taxable profits will be available so as the related tax asset Other corporations 9.2 10.6 will be realised. Deferred tax assets may include the following: • Deductible temporary differences; Total interest finance revenue 9.2 11.7 • Unused tax losses; and Interest discounting 2.8 5.1 • Unused tax credits. Total finance revenue 12.0 16.8 Management considers the estimation of future taxable profits to be an area of estimation uncertainty as a change in any of the assumptions used in budgeting and forecasting would have an impact on the future profitability of the Group. The Group prepares Finance Costs financial budgets and forecasts, covering a five year period, which are reviewed on a regular basis. These forecasts and budgets form the basis of future profitability to support the carrying value of the deferred tax assets. The performance of the Group is influenced by a Other corporations 117.9 133.8 variety of general economic and business conditions which are outside the control of the Group, including the level of inflation, interest Less: Capitalised interest finance costs 1 (25.3) (23.2) rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, ability to access funding, oversupply and demand conditions and government fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies. Total interest finance costs 92.6 110.6 Presentation of deferred tax assets and liabilities can be offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and Non interest finance costs 16.0 15.6 assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity or on different tax entities, but are Total finance costs 108.6 126.2 intended to be settled on a net basis or to be realised simultaneously. Tax Consolidation Net finance costs (96.6) (109.4) The Company is the head entity of the Australian Tax Consolidated Group comprising all the Australian wholly owned subsidiaries, 1. The weighted average interest rate used to determine the amount of interest finance costs eligible for capitalisation was 4.9 per cent (June 2016: excluding LLT. As a consequence, all members of the Australian Tax Consolidation Group are taxed as a single entity. 4.5 per cent), which is the effective interest rate. 146 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 147 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section A: Performance continued JUNE 2017 JUNE 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 9. Taxation continued A$m A$m A$m A$m June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m c. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities a. Income Tax Expense Recognised Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Recognised in the Income Statement Loans and receivables 1.8 (286.3) 2.6 (143.6) Current Tax Expense Current year 181.3 172.3 Inventories 137.8 (186.4) 66.8 (311.6) Adjustments for prior years (5.1) (1.1) Other financial assets 8.5 (57.9) 21.5 (69.6) Benefit of tax losses recognised (2.1) (11.9) Other assets 15.1 (18.0) 4.4 (5.6) 174.1 159.3 Equity accounted investments 5.5 (33.5) 8.1 (42.8) Deferred Tax Expense Investment properties (273.2) 0.3 (189.5) Origination and reversal of temporary differences 99.9 19.7 Property, plant and equipment 26.3 (28.9) 27.8 (25.6) Temporary differences recovered/recognised (4.8) (38.8) Intangible assets (10.8) (14.0) Net tax losses written off 8.9 24.6 Net defined benefit plans 30.2 (25.2) 28.4 (24.2) Change in tax rate 2.4 (4.6) Trade and other payables 163.8 (2.9) 193.9 (5.0) Adjustments for prior years (32.2) 4.5 Resident liabilities 81.5 107.4 74.2 5.4 Provisions 109.5 97.8 Total income tax expense 248.3 164.7 Borrowings and financing arrangements 14.7 0.6 Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate Other financial and non financial liabilities 2.0 (0.1) 6.6 (1.3) Profit before Tax 1,007.0 862.8 Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 30% 302.1 258.8 Unused revenue tax losses recognised 231.3 237.9 Adjustments for prior year tax claim (5.1) (1.1) Unused capital tax losses recognised 12.6 Non assessable and exempt income 1 (56.0) (70.1) Items with a tax base but no carrying value 20.7 (34.3) 22.9 (26.8) Non allowable expenses2 4.8 9.1 Total deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 848.7 (957.5) 839.6 (859.6) Net writeoff of tax losses through income tax expense 24.8 13.3 Deferred tax set off (719.3) 719.3 (730.1) 730.1 Temporary differences recognised through income tax expense3 (4.8) (11.4) Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 129.4 (238.2) 109.5 (129.5) Utilisation of capital losses on disposal of assets (2.1) (11.9) Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions4 (4.0) (15.7) Other/ 1 July Recognised Recognised Foreign 30 June Other (11.4) (6.3) 2016 in Income in Equity Exchange 2017 Income tax expense 248.3 164.7 June 2017 A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Deferred Tax Recognised Directly in Equity Movement in temporary differences during the financial year: Relating to: Loans and receivables (141.0) (143.9) 0.4 (284.5) Fair value revaluation reserve (12.1) (0.7) Inventories (244.8) 192.8 3.4 (48.6) Defined benefit plan remeasurements (2.8) 9.7 Other financial assets (48.1) (10.1) 7.6 1.2 (49.4) Foreign currency translation reserve (17.6) 4.9 Other assets (1.2) (1.7) (2.9) Hedging reserve (1.3) 0.8 Non controlling interest acquisition reserve 4.2 3.0 Equity accounted investments (34.7) (0.9) 7.6 (28.0) Total deferred tax (benefit)/expense recognised directly in equity (29.6) 17.7 Investment properties (189.2) (84.0) (273.2) 1. Includes Lendlease Trust profit. Property, plant and equipment 2.2 (1.2) (3.6) (2.6) 2. Includes expenses for which a tax deduction is not allowed permanently. Intangible assets (14.0) 3.2 (10.8) 3. Includes temporary differences recognised in a previous year but are subsequently written off to income tax expense in the current year and temporary differences that arose in a previous year but were not recognised until the current year. Net defined benefit plans 4.2 (2.0) 2.8 5.0 4. The Group operates in a number of foreign jurisdictions for trading purposes that have significantly lower tax rates than Australia such as the United Kingdom Trade and other payables 188.9 (30.4) 2.4 160.9 and Singapore and higher tax rates such as the United States and Japan. Also includes the effect of change in tax rates. Resident liabilities 107.4 (27.6) 1.7 81.5 b. Tax Effect Relating to Other Comprehensive Income JUNE 2017 JUNE 2016 Provisions 97.8 17.7 (6.0) 109.5 Tax Tax Borrowings and financing arrangements 0.6 (0.6) 14.7 14.7 Before (Expense)/ Net Before (Expense)/ Net Other financial and non financial liabilities 5.3 (4.4) 1.1 (0.1) 1.9 Tax Benefit of Tax Tax Benefit of Tax A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Unused revenue tax losses recognised 237.9 27.4 (34.0) 231.3 Movements in fair value revaluation reserve (12.1) 12.1 (2.4) 0.7 (1.7) Unused capital tax losses recognised 12.6 (2.9) (9.7) Movements in hedging reserve 17.7 1.3 19.0 9.7 (0.8) 8.9 Items with a tax base but no carrying value (3.9) (5.6) (4.2) 0.1 (13.6) Movements in foreign currency translation reserve (58.6) 17.6 (41.0)1 20.9 (4.9) 16.01 Total deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (20.0) (74.2) 29.6 (44.2) (108.8) Movements in non controlling interest acquisition reserve 2.8 2.8 0.5 0.5 Movements in defined benefit plan remeasurements (14.4) 2.8 (11.6) 48.0 (9.7) 38.3 Total other comprehensive income net of tax (64.6) 33.8 (30.8) 76.7 (14.7) 62.0 1. Includes A$(0.1) million relating to external non controlling interests (June 2016: A$0.3 million). 148 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 149 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section A: Performance continued Section B: Investment 9. Taxation continued Investment in the Development pipeline, joint ventures in property projects, the retirement sector, and more passive assets, such as 1 July Recognised Recognised Other/Foreign 30 June property funds, drives the current and future performance of the Group. This section includes disclosures for property such as Inventories 2015 in Income in Equity Exchange 2016 and Investment Properties and indirect property assets such as Equity Accounted Investments and Other Financial Assets contained June 2016 A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m within the Statement of Financial Position. Loans and receivables (417.8) 278.7 (1.9) (141.0) 11. Inventories Inventories (30.5) (219.3) 5.0 (244.8) Other financial assets (66.3) 18.7 0.7 (1.2) (48.1) Accounting Policies Other assets 7.2 (8.6) 0.2 (1.2) Development Properties Equity accounted investments (58.1) 28.1 (4.5) (0.2) (34.7) Property acquired for development and sale in the ordinary course of business is carried at the lower of cost and Net Realisable Value (NRV). The cost of development properties includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the property, preparing it for sale and borrowing Investment properties (139.5) (51.6) 1.9 (189.2) costs incurred. Property, plant and equipment 4.9 (3.1) 0.4 2.2 The NRV is the estimated selling price, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses. Management considers the estimation Intangible assets (9.3) (4.7) (14.0) of both selling prices and costs of completion to be an area of estimation uncertainty, as these estimations take into consideration market conditions affecting each property and the underlying strategy for selling the property. Net defined benefit plans 16.8 (1.4) (9.7) (1.5) 4.2 The recoverable amount of each property is assessed at each balance date and accounting judgement is required to assess whether a Trade and other payables 153.8 34.2 0.9 188.9 provision is raised where cost (including costs to complete) exceeds NRV. Resident liabilities 150.0 (42.6) 107.4 Inventories are expensed as cost of sales in the Income Statement. Management uses accounting judgement in determining the following: Provisions 134.9 (39.6) 2.5 97.8 • The apportionment of cost of sales through either land area or sales revenue; Borrowings and financing arrangements 0.2 0.8 (0.4) 0.6 • The amount of cost of sales, which includes costs incurred to date and final forecast costs; and Other financial liabilities 6.6 (1.2) (0.1) 5.3 • The nature of the expenditure, which may include acquisition costs, development costs, borrowing costs and those costs incurred in preparing the property for sale. Unused revenue tax losses recognised 420.6 (182.7) 237.9 Construction Work in Progress Unused capital tax losses recognised 6.9 5.7 12.6 The gross amount of Construction and Development work in progress consists of costs attributable to work performed, including Items with a tax base but no carrying value 3.1 (7.3) (3.0) 3.3 (3.9) recoverable pre contract and project bidding costs and emerging profit after providing for any foreseeable losses. In applying the accounting policies on providing for these losses, accounting judgement is required. Total deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 176.9 (5.4) (17.7) (173.8) (20.0) Work in progress is presented as part of inventories for all contracts in which costs incurred plus recognised profits exceed progress billings. If progress billings and recognised losses exceed costs incurred plus recognised profits, then the difference is presented in trade June 2017 June 2016 and other payables. A$m A$m Unrecognised Deferred Tax Assets Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: A$m A$m Unused revenue tax losses 55.2 56.9 Current Unused capital tax losses 28.3 9.8 Development properties 1,163.0 1,020.1 Net deductible temporary differences 42.2 54.0 Construction work in progress 975.7 894.0 Total unrecognised deferred tax assets 125.7 120.7 Other 13.3 8.9 Total current 2,152.0 1,923.0 Of the unrecognised deferred tax assets of A$125.7 million, only A$16.3 million expires by 2037. The remainder of the unrecognised deferred tax assets have no expiry date. Non Current 10. Events Subsequent to Balance Date Development properties 2,975.4 2,679.9 There were no material events subsequent to the end of the financial year. Total non current 2,975.4 2,679.9 Total inventories 5,127.4 4,602.9 150 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 151 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section B: Investment continued INTEREST NET BOOK VALUE 12. Equity Accounted Investments June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 2016 % % A$m A$m Accounting Policies a. Associates Equity Accounted Investments (Associates and Joint Ventures) Australia As outlined in Note 5 ‘Share of Profit of Equity Accounted Investments’, investments in Associates and Joint Ventures are equity accounted. The share of investment recognised under the equity method is the Group’s share of the investment’s net assets based on ownership interest held. Development Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried at the lower of the equity accounted carrying amount and the recoverable Lendlease Communities Fund 1 20.8 20.8 4.1 4.3 amount. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the Equity Accounted Investment (including assets that form Investments part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture entity), the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has obligations in respect of the associate or joint venture. Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund1 10.0 10.0 39.3 38.0 Dividends from associates and joint ventures represent a return on the Group’s investment and, as such, are applied as a reduction to the Total Australia 43.4 42.3 carrying value of the investment. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with Equity Accounted Investments are eliminated against the investment in the associate or joint venture to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate or joint venture. Unrealised losses Asia are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment. Other movements in Investments Associates’ and Joint Ventures’ reserves are recognised directly in the Group’s consolidated reserves. Service Concession Arrangements (SCAs) Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 2 36.4 35.9 23.2 24.0 The Group equity accounts its investment in project companies with SCAs through Public Private Partnerships (PPPs). These Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund 3 20.1 20.1 151.8 156.4 arrangements provide facilities management and maintenance services with terms generally of 25 to 30 years. They also incorporate Total Asia 175.0 180.4 contractual obligations to make available the individual assets for their prescribed use and, where necessary, overhaul or replace major items of plant and equipment related to the assets with payment obtained through periodic draw downs from the relevant government Europe authorities. Development Joint Operations A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets and Other 3.8 4.0 obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement. Total Europe 3.8 4.0 Investments in joint operations are accounted for by recognising amounts on a line by line basis in accordance with the accounting standards applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in relation to the Group’s interest in the joint operation. Americas Investments Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 Other 1.3 1.4 A$m A$m Total Americas 1.3 1.4 Associates Total 223.5 228.1 Investment in associates 223.5 228.1 Less: Impairment (6.3) (5.9) Less: Impairment (6.3) (5.9) Total associates 217.2 222.2 Total associates 217.2 222.2 1. Although the Group has a 10 per cent ownership interest in Lendlease Sub Regional Retail Fund, it holds 20 per cent of the voting rights over the fund and has significant influence over the investment. As a result, the Group applies equity accounting for its ownership interest. Joint Ventures Investment in joint ventures 629.1 946.9 Less: Impairment (11.7) (16.5) Total joint ventures 617.4 930.4 Total equity accounted investments 834.6 1,152.6 152 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 153 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued c. Material Associates and Joint Ventures Summarised Financial Information Section B: Investment continued The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are material to the Group. Material associates and joint ventures have been determined by comparing individual investment net book value with the total Equity Accounted 12. Equity Accounted Investments continued Investment carrying value and share of profit, along with consideration of relevant qualitative factors. The information disclosed reflects the INTEREST NET BOOK VALUE amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint ventures and associates and, where indicated, the Group’s share of those amounts. They have been amended to reflect adjustments made by the Group when using the equity method, including fair value adjustments June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 2016 and differences in accounting policies. The nature and principal activities of the material associates and joint ventures is development of % % A$m A$m property assets. b. Joint Ventures STRATFORD CITY BUSINESS Australia DISTRICT LIMITED Development (INTERNATIONAL QUARTER LONDON) Circular Quay Tower 20.0 34.9 Statement of Financial Position June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m Other 18.2 19.9 Current assets Investments Cash and cash equivalents 134.7 157.4 Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust1 15.0 380.3 Other current assets 250.3 40.0 Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust1 12.5 107.5 Total current assets 385.0 197.4 Total Australia 53.1 507.7 Total non current assets 8.7 213.9 Asia Current liabilities Development Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) (214.0) Paya Lebar Quarter 30.0 30.0 179.6 177.3 Other current liabilities (198.5) (5.9) Investments Total current liabilities (198.5) (219.9) CDR JV Ltd (313@somerset) 25.0 25.0 75.5 90.6 Non current liabilities Total Asia 255.1 267.9 Financial liabilities (excluding trade payables) (13.1) (93.0) Europe Total non current liabilities (13.1) (93.0) Development Net assets 182.1 98.4 Stratford City Business District Limited (International Quarter London) 50.0 50.0 89.8 45.8 Reconciliation to Carrying Amounts Hungate (York) Regeneration Limited 50.0 50.0 6.9 4.8 Opening net assets 1 July 98.0 53.0 Victoria Drive Wandsworth 50.0 34.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 70.6 125.0 Investments Dividends paid (80.0) Treviso 50.0 50.0 8.9 7.6 Acquisition/contributions 10.4 Other 5.0 5.0 Closing net assets 179.0 98.0 Total Europe 145.2 63.2 % ownership 50.0% 50.0% Americas Group’s share of net assets 89.5 49.0 Development Other adjustments 0.3 (3.2) 277 Fifth Avenue 40.0 40.0 52.0 53.3 Carrying amount at end of year 89.8 45.8 Riverline 60.0 60.0 93.1 48.9 There were no capital expenditure or lease commitments contracted but not provided for during the current or prior year for the material 845 Madison 70.0 70.0 26.6 4.4 associates and joint ventures. Other 0.9 The table below provides summarised financial information for those associates and joint ventures that are individually immaterial to the Group. Construction Other 3.1 1.5 ASSOCIATES JOINT VENTURES Total Americas 175.7 108.1 June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 20161 A$m A$m A$m A$m Total 629.1 946.9 Aggregate carrying value of individually immaterial equity Less: Impairment (11.7) (16.5) accounted investments 217.2 222.2 527.6 442.6 Total joint ventures 617.4 930.4 1. June 2016 comparatives included Stratford City Business District Limited (International Quarter London) as an immaterial joint venture; this investment has been disclosed as a material joint venture for June 2017. Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust and Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Total equity accounted investments 834.6 1,152.6 Trust were disclosed as material joint ventures for June 2016 and the Group’s share of net assets relating to these investments was A$380.3 million and A$107.5 million respectively. No figures in the above table have been restated. 1. As a result of reaching the operational phase for the three International Towers Sydney at Barangaroo South, the governance structures of Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust and Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust changed. The Group reassessed its joint control conclusions, and determined that joint control no longer exists. As a result, these investments have been reclassified from Equity Accounted Investments to Other Financial Assets measured at fair value through profit and loss. 154 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 155 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section B: Investment continued Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m 13. Investment Properties Reconciliations Reconciliations of the carrying amount for investment properties are as follows: Accounting Policies Investment properties on initial recognition are measured at cost, including transaction costs and subsequently stated at fair value. Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 5,940.7 5,994.9 The fair value for all properties, except those under construction and those valued at less than A$10.0 million, is based on periodic, but at Acquisition/(disposal) of investment properties 218.1 (523.7) least triennial, valuations by qualified external independent valuers. It is the policy of the Group to review the fair value of each property every Capital expenditure 300.2 112.8 six months. Fair value is based on current prices in an active market for similar properties in the same location and condition. If this information is Fair value gain/(loss) recognised through the Income Statement 22.5 (2.2) not available, the Group uses alternative calculation methods such as discounted cash flow projections, recent prices on less active Increase attributable to capital gain 468.8 328.3 markets or capitalised income projections. Capitalised income projections are based on perpetuity of net operating income and deferred management fees using a capitalisation rate derived from market evidence. Foreign exchange rate/other movements 17.1 30.6 Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the Income Statement. Management considers the calculation of the Carrying amount at end of financial year 6,967.4 5,940.7 fair value to be an area of estimation uncertainty. While this represents the best estimation of fair value at the reporting date, actual sale prices achieved (should the investment properties be sold) may be higher or lower than the most recent valuation. This is particularly b. Resident Liabilities1 relevant in periods of market illiquidity or uncertainty. Gross resident liabilities 5,295.7 4,796.9 Rental revenue and deferred management fees from investment properties are accounted for as described in Note 4 ‘Revenue’. Expenses Deferred management fees receivable on owned sites (722.7) (677.4) capitalised to properties may include the cost of acquisition, additions, refurbishments, redevelopments, borrowing costs and certain fees incurred. Total resident liabilities 4,573.0 4,119.5 Retirement Living investment properties principally comprise retirement villages (both operating villages and villages under 1. Resident liabilities are non interest bearing and are classified as current liabilities because any resident may choose to depart within 12 months. The Group’s actual development) held for long term income yields that are not occupied by the Group. commercial history has shown residents stay for an average period of 11 years in independent living units (ILUs) and six years in serviced apartments (SAs). Resident liabilities are initially recognised as the amount paid by residents of Retirement Living investment properties to occupy the Therefore, the portion of the resident liabilities that could be considered current represents 5 to 10 per cent of the total balance and non current represents apartments and units. Subsequently they are measured at face value, being the principal paid, plus the resident’s share of capital gains 90 to 95 per cent of the total balance. This current and non current split of resident liabilities provides more useful and meaningful information as it better reflects the commercial substance of the Group’s liabilities. based on market values of the underlying property at balance date, less deferred management fees earned to date. Resident liabilities are non interest bearing and are classified as current liabilities because any resident may choose to depart within Net investment properties are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Refer below for valuation technique. 12 months. The Group’s actual commercial history has shown residents stay for an average period of 11 years in independent living Total net investment properties includes net Retirement Living properties (after deducting resident liabilities and related deferred revenue), units (ILUs) and six years in serviced apartments (SAs). Therefore, the portion of the resident liabilities that could be considered current A$1,738.7 million (June 2016: A$1,508.1 million), Retail property A$72.6 million (June 2016: A$71.9 million), Telecommunication tower represents 5 to 10 per cent of the total balance and non current represents 90 to 95 per cent of the total balance. This current and non properties A$83.3 million (June 2016 A$nil) and assets under construction A$368.1 million (June 2016: A$125.7 million). current split of resident liabilities provides more useful and meaningful information as it better reflects the commercial substance of the Group’s liabilities. c. Valuation Technique Deferred management fees receivable on owned sites (DMF) represents amounts owed to the Group in connection with resident The key assumptions used in the fair value assessments are summarised as follows. occupancy at retirement villages subject to long term management agreements. The DMF is calculated in accordance with resident contracts. Refer to Note 4 ‘Revenue’ for further detail. Retirement Living Properties For Retirement Living properties, the key long term assumptions adopted in the basis of valuation at the reporting date included: Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 • Weighted average discount rate of 13.0 per cent (June 2016: 13.3 per cent) and weighted average future growth rate of 3.6 per cent A$m A$m (June 2016: 3.7 per cent); • Average length of stay: 11 years for independent living units (June 2016: 11 years) and six years for serviced apartments a. Investment Properties – Non Current (June 2016: six years); and Retirement Living properties 6,443.4 5,743.1 • A discounted cash flow valuation model using a 50 year terminal yield. Retail property 72.6 71.9 For Retirement Living properties included in assets under construction, the assumptions adopted in determining the fair values at 30 June 2017 included: Telecommunication towers 83.3 • Discount rates between 14.0 and 17.0 per cent (June 2016: 14.0 and 17.0 per cent) based on the stage of development/assessed project Assets under construction 368.1 125.7 risk; and Total investment properties 6,967.4 5,940.7 • Growth rates are generally between 3.0 and 4.0 per cent (June 2016: between 2.0 and 4.0 per cent) based on price and cost escalation assumptions determined by individual property factors. d. Fair Value Reconciliation Reconciliation of carrying value for Level 3 net investment properties is as follows: June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 1,705.7 1,779.0 Additions/(disposals) and capital expenditure 429.5 (108.4) Gains/(losses) recognised in Income Statement 22.5 (2.2) Other movements 105.0 37.3 Carrying amount at end of financial year 2,262.7 1,705.7 The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions for valuation inputs would not have a material impact on the Group. 156 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 157 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section B: Investment continued Fair Value June 2017 June 2016 Level1 A$m A$m 14. Other Financial Assets Current Measured at Fair Value Fair Value Through Profit or Loss – Designated at Initial Recognition Accounting Policies Negotiable instruments Level 1 31.4 36.1 The following table summarises the accounting policies of investments the Group classifies as material financial assets. The classification Derivatives Level 2 1.6 14.6 classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired. Total current 33.0 50.7 Investment Classification Initial Category Criteria Recognition Subsequent Measurement Impairment Non Current Measured at Fair Value Available for Sale (AFS) Financial assets Held for Trading – if At fair value (generally Fair value; any changes in Fair value losses are at fair value acquired principally for transaction price). fair value are reflected in reflected in the Income Australian Prime Property Fund – Retail Level 3 45.9 44.8 through profit the purpose of selling in the Income Statement. Statement. Lendlease Core Plus Fund Level 3 0.5 Transaction costs are or loss the short term, unless recorded as expenses Lendlease Retail LP2 Level 3 65.7 designated as hedges; when they are incurred. refer to Note 25 ‘Hedging’ Lendlease Asian Retail Investment Fund Level 3 24.9 29.1 for further detail. Typically includes derivatives such Parkway Parade Partnership Limited Level 3 37.2 34.9 as forward exchange Other Level 3 122.8 129.1 contracts and interest rate swaps. 230.8 304.1 Fair Value Through Profit or Loss – Designated at Initial Recognition Designated at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss at Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust3 Level 3 411.5 initial recognition – either Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust3 Level 3 202.7 to eliminate a measurement or Australian Prime Property Fund – Industrial Level 3 66.7 73.3 recognition inconsistency, Australian Prime Property Fund – Commercial Level 3 205.3 191.4 or where a group of financial assets is Australian Prime Property Fund – Retail Level 3 27.5 managed, and its Lendlease Public Infrastructure Investment Company Level 3 40.7 40.5 performance is evaluated on a fair value basis. Other Unlisted Investments Level 3 10.1 10.1 Derivatives Level 2 0.7 Available for Non derivative financial At fair value (generally Fair value; unrealised gains AFS assets are generally 964.5 316.0 Sale (AFS) assets that are either transaction price), plus or losses arising from impaired when there is a designated in this category transaction costs directly changes in the fair value significant or prolonged Held to Maturity – Other N/A 8.0 8.7 or not classified in any attributable to the are recognised in equity, in decline in the fair value of Total non current 1,203.3 628.8 other category. Typically acquisition or issue. the Fair Value Revaluation the asset below its cost. include investments the Reserve. Total other financial assets 1,236.3 679.5 Transaction costs are The cumulative loss, Group does not control or incremental costs that When AFS financial assets measured as the difference 1. Refer to Note 26 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ for details for basis of determining fair value and the valuation technique. have significant influence would only have been are sold, transferred or between the acquisition 2. The Group transferred the Lendlease Retail LP investment to the Lend Lease UK Pension Scheme in June 2017, which resulted in the derecognition of the over and are not managed incurred in relation to impaired, the accumulated cost and the current fair A$61.7 million investment and A$23.2 million of revaluation gains released to the Income Statement. Refer to Note 6 ‘Other Income’ and Note 31 ‘Related on a fair value basis. Party Information‘. the transaction. fair value adjustments in value, less any impairment the reserves are included in loss on that financial asset 3. As a result of reaching the operational phase for the three International Towers Sydney at Barangaroo South, the governance structures of Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust and Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust changed. The Group reassessed its joint control conclusions, and the Income Statement as previously recognised in determined that joint control no longer exists. As a result, these investments have been reclassified from Equity Accounted Investments to Other Financial gains or losses. profit or loss – is removed Assets measured at fair value through profit and loss. from equity and recognised in the Income Fair Value Reconciliation1 Statement. The reconciliation of the carrying amount for Level 3 financial assets is set out as follows. Impairment losses previously recognised in JUNE 2017 JUNE 2016 3 the Income Statement on equity instruments are not Unlisted Unlisted reversed through the AFS Investments AFS Investments Income Statement but are A$m A$m A$m A$m recognised through other Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 304.1 315.3 328.3 287.2 comprehensive income. Additions/(disposals) (58.9) 96.2 (16.3) 16.2 Gains/(losses) recognised in Income Statement 55.2 (3.4) 12.0 Losses recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (7.1) (4.5) (0.1) Other movements 2 (7.3) 497.8 Carrying amount at end of financial year 230.8 964.5 304.1 315.3 1. Held to Maturity investments have been removed from the Fair Value Reconciliation as amounts are held at amortised cost. 2. Includes foreign exchange movement and transfers from Equity Accounted Investments during the year for investments in Lendlease International Towers Sydney Trust and Lendlease One International Towers Sydney Trust. 3. June 2016 comparatives for Gains/(losses) in the Income Statement and Other Comprehensive Income have been restated and presented on a combined basis to reflect current year presentation. The potential effect of using reasonably possible alternative assumptions for valuation inputs would not have a material impact on the Group. 158 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 159 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital 17. Borrowings and Financing Arrangements The ability of the Group to fund the continued investment in the property and infrastructure pipeline, invest in new opportunities and Accounting Policies meet current commitments is dependent on available cash and access to third party capital. This section contains disclosure on the Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised financial assets, financial liabilities, cash flows and equity that are required to finance the Group’s activities, including existing commitments, cost using the effective interest rate method. Under the amortised cost method the difference between the amount initially recognised and the liquidity risk exposure associated with financial liabilities. The section also contains disclosures for the Group’s trading assets, and the redemption value is recorded in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowing on an effective interest basis. Borrowings excluding inventories, and the trading liabilities incurred as a result of trading activities used to generate the Group’s performance. are referred to in this section using their redemption value when describing the terms and conditions. Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 15. Cash and Cash Equivalents A$m A$m a. Borrowings – Measured at Amortised Cost Accounting Policies Current Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, bank overdrafts and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash within three months and which are subject to an insignificant risk of Commercial notes 291.9 changes in value. Total current 291.9 – Bank overdrafts (if applicable) are shown as a current liability on the Statement of Financial Position and are shown as a reduction to the cash balance in the Statement of Cash Flows. Non Current Commercial notes 1,776.2 1,843.9 Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 Bank credit facilities 84.3 187.4 A$m A$m Total non current 1,860.5 2,031.3 Cash 889.6 802.9 Total borrowings 2,152.4 2,031.3 Short term investments1 359.6 205.5 b. Finance Facilities Total cash and cash equivalents 1,249.2 1,008.4 The Group has access to the following lines of credit: 1. Short term investments earned variable rates of interest which averaged two per cent per annum during the year (30 June 2016: 1.6 per cent). Commercial Notes Facility available 2,068.1 1,843.9 16. Notes to Statement of Cash Flows Amount of facility used (2,068.1) (1,843.9) June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m Amount of facility unused – – Reconciliation of Profit after Tax to Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Bank Credit Facilities Facility available 2,186.0 2,223.1 Profit after Tax (including External Non Controlling Interests) 758.7 698.1 Amortisation and depreciation 98.2 82.7 Amount of facility used (84.3) (187.4) Net gain on sale of investments, plant and equipment (119.7) (237.4) Amount of facility unused 2,101.7 2,035.7 Write back of impairment of equity accounted investments (4.0) (3.3) Bank Overdrafts Impairment of other financial assets 3.4 Facility available and amount unused 123.5 136.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 1.5 Net unrealised foreign exchange gain and currency hedging costs (18.8) (25.4) Commercial notes include: Net fair value gain on investments (55.1) (11.9) • £300.0 million of guaranteed unsecured notes issued in October 2006 in the United Kingdom bond market with a 6.125 per cent per annum Share of profit of equity accounted investments (77.9) (151.6) coupon maturing in October 2021; Dividends/distributions from equity accounted investments 33.9 59.9 • US$25.0 million of guaranteed unsecured senior notes issued in October 2005 in the United States private placement market with a Fair value (gain)/loss on investment properties (22.5) 2.2 5.78 per cent per annum coupon maturing in October 2017, classified as current for June 2017; US$400.0 million of guaranteed unsecured Other (252.5) (107.5) senior notes issued in May 2016 in the US Reg. S market under Lendlease’s Euro Medium Term Note programme with a 4.5 per cent per annum coupon maturing in May 2026; Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities 341.8 309.2 • S$275.0 million of senior unsecured notes issued in July 2012 in the Singapore bond market with a 4.625 per cent per annum coupon, Changes in Assets and Liabilities Adjusted for Effects of Purchase and classified as current for June 2017, which matured and were settled in July 2017; Disposal of Consolidated Entities and Operations During the Financial Year • S$300.0 million of guaranteed unsecured senior notes were issued in April 2017 in the Singapore bond market under Lendlease’s Euro (Increase)/decrease in receivables (454.0) 992.4 Medium Term Note Programme with a 3.90 per cent per annum coupon maturing in April 2027; and Increase in inventories (802.4) (573.6) • A$475.0 million of unsecured medium term notes issued in May 2013 (A$375.0 million) and June 2014 (A$100.0 million) in the Australian bond market comprising A$250.0 million with a 5.5 per cent per annum coupon maturing in November 2018 and A$225.0 million with a (Increase)/decrease in other assets (29.4) 9.1 6.0 per cent per annum coupon maturing in May 2020. Increase in net defined benefit plans (73.3) (18.9) Bank credit facilities include: Increase/(decrease) in payables 1,096.7 (123.0) • £400.0 million club bank facility maturing in March 2022 drawn to A$76.3 million as at 30 June 2017; and (Decrease)/Increase in operating derivatives assets/liabilities (36.2) 49.4 • A$1,500.0 million syndicated multi option facility maturing in June 2019 (A$600.0 million) and June 2020 (A$900.0 million) undrawn as at Decrease in deferred tax items 74.8 274.9 30 June 2017. Increase/(decrease) in current tax 28.7 (10.5) The bank overdraft facilities may be drawn at any time and are repayable on demand. Decrease in other provisions (0.7) (56.0) Consistent with prior periods, the Group has not defaulted on any obligations in relation to its borrowings and finance arrangements and other financial liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities 146.0 853.0 160 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 161 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 19. Capital Management Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued The Group assesses capital management as part of its broader strategic plan. The Group focuses on interrelated financial parameters, 17. Borrowings and Financing Arrangements continued including Return on Equity, earnings growth and borrowing capacity. The Group also monitors its gearing ratio, leverage ratio, interest coverage ratio and weighted average cost of debt and maturity profile. These are all taken into account when the Group makes decisions on how to invest its capital and evaluates its existing investments. INTEREST EXPOSURE CURRENCY The Group’s capital includes total equity, borrowings and other interest bearing liabilities. When investing capital, the Group’s objective is to Fixed Floating Total A$ US$ £ S$ Total deliver strong total securityholder returns and to maintain an investment grade credit rating by maintaining an appropriate financial profile. The A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Moody’s/Fitch long term credit ratings at 30 June 2017 are Baa3/BBBrespectively (June 2016: Baa3/BBB-). June 2017 The capital structure of the Group can be changed by equity issuance, paying distributions to securityholders, the Distribution Reinvestment Between one and five years 1,272.5 76.3 1,348.8 475.6 32.5 581.3 259.4 1,348.8 Plan and changing the level of debt. For further information on how the Group allocates and manages capital, refer to details of the Portfolio Management Framework in the Financial Pillar (page 42) and Performance & Outlook (pages 64 to 75) in this Annual Report. More than five years 795.6 8.0 803.6 514.3 8.0 281.3 803.6 Total 2,068.1 84.3 2,152.4 475.6 546.8 589.3 540.7 2,152.4 20. Liquidity Risk Exposure June 2016 Further information on Liquidity Risk is disclosed in Note 24 ‘Financial Risk Management’. As disclosed in Note 27 ‘Contingent Liabilities’, in certain circumstances the Company guarantees the performance of particular Group entities in respect of their obligations including bonding Between one and five years 783.5 178.6 962.1 475.6 33.3 178.6 274.6 962.1 and bank guarantees. Issued bank guarantees have cash collateralisation requirements if the bank guarantee facility is not renewed by the More than five years 1,060.4 8.8 1,069.2 529.1 540.1 1,069.2 provider. Total 1,843.9 187.4 2,031.3 475.6 562.4 718.7 274.6 2,031.3 At 30 June 2017, the Group does not anticipate a significant liquidity risk in relation to these facilities in the next 12 months. The Group has provided collateral of A$nil (June 2016: A$nil) against letter of credit facilities. The following are the contractual cash flow maturities of financial liabilities including estimated interest payments. 18. Issued Capital Carrying Contractual Less Than One to Two Two to Five More Than Five Amount Cash Flows One Year Years Years Years Accounting Policies Note A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Issued Capital June 2017 Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from equity. Non Derivative Financial Liabilities When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is Trade and other payables1 23 5,994.8 6,065.1 4,836.5 685.4 397.5 145.7 recognised as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are recognised as a deduction from equity. Resident liabilities2 13b 4,573.0 4,573.0 4,573.0 Borrowings and financing arrangements 17a 2,152.4 2,719.5 395.4 350.1 1,016.6 957.4 Financial Disclosure Other financial liabilities 9.6 9.8 9.4 0.2 0.2 LENDLEASE CORPORATION LIMITED LENDLEASE TRUST Total 12,729.8 13,367.4 9,814.3 1,035.7 1,414.3 1,103.1 June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 2016 Derivative Financial Liabilities No. of No. of No. of No. of Shares Shares Units Units (Outflow) 13.2 (649.1) (639.7) (6.7) (2.7) (m) A$m (m) A$m (m) A$m (m) A$m Inflow 635.9 629.6 6.3 Issued capital at beginning of financial year 582.3 1,276.3 580.5 1,256.3 582.3 915.8 580.5 911.2 Total 13.2 (13.2) (10.1) (0.4) – (2.7) Transactions with owners for the year: June 2016 Distribution Reinvestment Plan 1.2 13.5 1.8 20.0 1.2 3.1 1.8 4.6 Non Derivative Financial Liabilities Issued capital at end of financial year 583.5 1,289.8 582.3 1,276.3 583.5 918.9 582.3 915.8 Trade and other payables1 23 4,597.8 4,754.8 3,675.2 171.7 168.5 739.4 Resident liabilities 2 13b 4,119.5 4,119.5 4,119.5 a. Issuance of Securities As at 30 June 2017, the Group had 583.5 million Stapled Securities on issue, equivalent to the number of Lendlease Corporation shares and Borrowings and financing arrangements 17a 2,031.3 2,622.9 106.1 416.1 891.3 1,209.4 Lendlease Trust (LLT) units on issue as at that date. The issued units of LLT are not owned by the Company and are therefore presented Other financial liabilities 29.5 31.2 21.8 9.4 separately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position within equity. Total 10,778.1 11,528.4 7,922.6 597.2 1,059.8 1,948.8 b. Security Accumulation Plans Derivative Financial Liabilities The Group’s Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP) was reactivated in February 2011. The last date for receipt of an election notice for participation in the DRP is 5 September 2017. The issue price is the arithmetic average of the daily volume weighted average price of Lendlease (Outflow) 63.8 (1,498.4) (1,474.0) (17.9) (2.9) (3.6) Stapled Securities traded (on the Australian Securities Exchange) for the period of five consecutive business days immediately following the Inflow 1,434.6 1,414.6 17.3 2.7 record date for determining entitlements to distribution. If that price is less than 50 cents, the issue price will be 50 cents. Stapled securities Total 63.8 (63.8) (59.4) (0.6) (0.2) (3.6) issued under the DRP rank equally with all other stapled securities on issue. 1. The carrying amount of trade and other payables excludes A$822.4 million of current and A$533.7 million of non current amounts (June 2016: A$660.0 million of c. Terms and Conditions current and A$980.4 million of non current amounts) as they do not meet the definition of a financial liability under Australian Accounting Standards. Issued capital for Lendlease Corporation Limited comprises ordinary shares fully paid. A stapled security represents one share in the Company 2. Resident liabilities are non interest bearing and are classified as current liabilities because any resident may choose to depart within 12 months. The Group’s stapled to one unit in LLT. Stapled securityholders have the right to receive declared dividends from the Company and distributions from actual commercial history has shown residents stay for an average period of 11 years in independent living units (ILUs) and six years in serviced apartments (SAs). Therefore, the portion of the resident liabilities that could be considered current represents 5 to 10 per cent of the total balance and non current represents LLT and are entitled to one vote per stapled security at securityholders’ meetings. Ordinary stapled securityholders rank after all creditors in 90 to 95 per cent of the total balance. This current and non current split of resident liabilities provides more useful and meaningful information as it better reflects repayment of capital. the commercial substance of the Group’s liabilities. The balance includes retirement village total resident liabilities of A$4,573.0 million (June 2016: A$4,119.5 million), which is net of deferred management fees receivable, and is repayable out of the amounts paid to the Group by incoming retirement village residents The Group does not have authorised capital or par value in respect of its issued stapled securities. for the right to occupy retirement living (refer to Note 13 ‘Investment Properties’). Other contractually committed cash flows the Group is exposed to are detailed in Note 21 ‘Commitments’. 162 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 163 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued 22. Loans and Receivables 21. Commitments The Group leases land and buildings and plant and equipment under non cancellable operating leases. The leases have varying terms, escalation Accounting Policies clauses and renewal rights. On renewal, the terms of the leases are renegotiated. Loans and receivables, which include trade and other receivables, are non derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments June 2017 June 20161 that are not equity securities. They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading A$m A$m the receivable. Other receivables include receivables related to investment management, property development, and miscellaneous items. Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which applies the interest rate that discounts a. Operating Lease Commitments estimated future cash receipts over the term of the loans and receivables. Cash flows relating to short term trade and other receivables are The estimated aggregate amount of non cancellable operating lease expenditure agreed or not discounted if the effect of discounting is immaterial. The discount, if material, is then recognised as revenue over the remaining term. contracted but not provided for in the financial statements is as follows: A provision for impairment of loans and receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the loans and receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the Land and buildings – self occupied 488.3 523.8 asset’s carrying amount and its fair value, which is estimated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective Plant and equipment 5.6 10.1 interest rate where relevant. The amount of the provision is recognised in the Income Statement. Total 493.9 533.9 Retentions receivable on construction contracts represent deposits held by the Group until the satisfaction of conditions specified in the contract are rectified. 1. June 2016 comparatives have been adjusted to reflect updated management information. Land and building lease commitments have been adjusted from A$535.4 million to A$523.8 million, and plant and equipment lease commitments have been adjusted from A$36.8 million in to A$10.1 million. Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 20161 A$m A$m A$m A$m Current At balance date, commitments in relation to non cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: Trade receivables 1,250.7 1,175.3 Less: Impairment (9.9) (12.3) Due within one year 68.1 79.1 1,240.8 1,163.0 Due between one and five years 186.9 193.8 Related parties 7.5 6.4 Due later than five years 238.9 261.0 Retentions 325.8 306.6 Total 493.9 533.9 Other receivables 1,180.0 1,316.6 1. June 2016 comparatives have been adjusted to reflect updated management information. Land and building lease commitments have been adjusted from Less: Impairment (4.9) (7.6) A$97.6 million due within one year to A$79.1 million, and plant and equipment lease commitments have been adjusted from A$213.6 million due within one and five years to A$193.8 million. Total current 2,749.2 2,785.0 June 2017 June 2016 Non Current A$m A$m Related parties 115.2 126.8 Less: Impairment (93.7) (100.4) b. Finance Lease Commitments Retentions 216.4 97.8 At balance date, commitments in relation to finance leases are payable as follows: Other receivables 269.8 161.2 Due within one year 9.2 20.3 Total non current 507.7 285.4 Due between one and five years 0.4 9.2 Total loans and receivables 3,256.9 3,070.4 Recognised in other financial liabilities 9.6 29.5 As at 30 June 2017, A$1,008.3 million of the trade debtors were current (30 June 2016: A$961.8 million) and A$242.4 million were past due June 2017 June 2016 (30 June 2016: A$213.5 million). Of the past due amount, A$232.5 million was not impaired (30 June 2016: A$201.2 million). ‘Past due’ is A$m A$m defined under accounting standards to mean any amount outstanding for one or more days after the contractual due date. Of the total trade debtors, 5.0 per cent (30 June 2016: 4.5 per cent) are aged greater than 90 days. Other than trade debtors, no other loans and receivables are c. Investments considered past due at 30 June 2017 (30 June 2016: A$nil). At balance date, capital commitments existing in respect of interests in Equity Accounted June 2017 June 2016 Investments and other investments contracted but not provided for in the financial statements A$m A$m are as follows: Impairment Due within one year 38.3 96.5 Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 120.3 140.8 Due between one and five years 60.3 108.4 Bad and doubtful debts impairment loss net of provisions written back (2.0) (4.0) Total 98.6 204.9 Other movements (including foreign exchange rate movements) (9.8) (16.5) Carrying amount at end of financial year 108.5 120.3 Total impairment as a percentage of total loans and receivables 3.3% 3.9% The credit quality of all loans and receivables, including those neither past due nor impaired, is assessed and monitored on an ongoing basis. To determine the impairment provision for the financial year, the Group considers how economic and market conditions will affect the creditworthiness of certain entities. The impairment provision relates to specific loans and receivables that have been identified as being impaired, including related party loans where the Group’s interest in a development was via an Equity Accounted Investment. 164 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 165 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section C: Liquidity and Working Capital continued Section D: Risk Management 23. Trade and Other Payables The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. The Group’s overall financial risk management strategy focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise adverse effects on the Group’s performance. Treasury policies have been Accounting Policies approved by the Board for managing this risk. This section contains disclosures of financial risks the Group is exposed to and how the Trade Creditors Group manage these risks. The impact of contingent liabilities is also considered in this section. Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods or services received, whether or not billed to the Group. Trade and other payables are settled in the normal course of business. Trade and other payables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which applies the interest rate that discounts estimated future cash outflows over the term of the trade and 24. Financial Risk Management other payables. Cash flows relating to short term trade and other payables are not discounted if the effect of discounting is immaterial. The Group operates across numerous jurisdictions and markets. The Lendlease Asset and Liability Committee oversees the management of The discount, if material, is then recognised as an expense over the remaining term. the Group’s Treasury risks, within the parameters of a Board approved Treasury Policy, and maintains a Group wide framework for financial risk Construction Revenue – Amounts Due to Customers management and reviews issues of material risk exposure within the scope of the Treasury Policy. A summary of key risks identified, exposures Construction contracts where the total progress billings issued to customers (together with foreseeable losses if applicable) on a project and management of exposures is detailed in the table below. exceed the costs incurred to date plus recognised profit on the contract are recognised as a liability. Retentions Risks Identified Definition Exposures Management of Exposures Retentions are amounts payable for the purpose of security and for the provision of defects in accordance with contract terms. Release of retention amounts are in accordance with contractual terms. Foreign Currency The risk in local currency terms • Foreign currency earnings • Physical financial instruments, including that the value of a financial • Net investments in natural hedges from matching foreign Other commitment or a recognised foreign operations assets and liabilities Other primarily relates to unearned income and deposits received in advance on presold apartments including Pre-sold Lendlease asset or liability will fluctuate • Transactions settled in • Derivative financial instruments, mainly Apartments Cash flows (PLLACes) transactions. These amounts will be recognised as income in line with the ‘Revenue from the sale of due to changes in foreign foreign currency foreign exchange contracts development properties’ accounting policy in Note 4 ‘Revenue’. currency exchange rates • Contracting out • Further information on exposures is detailed in Note • Speculative trading is not permitted Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 24a ‘Foreign Currency A$m A$m Risk Exposure’ Current Credit The risk that a counterparty will • Recoverability of loans and • Policies in place so that customers and Trade creditors 3,413.9 2,964.6 not be able to meet its obligations receivables suppliers are appropriately credit assessed Construction revenue – amounts due to customers 702.1 575.1 in respect of a financial instrument, • Recoverability of other • Treasury Policy sets out credit limits for resulting in a financial loss to the financial assets and cash each counterparty based on minimum Insurance claim reserve 21.3 18.8 Group deposits investment grade ratings Related parties 4.8 • Further information on Retentions and deferred payments 571.2 561.4 exposures is detailed in Note 24b ‘Credit Risk Exposure’ Other 1 870.3 204.1 Total current 5,578.8 4,328.8 Liquidity The risk of having insufficient • Insufficient levels of • Maintaining sufficient levels of cash funds to settle financial liabilities committed credit facilities and committed credit facilities to meet Non Current financial commitments and working as and when they fall due • Settlement of financial Insurance claim reserve 10.0 9.4 liabilities capital requirements Retentions and deferred payments 783.4 775.9 • Further information on • Managing to funding portfolio benchmarks exposures is detailed in Note as outlined in the Treasury Policy Other 1 978.7 1,124.1 20 ‘Liquidity Risk Exposure’ • Timely review and renewal of credit Total non current 1,772.1 1,909.4 facilities Total trade and other payables 7,350.9 6,238.2 Interest Rate The risk that the value of a • Financial assets, mainly cash • Physical financial instruments 1. Includes unearned income liabilities from PLLACes transactions. PLLACes transactions involve selling the presold apartment cash flows for a specific financial instrument or cash flow at bank • Derivative financial instruments, development project to a third party for cash consideration. associated with the instrument • Financial liabilities, mainly mainly interest rate swaps will fluctuate due to changes in borrowings and financing • Managing to hedging limits in respect market interest rates arrangements of recourse funding as outlined in the • Further information on Treasury Policy exposures is detailed in • Speculative trading is not permitted Note 24c ‘Interest Rate Risk Exposure’ Equity Price The risk that the fair value of either • All traded and/or non traded • Material investments within the portfolio a traded or non traded equity financial instruments are managed on an individual basis. The investment, derivative equity measured at fair value Group’s portfolio is monitored closely as instrument, or a portfolio of such part of capital recycling initiatives financial instruments, increases or decreases in the future 166 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 167 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued b. Credit Risk Exposure Section D: Risk Management continued • The maximum exposure to credit risk at balance date on financial instruments recognised in the Statement of Financial Position (excluding 24. Financial Risk Management continued investments of the Group) equals the carrying amount, net of any impairment. • The Group is not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk on either a geographic or industry specific basis. a. Foreign Currency Risk Exposure • Credit risk on financial instruments is managed under a Board approved credit policy that determines acceptable counterparties. Derivative counterparties and cash deposits are limited to recognised financial intermediaries with a minimum investment grade credit rating as The net asset exposure by currency is detailed below. determined by a recognised rating agency. A$m US$m £m S$m €m NZ$m MYR m1 Other m1 • There was A$nil million impairment recorded during the year against other financial assets (June 2016: A$3.4 million). • Refer to Note 22 ‘Loans and Receivables’ for information relating to impairment on loans and receivables. June 2017 • In certain circumstances, the Group will hold either financial or non financial assets as collateral to further mitigate the potential credit risk Net asset/(liability) exposure (local currency) 5,285.0 257.4 105.0 (29.3) 66.4 14.8 849.1 26.3 on selected transactions. During the current and prior year, the Group did not hold financial or non financial assets as collateral. At any point June 2016 in time, the Group will hold other collateral such as bank guarantees and performance bonds to mitigate potential credit risk as a result of Net asset/(liability) exposure (local currency) 5,111.2 (153.0) 39.3 225.1 67.8 243.3 39.3 40.1 default by a counterparty or otherwise. 1. June 2016 has been adjusted to separate the comparative for ‘Other’ to disclose the Group’s exposure to MYR. c. Interest Rate Risk Exposure Sensitivity Analysis The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk on its financial assets and liabilities is set out as follows. The sensitivity analysis of the Group’s Australian dollar denominated Income Statement and Statement of Financial Position to foreign currency CARRYING AMOUNT movements is based on a 10 per cent fluctuation (June 2016: 10 per cent fluctuation) on the average rates during the financial year and the spot June 2017 June 2016 rate at balance date respectively. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant, and excludes the A$m A$m effects of the foreign exchange contracts. A 10 per cent movement in the average foreign exchange rates would have impacted the Group’s Profit after Tax as follows. Fixed Rate Financial assets 367.4 262.9 10% WEAKENING LEADS TO INCREASE/ 10% STRENGTHENING LEADS TO INCREASE/ Financial liabilities (2,740.2) (2,541.3) (DECREASE) IN PROFIT AFTER TAX (DECREASE) IN PROFIT AFTER TAX (2,372.8) (2,278.4) June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m A$m A$m Variable Rate Financial assets 760.1 676.9 USD 10.2 7.9 (8.2) (6.3) Financial liabilities (87.0) (191.0) GBP 8.4 12.8 (7.0) (10.4) SGD 3.0 (2.2) (2.8) 1.8 673.1 485.9 EUR 0.1 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) MYR (1.7) 1.3 Sensitivity Analysis 20.0 18.6 (16.8) (15.0) At 30 June 2017 it is estimated that an increase of one percentage point in interest rates would have decreased the Group’s equity and Profit after Tax by A$5.1 million (June 2016: A$3.8 million decrease in the Group’s equity and Profit after Tax). A one percentage point decrease in A 10 per cent movement in the foreign exchange spot rates at balance date would have impacted the Group’s net assets as follows. interest rates would have increased the Group’s equity and Profit after Tax by A$5.1 million (June 2016: A$3.8 million increase in the Group’s equity and Profit after Tax). The increase or decrease in interest income/(expense) is proportional to the increase or decrease in interest rates. 10% WEAKENING LEADS TO INCREASE/ 10% STRENGTHENING LEADS TO INCREASE/ Interest rate derivatives have been included in this calculation. (DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS (DECREASE) IN NET ASSETS June 2017 June 2016 June 2017 June 2016 25. Hedging A$m A$m A$m A$m USD 38.7 (21.0) (31.5) 19.7 Accounting Policies GBP 20.1 8.5 (16.5) (6.7) The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from SGD (3.2) 25.0 2.6 (20.5) operating, financing and investing activities. Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value. Hedge accounting recognises the offsetting effects on EUR 11.6 11.8 (9.4) (9.6) profit or loss of changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments and the hedged item. The accounting for hedges that NZD 1.5 24.4 (1.3) (22.0) meet the criteria for hedge accounting are classified as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or investment hedges. MYR1 28.6 4.3 (23.4) (3.6) 97.3 53.0 (79.5) (42.7) The Group currently applies hedge accounting under AASB 139 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The Group has minimal hedges designated as fair value. The Group primarily uses forward foreign exchange contracts as cash flow hedges for highly probable sale, 1. June 2016 has been adjusted to separate the comparative for ‘Other’ to disclose the Group’s exposure to MYR. purchase and dividend transactions. The Group also uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge cross border intercompany loans and transactions which mainly net off in the Income Statement. Interest rate swaps are used to manage the Group’s exposure to interest rates arising from borrowings. These are treated as cash flow hedges and are mainly on borrowings within Equity Accounted Investments. The Group has foreign exchange derivative contracts primarily held in GBP, USD, EUR, SGD, MYR and JPY at reporting date to hedge specific foreign currency exposures. The total gross payable exposure is A$465.2 million (June 2016: payable A$713.7 million). There are 23 foreign currency contracts that will mature in more than one year (June 2016: 39 foreign currency contracts). 168 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 169 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section D: Risk Management continued 27. Contingent Liabilities 26. Fair Value Measurement The Group has the following contingent liabilities: • There are a number of legal claims and exposures that arise from the normal course of business. There is significant uncertainty as to whether a future liability will arise in respect to these items. The amount of liability, if any, that may arise, cannot be measured reliably at Accounting Policies this time. The Directors are of the opinion that all known liabilities have been brought to account and that adequate provision has been The accounting policies for financial instruments held at fair value are included in Note 14 ‘Other Financial Assets’ and Note 25 ‘Hedging’. made for any anticipated losses. Management considers the valuation of the financial instruments to be an area of estimation uncertainty. While this represents the best • In certain circumstances, the Company guarantees the performance of particular Group entities in respect of their obligations. This estimation of fair value at the reporting date, the fair values may differ if there is volatility in market prices or foreign exchange rates in includes bonding and bank guarantee facilities used primarily by the Construction business as well as performance guarantees for certain future periods. of the Company’s subsidiaries. • Various actions have been commenced in which damages, compensation or contribution is sought from various subsidiaries of the All financial instruments recognised in the Statement of Financial Position, including those instruments carried at amortised cost, are Company (LLP entities) in respect of transactions entered into in mid 2007 in relation to a number of retirement villages which were at recognised at amounts that represent a reasonable approximation of fair value, with the exception of the following borrowings. that time part of the Prime Trust portfolio. The liquidator of Australian Property Custodian Holdings Limited (Receivers and Managers Appointed) (Controllers Appointed) (In Liquidation) (APCH) commenced three proceedings in which claims are made against the LLP JUNE 2017 JUNE 2016 entities. One proceeding was permanently stayed on 22 December 2015, a decision which the liquidator appealed and subsequently lost. Accordingly that proceeding is finalised. In the remaining two proceedings, APCH has made allegations against third parties in relation to Carrying Carrying the same transactions and those third parties have made contribution claims against the LLP entities. The LLP entities are vigorously Amount Fair Value Amount Fair Value defending these proceedings. The relevant transactions all occurred prior to the LLP entities becoming subsidiaries of the Company and Note A$m A$m A$m A$m at the relevant time the LLP entities were controlled by APCH or entities related to William Lewski, a director of the LLP entities at the Liabilities time. Current Commercial notes 17a 291.9 293.3 – – Non Current Commercial notes 17a 1,776.2 2,088.4 1,843.9 2,237.3 The fair value of commercial notes has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows by the appropriate government bond rates and credit margin applicable to the relevant term of the commercial note. a. Basis of Determining Fair Value The determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value are summarised as follows: • The fair value of unlisted equity investments, including investments in property funds, is determined based on an assessment of the underlying net assets, future maintainable earnings and any special circumstances pertaining to the particular investment; • The fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined in accordance with generally accepted valuation techniques; these include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to other assets that are substantially the same, and discounted cash flow analysis; and • The fair value of derivative instruments comprises forward foreign exchange contracts, which are valued using forward rates at balance date, and interest rate swap contracts, which are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates and include consideration of counterparty risk adjustments. b. Fair Value Measurements The different levels for valuation method have been defined as follows: • Level 1: The fair value is determined using the unadjusted quoted price for an identical asset or liability in an active market for identical assets or liabilities; • Level 2: The fair value is calculated using predominantly observable market data other than unadjusted quoted prices for an identical asset or liability; and • Level 3: The fair value is calculated using inputs that are not based on observable market data. During the year, there were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair value hierarchies. 170 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 171 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section E: Basis of Consolidation The following material disposals of consolidated entities occurred during the current and prior year. Ownership Gross Consideration This section provides information on how the Group structure affects the financial position and performance of the Group as a whole. The Interest Disposed Date Received/Receivable disclosures detail the types of entities and transactions included in the consolidation and those excluded. % Disposed A$m June 2017 28. Consolidated Entities Australia Circular Quay Tower 1 80.0 20 December 2016 240.0 Accounting Policies Lendlease (EGRP) Pty Ltd 100.0 6 October 2016 40.0 The Group consolidation comprises all subsidiaries controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company: Europe • Has the power to direct the relevant activities such as key operating, financial and investing decisions; • Has exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee such as dividends, loans and fees; and Victoria Drive Wandsworth LLP 50.0 27 June 2017 64.9 • Has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of returns. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. Management uses June 2016 accounting judgement in determining whether the Group controls an entity by applying the above control criteria and reviewing the Australia and New Zealand substance of its relationship with the entity. PLT New Zealand Limited2 100.0 31 January 2016 222.4 Australian PPP Entities 3 100.0 7 June 2016 386.8 • The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases. The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using Americas consistent accounting policies with adjustments made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist. Mexico Construction Entities 100.0 13 June 2016 4.8 • External non controlling interests are allocated their share of total comprehensive income and are presented within equity in the consolidated Statement of Financial Position, separately from the equity of securityholders. 1. Represents the disposal of three entities relating to the Circular Quay Tower project. • The material consolidated entities of the Group listed below were wholly owned during the current and prior year. Refer to the following 2. Relates to sale of New Zealand Retirement Living entities. Assets and liabilities disposed of primarily relate to investment properties and resident liabilities. 3. Represents the disposal of 16 entities relating to the New Bendigo Hospital, Sunshine Coast University Hospital and International Convention Centre section for details on the disposal of entities. Sydney (Darling Harbour Live) projects. Assets disposed of primarily relate to Equity Accounted Investments (joint ventures). PARENT ENTITY Lendlease Corporation Limited 29. Employee Benefit Vehicles The Company sponsors a number of employee benefit vehicles, including employee security plans and employee security ownership vehicles. AUSTRALIA EUROPE These vehicles while not legally controlled, are currently required to be consolidated for accounting purposes. Capella Capital Lendlease Pty Limited Lendlease Construction (Europe) Limited a. Employee Security Plans Capella Capital Partnership Lendlease Construction Holdings (Europe) Limited As at 30 June 2017, employees own approximately 1.24 per cent (June 2016: 5.58 per cent) of the issued capital of the Group through various Lendlease Building Pty Limited Lendlease Europe Finance plc active Lendlease employee security plans and ownership vehicles, details of which are outlined below. Lendlease Building Contractors Pty Limited Lendlease Europe Limited • Australia: Employee Share Acquisition Plan (ESAP): ESAP was established in December 1988 for the purpose of employees acquiring securities in the Group and is funded by Lendlease subscriptions and employee salary sacrifice contributions. Lendlease Communities (Australia) Limited Lendlease Residential (CG) plc • Americas: US Rabbi Trust (Rabbi Trust) was established in 2004 and updated in 2005 for the acceptance of employee profit share Lendlease Development Pty Limited ASIA contributions used to acquire Group securities for US based employees. This part of the plan is not currently accepting new contributions. Lendlease Engineering Pty Limited Lendlease Japan Inc. • Employee Share Acquisition Plan (STI) (ESAP STI): ESAP STI was established in July 2014 for the purpose of acquiring and allocating securities granted as the deferred component of Executive Short Term Incentive (STI) awards which are funded by Lendlease subscriptions. Lendlease Finance Limited Lendlease Singapore Pte. Limited Securities are currently allocated to employees across Australia, Singapore, Malaysia, the United Kingdom and the United States. Lendlease Infrastructure Investments Pty Limited AMERICAS Eligibility Lendlease International Pty Limited Lendlease (US) Capital, Inc. The rules for eligibility for particular plans are determined by reference to the regulatory, legal and tax rules of each country in which the Lendlease (Millers Point) Trust Lendlease (US) Construction, Inc. Group operates. Lendlease Primelife Limited Lendlease (US) Construction LMB, Inc. Distributions and/or Voting Rights Lendlease Real Estate Investments Limited Lendlease (US) Healthcare Development LLC Generally, employees in the various operating security plans are entitled to distributions and voting rights for allocated securities. The plans Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited Lendlease (US) Public Partnerships, LLC reflect this intention subject to regulatory, legal and tax constraints. The trustee may exercise these rights in accordance with any fiduciary or governance rules pertaining to the deed or trust laws in the legal and tax jurisdiction within which the trust operates. Lendlease Services Pty Limited Lendlease Trust1 1. Lendlease Trust is a consolidated entity of the Group, which, as the parent entity, is to control it. Lendlease Trust is not wholly owned. During the current and prior year, there were no acquisitions of material consolidated entities. 172 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 173 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section E: Basis of Consolidation continued 31. Related Party Information 29. Employee Benefit Vehicles continued a. Consolidated Entities Intragroup balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains or losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing b. Employee Security Ownership Vehicles the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at their cost of acquisition less impairments in the Company’s In addition to the plans discussed above, Lendlease has established a range of employee security ownership vehicles, including Lendlease financial statements. Retirement Benefit Fund (RBF) and Lend Lease Employee Investment Trust (EIT). During the financial year, changes occurred in relation to Lendlease Corporation Limited provides financing and treasury services, which includes working capital facilities and long term financing. these two entities as outlined below. Interest is earned or incurred only on long term loans provided to or drawn with subsidiaries based on project specific risks and returns. • RBF was established in 1984 with shareholder approval for the benefit of employees. RBF holds Lendlease securities. The Lendlease Outstanding balances arising from working capital facilities and long term financing are typically unsecured and repayable on demand. securities in RBF are not available for allocation to employees other than in the event of a change of control of the Group and, in accordance In addition, guarantees are provided to particular Group entities in respect of their obligations. These include bonding and bank guarantee with RBF’s trust deed, the capital of the trust is not available to the Group. The RBF trustee has discretion as to the distribution of the RBF facilities used primarily by the Construction business, as well as performance guarantees for certain Development business commercial built Funds. In 1992, a deed poll was executed which allows for the distribution of the income of RBF to the Company to fund employee benefit form developments. Guarantee fees are charged under normal terms and conditions. activities through the Lendlease Foundation. As a result of changes to the constitution and governance structure of the RBF trustee on 22 June 2017, Lendlease currently does not have control of RBF and therefore RBF is currently not required to be consolidated for accounting The following represents the transactions that occurred during the financial year and the balances outstanding at year end between Lendlease purposes. Corporation Limited and its consolidated entities. • EIT was established in 1985 as a benefit vehicle to enable employees to invest in the Group. In 1992, a deed poll was executed which allows COMPANY for distribution of the unallocated income of EIT to the Company to fund employee benefit activities through the Lendlease Foundation. June 2017 June 2016 On a change of control of the Group, the EIT trustee may (but is not required to) terminate the trust and distribute allocated proceeds to A$000s A$000s employees and unallocated proceeds to other benefit vehicles such as RBF. There are no current employee allocations. Between September 2016 and December 2016, EIT progressively sold down its interests in Lendlease securities and no longer holds any securities in Lendlease Transactions Group. Any payments out of EIT are an obligation of EIT and not of the Group, and cannot exceed the assets of EIT of A$12.3 million as at Guarantee fees 14,149 12,368 30 June 2017 (June 2016: A$149.2 million). No contingency is recorded in these financial statements for potential payments on a change of control of the Group, as the termination of EIT in such circumstances, and the subsequent distribution to other vehicles is entirely at the Dividend income 442,987 655,637 discretion of the EIT trustee and the Group has no obligation in respect of any payments from EIT. Interest income 13,501 11,386 • The EIT and RBF arrangements are subject to periodic review to assess their ongoing role and operation. Interest expense 74,478 112,940 30. Parent Entity Disclosures Outstanding Balances (Net of Provisions Raised) The following summarises the financial information of the Group’s parent entity, Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company), as at and for the year ended 30 June 2017. Receivables 3,198,184 3,839,810 COMPANY Payables 2,459,831 3,143,070 June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m Transactions that occurred during the financial year between entities in the Lendlease Group included: • Investment transfer1 Results • Provision of project management, design services, construction management and engineering services to development projects; Profit after Tax 351.0 529.0 • Provision of development management services; Other comprehensive income after tax 0.4 1.0 • Provision of investment management services; Total comprehensive income after tax 351.4 530.0 • Provision of payroll, transaction and management services; • Receipt and payment of superannuation contributions; Financial Position • Reimbursement of expenses made on behalf of subsidiaries; Current assets 3,246.6 3,918.6 • Loan advances and repayments between subsidiaries; • Premium payments and receipts for the Group’s insurance policies; and Non current assets 2,071.3 2,034.8 • Dividends received or due and receivable from subsidiaries. Total assets 5,317.9 5,953.4 1. The Group transferred the Lendlease Retail LP investment to the Lend Lease UK Pension Scheme in June 2017, which resulted in the derecognition of the Current liabilities 2,494.7 3,169.7 A$61.7 million investment and A$23.2 million of revaluation gains released to the Income Statement. Refer to Note 6 ‘Other Income’ and Note 14 ‘Other Financial Assets ‘. Non current liabilities 50.5 42.7 Total liabilities 2,545.2 3,212.4 Net assets 2,772.7 2,741.0 Issued capital 1,289.8 1,276.3 Treasury securities (57.8) (100.4) Reserves 180.5 232.9 Retained earnings 1,360.2 1,332.2 Total equity 2,772.7 2,741.0 In respect of the contingent liabilities of the Group disclosed in Note 27 ‘Contingent Liabilities’, the Company participates in the provision of guarantees to Group entities. 174 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 175 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section E: Basis of Consolidation continued Section F: Other Notes 31. Related Party Information continued 32. Intangible Assets b. Associates and Joint Ventures Interests held in associates and joint ventures by Lendlease are set out in Note 12 ‘Equity Accounted Investments’. Accounting Policies Transactions between the Lendlease Group and its associates and joint ventures principally relate to: Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets and contingent liabilities of the acquired business at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets as • Development: development management services, infrastructure bid and advisory services and the sale and purchase of development goodwill. Goodwill on acquisition of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associates. properties with Lendlease managed funds; • Construction: provision of project management, building, engineering and construction services; and Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. • Investments: provision of property and infrastructure investment management, property management and asset management services. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (CGU) (or groups of CGU), that are expected to There were no non interest bearing loans provided to joint ventures at 30 June 2017 (June 2016: A$7.0 million). benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. CGUs are an identifiable group of assets that generate cash associated Except as noted above, transactions and outstanding balances are typically on normal terms and conditions. with the goodwill. Management considers this is an area of estimation uncertainty as these calculations involve an estimation of the Revenue earned by Lendlease during the year as a result of transactions with its associates and joint ventures is as follows: recoverable amount of the CGU to which the goodwill is allocated. The Construction CGU uses the value in use basis, which requires the Group to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the recoverable June 2017 June 2016 amount. A$m A$m Management agreements and other intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses (see Note 7 ‘Other Expenses’). Amortisation is charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the Revenue estimated useful lives of the intangible assets, ranging from three to 20 years. Associates 6.0 8.5 Joint ventures1 641.5 1,668.2 Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 Note A$m A$m 1. Due to the sale of various Australian Private Public Partnerships entities in the current and prior year, related party revenues have decreased. Goodwill 32a 1,194.2 1,209.2 Other transactions and outstanding balances with associates, joint ventures and other related parties have been disclosed in Note 4 ‘Revenue’, Management agreements 52.5 67.3 Note 6 ‘Other Income’, Note 7 ‘Other Expenses’, Note 8 ‘Finance Revenue and Finance Costs’, Note 14 ‘Other Financial Assets’, Note 22 ‘Loans Other intangibles 168.4 170.3 and Receivables’ and Note 23 ‘Trade and Other Payables’. Transactions with joint operations are included in the consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Financial Position. Total intangible assets 1,415.1 1,446.8 c. Key Management Personnel a. Goodwill The Key Management Personnel compensation is as follows: Construction 1,165.0 1,179.2 June 2017 June 2016 Development 29.2 30.0 A$000s A$000s Total goodwill 1,194.2 1,209.2 Short term employee benefits 15,617 17,728 Reconciliations Post employment benefits 385 414 Reconciliations of the carrying amounts for each category of goodwill are as follows: Security based payments 10,902 9,458 Construction Other long term benefits 59 63 Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 1,179.2 1,201.0 Total 26,963 27,663 Effect of foreign exchange rate/other movements (14.2) (21.8) Information regarding individual Directors’ and Senior Executives’ remuneration is provided in the Remuneration Report within the Directors’ Carrying amount at end of financial year 32b 1,165.0 1,179.2 Report. Development Carrying amount at beginning of financial year 30.0 29.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate movements (0.8) 0.8 Carrying amount at end of financial year 29.2 30.0 176 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 177 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section F: Other Notes continued 33. Defined Benefit Plans 32. Intangible Assets continued b. Goodwill Allocation Accounting Policies Goodwill relating to the Construction business is allocated to CGUs identified according to regions as set out below. Group companies operate pension plans. The plans are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee administered funds as determined by periodic actuarial calculations. June 2017 June 2016 A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit an employee will receive on retirement, usually A$m A$m dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The asset or liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in respect of defined benefit plans is the present value of the Construction defined benefit obligation i.e. ‘the pension liability’ at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets. The present value of Australia 743.4 743.4 the pension liability is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate or government bonds, that: Europe 231.4 240.7 • Are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid; and Americas 182.6 187.5 • Have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability. Asia 7.6 7.6 The defined benefit obligation is calculated at least annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method, which in simplistic terms proportions the benefit based on service. Management considers the valuation of defined benefit plans undertaken by the Total construction goodwill 1,165.0 1,179.2 actuaries to be an area of estimation uncertainty as a number of key assumptions must be adopted to determine the valuation. c. Impairment Tests and Key Assumptions Used – Construction Actuarial losses/(gains) will arise where there is a difference between previous estimates and actual experience, or a change to assumptions in relation to demographic and financial trends. These actuarial losses/(gains) are recognised in the period they occur, The recoverable amount of the Construction CGUs is determined based on value in use (VIU) calculations. For the Construction CGUs, the directly in other comprehensive income as remeasurements. They are included in retained earnings in the Statement of Changes in Equity assumptions used for determining the recoverable amount of each CGU are based on past experience and expectations for the future, utilising and in the Statement of Financial Position. both internal and external sources of data and relevant industry trends. Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement. No impairment arose as a result of the review of goodwill for the Construction CGUs for the year ended 30 June 2017. Based on information available and market conditions at 30 June 2017, a reasonably foreseeable change in the assumptions made in this assessment would not result in impairment of Construction goodwill. Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 The following describes the key assumptions on which management has based its cash flow projections when determining VIU relating to the Note A$m A$m Construction CGUs. Lend Lease Superannuation Plan 5.5 7.5 Cash Flows Lend Lease UK Pension Scheme 1 33a 58.8 The VIU calculations use pre tax cash flow projections based on actual operating results, and financial forecasts covering a five year period Total defined benefit plan asset 64.3 7.5 which have been approved by management. These forecasts are based on management estimates to determine income, expenses, capital expenditure and cash flows for each CGU. 1. The Lend Lease UK Pension Scheme was in a net deficit with a defined benefit plan liability of A$3.4 million at 30 June 2016. Growth Rate The terminal value growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows beyond the five year period is 3.0 per cent (June 2016: 3.0 per cent). The a. Lend Lease UK Pension Scheme growth rate reflects the forecast long term average growth rate for each CGU and the countries in which they operate. Lendlease Construction Holdings (Europe) Limited (UK Construction) sponsors a funded defined benefit pension scheme (the Scheme) for qualifying UK employees. The Scheme is administered by a separate Board of Trustees, which is legally separate from UK Construction. The Discount Rate Scheme’s Trustees are composed of representatives of both the employer and employees. The Trustees, are required by law to act in the The discount rates applied to the cash flow projections vary between 13.0 per cent to 22.0 per cent (June 2016: between 14.0 per cent and interest of all relevant beneficiaries and are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets, plus the day to day administration 20.0 per cent). The Group’s weighted average cost of capital is used as a starting point for determining the discount rate, with appropriate of the benefits. adjustments for the risk profile relating to the relevant CGUs and the countries in which they operate. The discount rates used are pre tax. The Scheme is a funded defined benefit scheme, with the final salary section providing retirement benefits based on final salary and the index linked section providing retirement benefits based on career average salary. A separate section, the Personal Investment Section, provides retirement benefits on a defined contribution basis. The UK Construction’s contributions to members’ Personal Investment Fund accounts are not included in these disclosures. The final salary section closed to future accrual on 31 August 2008 and the index linked section closed to future accrual on 31 January 2012. There were no Scheme amendments affecting defined benefits payable, curtailments or settlements during the year. UK Construction pays deficit funding contributions plus four per cent of members’ basic salaries to cover the Scheme’s expected administration costs and costs of benefits payable on death in service. The Scheme expects to pay A$17.8 million in contributions to its defined benefit plan in 2018. This includes the annual deficit recovery payment of A$13.7 million, which was agreed as an annual payment until 2020 following the triennial actuarial valuation for 31 March 2014. The defined benefit plan is exposed to actuarial risk and market (investment) risk. The information that follows provides additional detail on risk. Financial Disclosure June 2017 June 2016 A$m A$m i. Statement of Financial Position Amounts The amounts recognised in the Statement of Financial Position are determined as follows: Defined benefit obligations (1,139.7) (1,059.6) Fair value of plan assets 1,198.5 1,056.2 Net defined benefit asset/(liability) 58.8 (3.4) 178 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 179 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued June 2017 June 2016 Section F: Other Notes continued vi. Principal Actuarial Assumptions 33. Defined Benefit Plans continued Discount rate (%) 2.4 2.8 June 2017 June 2016 RPI inflation (%) 3.3 2.9 Financial Disclosure A$m A$m Average pension increase in payments (%) 2.6 2.3 ii. Reconciliation of Defined Benefit Obligations Future mortality (years): Defined benefit obligations at beginning of financial year 1,059.6 1,144.1 Male 25.4 25.3 Included in Income Statement Female 27.2 27.1 Interest cost 27.3 38.8 Remeasurements Included in Other Comprehensive Income The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yield. If assets underperform, this yield will create a deficit. Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from: A decrease in corporate bond yield will increase the value placed on the Scheme’s liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase Financial assumptions 153.5 91.2 in the value of the Scheme’s corporate bond holdings. The majority of the Scheme’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation and higher Experience adjustments (7.2) (24.0) inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although in most cases this will be capped to protect against extreme inflation. The majority of the assets are either unaffected by or loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. The majority Other of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the Benefits paid (42.0) (40.4) liabilities. The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables, which allow for expected future mortality improvements. The Effect of foreign exchange rate movements (51.5) (150.1) assumption is that a member aged 63 will live for a further 25.4 years (June 2016: 25.3 years) if they are male and 27.2 years if they are female (June 2016: 27.1 years). At 30 June 2017, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 19 years (June 2016: 19 years). Defined benefit obligations at end of financial year 1,139.7 1,059.6 iii. Reconciliation of the Fair Value of Plan Assets vii. Sensitivity Analysis Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would Fair value of plan assets at beginning of financial year 1,056.2 1,075.3 have affected the defined benefit obligations by the amounts shown below. Included in Income Statement 0.1% 0.1% Interest income 27.3 36.6 0.1% 0.1% Increase RPI Decrease RPI 1 Year 1 Year Increase in Decrease in Inflation and Inflation and Increase in Decrease in Administration costs (3.5) (2.4) Discount Rate Discount Rate Pension Payment Pension Payment Future Mortality Future Mortality Remeasurements Included in Other Comprehensive Income A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m A$m Actual return on plan assets excluding interest income 132.0 115.2 June 2017 Other Defined benefit asset 22.4 (22.9) (18.3) 14.1 (35.1) 35.1 Contributions by Group companies1 78.8 20.2 June 2016 Defined benefit obligations (19.5) 20.7 16.0 (17.3) 33.6 (34.1) Benefits paid (42.0) (40.4) Effect of foreign exchange rate movements (50.3) (148.3) The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation, as it is unlikely that Fair value of plan assets at end of financial year 1,198.5 1,056.2 the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated. Non pensioner benefits are linked to RPI in the period up to retirement. Once in payment, pension increases are linked to RPI but with a zero iv. Expense Recognised in the Income Statement per cent floor and different caps applying to different periods of pensionable service. The inflation sensitivity reflects a change in RPI inflation Net interest cost 2.2 and the associated increases in payment. Administration costs 3.5 2.4 34. Employee Benefits Net defined benefit plan expense 3.5 4.6 Detailed information regarding the Group’s Executive Reward Strategy is provided in the Remuneration Report within the Directors’ Report. v. Fair Value of Plan Assets The key incentive plans are as follows: Plan assets comprise of: • Short Term Incentives (STI); and UK equities 95.6 94.5 • Long Term Incentives (LTI). Global equities 274.6 242.9 a. Short Term Incentives (STI) Investment funds 335.9 124.6 The STI plan is an annual incentive plan whereby a number of employees receive benefits that are dependent upon the achievement of both Infrastructure 113.1 77.3 Lendlease financial and non financial targets and individual goals. The total value of the potential benefit varies by individual and is tested against relevant market levels for each role. Government index linked bonds 310.2 367.1 • The STI plan comprises a cash component paid in September following year end. For more senior employees, where the potential benefit is Corporate bonds 133.9 typically higher, the plan also includes a deferred component. Other assets1 69.1 15.9 • Deferral periods are generally for one or two years. The deferred component is normally awarded as Lendlease securities and in some Fair value of plan assets at the end of the financial year 1,198.5 1,056.2 instances as cash. Securities are held in Lendlease employee security plan trusts on behalf of employees for the deferral period (refer to Note 29a ‘Employee Security Plans’). For employees to receive the full deferred component, they must generally be employed by the Group 1. As disclosed in Note 31 ‘Related Party Information’, the Group transferred the Lendlease Retail LP investment to the Lend Lease UK Pension Scheme in June at the time of vesting. 2017, which resulted in the recognition of A$61.7 million of plan assets. The investment funds target an absolute level of return. The plan assets can be categorised as Level 1, where the fair value is determined using an unadjusted quoted price for an identical asset, or Level 2, where the fair value is derived either directly or indirectly from observable inputs. At year end, approximately A$1,137.1 million of total plan assets were categorised as Level 2 (June 2016: A$875.5 million). UK Construction and Trustees have agreed a long term strategy for reducing investment risk as and when appropriate. This includes an asset liability matching policy that aims to reduce the volatility of the funding level of the pension plan by investing in assets that perform in line with the liabilities of the plan so as to protect against inflation being higher than expected. The current benchmark allocation is 75.0 per cent growth assets and 25.0 per cent matching assets (June 2016: 55.0 per cent growth assets and 45.0 per cent matching assets). 180 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 181 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Section F: Other Notes continued 35. Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards 34. Employee Benefits continued New and Revised Accounting Standards Adopted 1 July 2016 The Group adopted AASB 2014-3 Amendments to Australian Accounting Standards – Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint b. Long Term Incentives (LTI) Operations and AASB 2015-2 Amendments to AASB 101 for the year ended 30 June 2017. There is no financial impact on the Group following The LTI plan is designed to: adoption of these amendments. Additional disclosures have been included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as required by AASB 2015-2 for joint ventures and associates share of comprehensive income. • Motivate executives to achieve the Group’s long term strategic goals and provide reward where the Group delivers better securityholder value than its peers; and New Accounting Standards and Interpretations Not Yet Adopted • Align the interests of executives and securityholders, given that the value received is linked to the Group’s security price. Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the year ended 30 June 2017 but are Arrangements for LTI awards available for early adoption, unless otherwise noted, and have not been applied in preparing this report. The table below represents new and revised accounting standards, together with consequential amendments relevant to the Group’s results LTI design How the LTI works for 30 June 2017. Performance • An annual grant of ‘performance securities’ is made to a limited number of executives. Securities • The Board intends that the awards be settled in Lendlease securities, although the award may be settled in cash or Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on Financial Statements other means at the Board’s discretion. AASB 9 AASB 9 addresses the classification, Based on the analysis performed, AASB 9 will impact • On vesting, each performance security entitles executives to one Lendlease stapled security, or at the Board’s discretion, cash or other instruments of equivalent value. Financial Instruments and measurement and derecognition of the classification of available for sale financial assets, • In the event of a change in control of the Group, the Board has the discretion to determine whether the vesting of consequential amendments financial assets, financial liabilities and while other amendments are not expected to have a some or all performance securities should be accelerated. hedging. material impact on the Group. The standard becomes mandatory for the On adoption, available for sale financial assets will be Performance • 50 per cent of the performance securities are assessed over a three year period. If the performance hurdle is not June 2019 financial year, and will be classified as financial assets at fair value through profit Period fully achieved at this time, those performance securities that have not vested will lapse. applied retrospectively. or loss with fair value movements recorded through the • The remaining 50 per cent of the performance securities are assessed after four years. • If the performance hurdle is not met, the awards are forfeited. Income Statement. Fair value revaluation reserves • There is no retesting on any portion of the LTI grant. remaining on adoption will be transferred to Retained Earnings. Termination of • If the executive resigns or is terminated for cause, the unvested LTI is forfeited. Employment • If the executive is terminated and if the Board considers vesting would provide a benefit that was unwarranted or AASB 15 AASB 15 provides a new five step model Based on the analysis performed, this standard is not inappropriate, the Board can adjust unvested LTI prior to the vesting date. Revenue from Contracts for recognising revenue earned from a expected to have a material impact on the Group. • For ‘good leavers’, the LTI grant may remain on foot, subject to the original performance hurdles. with Customers and contract with a customer and will replace The main considerations supporting this assessment • In exceptional circumstances (such as death or total permanent disability), the Board may exercise discretion and consequential amendments the existing AASB 118 Revenue and AASB include: settle the award at the time of termination of employment. 111 Construction Contracts. • The process to value and allocate consideration to The standard becomes mandatory for the individual components of revenue transactions will Performance June 2013 Financial Year June 2014 to 2017 Financial Years Hurdles June 2019 financial year and will be not change; applied retrospectively. • Recognition of construction and development • Lendlease’s Total Securityholder Return (TSR) • 50% subject to Lendlease’s Total Securityholder Return services will continue to be over time; compared to the companies in the S&P/ASX 100 Index. (TSR) compared to the companies in the S&P/ASX 100 • Recognition of investment management and The S&P/ASX 100 companies were determined at the Index. The S&P/ASX 100 companies are determined at start of the performance period. the start of the performance period. origination fees will continue to be recognised when • 50% subject to Return on Equity (ROE) hurdle. services rendered; and • Capitalisation of bid costs is immaterial to the Vesting Schedule Relative TSR percentile ranking Percentage of performance securities that vest if the Statement of Financial Position. – TSR relative TSR hurdle is met (applicable to The Group anticipates the recognition point of June 2013 to 2017 Below the 50th percentile No vesting development properties will remain unchanged from financial years) current practice. At the 50th percentile 50% vesting The new standard will require an increase in the disclosures in relation to revenue derived from At or above the 51st percentile but below the 75th Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 52% and 98% contracts, key judgements and future revenue percentile expected to be generated. At the 75th percentile or greater 100% vesting AASB 16 AASB 16 provides a new model for Based on preliminary analysis performed, as a lessor, Leases accounting for leases. there is no material impact on the Group. As a lessee, Vesting Schedule Average Return on Equity over the Percentage of performance securities that vest if the – ROE performance period ROE hurdle is met The standard becomes mandatory for the the Group will: (applicable to June 2020 financial year and will be • Record ‘right to use’ lease assets and lease June 2014 to 2017 Less than 11% No vesting applied retrospectively. obligation liabilities in the Statement of Financial financial years) Position for its material operating lease 11% 25% vesting commitments; and Above 11% but below 15% Pro rata vesting on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% • Revise the Income Statement presentation of operating lease expense to record an amortisation 15% or greater 100% vesting and finance expense for the right to use lease assets and the lease obligation liabilities, respectively. c. Amounts Recognised in the Financial Statements LTI awards are valued using Monte-Carlo simulation methodology where the security price can be projected based on the assumptions underlying the Black-Scholes formula. Retention awards are valued by discounting the security price by the expected dividends assumed to be paid from the valuation date until the vesting date (if applicable). The model inputs include the Lendlease Group security price, a risk free interest rate, expected volatility and dividend yield. During the financial year ended 30 June 2017, a A$47.1 million expense was recognised in the Income Statement in relation to equity settled security based payment awards (June 2016: A$43.0 million). 182 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 183 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued DIRECTORS’ DECLARATION Section F: Other Notes continued In the opinion of the Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited (the Company): 1. The financial statements and notes and the remuneration disclosures contained in the Remuneration Report in the Directors’ Report 35. Impact of New and Revised Accounting Standards continued are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: New Accounting Amendments Not Yet Adopted a. Giving a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and Consolidated Entity as at 30 June 2017 and of their performance Certain accounting standards amendments have been published that are not mandatory for the year ended 30 June 2017 but are available for the financial year ended on that date; and for early adoption, unless otherwise noted, and have not been applied in preparing this report. b. Complying with Australian Accounting Standards (including the Australian Accounting Interpretations) and the Corporations The table below represents new and revised accounting amendments, together with consequential amendments relevant to the Group’s Regulations 2001. results for 30 June 2017. 2. The financial statements and notes also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as disclosed in the Basis of Preparation. Accounting Amendment Requirement Impact on Financial Statements 3. There are reasonable grounds to believe that the Company will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable. AASB 2016-1 The amendments to AASB 112 clarify the accounting Based on preliminary analysis performed, the 4. The Directors have been given the declarations required by Section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001 from the Group Chief Executive Amendments to Australian for deferred tax where an asset is measured at fair amendments are not expected to have a Accounting Standards – value and that fair value is below the asset’s tax base. material impact on the Group. Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer for the financial year ended 30 June 2017. Recognition of Deferred Tax The amendment becomes mandatory for the June Assets for Unrealised Losses 2018 financial year and will be applied retrospectively. Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors: AASB 2016-2 The amendment to AASB 107 introduces additional The amendment will impact the type of Amendments to Australian disclosures relating to changes in liabilities arising information disclosed in relation to financing Accounting Standards – from financing activities. cash flows. Disclosure Initiative: Amendments The amendment becomes mandatory for the June to AASB 107 2018 financial year and will be applied prospectively. AASB 2014-10 AASB 2014-10 amends AASB 10 and AASB 128 to Based on preliminary analysis performed, the Amendments to Australian clarify the requirements for recording the sale or amendments are not expected to have a Accounting Standards – Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its material impact on the Group. D A Crawford, AO Contribution of Assets between an associate or joint venture. Investor and its Associate or Joint The amendment becomes mandatory for the June Chairman Venture and consequential 2019 financial year and will be applied prospectively. amendments 36. Other Significant Accounting Policies a. Foreign Currency Translation Functional and Presentation Currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic S B McCann environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial report is presented in Australian dollars, which is Group Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director the Company’s functional and presentation currency. Transactions and Balances Sydney, 28 August 2017 Foreign currency transactions are translated into Australian dollars using the exchange rate on the date of the transactions. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Australian dollars at balance date. Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting are recognised in the Income Statement for monetary assets and liabilities such as receivables and payables, except for qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges in foreign operations that are recognised in other comprehensive income. Refer to Note 25 ‘Hedging’ for further detail. Translation differences on non monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. Translation differences on non monetary items, such as investments classified as available for sale financial assets, are included in the fair value revaluation reserve in equity. Group Entities The results and Statement of Financial Position of all Group entities that are not presented in Australian dollars (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) are translated as follows: • Revenue and expenses are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of transaction rate, in which case revenue and expenses are translated at the date of the transactions); • Assets and liabilities for each Statement of Financial Position presented are translated at the closing rate at balance date; and • All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income, in the foreign currency translation reserve. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. b. Goods and Services Tax Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of Goods and Services Tax (GST), except where the amount of GST incurred is not recoverable from the taxation authority. In these circumstances, the GST is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense. Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of GST included. The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) is included as a current asset or liability in the Statement of Financial Position. Cash flows are included in the Statement of Cash Flows on a gross basis. The GST components of cash flows arising from investing and financing activities that are recoverable from, or payable to, the ATO are classified as operating cash flows. 184 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 185 Independent Auditor’s Report Key Audit Matters The Key Audit Matters we identified for Key Audit Matters are those matters that, in our professional To the members of Lendlease Corporation Limited Lendlease Group are: judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Report of the current period. • Construction Revenue and Profit/Loss Recognition These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of Report on the audit of the Financial Report the Financial Report as a whole, and in forming our opinion • Development Revenue and Profit/Loss thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these Recognition matters. • Recoverability of Development Property Inventory Opinion • Asset Valuation We have audited the Financial Report of The Financial Report of the Lendlease Group comprises: Lendlease Corporation Limited as the • Consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 Construction Revenue (A$12,646.5m) and Profit/Loss Recognition deemed parent presenting the stapled June 2017 security arrangement of Lendlease Group (the Financial Report). • Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement Refer to Note 4 ‘Revenue’ to the financial report of comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of In our opinion, the accompanying Financial changes in equity, and Consolidated statement of cash The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Report is in accordance with the flows for the year then ended Corporations Act 2001, including: • Notes including a summary of significant accounting The Group performs various building, Our procedures included: • giving a true and fair view of the policies Lendlease Group’s financial position engineering and services construction contract • Evaluation and testing of management’s review and as at 30 June 2017 and of its financial • Directors’ Declaration. works (projects) for a wide range of customers. approval of revenue and cost forecasting; performance for the year ended on The Group contracts in a variety of ways. Each • Selection of a sample of contracts for testing using: The Lendlease Group (the Group) consists of Lendlease that date; and project has a different risk profile based on its Data Analytic routines based on a number of Corporation Limited and the entities it controlled at the year individual contractual and delivery quantitative and qualitative factors, related to • complying with Australian Accounting end or from time to time during the financial year and characteristics. size and risk of projects; and Standards and the Corporations Lendlease Trust. We focused on construction revenue and profit The Group’s project reporting tool. Regulations 2001. • For the sample selected, we: Shares in Lendlease Corporation Limited and units in recognition as a key audit matter due to the Lendlease Trust are jointly traded as a Stapled Security on conducted visits to a selection of project sites to judgment required by us in assessing the range the Australian Securities Exchange under the name of understand project schedule, forecast of factors that impact the Group’s estimate of Lendlease Group. revenue/cost and risks and opportunities and costs and revenue, and the potential impact on worked with KPMG engineering specialists profit. Basis for opinion where required; Estimating total costs to complete during read relevant contract terms and conditions to We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. We believe that the audit project life is complex and requires judgment. evaluate the inclusion of individual evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Typical cost estimates include labour, characteristics and project risks in the Group’s subcontractors, equipment, materials, and estimates; Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the project overheads. Changes to these cost tested forecast costs for labour, subcontractors, audit of the Financial Report section of our report. estimates could give rise to variances in the equipment, materials, and project overheads by We are independent of Lendlease Group and Lendlease Corporation Limited in accordance with the amount of revenue and profit/loss recognised. comparing to actual incurred spend and Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards committed future contracts; Judgment is also involved by us in assessing Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to our audit of tested the variations and claims included within the amount of revenue to be recognised the Financial Report in Australia. We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the revenue against the criteria for recognition in the specifically in relation to contractual variations Code. accounting standards via assessment of: and claims revenue, which has not been o correspondence between the Group and the formally agreed with the customer at the customer; and reporting date. o the Group’s legal and external experts’ reports received on contentious matters. KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG Liability limited by a scheme approved under network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG Professional Standards Legislation. International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 186 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 187 Recoverability of Development Property Inventory (A$4,138.4m) Development Revenue (A$2,829.3m) and Profit/Loss Recognition Refer to Note 11 ‘Inventories’ to the financial report Refer to Note 4 ‘Revenue’ to the financial report The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group capitalises development costs into Our procedures included: The Group develops for sale both built Our procedures included: inventory over the life of its projects. Development • Selection of a sample of projects for testing form product (for example residential costs include the purchase of land, site using: • Evaluation and testing of management’s review and apartments, retirement villages and infrastructure costs, construction costs for built Data Analytic routines based on a number of approval of development revenue and cost forecasting; commercial/retail buildings) and residential form product and borrowing costs. quantitative and qualitative factors, related to • Selection of a sample of developments based on land communities. size, duration and risk of projects; and quantitative and qualitative information such as Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net As development revenue is recognised transaction size, potential settlement risk and the realisable value and the recoverability of these The Group’s project reporting. • For the sample selected we: based on an assessment of when the complexity of the contractual terms of sale; costs is a significant judgment as that assessment compared expected sales prices to published risks and rewards of ownership transfer to • For the sample selected we: is based on forecasts of: industry forecasts and comparable sales the purchaser an assessment of the compared revenue recognised to contractual terms of • sales prices prices achieved in the year; contractual terms of sale and of sale and cash settlements; • forecast construction and infrastructure costs tested forecast construction and settlement risk is required. assessed the Group’s determination of the risks and to complete the development infrastructure costs to underlying supplier rewards of ownership transfer by a detailed analysis This was a key audit matter due to the contracts, historical experience of similar of the contractual terms of sale against the criteria in Where a development is forecast to be loss number of judgments required by us in costs and our industry expectation of cost the accounting standards; making and the inventory is no longer considered assessing development revenue and profit contingency levels and cost escalation recognition, in particular for assessed the customers’ credit risk including to be recoverable, it is considered to be impaired and an expense is recognised. assumptions. evaluating public information as to the financial commercial/retail building sales and position of the purchaser in the context of the level of This was a key audit matter due to many residential apartments. For residential deposits/instalments received by the Group; developments being long term which increases apartments we note that in the current year market commentary suggests tested settlement risk by performing statistical the level of forecasting judgment and audit sampling of residential apartment sale debtors complexity in estimating sales prices and future potential heightened settlement risk of recorded as received post balance date and checking costs to complete the development. residential apartments compared to prior to post year end cash proceeds; year. assessed the Group’s cost allocation methodology by The assessment of profit recognition comparing costs allocated to sales recognised in the requires judgment as cost allocation is year relative to the total project, against the Group’s typically a function of total forecast project accounting policy and the requirements of the profit based on either revenue or area accounting standards. estimation. 188 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 189 Asset Valuation Other Information Refer to Note 13 ‘Investment Properties’ (A$6,967.4m), Note 14 ‘Other Financial Assets’ (A$1,236.3m) Other Information is financial and non-financial information in Lendlease Group’s annual reporting which is and Note 26 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ to the financial report provided in addition to the Financial Report and the Auditor’s Report. The Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited are responsible for the Other Information. The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Our opinion on the Financial Report does not cover the Other Information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon, with the exception of the The Group is required to assess the value of Our procedures included: Remuneration Report and our related assurance opinions. investment properties, available for sale investments, and fair value through profit or loss • Assessment of the scope, competence and In connection with our audit of the Financial Report, our responsibility is to read the Other Information. In investments at each reporting date. Valuations of objectivity of external valuation experts engaged doing so, we consider whether the Other Information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Report or assets are generally performed using internal by management for assets valued by external our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. valuation methodologies (discounted cash flow or valuation experts; We are required to report if we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this Other Information, capitalised income approach) or through the use of • Evaluating and testing management’s review and based on the work we have performed on the Other Information that we obtained prior to the date of external valuation experts. External valuations are and approval of internal valuations based on the this Auditor’s Report we have nothing to report. obtained on a rotational basis by management Group’s policies for internally valued assets; each year, with the remaining investments being valued internally. • Assessment of the valuation methodology for Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Report consistency with accounting standards and The Group’s investment properties are primarily industry practice for that asset’s class; comprised of retirement villages and the key The Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited are responsible for: assumptions used in determining their value are • Comparing, with market data published by • preparing the Financial Report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting discount rates, changes in village residents, commercial real estate agents and/or our Standards and the Corporations Act 2001; current units/homes market prices and growth knowledge of the nature of the asset and its rates. historical performance, key assumptions such • implementing necessary internal control to enable the preparation of a Financial Report that gives a as: true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and Other financial assets are predominantly investments in entities which in turn own discount rates • assessing Lendlease Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. This includes disclosing, as commercial and retail property. Accordingly the applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless valuation assumptions are predominantly the changes in village residents they either intend to liquidate the Lendlease Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic capitalisation of earnings rates, discount rates, units/homes current market prices alternative but to do so. future rental income, capital expenditure projections and leasing incentives. The valuation of growth rates the properties held by these entities directly capitalisation of earnings rates Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Report impacts the fair value of the Group’s interests in these assets. future rental income Our objective is: The valuations of these assets is a key audit capital expenditure projections • to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Report as a whole is free from material matter as they: leasing incentives misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and • are judgmental, • to issue an Auditor’s Report that includes our opinion. • contain assumptions with estimation Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in uncertainty, which are inherently challenging accordance with Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. to audit, and Misstatements can arise from fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in the • lead to additional audit effort often due to the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the high number of differing assumptions and basis of this Financial Report. models, across varying asset classes. A further description of our responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Report is located at the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_files/ar2.pdf. This description forms part of our Auditor’s Report. 190 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 191 Report on the Remuneration Report In our opinion, the Remuneration Report Directors’ responsibilities of Lendlease Corporation Limited for the The Directors of Lendlease Corporation Limited are year ended 30 June 2017, complies with responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Section 300A of the Corporations Act Remuneration Report in accordance with Section 300A of the 2001. Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibilities We have audited the Remuneration Report included in pages 92 to 119 of the Directors’ report for the year ended 30 June 2017. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based on our Audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. PAR_SIG_01 PAR_NAM_01 PAR_POS_01 PAR_DAT_01 PAR_CIT_01 KPMG Duncan McLennan Partner Sydney 28 August 2017 This page is intentionally left blank. 08 192 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 193 Other Information Excelsior Hotel Gallia, Italy 194 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 195 SECURITYHOLDER INFORMATION Securities Exchange Listing and Code Privacy Legislation Security Information at a Glance at 1 August 2017 Lendlease Group is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange Under Chapter 2C of the Corporations Act 2001, a (comparative 1 August 2016) and trades under the code LLC. securityholder’s information (including their name, address and 2017 2016 In the United States, Lendlease securities are traded on the details of securities held) is required to be included in Lendlease’s over-the-counter market in the form of sponsored American public register. This information must continue to be included in Number of securityholders 58,350 61,957 Depositary Receipts (ADRs) under the symbol LLESY. Each ADR Lendlease’s public register for seven years after a person ceases Units issued 583,469,558 582,317,1461 represents one ordinary security. Information about ADRs is to be a securityholder. These statutory obligations are not altered available from the depositary, The Bank of New York Mellon by the Privacy Amendment (Private Sector) Act 2000. Information Percentage owned by 20 largest securityholders 73.94% 72.39% (www.adrbny.com). is collected to administer the securityholder’s holding and if Interim dividend/distribution 33.0 cents per security 30.0 cents per security some or all of the information is not collected, then it may not be Voting Rights possible to administer the holding. Lendlease’s privacy policy is Total dividend/distribution 66.0 cents per security 60.0 cents per security Each stapled security in Lendlease Group and each ADR entitles available on its website. Dividend payout ratio 51% 50% the holder to one vote. Rights to Lendlease Group securities Dispute Resolution granted under Lendlease Group’s employee equity incentive Spread of Securityholdings as at 1 August 2017 plans do not carry voting rights. There is a dispute resolution mechanism that covers complaints by securityholders. For more information, please contact (comparative 1 August 2016) Share Accumulation Plan Lendlease Investor Relations at +61 2 9236 6111 or email us at 2017 2016 The Share Accumulation Plan is designed to be a convenient investorrelations@lendlease.com way for securityholders with a registered address in Australia or 1 to 1,000 securities 30,087 31,356 Distribution and Share Accumulation Plan New Zealand to build their securityholdings without incurring 1,001 to 5,000 23,299 25,255 Issue Price History transaction costs. The laws of other countries make it difficult For historical distribution and Share Accumulation Plan Issue 5,001 to 10,000 3,171 3,472 for us to offer securities in this way. Lendlease securityholders are able to reinvest their distributions to acquire more Lendlease Price information, please see the below link to our website 10,001 to 100,000 1,698 1,773 securities through the Distribution Reinvestment Plan (DRP) www.lendlease.com/au/investor-centre/distribution-history 100,001 securities and over 95 101 or the Share Election Plan (SEP). Securityholders may also make contributions of between A$500 and A$2,500 to acquire Total number of securityholders 58,350 61,957 new Lendlease securities under the Share Purchase Plan Securityholders with less than a marketable parcel 2,165 2,476 (SPP). Together the DRP, SEP and SPP constitute the Share (representing 19,613 securities) (representing 29,464 securities) Accumulation Plan. The rules of each of these plans are set out in the Share Securities Purchased on Market Accumulation Plan Information Sheet. Copies are available on the Lendlease website. Please note that the Share Election Plan and The following securities were purchased on market during the financial year for the purpose of funding employee incentive awards the Share Purchase Plan are currently suspended. through Lendlease securities. Number of Securities Purchased Average Price Paid Per Security Key Sources of Information for Securityholders We report the following to securityholders each year: Stapled Securities 3,551,191 A$13.72 • Annual Report; and • March and September distribution statements. Buy Backs Electronic Communications As at 1 August 2017, there were no current on market buy backs of Lendlease Group securities. Securityholders have the option of receiving the following communications and all other company related information electronically: • Annual Report; • Distribution statements; and • Notice of Annual General Meetings. Lendlease makes the Annual Report available in an online version. A hard copy of the Annual Report will only be sent to those securityholders who elect to receive it in that form. In addition, you may elect to receive notification when the Annual Report is available online. Securityholders who wish to register their email address should go to the website of the Lendlease share registry www.investorcentre.com/ecomms For registry contact details, see page 198. 1. Amount restated to disclose the whole units issued. 196 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 197 SECURITYHOLDER INFORMATION continued GLOSSARY Co-investment: The total market value of Lendlease equity KPIs: Key Performance Indicators. Name No. of Units % of Issued Capital invested across Lendlease managed funds as at period end. Long Term Incentive (LTI): An incentive scheme which provides Represents the Group’s assessment of the market value. Lendlease equity (or cash, in some circumstances) to participating HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 179,077,976 30.69 Completions: Apartments – pre sold units on buildings completed executives that may vest, in whole or part, if specified performance J P Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 94,187,703 16.14 during the period and units sold in the period on completed measures are met over a three or four year period. buildings; Communities and Retirement – units settled in the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR): An indicator and Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 40,472,119 6.94 period on completed land lots or units; Commercial – buildings industry standard measuring a workplace injury which prevents National Nominees Limited 33,134,379 5.68 that have achieved practical completion during the period. a worker from returning to duties the next day. LTIFR refers to BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd <Agency Lending DRP A/C> 18,882,807 3.24 Construction backlog realisation: The proportion of the number of lost time injuries within a year, relative to the total Construction backlog revenue which is expected to be earned number of hours worked in the financial year. BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd <DRP> 14,906,501 2.55 across future years. LTI (face value): Refers to the number of LTI performance LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Ltd <Castle Account A/C> 14,075,522 2.41 Construction backlog revenue: Current year Construction backlog securities granted multiplied by the Lendlease security price at revenue is the total revenue to be earned across future periods. the applicable time. National Nominees Limited <N A/C> 6,233,252 1.07 Critical incident: An event that had the potential to have caused Market capitalisation: The number of securities on issue Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited <Colonial First State INV A/C> 4,794,931 0.82 death or permanent disability. multiplied by the security price at year end. LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Limited <ESAP STI A/C> 4,284,482 0.73 Development pipeline: Estimated remaining end value of all of Net debt: Borrowings, including certain other financial liabilities, Argo Investments Limited 3,893,609 0.67 the Group’s secured development projects based on values as at less cash. period end; includes 100 per cent of joint venture projects and New work secured revenue: Estimated revenue to be earned HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited <NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A/C> 2,854,738 0.49 therefore will not necessarily correlate with the Group’s Profit from construction contracts secured during the period. New LL Employee Holdings Custodian Pty Limited <ESAP Account> 2,847,597 0.49 after Tax. work is secured and forms part of Construction backlog revenue Custodial Services Limited <Beneficiaries Holding A/C> 2,153,214 0.37 Distribution payout ratio: Distribution divided by Profit after Tax. when formal contracts are signed. AMP Life Limited 2,145,797 0.37 Distribution per security: Amount of interim and final People and Culture (P&C) Committee: The Board subcommittee distribution per stapled security from the company/Trust. that helps the Board fulfil its responsibilities in people Forsyth Barr Custodians Ltd <Forsyth Barr Ltd-Nominee A/C> 1,881,852 0.32 management and reward policies. It is made up entirely of Earnings per security: Profit after Tax divided by the weighted IOOF Investment Management Limited <IPS Super A/C> 1,551,802 0.27 independent Non Executive Directors. average number of securities on issue during the year (including Bond Street Custodians Limited <Macq High Conv Fund A/C> 1,482,627 0.25 treasury securities) unless otherwise stated. Profit after Tax (PAT): Profit after Tax attributable to securityholders, determined in accordance with Australian RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Ltd <VFA A/C> 1,360,592 0.23 EBITDA: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and Accounting Standards. amortisation. Diversified United Investment Limited 1,200,000 0.21 Public Private Partnerships (PPP): A joint procurement Effective tax rate: Income tax expense as a percentage of profit 431,421,500 arrangement for infrastructure development contracts between 73.94 before tax. the public and private sectors. Face value of a security: The value of a Lendlease security at the Substantial Securityholders as Shown in the Company’s Register at 1 August 2017 Return on Equity (ROE): ROE is calculated using annual applicable time. statutory Profit after Tax attributable to securityholders divided Name Date of Last Notice Received No. of Units % of Issued Capital Fair value of a security: The value of a Lendlease security, by the arithmetic average of beginning, half year and year end derived by applying a discount rate determined by the Board, securityholders’ equity. BlackRock Group 20/04/2017 29,288,950 5.01 designed to reflect the likelihood of vesting (in cases where there Securityholders: An individual or entity that owns Lendlease are performance hurdles to be met before vesting can occur). securities. Funds under management (FUM): The total market value of Senior Executive: Employees who hold a position at Executive investments across Lendlease managed funds. level according to the Lendlease Career Job Framework. This Gearing: Net debt to total tangible assets less cash. generally includes Regional Business Unit Heads, Regional Global Minimum Requirements (GMRs): GMRs are Lendlease’s Function Heads and in some cases, direct reports to Group minimum environment, health and safety standards designed to Function Heads. control the risks across our operations. Short Term Incentive (STI): Incentives awarded with direct Good leaver: A Senior Executive who is leaving Lendlease for a reference to the achievement of Group, regional and individual reason such as retirement, redundancy, or resignation where the performance. The measures are selected annually and align to Senior Executive is not joining a competitor, and who may remain our long term strategic priorities. eligible for part or all of an incentive opportunity. Total Package Value (TPV): Salary plus the value of salary Green Star rating: Green Star is a national voluntary package items such as motor vehicles and parking and environmental rating system used by the Green Building compulsory superannuation contributions paid on behalf of an Council of Australia to evaluate the environmental design and employee. achievements of buildings. Total Shareholder Return/Total Securityholder Return (TSR): Investments: Includes equity invested in Lendlease managed The movement in a company’s share/security price, dividend funds and direct investment in property and property related yield and any return of capital over a specific period. It is often assets. Represents the Group’s assessment of market value. expressed as a percentage. Investments performance: The performance of our Investments Urbanisation pipeline: Estimated remaining end value of business which includes our funds under management, assets all of the Group’s secured development projects (excluding under management, co-invested equity in Lendlease managed Communities projects and Retirement projects) based on values funds and direct investment in property and property related as at period end; includes 100 per cent of joint venture projects assets. and therefore will not necessarily correlate with the Group’s Profit after Tax. Key Management Personnel (KMP): Those executives who have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and Weighted average number of securities: The time weighted controlling the activities of the Group directly or indirectly (as per number of securities outstanding during the period. Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures). 198 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | DIRECTORS’ REPORT | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | OTHER INFORMATION 199 CORPORATE DIRECTORY Annual General Meeting 2017 The Annual General Meeting of shareholders of Lendlease Corporation Limited and the general meeting of unitholders of Lendlease Trust (together, Lendlease Group) will be held at 10am on Friday 17 November 2017 in the Pyrmont Theatre, International Convention Centre Sydney, 14 Darling Drive, Sydney. Full details will be provided in the Notice of Meetings. 2017 Financial Calendar 28 August Full Year Results Announced 1 September Security Price Ex Distribution 20 September Final Distribution Payable 17 November Annual General Meeting 2018 Financial Calendar 21 February Half Year Results Announced 27 February Security Price Ex Distribution 28 February Interim Distribution Record Date 20 March Interim Distribution Payable Please note that the timing of events can be subject to change. A current calendar is available online at www.lendlease.com. Entity Details Lendlease Corporation Limited ABN 32 000 226 228 Incorporated in NSW Australia Lendlease Responsible Entity Limited ABN 72 122 883 185 AFS Licence 308983 as responsible entity for Lendlease Trust ABN 39 944 184 773 ARSN 128 052 595 Registered Office Level 14, Tower Three, International Towers Sydney, Exchange Place, 300 Barangaroo Avenue, Barangaroo NSW 2000 Contact T: +61 2 9236 6111 F: +61 2 9252 2192 W: www.lendlease.com Share Registry Information Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited ABN 48 078 279 277 GPO Box 242, Melbourne Victoria 3000 Australia T: 1800 230 300 (within Australia) T: +61 3 9946 4460 (outside Australia) W: www.computershare.com.au Barangaroo South, Sydney Level 14, Tower Three, International Towers Sydney, Exchange Place, 300 Barangaroo Avenue, Barangaroo NSW 2000 www.lendlease.com
