IMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016ON COMMUNICATION : IMPACT PROGRESS 2016 www.impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION ON ON PROGRESS2011: PROGRESS : IMPACT INTERNATIONAL 2016 IMPACT The UN TheGlobal Compact UN Global Compactis aisstrategic policyinitiative a strategicpolicy for initiative for businesses businesses are committed that that are committed to to aligningtheir aligning theiroperations operations andand strategies strategies ten universally withwith accepted ten universally principles in acceptedprinciples in the areas the areas of human rights, of human labour, rights, environment labour, environmentand andanti-corruption. anti-corruption. www.impactinternational.com 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT Human Rights Environment Principle 1 Principle 7 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2 Principle 8 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Labour Standards encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 Anti-corruption the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 10 Principle 5 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, the effective abolition of child labour; and including extortion and bribery. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. www.impactinternational.com 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT IMPACT: WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Impact is an independent multi-award winning global leadership development company, established in 1980. We have a worldwide delivering capability, employing over 150 talented people from offices in the UK, Europe, Asia-Pacific and the USA. We focus on transforming the impact of leadership action in organisations by inspiring and developing employees to grow as leaders, as managers, as talented professionals and as people. We build organisations worth working for We believe that it is through our organisations that we will successfully meet the challenges we face as a global society. Our organisations must therefore be the very best expressions of human ingenuity, endeavour and enterprise, they should be vibrant places that inspire meaningful action and create enduring value. We strengthen the quality and effectiveness of leadership action in organisations… We believe that leadership is the defining issue of our age; it is through the quality of our leaders and the impact of their leadership action that we frame the vital ability of our organisations to learn, to adapt and to grow. ! We create experiential learning adventures that catalyse and embed behavioural change Our learning model combines traditional methods of skill and knowledge development with direct experience of taking action using those skills and knowledge alongside expert facilitation to review and embed that learning. RACER… captures our brand essence, it stands for Responsible, Adventure, Customised, Experiential and Results. Impact combines all of these elements to create our personality and our brand. www.impactinternational.com 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT IMPACT: WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Impact supports the United Nations, Global Goals for Sustainable Development www.impactinternational.com 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID WILLIAMS Founder and CEO, Impact International Impact have been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2005. Key to the progression of these principles is the commitment and support from our people. In a recent survey (source: Great Places To Work® Survey 2016) 98% of our employees said that ‘it is a physically safe place to work’ 94% said that ’Impact manages its impact upon society responsibly’ and 92% said that ’it is working to improve its environmental impact’ In 2016 our business operated out of 17 offices worldwide and we delivered programmes in more than 40 countries. We have worked with some new global clients this year where we continue to develop our blending learning solutions across regions. Our face to face programmes continue to thrive, many of which are enhanced by a digital component, such as webinar based learning inputs Internally, we continue to drive responsible action throughout our global organisation. Externally, we are continuing to develop our ‘Responsible Leadership’ proposition. In 2016 we designed new programmes and projects to bring the Sustainable Development Goals to life for our clients and we strongly believe we have a responsibility to engage and influence our clients in this area. www.impactinternational.com 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT INTRODUCTION FROM DAVID WILLIAMS Founder and CEO, Impact International As we move into 2017, I reaffirm my full support to the UNGC and the ten principles which underpin the initiative. As a global business we will continue to progress the ten principles within our operations and to influence where possible across our supply chain and client base. In this year’s report we outline progress made in the UK. As in previous years, our report demonstrates success and failure against our 2016 targets. Our Report is in the public domain and can be viewed on the UNGC website or via a link on our website: http://www.impactinternational.com/united-nations-global-compact Cragwood House, Impact Headquaters, Windermere, Cumbria, UK www.impactinternational.com 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of make sure that they are not complicit in human rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and abuse CONTEXT: Impact is fully supportive of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is aware of the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. Impact is committed to the implementation of all aspects of human rights, internally within our organisation and externally, through the delivery programmes we deliver for our clients. As a service organisation, we can support these principles in two tangible and measurable ways. The former is around how we engage and educate our people in this area and the latter is about providing innovative approaches to engage and influence across our clients and supply chain. As an international organisation we seek to develop consistent best practice across all regions and work to the highest standards in terms of safe and healthy working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights. Our report outlines how we address these principles internally and externally. Internally: The support Impact provides to uphold the rights of others through the ‘Learning in the Community’ initiative. How Impact provides, upholds and respects the rights of its employees. Externally: How we broker cross sector relationships to engage our clients through ‘Community Action Learning’ Programmes that provide mutual benefit, learning and value for all parties. www.impactinternational.com 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT INTERNAL: All Impact employees are expected to complete a minimum of three paid days, working in their local community. We call this initiative ‘Learning in the Community’ (LITC). This is aligned to our employees development need alongside the needs of the community partner. Not all LITC activities are focused on addressing the rights of others, however, many are, for example: We support the Unicef ‘Rights Respecting Schools’ project. In 2016 Impact identified a project with a local partner, Sandgate School. Sandgate required some IT ideas, support and assistance to help create social media materials to better promote the ‘Rights Respecting Schools’ initiative to inform and engage a variety of stakeholders, including parents, teachers, students and other schools around rights for children. In 2017, Dan Jones from Impact will use some of his time (through LITC) to work with the school to help them to communicate their work in this area. Learning in the Community (LITC) is formally reviewed twice a year, during performance reviews by Rights Respecting Schools – A UK project which aims line managers. to put the Rights of children at the heart of all Schools. Our target is to uphold 70% engagement of LITC throughout the UK business. About the project ‘Unicef works with schools in the In 2016 in the UK a total of 80 days were achieved out of a potential days =186 days = 43% UK to create safe and inspiring places to learn, In 2015 in the UK a total of 72.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 165 days = 43% where children are respected, their talents are In 2014 in the UK a total of 214.5 LiTC days were achieved out of a potential 270 days79% nurtured and they are able to thrive.’ Two significant factors have contributed to a lower percentage of LITC engagement during 2015 and h<ps://www.unicef.org.uk/rights-respec@ng2016, the company restructure process and the cancellation of the children’s holiday which on schools/ average requires 50 LITC days to deliver. In 2017 we are planning to work in collaboration with Action for Children and aim to run a residential holiday for the children they support. GPTW ( Great Places To Work) survey states that: 94% of UK employees ‘feel good about the way we contribute to our communities’. www.impactinternational.com 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT 2016 TARGET: To provide a series of workshops to ensure all full time members of staff have completed Human Rights Training and understand the relevance of these to our business. PROGRESS: Dates for a webinar and face to face workshop have been included in our suite of internal personal development programmes ( referred to as our Academy) 2016 TARGET: To provide workshops to help our employees understand ‘The Modern Slavery Act 2015’. PROGRESS: This topic has been covered during several informal sessions on the SDGs. It has been included in the ‘Academy’ suite developmental programmes, to be delivered in 2017. 2016 TARGET: To include a clear policy not to use, be complicit in, or benefit from forced labour: PROGRESS:. As an organisation we strongly oppose any involvement (whether it be directly or indirectly) in respect to forced labour. We do however acknowledge the diversity of clients we work with and cannot account for their own business activities. www.impactinternational.com 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT INTERNAL continued… 2016 TARGET: To integrate the Sustainable Development Goals into our internal practice. PROGRESS: • In 2016, 20 new employees joined the UK. All new employees embark upon a structured induction programme which involves a through introduction the SDG’s. • In December 2016, a 3 day Internal Programme was delivered in the UK for a cross functional, global group of Impact employees. Their objective was to present ideas on how Impact can best deliver on the SDGs. This working group are continuing to develop the ideas they generated. 2016 TARGET: To address key areas for improvement using the outcome of our Pulse Survey. PROGRESS: This is the second year we have run this survey. We ask exactly the same questions at the same time of year to get a true comparison between 2015 and 2016 we are interested in what progress we have made over the past 12 months and where we need to focus our attention next year. Key areas worked on in 2016 to respond to feedback from employees included: • A suite of professional developmental opportunities including Coaching, Project Management, wellbeing and advanced facilitation skills. • More details and transparency around the 2020 strategy to help people to engage and be involved in helping the organisation to achieve its aims. • External Project Management courses to up skill our Programme Managers www.impactinternational.com 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT EXTERNAL: We have supported more than 20 organisations through our ‘Community Action Learning’ (CAL) programmes in the UK. CAL aims to develop leadership capability for participants whilst providing real value to our community partners. Our process: • We have a strict set of principles which we adhere to and review against before and after every CAL project. • Programme details are captured in the Programme Report Document. This report is written by the Programme Director and shared with relevant stakeholders within 24 hours of the programme finishing. • Any key information following from the programme is raised during the weekly UK Management Team meeting and relevant action is taken and shared. During 2016 we delivered more than 20 global CAL projects in schools, including Malaysia, Hong Kong, Japan, Hamburg and Madrid. We designed and delivered CAL projects for 14 – 17 year olds. The aim of these sessions to help students to transition from a school environment into a work environment. Image from Ashley Cooper, a partner of Impact. http://www.globalwarmingimages.net/index.html www.impactinternational.com 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT Below is feedback from a partner in Hong Kong (Mr. Ebrahim) following a programme designed and delivered by Impact for the participants on a Google led programme called ‘Squared’ ‘Thank you very much for putting together this event for the DGS girls. I've been able to followup with the class and the feedback has been overwhelmingly positive.They enjoyed interacting with the participants and appreciated their advice and candid nature when sharing their experiences. I did a quick survey, and 41% would strongly recommend it, 50% recommend it and the remaining 9% were neutral (0% for not recommended)’ When we work outside of the UK more Health and Safety responsibilities and additional risk assessments may be required due to the sensitive and fragile environments in which we operate. We always carry out site visits to ensure we have assessed these risks for our partners, our clients and our employees and we have a process in place to review and document any learning points. 2016 TARGET: To integrate the Sustainable Development Goals into our external practice. PROGRESS: • SDG sessions were built into10 of our external programmes • An SDG introduction slide was used in many of our externally facing client meeting Jo Appleby, Head of Partnerships attended the UNGC ‘Leaders • An SDGs’ session was delivered for ‘300 Sport For Development Organisations’ Summit’ in New York in June 2016, along with Impacts’ • Impact supported two employees (Head of Partnerships and Commercial Board Commercial Board Director, Jeremy Benton. Director) to attend the UNGC Leaders summit in NY, ‘Making the Global Goals Local’ www.impactinternational.com 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT OTHER PROGRESS BEYOND TARGETS To ensure we have a consistent approach and process in which to monitor our work, we assign a Programme Director to every programme. They are accountable for all aspects of safety throughout the preparation and delivery. The list below is applied to every programme delivered. ! Ensuring that a risk assessment covers all activities ! Staff are competent to deliver a safe programme ! The programme has a safety plan ! Appropriate PI ( personal information) data is collected and circulated ! External suppliers are properly vetted and controlled ! Adequate first aid provision is organised ! Groups operating remotely are effectively monitored ! Adequate safety briefings are given at the appropriate time throughout the programme ! Everyone understands their duty of care towards each other and clients ! Everyone understands and follows the emergency response procedure 24 hours after the programme has been delivered, a report is sent from the Programme Director and circulated to to UK Management Team and David Williams (Founder and CEO) Any incidents are reported and acted on immediately. We never compromise the safety of our clients, partners or our employees. Image from Ashley Cooper, a partner of Impact. http://www.globalwarmingimages.net/index.html www.impactinternational.com 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT TARGETS FOR 2017 Our central purpose through 2017 in respect of our commitment to the UN Global Charter will be to engage our own employees, as well as influencing our clients and our supply chain with regards to their practices. To this end our specific targets in the realm of Human Rights are: • The delivery of human Rights Policy through our Global Learning platform, Academy • Report on any Human Rights issued raised, either internally or externally. Provide details on the process we use and and how learning is shared • Progress and results from the internal Pulse Survey • Provide details of SDG related internal and external projects www.impactinternational.com 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT Principle 3 Principle 4 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 5 Principle 6 the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. CONTEXT: Our key asset is our people. Consequently Impact is committed to adhering to, and going beyond, all legal requirements to provide fair, flexible and appropriately remunerated employment to all our directly employed and freelance contract staff. Key labour related issues for Impact involve providing a safe and healthy work environment, flexible working structures (both in terms of available contracts for staff and day to day working practices) and providing transparent remuneration and appropriate benefits for contract staff. Impact employ a large number of ‘contract’ or ‘freelance’ staff across our global offices. Because of their freelance status such staff often have the least access to representation and forms of collective bargaining. Relevant feedback from the Great Place to Work® survey in terms of Labour standards include: • 83% said ‘ if I am unfairly treated I believe I would be given a fair hearing of I appealed’ • 95% said ‘People are treated fairly regardless of their race or ethic origin’ • 98% said ‘This is a physically safe place to work’ • 92% said ‘I am able to take time off when I think its necessary’ www.impactinternational.com 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT Safety at Impact will always be our top priority. • Our Global Head of Safety, Phillip Poole reports directly to Sam Carey, Head of Impact UK and David Williams, Founder and CEO. • Health & Safety is addressed at every Monday morning company meeting and the beginning of every programme and project. Each month a safety update is communicated globally through our Safety website. • Updates from Country Managers are shared with the Board on a quarterly basis. • Every year a safety report is completed and shared throughout the organisation. 2016 TARGET: Continue to develop our Online Safety Training system. This will include upgrading phase one to improve the pass rate and develop phase two. PROGRESS: Due to targeted staff compliance from managers, virtually all staff have completed Phase One and the majority of delivery staff have completed Phase Two safety training. The feedback received from many trainees is that the online training is effective and enjoyable. Phase Three training for Programme Directors is a face to face or webinar based.. 2015 Phase one 60% all completed Phase two 80% ‘client facing’ employees completed 2016 Phil Poole, Global Head of Safety, Impact. Phase one 98% completed ( out of 200 global employees) Phase two 95% completed www.impactinternational.com 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT 2016 TARGET: Review the working of the People Bank to accurately record progress on safety PROGRESS: In progress but not completed yet due to the lack of capacity to work on it. This is not a crucial or priority project but it will be included in the 2017 targets. 2016 TARGET: Review and revise the Impact Staff Handbook PROGRESS: The Impact Staff Handbook includes a detailed written procedure for any employee who feels that they have a concern, problem or complaint with any aspect of their employment. This follows the ACAS code of practice on discipline and grievance. The procedure ensures individuals are treated fairly and reasonably. Individuals can be accompanied and/or represented by a fellow employee/representative of their choice at any formal meeting convened at any stage of the grievance procedure. EXTERNAL SAFETY AUDITS: We continue to monitor changes and updates to legislation and guidance. There have been no significant legislation changes that affect Impact UK in 2016. Every year we are externally audited All safety is communicated through our: by AdventureMark. This year the • Weekly company wide meeting ( every Monday) report stated: • Global Management Team “Impact is a highly developed • Safety website (accessible by all offices and in the public domain) organisation with comprehensive online • Slack channels ( our global communications tool) resources to compliment safety and • Global communications monthly update sent out by Phil Poole, our Global Safety Officer delivery. The continued development of Total accidents: this resource is welcomed and it is • Total accidents in 2016 down to three. The only significant accident was to a member of staff from a slip refreshing to see safety management exiting the office, but this did not result in a Reportable Incident. systems that are freely available online • In 2015 our total accidents went up one from 8 to 9 these were ‘participants on our programmes’. to all clients and staff. There were no accidents to staff in 2015 Equipment resources, both technical and • In 2014 the number of accidents to participants went up from 6 to 7. Our total accidents went up one generic, are of a high standard and well from 7 to 8 managed.” www.impactinternational.com 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT PROGRESS BEYOND TARGETS: We continue to have a high level of reporting of near misses (20 for 2015/16) and this has enabled us to implement any improvements necessary and raise staff awareness. In 2016 we implemented a strict and company wide strategy towards safety by adopting and adapting the Take Two process. Take Two stands for take two minutes”. It is a quick and easy process that enables individuals and groups to analyse the safety of a particular course of action, or job. First introduced by Du Pont and trade marked in 2007, we have adapted the model to apply to all of our projects on all of our programmes. This provides a positive opportunity for all participants to take responsibility of themselves and others. It has been well received by our clients and our employees. T – Task. What is the specific task I am about to undertake? Ask the group to undertake? What is the nature of the environment I am working in? A – Aware. What are the potential hazards I need to be/keep aware of? What steps do I need to take to safeguard against them? Furthermore invite the group to do this to raise their own awareness too. A safety management process was introduced at the end of 2016 called ‘Take Two’ and this K – Knowledge. will be reinforced throughout 2017 with the aim What skills/knowledge do the relevant parties needs to undertake it safely? of becoming standard practice. Who will provide them? E – Equipment. What equipment is needed to undertake the task safely? www.impactinternational.com 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT Targets for 2017 • Review the working of the People Bank to accurately record progress on the safety training learning management system (LMS) • Develop the functionality of the LMS on the safety training system • Create the Safety App to use globally • Review the Emergency Response Team training and test systems. Image from Ashley Cooper, a partner of Impact. http://www.globalwarmingimages.net/index.html www.impactinternational.com 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT Principle 7 Principle 8 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environmental challenges; responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. CONTEXT: Like all businesses Impact face considerable environmental challenges. As a service organisation our key challenges are around resource usage on our programmes, office energy efficiency and transport. 95% of our employees believe that we are working to reduce our environmental impact (source: Great Place to Work® Survey 2016). INTERNAL TARGETS: 2016 TARGET: Increase international office engagement in environmental issues affecting Impact and qualify progression of country specific environmental policies. PROGRESS: We have appointed a person in the Singapore who will lead on all CSR activities for the Asia region. Part of this role will include working across regions with others who focus energy on the creation and of implementation of environmental policies and procedures. www.impactinternational.com 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT 2016 TARGET: Empower a new internal focus group to deliver at least 3 projects for the business, integrating environmental issues into daily working life for all staff through team days, regular updates, newsletters and meetings PROGRESS: We have not achieved this target. The UK business has recruited 20 new staff during 2016 and we have not been able to engage and recruit a new internal focus group. 2016 TARGET: Review adoption of ISO 14001 PROGRESS: We continue to see value in achieving this standard however, the resource needed in terms of people and investment is not a priority and our environment impacts do not justify such a rigorous approach. EXTERNAL TARGETS: 2016 TARGET: Re-launch the annual environmental report, providing data in more usable formats for different stakeholders including alignment with our Responsible Leadership proposition and the Sustainable Development Goals PROGRESS: We have not managed to progress this target due to a lack of resource available internally. 2016 TARGET: Each country office to partner with a local environmental NGO or charity to deliver a needed service through the Impact volunteering initiative, Learning in the Community PROGRESS: We have tracked our Learning in the Community engagement. The 79 days given through the initiative were closely aligned to: SDG Goal 4 – Education SDG Goal 17 – Partnership for the goals It is through this goal ( SDG – 17) that we have supported environmental organisations such as Cumbria Woodlands, South Lakes Flood Relief Group and Growing well. Image from Ashley Cooper, a partner of Impact. http://www.globalwarmingimages.net/index.html www.impactinternational.com 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT TARGETS FOR 2017 Internal To appoint a new environment team to drive and engage the business to continue to progress our work in this area. External Re-launch the annual environmental report, providing data in more usable formats for different stakeholders including alignment with our Responsible Leadership proposition and the Sustainable Development Goals Each country office to partner with a local environmental NGO or charity to deliver a needed service through the Impact volunteering initiative, Learning in the Community Image from Ashley Cooper, a partner of Impact. http://www.globalwarmingimages.net/index.html www.impactinternational.com 22 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTEXT Impact firmly believe that all businesses should work against corruption. We have strong internal policies communicated to all staff (through our staff handbook) about expectations for professional and ethical behaviour, it states that ‘Impact recognises the importance of conducting its business subject to the highest ethical standards, with integrity and honesty, and in full compliance with all applicable laws’. 2016 TARGET: To provide a training workshop for all Impact employees on our global policy. PROGRESS: There are a number of interventions at every stage of our work with clients where we share, communicate and assess the work scope and our role. Any issues which may compromise our work are quickly identified, communicated and discussed at the appropriate level. In 2016 we recorded no incidents where our policy was compromised. TARGETS FOR 2017: Through the ‘Academy’ (our internal suite of developmental programmes) we will aim to get more than 50% of client facing employees to take part in webinar based sessions around ‘Corruption and Bribery’. Image from Ashley Cooper, a partner of Impact. http://www.globalwarmingimages.net/index.html www.impactinternational.com 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 : IMPACT Communication on Progress Produced by: Impact Cragwood House Windermere Cumbria LA23 1LQ t: +44 (0)15394 88333 e: jo.appleby@impactinternational.com www.impactinternational.com 24
