COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS 2016 2 Our story Danoffice IT was established in 1995 and provides IT infrastructure to InternationalOrganizations & Businesses operating worldwide. We provide IT equipment and services to 167 countries worldwide. Our Vision is to “Improve the world through IT”. Technology is contributing to our happiness in many ways; communication, information, education, practicalities, less physical tasks and expand of lifetime. A report from 2012 called ”Happy Planet” concludes the degree of happiness is related to use of technology. Danoffice IT portfolio include hardware, software, consulting and services and covers all leading brands. Our technical staff have a broad and deep knowhow in IT infrastructure and assist our clients from Denmark, USA, Switzerland and Kenya. We elaborates on 22 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and B2B partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having the United Nations as client. We cooperate very closely with our clients throughout the entire process from analyzing needs, supplying the needed IT equipment, installing the solution and offer a number of valuable after sales services. A holistic approach which bring VALUE to the client and return on their investment. Our logo represent two hands embracing the entire World for a better future. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 3 Our story We are extremely proud of our customer survey from 2014 which concluded that: “98% of our clients said they would recommend Danoffice IT to colleagues and partners” The survey concluded that especially our high level of service and engagement throughout the process of in pre-sale, sale and after-sale, is superior to the competition. Today Danoffice IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 400 customers in 167 countries. For more information, please visit www.danoffice.com or contact us at danoffice@danoffice.com Submitted, May 17th, 2017 by Per Erik Edvard Svehag CEO & Partner DANOFFICE IT Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 4 Facts about Danoffice IT Offices: Founded D&B Denmark, USA, Switzerland & Kenya 1995 AAA +7000 Shipments in 2016 167 End user countries in 2016 60 Employees # languages Public 4500 mastered customer segment Orders in 2016 9 7P’s +400 600 DNA Customers served Travel days per year Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 5 Content Corporate Social Responsibility & The Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Danoffice IT CSR – Against Poaching. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Danoffice IT CSR – RUN for a purpose. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Communications on Progress (COP) 2016. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Human Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Labour. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Anti-Corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 CSR & Corporate Values . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 6 Corporate social Responsibility This CSR report is a part of the company´s legal statement of social responsibility, section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Danoffice IT is member of the UN Global Compact which is the worlds largest sustainability & citizenship initiative. A network based initiative with the Global Compact Office and six UN agencies at its core. The Global Compact involves all relevant social actors: companies, whose actions it seeks to influence; governments, labour, civil society organizations, and the United Nations as an authoritative convener and facilitator. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principled approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Responsible businesses enact the same values and principles wherever they have a presence, and know that good practices in one area do not offset harm in another. By incorporating the Global Compact principles into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, companies are not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 7 Corporate social Responsibility Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We all have a responsibility for the environment and for looking after each other, but as an international company with influence and means we carry an even greater responsibility than the ordinary man. Danoffice IT is devoted in making UN Global Compact a success and alongside with other dedicated members, strive to create awareness and set new standards for good governance. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Danoffice IT we consider corruption as a substantial obstacle to economic and social development around the world. It has negative impacts on sustainable development and predominantly sustains poverty. Danoffice IT position on corruption is not take part, or to accept, any form of fraud or corruption. The company is determined to prevent, detect and deter any form thereof. This has been our position since our foundation in 1995 and we are proud to say that our company has never been involved, accused or convicted of any form of fraud or corruption. The company defines bribery as an act on offering or receiving money, goods or other forms of recompense from a business associate in exchange for an alteration of their behavior to the benefit or interest of the giver that the recipient would otherwise not alter. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 8 Corporate social Responsibility Whistle Blower Hotline If any business associate to Danoffice IT has knowledge or suspicion of fraud and corruption on a staff member of Danoffice IT or any associated business partners to the company, it is strongly requested immediately to engage the anti-corruption whistle blower hotline on any knowledge or information of corruption. Any business associate is requested to use whistleblower@danoffice.com to inform the company management of this crime. Danoffice IT wishes to demonstrate our continuing commitment by documenting our progresses made on the ten principles in an annual Communication On Progress (COP) report. The ten CSR principles have been integrated in all organizational levels from strategic, to tactical to operational level. Our COP report will communicate the progresses made to the international society for documentation and inspiration. Danoffice IT COP 2016 report is a part of the “Statutory statement of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to the annual report for 2016, cf. the Danish Financial Statement Act, § 99a.” Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 9 Danoffice IT CSR AGAINST POACHING Poaching is one of the critical threats and increased exponentially over the past 10 years, as the black market prices for ivory has jumped. Elephants, Rhinos and other endangered spices faces the real risk of extinction unless the international community takes stronger action. Danoffice IT, have decided to contribute through a Corporate Social Responsibility activity named AGAINST POACHING. We want to help, and we are presently actively involved supporting leading conservation organization in the fight against poaching or illegal trade. In Suriname in the northeastern part of South America we are collaborating with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and started implementation of the use of civil conservation drones to monitor marine life activities. In South Africa, we have started “the fight against poaching” in close collaboration with the Gondwana Foundation and its team of rangers bringing the UAV technology closer to the field. The Huginn X1 civilian drone will be testing in differing conditions and scenarios in order to establish a set of standard operating procedures tailored to working with wildlife conservation in the African bush. We foresee that these drones will quickly become the front line for the defiance of Africa’s endangered species. We want to build awareness, donate and bring technologies to support this cause. We started the FB site Stop Poaching and has currently 37000 likes and many followers. Join the movement now: www.facebook.com/AgainstPoaching Fight against poaching is an important cause for our environment and Information Technologies are part of the solution. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 10 Danoffice IT CSR RUN for a purpose Our staff is our most important resource wherefore we strive at keeping our staff mentally and physically fit. We have implemented a “healthy diet” program, with natural foods, organic foods, whole foods and vegetarian foods, in our daily cantina and follow WHO recommendations on healthy diet to maintain health and prevent risk of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. We also participate in sport activities and offer sport massage. Every year Danoffice IT sponsor running gear to all our employees to support an active healthy lifestyle. During the year we all “RUN for a purpose!”. Danoffice IT find a project we wish to support and thereafter all employees runs once or twice a week and end year Danoffice IT donate a fixed $ amount per km. Civil drone helps WWF saving endangered marine turtles Poaching is one of the critical threats faced by marine turtles. To protect and monitor the three main species of marine turtles that nest in Suriname more efficiently, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the company Danoffice IT has started implementing the use of civil conservation drones to monitor and collect evidence of the collection marine turtles´ egg. WWF Suriname has in this specific case chosen to focus on poaching of marine turtle’s eggs, and despite laws protecting sea turtles, thousands of eggs are poached each year. In other parts of the world, sea turtles are used for ceremonial purposes or their shells and skins are also used to make a variety of objects like jewelry, sunglasses, tourist trinkets, instruments, and wall hangings and so drones may have applications there too. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 11 Communications on Progress (COP) 2016 Our CSR and progresses on the subject are communicated to our partners and staff through company staff manual, posters placed within premises and on the Danoffice IT web site: www.danoffice.com Human Rights: Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In Danoffice IT we believe that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We respect all people regardless of nationality, race, religion, class or political opinions. Danoffice IT promote social interaction between people and cultures and aim at a mix organizational culture. We embrace culture and have employees from 10 different nationalities, coming from South America, USA, Europe and Africa. Our organization mix is balanced with 45% women & 55% men and we span over various religions. Moreover, we have employees who came to Denmark as refugees from Syria and Croatia. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Danoffice IT supports all human rights and legal rights, at a national level and within international law and only accept partners who do the same. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 12 Communications on Progress (COP) 2016 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Danoffice IT workers have the right to be members of trade unions, collective bargaining and to strike if necessary. Trade unions can assist with negotiations of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, contract termination and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace, safety and policies. Danoffice IT staff has a representative who works as a contact person between employees and management whose mission it is to ensure that all labour standards are fulfilled and that all employees can contact someone for personal matters, ideas for improvement or health & safety conditions. Danoffice IT has a work-life balance policy encouraging flexible working hours and tolerance for personal and family issues and or needs. Danoffice IT HQ in Denmark was build in 2007 and won a prize for its architecture and for its working environment. The building is designed to incorporate a series of innovative green building techniques while operating within tight cost constraints. Functional, economic, and architectural criteria were used as the basis for the design. In addition, a minimal amount of material and technology is used throughout the design while maximizing the quality of the working environment and the building’s energy performance. A modern building with all latest technologies within ventilation, heating, shutters and water consumption. All staff has ergonomic chairs, lighting done by experts and height adjustable desks. Our Staff Manual is another tool to inform and update staff on our values, company profile, history, global strategy and information on working terms and conditions: illness and absence, overtime, annual staff interviews and regulations. Continuously we strive to educate and develop our employees professionally and personally through seminars, workshops and through daily coaching. Monday mornin g management gather all staff to share knowledge of professional character or to inform about the work we do with our customers in the field. Here we also learn about cultural differences in order to understand the diversity of the world we live in. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 13 Communications on Progress (COP) 2016 Communication and information within a company is key for success and employee satisfaction. Therefore we have a very clear and transparent strategy plan where staff can find VMOST, cultural iceberg and our DNA on posters. This communicate our 4 years global strategy with our 3 objectives – Great Place to Work – Revenue – Ebit Communication and information within a company is key for success and employee satisfaction.Therefore we have a very clear and transparent strategy plan where staff can find VMOST, cultural iceberg and our DNA on posters. This communicate our 4 years global strategy with our 3 objectives – Great Place to Work – Revenue – Ebit Once a year Danoffice IT carry out an anonymous staff OUR GL OBAL WH survey where all staff participates and respondsto statements STRATE GY AT W ED BRA ND WE &L OGO by using a 1 to 4 range, with 1 being “strongly disagree” and O BSIT PRO E DUC SER T VIC 4 being “strongly agree.“ The colors were established by the ES percentage of favorable responses. Red areas reflect favorable WH response ratings of 70 percent or lower; yellow areas a rate VISION ough info rmation techno logy OW E AR world thr ing the Improv and sOUR VAL between 70 percent and 79.9 percent; and green areas a rate N future dem MISSIO ns that meet OUR UES E solutio PEO offer IT actively OUR PLE we pro partners, nts POL With our to our clie ICIE of at least 80 percent. We are pleased to announce that our ng value OUR IVE S 7PS and bri PRA OBJECT OUR CTIC rk BEH ES ce to wo AVIO great pla ce IT a lion URS average is 82 and that we are green on all parameters. Danoffi 2020 $215 mil • Make PAS e target • Revenu et 2020 9% SIO • EBIT targ PRO NAT GY nts and E STRATE n with clie tric and FES close coo , software, bio peratio me PER SIO s work in SIST NAL employee hardware & skilled solution s among PRO ENT tivated Our mo ign innovative ACT vendors to des PER IVE hnology SON drone tec danoffice_ POS AL ITIV posters_70 x100.indd 11.08 1 23/02/16 PRO E UD 3 x100.indd danoffice_posters_70 23/02/16 11.08 Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 14 Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour We do not use any form of forced or compulsory labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioral policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour We do not use any form of child labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioral policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Danoffice IT labour policy prohibit employment of any person under the age of 16 years. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. With our presence in Denmark, Switzerland, Kenya and USA our department constantly strives at building a workforce with balance of nationality, sex, race, religion, class and political opinions. Our mix of personnel is balanced between all before mentioned groups and all employees receive equal conditions and rights regardless of location or background. To balance the gender best possible we seek to have at least one of each gender represented among the last three candidates in the hiring process. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges DanofficeIT only works with internationally recognized vendors with environmental friendly policies. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Since 2009 Danoffice IT has executed on our “Protect Mother Earth” recycling program. In partnership with our United Nations clients and our vendors, we collect used toners and cartridges from the UN missions all over the world and recycle them in Europe. Our combined efforts have reached 25,000 units collected so far and still counting. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 15 Our warehouse is using 100% bio-degradable materials and we try to reduce weight and volume to a minimize shipment and co2 pollution. Packing waste is destroyed under environmental recycling friendly conditions. Our office building is saving energy. Thermostat fan switch to ”auto” to save energy, automatic block of the sun from overheating by use of shades, changing the filters in our heating system every 6 month for optimum efficiency. Outside trees to provide shade on the sunny side of the office. We use laptops – they use less energy than desktop computers. Also our computers go to sleep or hibernate mode instead of using a screen saver so it uses less electricity during periods of inactivity. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Danoffice IT encourages its clients to look at the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) as well as Total Impact on Environment (TUE). A cost saving solution combined with a green solution with minimum environmental impact. We strive at a TCO/TIE solution with low power consumption, minimum of consumables, best quality and longest sustainable lifespan. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Danoffice IT promotes a steadfast zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms. Corruption is damaging for the world growth and creates yet a bigger gap between rich and poor. Corruption can be most easily defined as the manipulation or perversion of a system for the benefit of a single party rather than for the benefit of the public or the intended beneficiaries. Any Danoffice IT employee is obliged by code of ethics, to immediately report any suspicious conduct, corruptive communiqué or malign rule or transaction linked with corruption, to closest work-parent, manager and or top management. Danoffice IT aspires to be a dependable partner who always acts responsibly, honestly and fairly, whether dealing with colleagues, clients, vendors, investors or competitors. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com 16 CSR & Corporate Values Danoffice IT CSR is built on our Corporate Values / DNA. The commitment of our employees and shareholders to live those core values. With our CSR program we wish to be responsible for the impact our activities have on colleagues, partners, clients and communities around the world. We are proud of our membership of “The Global Compact” and fully support its policies. This Communications on Progress (COP) ensure transparency on what we do How we operate and how we invest. The COP drive us to perform with the highest standards of good governance and ethics through how we do business. Per Erik Edvard Svehag CEO Danoffice IT Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com www.danoffice.com
