Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 Index 01 General Standard Disclosures 08 Strategy and analysis 16 Organizational profile 21 Identified material aspects and boundaries 26 Stakeholder’s engagement 28 Report profile 29 Governance 34 Ethics and integrity 4 02 03 Specific Standard Annexes 72 Independent Review Report Disclosures 73 GRI G4 Content Index 79 Contents based on the 38 Economic Dimension Principles United of the Nations 45 Social Dimension Global Compact 64 Environmental Dimension 80 List of consolidated subsidiaries companies 5 Sustainability Report 2016 01 General Standard Disclosures 08 Strategy and analysis 16 Organizational profile 21 Identified material aspects and boundaries 26 Stakeholder’s engagement 28 Report profile 29 Governance 34 Ethics and integrity 7 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-1 A Word from the President Dear readers, X-ELIO delivers stable growth one more year, as revealed by our economic results, It is my pleasure to introduce the third with a turnover by financial year end of X-ELIO Sustainability Report, related to the 117.6 million Euros. 2016 financial year, which showcases the cornerstones to our model for a responsiSpeaking of growth, in 2016 we achieved ble and sustainable company though our full operational status for the three plants performance, according to the directives that had commenced construction in the stablished under the Global Reporting Iniprevious year (Fukuroda and Iwate in Japan tiative (G4 version) and the United Nations and Marcovia in Honduras). By year-end, Global Compact Principles, to which we we have a total of 40 operating plants, with have renewed our support. a total installed capacity of 277.5 MW that produced 1,638,006 GJ of electricity, thus The report content and focus is mainly avoiding 193,930 tons of CO2 of emissions driven by the interest groups demands and to the environment. the items which are substantial to X-ELIO, which allows us to develop and integrate In the same gist, we have started construcour vision and manage them. Such information for three new plants: Uribe in Chile and tion has undergone an external review by S13 and Hayato in Japan, which will overall an accredited independent body. increase installed capacity by 107.7 MW, reaching 385 MW by 2017. 8 Part I General Standard Disclosures At X-ELIO we strive to provide quality and Our work culture includes creating value stable employment in all countries where in the environment in which we operate. In we operate, which is confirmed by having 2016 we have developed new projects and almost 90% of our staff under permanent promoted the ones started in the previous employment contracts. year, especially in South Africa, Chile and Honduras, with special attention to the Furthermore, we consider internal commuissues related to youngsters’ education and nication as a key issue. This is why we have small business development, which nouriintroduced a new Intranet that responds to shes the most disadvantaged families. the needs of a global and mobile team. The aim of the new Intranet is to foster internal Finally, I wish to thank the commitment, communication channels, hence crafting a effort and dedication of more than 180 probetter work environment. fessionals that are part of X-ELIO and work every day so that our company becomes an industry benchmark. Jon Riberas Mera President 9 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-1 A Word from the CEO For the third year in a row, I am thrilled to At a global level, 2016 was a crucial and present X-ELIO Sustainability Report correschanging financial year for X-ELIO. Following ponding to financial year 2016, which encapthe entry of KKR Investment Group who sulates our progress in the economic, social acquired 80% of our organization in Decemand environmental areas and responds to the ber 2015, we have dedicated large efforts concerns from our interest groups. to adapt to our new partnerś demands and requirements. Throughout the financial year, we have been immersed in a global environment that is From a financial and Strategic point of view, slowly overcoming the deep crises that this enabled the availability of significant characterized the world economy in recent financial resources and a solid equity to finanyears. In parallel, society increasingly requests ce development and construction costs for changes in order to contribute to achieve a new plants, as well as the acquisition of plants more sustainable future, where renewable from third parties. energy plays a critical role and contributes to fight climate change. Thus, we are currently present in 9 countries with 40 plants in operation generating 277.5 In this area, I would like to highlight the UniMW of photovoltaic energy. From X-ELIO, we ted Nations Sustainable Development Summit have continued generating value through held on September at New York, which the incorporation of new projects such as approved the Sustainable Development Goals the addition of 25 MW in Japan and 58 MW (SDGs), aiming to improve disadvantaged in Chile in late January 2017. This represents people lives and protect the planet. In this a 20% increase of energy sales, due to the sense, and due to the nature of our activity, commissioning of these new plants, as well we have focused our efforts on the develoas the excellent performance of the other pment of goals number 7 and 13 as they are operational plants. related to the generation of cleaner and more sustainable energy and the reduction of CO2 Related to this, we commenced construcemissions. tion of two new plants in Japan and started several promotion and development activities Furthermore, the Climate Change Conference for new projects across all six continents. It is (COP22) held in Marrakech, where countries therefore worth noting that we have doubled ratified the Paris Climate Agreement, contrithe net cash amount allocated to investment butes to reinforce the leading role of renewaactivities within the Group. ble energies and their importance for the planet future. 10 Part I General Standard Disclosures Accordingly, the most significant item within Regarding Health and Safety, we have the investments in 2016 was the acquisition performed an exhaustive tracking of the of fixed assets for the construction of solar accident-related indicators, both internal and plants in South America and Asia. Such investwithin subcontractors. In 2016, we only had ments were financed through Project Finance one accident with leave of absence; therefounder very advantageous terms. re, our indicators are far below the industry average. This reflects our commitment to our This growth also reflects on our headcount, staff safety. which reached 181 staff, representing a 17.1% increase compared to the previous finanAt X-ELIO, we consider that creating value cial year. Our staff job security and career for the society is an obligation within the development is a core priority for us as an environment in which we operate. Access organization. To this purpose, we have underto renewable energy is affordable, reliable taken a number of changes, including a new and sustainable and it is critical to boost it in HR management team and reinforcing such order to end extreme poverty, supply remote department with new joiners that allow us to areas, increase social equality and contribute develop several initiatives related to, among to fighting climate change. others, performance evaluation, travel policies and labor mobility. Therefore, through our activity, our social action initiatives and the development of the In terms of communication, I would like to communities where we are present, we dehighlight X-ELIOś new intranet, which resmonstrate our commitment to society beyond ponds to the needs from our global team, acfinancial profitability and we contribute to customed to making frequent business trips. achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. It is designed to target the needs from all employees and management, aiming to enhance Lastly, I would like to invite you to read this internal communication channels and, thus, to report to discover our activity and our results create a better work environment. for the 2016 financial year, and I acknowledge the work and support from everyone at Our IT department has also been strengtheX-ELIO. ned at the time of segregating and adapting the company systems to the new work policy, without altering the staffś daily work. Jorge Barredo CEO 11 Strategy and analysis G4-2 Main effects, risks and opportunities At X-ELIO, we continue moving forward with a stable and sustainable growth in multiple countries. This is why we are exposed to several inherent risks deriving from the I cultural and legal commitments in the countries where we operate. In our activity we consider the possible risks that may arise, This is performed through a deep internal investigation, adopting the principle of precaution and incorporating the with the help of “World-Check” tool by Thomson Reuters, risk management into the business strategy. Below we hiwhich allows us to a detailed access to all public informaghlight the most relevant ones: tion associated to the companies/persons resulting of interest. The results from this analysis provide a first approach. Operational and In case we finally close an operation with any third party, we conduct a reputational due diligence through a speciareputational risks lized external company. In the execution of this phase we request a formal and firm commitment, which is inserted Associated to new operations into the agreements, which includes the acceptance of our Anticorruption Policy. Under this heading, we consider the possible risks derived from any operation, transaction or inadequate association that may result in a reputational damage to the Company. Therefore, in order to minimize this risk, at the start of any operation we analyze and identify the possible background, reputational and financial risks of the potential partners or collaborators which whom we interact in the process. 12 Part I General Standard Disclosures Derived from Malpractice Operational risks Regulatory frame In 2015, X-ELIO launched an ambitious Compliance Programme, which deveFor example, competition risks with other renewable and/or conventional and investment lops policies and codes considering technologies, technological or quality We operate in those markets that offer the requirements and idiosyncrasy of failures, management issues, security, a stable regulatory frame, although our American shareholder. etc. there is always some uncertainty in this area, regulatory stability is key to In this context, the Board of Directors Against these risks, the technologiattract large investors´ interest. approved the Anti-Corruption Policy, cal advancement and the increase the Trade Sanctions Policy, the Comof power per unit, allow generating This category encompasses those rispetition Code and the new Code of more energy with fewer solar panels, ks derived from regulatory changes Ethics. Furthermore, the communicawhile being more versatile, adapting made by different governments, such tion channels to attend the complaints to different surfaces and climatic conas the retribution changes for reguand conflicts that may arise are fully ditions, therefore reducing its impact. lated activities, required supply conoperational. This fact, together with a remarkable ditions, environmental regulation, tax reduction in the costs in the last years, regulation, etc. The Anti-Corruption Code, the Trade makes solar energy even more comSanctions Policy and the Competition At X-ELIO we minimize this risk by fopetitive. Code were fully accepted by the emcusing on those markets with a strong ployees. This process was completed On the other hand, the performance energy demand and a more stable and with the distribution of the Code of of the solar plants directly depends on attractive regulatory frame, through a Ethics among all employees. To reinthe weather conditions, mainly on the project portfolio in different countries, force these aspects, a staff training quantity and quality of the sun, which with access to long-term financing. process is planned to be launched, cannot be influenced. To minimize this This approach allows us to balance which allows us to keep improving. risk, before building any park, detailed these changes, both for operational area weather studies are undertaken Besides, for the viability analysis and parks and for the pipeline of future in order to design and direct our fadevelopment in the different counprojects. Besides, a number of procecilities. tries where we operate or intend to dures and controls have been establioperate, our business mode establiLikewise, due to its ability to be insshed that allow identifying, measuring shes the methodology to follow to talled in remote areas, solar energy is and managing the risks derived from have the information required about an attractive investment to meet the the activity with financial instruments. the potential development and inUnited Nations Sustainable Developvestment risks. ment Goal (SDG) number 7, on energy and its contribution to the sustainable Mainly for the investment in developdevelopment in the 2030 Horizon. ment countries, when the loans required represent a capital cost of US$ 50 million or higher, Equator Principles must be fulfilled and we are compelled to inform about the social and environmental impact and risks. In 2016, we have not executed any project that required meeting Equator Principles. In 2016, according to the type of our services and the companies we subcontract, there was no risk identified related to child labor, threats to the freedom of association or forced labor. (G4-HR4, G4-HR5 and G4-HR6). 13 Sustainability Report 2016 Financial Risks To manage risk, X-ELIO uses the business plan review, the study of the relationship between the exposure and the current value of the cash flow projected for an investment, as well as the accounting view that allows the evaluation of the status and the evolution of the different risk situations. For this purpose, we have established a number of procedures and controls which enable us to identify, measure and manage risks derived from the activity with financial instruments. For the viability analysis and development in the different countries where we operate or intend to operate, the business model establishes the guidelines to follow and the distribution of the required tasks to retrieve all the needed information about the potential development and investment risks. Interest rate fluctuation risk Below, according to the current accounting regulations, we inform about the financial risks to which the Group activity The Group faces a risk regarding its financial indebtedness is exposed to, which mainly are: at variable interest rate, as far as the market fluctuations affect the cash flows. The Group mitigates such risk through the use of interest rates derivative financial instruments, which mainly consist in executing interest rate Swap agreeMarket Risks ments, which converts the variable interest rate reference Risk of currency exchange fluctuation in the Group´s loans into a fixed reference, either for the Parity swings of the currency in which a specific operation full amount or for a partial amount of the loan, and related is made against the accounting currency may impact to the full loan tenor or a part of the loan tenor. positively or negatively on the financial year results, The debt is almost fully issued at variable interest rate and specifically impacting on the financial management of the referenced to Euribor/Libor. debt. Throughout the 2015 financial year, the impact of the . currency swings has not been significant. The Group operates mainly in Euro currency, although it Credit Risks also does in another number of currencies according to the The credit risk is derived from the possible loss caused countries where it is present. The Group financing policy is by the breach of the contractual obligations by the Group based on financing its operations in the same currency as counterparts, i.e., the possibility of not recovering the fithe revenue is generated. nancial assets for their carrying amount within the establiTo manage the currency exchange fluctuation risk, the shed timeframe. Group incorporates the use of a number of financial Throughout the financial year for which information is preinstruments that in some cases allows for some flexibility; sented, the credit limits were not exceded, and the manabasically, these instruments are the following: gement does not expect any losses to be incurred due to Forward purchase / sale of foreign currency: This sets insolvency. a known exchange on a specific date, which can also have a time adjustment to adapt and apply to the cash flows. Liquidity risk Other instruments: Other derivative hedging insThe liquidity risk is defined as the inability for a Company truments may be used, mainly those guaranteeing to meet its commitments, as a consequence of adverse sia maximum and minimum exchange rate (collar or tuations in the debt and/or equity markets that hinder or tunnel) on a specific settlement date. prevent the required financing. The impact of the currency swings above mentioned duThe Group manages the liquidity risk by maintaining enouring the 2016 and 2015 financial years has not been signigh cash available to negotiate in the best possible condificant. tions the replacement of operations approaching their maturity for new ones and face the treasury needs in the short term, therefore avoiding the need to obtain funds under unfavorable conditions. 14 Part I General Standard Disclosures Environmental risks The IT department undertook several projects for the transfer and takeover for the management of X-ELIO systems at The solar parks construction and operation have an enthree different levels: vironmental impact, mainly on the landscape and the soil Organizational: create a new systems department condition (vegetation and water conditions). recruiting the required profiles to manage the service. To minimize this impact, we act from three sides: IT Infrastructure: acquire and install the required Innovation and technological advancement, as new infrastructure to keep offering the different services. X-ELIO facilities have a significantly higher power, its Migration: execute the Project to transfer the applicarotating modules allow better adapting to the solar tions and services from the previous infrastructure to position and using less space, with a higher energy the new X-ELIO infrastructure. Additionally, the activity generation. management is gradually transferred to the new orgaEDuring the construction, phase, we use a certified nization. Integrated Management System, which allows monitoAs part of this strategy, there were several improvements, ring and minimizing the environmental impact in this among which stand out: the email service migration togephase, including all required measures to minimize it. ther with the cloud platform “Google Apps for Work”, the The fulfillment of the resolutions in the environmental implementation of “SAP Business Planning and Consolidaimpact studies and the compensation measures for tion” module, the development of “SAP Roll outs” in Chile those plants where they are required. and Japan and the establishment of the commercial software “Mercatus”. In any case, these impacts are balanced by the generation of energy with very low emissions, the ecosystems restauIn 2017, the main lines of work will focus on continuing the ration plans, the pollution preventions and the adequate support, through the improvement of the different business waste management. lines processes, on strengthening the technical infrastructure for the systems and on the improvement of the protection level of X-ELIO information against cybersecurity Safety and health risks risks. All these initiatives are developed in Part 2: Economic Dimension. Safety and health is a primary objective for the Company. The model is based on the Integrated Policy for Safety and Health, Environment and Quality, with compulsory compliance and applicable to all professionals, as well as on the achievement of the requirements and obligations set under the Integrated Management System, which includes Situation in 2016 certification under the OHSAS 18001 standard for the actiIn 2016, X-ELIO activity faced different risks derived from the vities of “Design, construction and commissioning”. countries where it operates, which globally have not had any relevant impact on the financial year results, thanks to the diversification in different markets, among others:: Security, confidentiality The high uncertainty regarding the changes that will arrive with the new United States Government in their and privacy policies related to climate change, besides the impact of After KKR entry at the end of 2015, a carve-out process was such policies on Mexico. started, to separate X-ELIO from Gestamp Renewables, in The volatility of the energy prices, which is reflected on a order to operate as an independent company. Therefore, significant reduction of investments in renewable energy, we have undertaken a number of projects aimed to promainly in the first half of 2016. vide continuity and stability to the information systems, so that the systems detachment would not affect the company The high financing costs for private sector investors in day-to-day work. developing countries, which requires a high return rate to compensate for these risks. The difficulties to collect the incentives for renewable energy generators in Honduras. The global context of recession, particularly the deceleration in China in the last months. The uncertainty derived from the United Kingdom decision to leave the European Union (Brexit). 15 Sustainability Report 2016 Organizational profile G4-3 & G4-4 Name, brands, most the evacuation infrastructures: high voltage lines (aerial or underground) and of the substations (transforming or conoutstanding products necting) To improve the operation and control in our projects, we and services have an Integrated Management System (IMS) for the construction activity, certified under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and We operate globally under the name and OHSAS 28001 standards. Through this IMS, the company measures and monitors its activities and services with sebrand “X-ELIO”. O veral indicators, controlled periodically by the local teams and O&M Engineering. Our activity is to perform investments in assets and projects Likewise, through our Solar Control Center (SCC), we can aimed to the generation of energy from renewable sources. read in real time more than 10,000 devices, generating Therefore, our main product is the solar energy generated more than 9,000 alarms per month (on average, 300 alarby the plants for subsequent sale and commercialization, in ms per day) and more than 3.5 daily registers that are archithe countries where we are present. ved in our databases every two minutes. The energy generated is injected into the grid to which it As of 31st December 2016, we have 277.5 MW installed with is connected. In compliance with good industrial sector an energy production of 1,638,006 GJ, which allows to practice and the local regulations of the countries where avoid emissions of 193,930 tons of CO2 into the atmosphere. we operate, the operation includes the maintenance of 16 Part I General Standard Disclosures G4-4, G4-6 & G4-9 Global presence and main magnitudes € € € 181 40 117.6 710,153 Number Number of million Euros thousand Euros of direct plants in Turnover Capitalization employees operation (debt + equity) USA 8 plants Italy 14,23 MW Spain 11 plants 13 plants 23,56 MW Japan 62,03 MW 2 plants 56,38 MW Puerto Rico 1 plant Japan 5,53 MW 2 plants Honduras 56,38 MW 1 plant 42,58 MW Peru 2 plants South 42,43 MW Africa 2 plants 30,96 MW Chile 1 plant 107,76 MW Plants in operation in 2016 Plants under construction in 2016 17 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-5 & G4-6 G4-7 Corporate Shareholding structure headquarters, and legal form presence and X-ELIOś corporate structure is summarized below: relevance 80% 20% X-ELIO main corporate address is at: 3, Ombú Street, 2nd Floor. 28045 Madrid Spain AURORA GESTAMP In 2016, we have 40 operational plants ENERGY SOLAR, S.L. spread among Spain, USA, Italy, Peru, HOLDING, S.L South Africa, Honduras, Chile, Puerto Rico and Japan, and we manage the maintenance of 9 plants (3 in Spain and 6 in Italy). We also started the construction for 3 new plants (2 in Japan and 1 in Chile). In terms of activity, Spain remains to be the most important country regarding installed power, production and number of staff. G4-8 & G4-9 G4-8 Markets X-ELIO generates solar energy in the 9 countries where it operates. Its activities, services and global presence is shown under headings G4-4 and G4-6. The profile of the customers purchasing the energy produced is mainly made up of electricity generation or distribution companies (“utilities”), energy traders, government or local entities, and large final consumers, who execute long-term bilateral agreements. Almost all production is directly sold to local government entities (distribution network), except in the USA, where we have some sale agreements directly with final consumers. 18 Part I General Standard Disclosures G4-10 G4-11 & G4-HR4 Staff headcount Staff under collective Direct employment bargaining agreements In 2016, the staff headcount is made up of 181 professionals scattered in 9 countries. 59% of which are in Spain, where Collective bargaining the headquarters are located. Compared to the previous fisagreements cal year, the headcount increased by 17.1%. 100% of professionals in Spain, Italy, Mexico, Chile and The adjoining graph shows the staff spread by country and Peru are covered by sectorial bargaining agreements or by gender. similar agreements according to the local law, customs and practices. This represents 80% of total staff. Country Men Women Total Handbook Chile 1 3 4 Professionals in countries such as South Africa and USA have the corresponding Handbook. These guidelines gather Spain 70 37 107 the work conditions, contain behavior rules which adapt to Italy 21 4 25 the context and to the legal requirements for each location, indicating the staff rights and obligations in matters related Japan 16 8 24 with recruitment processes, schedules, leave, remuneration, Mexico 3 2 5 social benefits, vacation, etc. This represents 7% of total staff. Peru 4 0 4 Others South Africa 1 4 5 In case of Japan, their conditions are contractually collecUSA 5 2 7 ted in the Company Policies, according to the specific labour law in the country. This represents the remaining 13% of total staff. Job security is very important for X-ELIO. During 2016 financial year, 89.5% of staff is under permanent contract and 98.9% is under full-time contracts. Indirect employment The indirect employment is mainly related to the construction and maintenance activities, which are performed through subcontractors. Maintenance: The staff required for plants maintenance is stable, as these tasks are defined and scheduled throughout the year and are similar for all plants. An average of 30 staff / year for each plant is estimated for the operation and maintenance phase. Construction: The construction of the plants is uneven. On one hand, it changes according to the phase of each project. And on the other hand, according to the size of the plant and its location. It is worth noting that the plant construction is performed through EPC contracts (Engineering, Procurement and Construction), therefore the subcontractor is responsible for managing their staff. Nevertheless, at X-ELIO we consider the subcontractor´s wellbeing and safety as a key item, so we monitor them. In 2016, the indirect employment average for the 3 plants under construction (2 plants in Japan and 1 plant in Chile) is 338 staff. 19 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-12 W Supply chain We understand that supply chain is a key element: therefore we keep a fair and trusting relationship with subconLocal purchases tractors and suppliers in order to achieve the objective of X-ELIO fosters local purchasing and agreements with lomaximum quality. cal suppliers, aiming to create value in the places where it operates, considering as local the ones located in the same Suppliers management country as our facilities. This commitment is reinforced in those countries where their respective governments proIn the advancement of our projects, the main purchases are mote this practice through incentives. related to the photovoltaic modules and solar structures. We only operate with “Tier 1” technology solar modules, to For this purpose, 100% of the subcontractor and suppliers ensure the best performance of the plants. This is the reabudget in 2016 corresponds to local companies, except in son why we only work with suppliers that have this techSpain. This is because Spain centralizes large orders, mainly nology available. solar panels, for its subsequent dispatch to the corresponding countries and, in most cases, the origin is not local. It is important to highlight that we implement our projects under the EPC structure (Engineering, Procurement and In 2016, the local supplier expenditure rose to 29,730 miConstruction), under which, except for the solar modules, llion Euros and represents 54% of the total expenditure. The the subcontractor is directly responsible for the purchases following graph summarizes its allocation (in thousand Euand suppliers management. Therefore, in the contracts we ros) per country. (G4-EC9). include a standard clause stipulating the commitment to comply with the Code of Ethics and Conduct, as an integral part to it. Total supplier expenditure Local supplier expenditure Country % Local suppliers million Euros million Euros Chile 137 137 100% Spain 36,029 10,494 29% Costa Rica 18 18 100% Dominican Rep. 7 7 100% Italy 3,694 3,694 100% South Africa 1,629 1,629 100% Japan 7,139 7,139 100% Honduras 2,553 2,553 100% Mexico 384 384 100% USA 3,677 3,677 100% 55,266 29,730 Subcontractors We demand the same safety requirements for our subconNote: suppliers tractors as for our employees. It is an absolute requirement within the that all of them, before starting any work, have all docucountry are ments and safety requirements according to the local reguconsidered as local lations and the ones established by X-ELIO. Likewise, during the construction and maintenance works, we hold coordination meetings to detect, among others, possible incidents. 20 Part I General Standard Disclosures Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-13 G4-14 G4-15 & G4-16 Significant Principle of External changes caution initiatives, Compared to 2015 financial year, there are two significant changes: The Company embodies the principle of caution through the Code of Ethics associations and • Related to its activity, we have and the Integrated Policy for the Environment, Quality, Health and Safety, organizations some new plants under full United Nations Global which include the commitment to prooperation: Marcovia, in Honduras, with 42.4 MW; Fukuroda and tect the environment and continuous Compact improvement. Besides, we mitigate Iwate in Japan, with 31.6 MW Since January 2014, we are signatories our environmental impact through the and 24.78 MW respectively; and to the United Nations Global Compact, appropriate assessments and studies, we have finished construction at meeting all requirements in order to the adequate maintenance and conthe Kuwait plant, which is under renovate our commitment in the 2017 trol of the plants and the management third-party ownership and manafinancial year. systems. gement. Finally, through training and awareThe Company target is to promote and • We have started construction of implement the 10 universally accepted ness-raising, we foster among our three new plants: two in Japan principles in the areas of human rights, staff habits and behaviors that contri(S13 and Hayato) and one in work regulations, environment and bute to minimize this impact. Chile (Uribe), with total combined business strategy. power of 107.76 MW, which will be operational in 2017. 21 Sustainability Report 2016 Tripartite Foundation This is a state foundation with the objective of contributing to the improvement of the competences and the access to quality free training for all workers. Spanish Photovoltaic Association (UNEF) Presided by our CEO, Jorge Barredo, its mission is the institutional reG4-17 G4-18 presentation and the support of the photovoltaic sector at a national and international level. Extent Content, scope Within the association strategic lines, Perimeter and principles the “recovery of legal certainty as a This Report gathers the information The Sustainability Report and the Mapriority, as well as promoting self-conand data corresponding to the finanteriality Study have been prepared sumption and the internationalization cial year 2016 (from 1st January to 31st following the directives established of the member companies” stands out December). within the Guide for the sustainabiSpain and Southern Africa Relity report drafting under the Global If any reference is made outside this Reporting Initiative (GRI), version G4, newable Energy Consortium financial year, it will be clearly indicaand all X-ELIO activities have been This consortium aims to promote the ted in the corresponding section. considered when defining its contents Spanish Brand in the field of renewaand scope. ble energies and support the activiThroughout the Materiality Study ties of the renewable industry in the Southern region of Africa, although Companies included 2016, we identify the most important recently it is expanding its activities in the Report issues for the interest groups. The second part to the Report expands the to the North of Africa and the Middle East. The Report includes all the informainformation for these material matters. tion referred to X-ELIO, the brand that The Report has been prepared accorSouth African Photovoltaic groups together all the companies inding to the “Principles” established by Industry Association (SAPVIA) cluded thereto. A list of such compaGRI to determine the report contents, nies is included as an annex. This is a non-profit organization foras summarized below: med by companies with an active role, Participation by the interest with presence and investment in the groups: this section identifies the photovoltaic market in South Africa. interest groups and shows the The association promotes the growth reply from the company. of the photovoltaic solar energy (PV) as part of the renewable energy deSustainability context: the Report velopment in the country. Limitations of presents the company performance within the most ample sustaiJapan Photovoltaic Energy information nability contexts. Association (JPEA) For those indicators for which no inMateriality: the Report gathers The association aims to contribute to formation is available for some of the and develops in its second Part the growth of the Japanese economy companies, will be indicated as “not the material aspects that reflect and the life quality improvement available”. the significant economic, environthrough the establishment, deploymental and social effects. ment and generation of photovoltaic Comprehensiveness: the Report solar energy. addresses the organizational performance in all its material aspects and its coverage. 22 Part I General Standard Disclosures G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 & G4-27 Process for conducting the materiality study A Identification of the relevant Review T aspects Additionally, we will establish adequate mechanisms to obtain feedback about this Report, after its publication. The internal and external context of the company was examined. For the external context, we used a benchAfter this process, 11 material issues were defined, as mark of the sector companies that allowed to detect summarized below: sustainability trends, as well as the energy sector section under the “Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want to know?” document (GRI, 2013), which considers the opinions from sectorial associations, the third sector, authorities and international agencies, ECONOMIC DIMENSION large enterprises and analysts, apart from the results from the Materiality Report 2015. We have received no Ethics, anticorruption, integrity, 1 regulatory compliance external feedback about such Sustainability Report. The identification was performed out of 25 themes. After 2 Risk management this first analysis, the 22 most relevant ones were selected. 3 Development, financial strength ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Prioritization T Environmental management 4 and environmental impact These 22 topics were weighted according to their importance and impact on sustainability through an analy5 Energy: consumption and efficiency sis which assessed their importance from a double pers6 CO2 and climate change. Carbon footprint pective, including the company internal and external perspective. For its prioritization, the relevant information and the main interest groups were considered, as 7 Nature conservation. Biodiversity and landscape summarized below: SOCIAL DIMENSION Within the company: 8 Talent attraction and retention. Training • Analysis of X-ELIO content and objectives. • Contractual commitments acquired by the Company 9 Human Rights in general and internal management policies and tools. 10 Job Health &Safety • Internal prioritization of the different matters performed by the Management (directors / heads of the 11 Social impacts on the local community. main departments). Outside the company: • Online survey for employees to evaluate the material aspects, filled in by a significant portion of the 80 staff. • Most relevant issues for the associations and com6 1 panies within the sector in the main regions where we operate. 5 3 2 70 4 • Appearance of the identified issues in the press. • Analysis of the information and requirements from 7 the main customers and suppliers related to sustai11 nability. 60 9 8 T Validation 10 The issues identified were finally reviewed and approved by the CEO. 50 60 70 80 90 100 23 Sustainability Report 2016 The following table describes each material issue identified in detail and its impact for the interest groups: Material aspects What interest groups (G4-20, G4-21 & Importance consider this issue as more Answer G4-27) important? ECONOMIC DIMENSION Management Policies, Currently, companies are required not only to comply Part 1: General Ethics, commitments and business with the applicable legislation, but also be managed information anticorruption, tools fulfilling ethical and integrity standards. Failing to do Part 2: Economic integrity, regulatory Industry Employees so implies significant risks for their competitiveness, dimension compliance Customers and suppliers reputation and possible sanctions. Companies are exposed to different kind of risks Management Policies, Part 1: General (financial, environmental, regulatory, etc). Under this commitments and business information situation, it is important to develop mechanisms to tools Risk management Part 2: Economic prevent and, if necessary, fight against corruption and Industry Employees dimension inform the interest groups in a clear and transparent Customers and suppliers manner. The company economic management and development in new locations are key for a stable and solid growth. Policies, Commitments Part 2: Economic Development, Likewise, the indirect economic impacts, the value and business tools dimension financial strength creation (job creation, supplier expenditure, taxes, Industry Press Employees investment, etc) and their effect over the local – Customers and suppliers economy, as a catalyst for socioeconomic change allow a profitable and sustainable development. ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Good business practice involves operating in an Management Policies, Environmental efficient and responsible way. commitments and Part 2: management and Environmental management systems that include business tools Environmental environmental controlling and tracking environmental performance Industry Employees dimension impact indicators allow the detection of opportunities to Customers and suppliers improve and to reduce the environmental impact. Management Policies, Companies concerned about the environment fully commitments and Part 2: Energy: implement energy efficiency measures for their business tools Environmental consumption and own benefit, both from the economic perspective Industry Employees dimension efficiency (cost reduction) as well as from the environmental Customers and suppliers perspective. Climate change is more and more relevant. As far as Policies, commitments Part 2: CO2 and climate companies are concerned, most of these objectives and business tools Environmental change. Carbon are tied to emissions of greenhouse gasses. Therefore, Industry Employees dimension footprint it is necessary to contribute to its mitigation through Customers and suppliers counter actions and renewable energy generation. Management Policies, Nature Installing solar panels has an impact on the Part 2: commitments and conservation. environment where they are located. Therefore, this Environmental business tools Biodiversity and section refers to the nature conservation initiatives, dimension Employees Customers landscape maintenance of biodiversity and landscape. and suppliers 24 Part I General Standard Disclosures Material aspects What interest groups (G4-20, G4-21 & Importance consider this issue as more Answer G4-27) important? SOCIAL DIMENSION Para mantener y mejorar su posición competitiva, Management Policies, las compañías necesitan atraer nuevos talentos y commitments and Talent attraction personal especializados que les permitan innovar y business tools Part 2: Social and retention. mejorar su operatividad, pero también es necesario Employees Customers dimension Training desarrollar medidas para conservar los equipos y and suppliers mantener el know-how. Respect for human rights is a risk factor in several Policies, Commitments countries. Therefore, companies play a key role in and business tools Human rights in Part 2: Social their protection and work conditions improvement Industry Employees general dimension through their human resource policies and supplier Customers and suppliers requirements. Although there is a deeply rooted culture related Policies, Commitments to prevention, it still is a strategic issue due to its and business tools Job Safety and importance. It is essential to identify and mitigate Part 2: Social Employees Customers health the different risks that may arise, raise awareness dimension and suppliers and reinforce the measures to prevent accidents and improve health. The activity linked to renewable energy has a strong repercussion over the local communities Management Policies, Social impact due to its social (job creation) and economic (fees, commitments and Part 2: Social on the local local purchases, etc.) impact and because of its business tools dimension community product: renewable energy. On the other hand, the Industry Employees development of social action programmes promotes Customers and suppliers life quality improvements for the local population. 25 Stakeholder’s engagement G4-24, G4-25 & G4-26 Collaboration between the interest groups and X-ELIO T The identification and selection of the interest groups was The relationship between X-ELIO and those parties affeccarried out through an internal reflection process by the ted by its activities (interest groups) is developed two-fold: sustainability department, supervised by the management from the social responsibility point of view, responding to team, identifying as interest groups all parties and organitheir expectations and needs; and from the reputational zations that may influence or be influenced in a significant point of view, managing the perception that these groups manner by the company. This process commenced with the have regarding the company. first Sustainability Report in 2014 and is reviewed annually. For each interest group, there are established mechanisms to facilitate an active dialogue, enabling a faster and more efficient response to the trends and their needs. 26 Part I General Standard Disclosures The defined categories are described below, as well as the most important dialogue channels (G4-26): Shareholders Employees Electricity Suppliers and subcompanies contractors • Ordinary and • Corporate Intranet. extraordinary Board • Annual information events • Channels established by the • Bidding specification Meetings. with the CEO. regulations in each country. documents. • Common and informative • Compliance Committee. • Information and • Subcontractor selection communications about communication criteria. different interest matters. requirements defined by the • Follow up and • Reply to information electricity companies. measurement. requests. • Network connection terms. • Periodic meetings. Public administraBanks and financial Energy consumers Media tions and regulatory institutions and local • Press room (available on entities community • Meetings. the web page). • Periodic meetings. • Financial Facilities • Consultation periods in • Sending press releases. • Licenses, permits and Agreements. the environmental / social • Social media. authorizations. impact assessments for • Periodic reports. the plants. • Sovereign guarantees • Participation in the social development programmes. • Customer satisfaction survey. In this section we stress the internal communication performed through the new Intranet; and the external communication, through the social networks and X-ELIO web page. The new Intranet started operating by the end of 2016, so we only have partial information. The Intranet received 7,211 visits in this short period. On the other hand, X-ELIO web page has a remarkable increase in number of pages visited visitors, around 6%, compared to the previous financial year. X-ELIO web page 2015 2016 Number of visitors to X-ELIO 49,608 48,286 web page Number of pages visited 148,672 157,568 In social networks, our largest presence is in LinkedIn, where there is a notable increase in visits and followers, around 18.2% compared to the previous financial year. X-ELIO social networks Number of LinkedIn followers 4,963 6,072 Number of LinkedIn displays 2,522 4,501 The key issues that arose from the interest groups participation are developed under indicators G4-18 to G4-21, G4-27 and under Part 2 to this Report. 27 Report profile G4-22 & G4-23 G4-31 Reformulations and Contact significant changes in For general inquiries about this report, you may contact: respect to previous X-ELIO 3 Ombu Street, 2nd Floor reports 28045 Madrid Spain RSC@gestampren.com Section G4-13 summarizes the relevant changes in respect Full electronic copies of this document, both in English and to financial year 2015. The minor changes are indicated in Spanish, are available on the web page: http://www.x-elio. their respective sections. com/es/sostenibilidad. G4-28, G4-29 & G4-30 G4-32 & G4-33 Period, date and reporting cycle Compliance with GRI and The Report period is from 1st January 2016 to 31st December external verification 2016. The Sustainability Report is prepared “in accordance with” The Report is issued annually: the previous one corresthe GRI 4 Guide – comprehensive option. The GRI Conponds to financial year 2015. tents Index can be found in an Annex. X-ELIO has the independent external verification made by EY Company. Also, the individual annual accounts Report and the consolidated Report are audited by EY. The external verification report is included in the Annex. 28 Governance G4-34 Governance structure The company governing bodies are the Shareholders’ General Meeting and the Board of Directors, the highest governing, supervision, decision and control body, without more O substantial limits than those established by the legal regulations and the corporate bylaws. One of the Board of Directors key Board of Position The current Board Member was defunctions is to promote the general indirectors held from signated on the 16th December 2015, terest, representing the entity and its within the frame of operation that saw shareholders in the assets administraPresident KKR Group entering into the company tion, the trade management and the Mr. Juan María 16/12/2015 as its new majority shareholder, incorbusiness administration. Riberas Mera porating into the Board of Directors three persons designated by the subThe Board of Directors is composed of Board Member 1 16/12/2015 sidiary company designated as comfive members, who, as of 31st DecemMr. Jesús Olmos Clavijo pany shareholder by KKR Group. ber 2016, are: Board Member 2 The Board of Directors does not have 16/12/2015 Mr. Guido Lucio Mitrani a delegated Executive Committee with general decision powers, so that any Board Member 3 decision is adopted within the Board. 16/12/2015 Mr. Oleg Shamovsky Board Member 4 Mr. Jorge Barredo 16/12/2015 López Secretary (not a Board Member) 16/12/2015 Mr. Jaime de la Serna Gould 29 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-35 G4-36 G4-37 Delegation of the Economic, Consultation upper governing environmental processes between body and social the interest groups The Board of Directors is responsible responsibilities and the upper for making the most important business decision and delegates, where The company integrates its economic, governing body social and environmental responsibiliappropriate, their executions upon the The process to exchange information ties into the Technical Directorate and employees or appropriate advisors for with the interest groups is performed the Financial and Control Directorate, its effective execution. through the different staff in charge whose top managers raise any deciLikewise, the Board of Directors has and area directors, who are responsisions to be made to the Board of Dithe capacity to delegate its powers ble for raising matters of special imrectors, as summarized below: with general and special faculties, acportance to the Board of Directors. • Environmental and social matters cording to the company requirements Through the Technical Directorate and are coordinated and executed unand the issues that are being addresthe Financial and Control Directorate der the Technical Directorate, with sed. at a centralized level, the HR Directhe Chief Operating Officer (COO) With the aim, among others, of favotorate at a centralized level and the as responsible and accountable ring and facilitating the company actiBusiness Managers in the different to the Board of Directors. vity and business, the Board of Direccountries where we are present, we • Economic matters are managed exchange information with the intetors appointed a general attorney with through the Financial and Control rest groups (suppliers, staff, the sociedelegated powers required to adopt Directorate, with the Chief Finanty, etc.) the day-to-day decisions to guarantee cial Officer (CFO) as accountable the business operation and continuity. Likewise, the “Leadership Meeting” to the Board of Directors. is held annually, a multi-day event in Apart from the foregoing, the top which company staff actively particimanagers within those directorates pates in order to share the thoughts appear before the Board of Directors and proposals to continue and improwhen required. ve all aspects of the company, and where a Board Member communicaAmong other matters, the Board has tes the company global target to staff. final decision on the Business Plan, the annual targets and budgets, the Investment and Financing Policy, the risk analysis and generally all policies affecting the company. 30 Part I General Standard Disclosures G4-38 G4-40 G4-41 Composition of the Appointment and Conflict of interests upper governing selection processes A shareholder may not exercise the ribody and its The competences to appoint the ght to cast a vote corresponding to its shares if he fits into any of the conflict committees board members exclusively sit on the General Meeting, which represents of interest cases established under article 190 of the Royal Legislative Decree As summarized under G4-34, the the interests of all company sharehol1/2010, dated 2nd June, which approves Board of Directors is composed by ders (see G4-34). Nevertheless, the the Refunded Text for the Capital Comfive members and a secretary (not number of board members appointed panies Law, as well as any other legislaa Board member), all of them with on proposal from each of the sharetion applicable in this matter. non-executive roles. holders is determined by the Shareholders Agreement executed by them The communication with other interest The members to the Board of Direcwhich complements the company groups is directly performed through tors participate in the discussion and Bylaws. the different company directorates. decision taking in the economic, social and environmental areas; and The bylaws include the operation of they are in charge of approving the the Board of Directors, the requireCode of Ethics. ments and timeframes established to G4-42 & G4-43 convene a General Meeting and the X-Elio Energy is not a public company, whose Board of Directors members functions of the President. Likewise, it establishes the causes of incompatiFunctions and represent all shareholders, and there is no legal requirement to have rebility for members, which are always knowledge of presentation from any other interest subject to the applicable corporate law. The Board of Directors may the sustainability group. delegate executive powers through governing body agreements reached at the seat of the Board of Directors. One of the Board of Directors funcG4-39 tions is the approval and commitment to comply with the normative within Executive function of the Compliance Programme, which includes the Anti-Corruption Code, the President the Trade Sanctions Policy, the ComThe President does not hold any exepetition Code, the Code of Ethics cutive position. and Conduct and the principles that govern the company from the three perspectives, economic, environmental and social. The Board of Directors members are constantly informed about the economic, social and environmental matters through the different mechanisms for internal communication, such as: periodic meetings with the directors from the different areas, the drafting and approval of the Sustainability Report and the different actions and initiatives from E-Elio Energy, the intranet and various other communications. It is worth noting that the Compliance Committee was appointed on December 2015. In first instance, it will be in charge of analyzing that all those circumstances arising within the framework of the development of the company´s activity and made known to it, respect or are resolved according to the different Policies and reference Guidelines related to Compliance. 31 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-44 G4-45, G4-46 & G4-47 Once the project has the necessary promotion, we proceed with the sePerformance of the Upper governing lection and appointment of the company in charge of building the plant, upper governing body functions in through EPC-type contracts (Engineebody risk management ring, Procurement and Construction), with specialized companies that meet As far as the Board of Directors memAt X-Elio Energy, for the development the established requirements and the bers are appointed by the General and execution of new projects, the diapplicable legal regulations, until the Meeting, there is no specific procefferent company directorates perform plant commissioning. dure to evaluate the performance of a detailed study to assess and analyze During the plant construction phase, their functions. the potential risks for each project, as as well as during the plant operation, The Board of Directors, in compliance a previous step before taking any dethe compliance with all environmenwith the applicable legal regulations, cision. tal, work and socialization measures meets with the legally required peIn the initial phase of project definiand regulations play a crucial role, so riodicity, with competences including tion and analysis, we gather informawe firmly focus on its strict complianthe formulation of the company antion about the energy policies in the ce and on applying the best practices. nual accounts within the first quarter country, the expected profitability, Finally, during the plant´s useful life, in each financial year. as well as the regulatory and local we perform the appropriate opeIn addition to this meeting, this body government stability. Likewise, we ration and maintenance works. The holds meetings according to the opeundertake a research and analysis of plants are monitored in real time, so rational, business and project approthe climate conditions (radiation, sun any incident is immediately detected val needs. Specifically, during 2016 it hours, etc), the environmental, landsand managed. Likewise, to improve held eight meetings to discuss diffecaping, urban, archeological and prothe plants performance, we carry out rent matters related with the projects perty management restrictions. Conpredictive and preventive maintenanthat X-Elio Energy promotes, builds sidering the outcome of this phase, a ce and, only if necessary, corrective and operates in the different coundecision is made to proceed with the maintenance. tries through direct and indirect parproposed project or not. All these actions and the possible risks ticipation in local companies. In case the project is approved, a sederiving from them are continuously On the other hand, the General Meecond phase starts to evaluate strateanalyzed by the X-ELIO management ting is responsible, among others, to gic issues to obtain financing, location and teams, allowing to detect risks approve or not approve the company of land, processing of permits and liand implement any required correcparticipation and/or execution of the censes for the project. tive measures in a fast and efficient different operations that are presenmanner. ted over time as business opportunities for the company. During the previous financial year 2015, specifically on December, the Board of Directors members were replaced as a consequence of the KKR Group entry through its subsidiary AURORA ENERGY HOLDING, S.L with the shareholding currently being comprised by GESTAMP SOLAR, S.L (20%) y AURORA ENERGY HOLDING, S.L (80%). 32 Part I General Standard Disclosures G4-50 Nature and number of issues raised at the Board of Directors During the 2016 financial year, different issues were addressed at the eight meetings held by the Board of Directors. The majority of them are related to the growth and financing of the company, both regarding the new projects developed in 2016 as well as those planned in 2017 and the fulfillment of the future targets. G4-51, G4-52 & G4-53 Remuneration and G4-48 G4-49 incentives for the Sustainability Report Communication Board of Directors review and approval with the senior The members of the Board of Directors do not receive any retribution for Sustainability organization is coordigovernance body their work as Board members, therefonated through the sustainability team, re indicators G4-51, G4-52 and G4-53 The heads for the different areas are not applicable. which forms part of the Corporate Dimaintain a fluent and constant comrectorate for Communication, Markemunication with the Board members. ting and Sustainability. Any relevant matter is conveyed to G4-54 & G4-55 The Report and the Materiality Analythe Board by the different area heads. sis are drafted by part of this team, in collaboration with the different areas Likewise, periodic meetings are held, Remuneration involving all X-Elio Energy professioand departments involved at X-ELIO. The drafting is followed by a supervinals. These are two-way meeting, on and remuneration sion and review process by the Comone side the Board delegated member shares with all staff the relevant increase munication Directorate, to be finally aspects related to the management Indicators G4-54 and G4-55 are not approved by the CEO. and situation of the company and reported for this financial year. We do Likewise, in order to ensure the reliareceives feedback from personnel renot have a homogenous methodolobility of the information, the Report is garding these matters and any other gy to obtain results adjusted to the verified externally by an independent issues of their interest. indicator requirements and the inforbody. mation is considered, in some cases, confidential. 33 Sustainability Report 2016 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles and code of ethics At X-ELIO, we work to grow as a solid and responsible company, acting in a sustainable manner in all countries where we are present, while also expanding our activity in all those countries with the safety, climate and growth conditions required for our projects O in the long term. Our efforts are focused on the generation of ecological and highly profitable solar energy projects, offering tailor-made solutions according to the needs. We strive to be the main renewable energy supplier, devoted to mitigate climate change and the emission of greenhouse gasses. Thus, sustainability has become a key cornerstone to our company, to fulfill our mission and the expectations from our interest groups. 34 Part I General Standard Disclosures Compliance Programme In 2015, after the entry of KKR as a company shareholder, we start an ambitious Compliance Programme. This Programme collects and conveys the ethical framework required to operate in an honest and transparent manner, and in accordance with the endorsed commitments. Furthermore, this Programme encompasses researching and responding to the issues raised to the Compliance Committee through the established mechanisms for consultations and complaints. Within this context, in the first half of 2016, the Board of Directors has approved the Anti-Corruption Code, the Trade Sanctions Policy, the Competition Code and the new Code of Ethics and Conduct. Besides, new communication mechanisms have been enabled to respond to grievances and conflicts that may arise in this area, which are analyzed and responded by the Compliance Committee. These policies have been communicated in an open and transparent manner to all staff, which commit to them and undertake to fulfil them. In order to reinforce these matters, it is also planned to start G4-57 & G4-58 a staff training process, which allows us to keep improving. Compliance Committee and complaint mechanisms The Compliance Committee is an internal body, in charge of promoting company values and ethical conducts within, as well as of the monitoring, tracking, communication, dissemination and surveillance of the Policies and Codes related to compliance. Similarly, it solves any queries that employees may have in this area and responds to the possible incidents or complaints that might arise. The Committee guarantees that the information will be handled with the due confidentiality, discreetness and safeguard to those staff or external persons who convey, on good faith, alleged breaches to the Compliance Programme. Complaint channels are available to facilitate communication, both by email address: compliance@x-elio.com and by post mail. Since its inception in 2016, the Compliance Committee has received 6 queries so far; the majority related with the acceptance of presents or invitations from third parties and has received no complaints either from employees or from third parties, (G4-LA16) regarding discrimination (G4-HR3) or other human rights (G4-HR12). 35 Sustainability Report 2016 02 Specific Standard Disclosures 38 Economic Dimension 45 Social Dimension 64 Environmental Dimension 37 Sustainability Report 2016 Economic Dimension Material Aspects Contents Development, financial stability Current DMA scenario Ethics, anticorruption, integrity and compliance Ethics, anticorruption, risk management Risk management and compliance DMA Current scenario Currently, there is a broad consensus that renewable energies will dominate the future, and gradually, international corporations are choosing to invest in this sector E (Source: REN21 report). This fact, together with a strong support for energy policies States government and the United Kingdom´s decision to in the different countries, the ease of installation in vulneabandon the European Union (Brexit), which can both affect rable and remote areas, the investment costs reduction and global growth prospects. 2016 stands out as the year with the risk-adjusted returns, leads us to hope for a very optithe largest increase in energy generation from renewable mistic future for the development of renewable energy in sources and technologies, with a global increase of 161 GW, the world. which allowed reaching 2,006 GW worldwide (Source: International Renewable Energy Agency, IRENA). On the other hand, there are some uncertainties in the political environment at the international level caused, amongst Within this context, 58% of new renewable facilities were others, by the possible change of direction in energy policoncentrated in Asia, reaching a total of 812 GW, where Chicies with regards to climate change with the new United na continues to be the world leader. 38 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Development and financial strength Our commitment At X-ELIO, we consider that the creation of value in society is an obligation in the environment in which we operate. Access to renewable energy sources is reliable, affordable, sustainable, and its momentum is essential to put an end to extreme poverty, to provide supply in remote areas, to increase social equity, and to contribute to the fight against climate change. Therefore, through our activity, social action initiatives and the development of the communities in which we operate, we show our commitment to society, beyond the financial profitability. Following the adoption in 2015 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the climate agreement (Paris-COP 21), we have developed several initiatives in line with these objectives, focusing mainly on: 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 13 Climate Action USA continues to occupy second place, with 14 GW installed by the end of 2016 and an estimated 13 GW solar photovoltaic to be installed in Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, Goal 13: Take urgent action to 2017. This means doubling global soreliable, sustainable and modern combat climate change and its imlar power capacity in just two years energy for all. pacts (Source: Mercom Capital). At X-ELIO we consider that it is our The effects that greenhouse gas India and Japan came next, incorpoduty to help ensure universal access emissions are having on the planet rating 8.6 and 4.5 GW, respectively. In to affordable electricity by 2030 and the consequences of climate addition, India is expected to increaand to increase the percentage of change are well-known. Therefore, se its global demand for solar photorenewable energy in the total of through solar energy generation voltaics by 14%, in order to achieve energy mix, through our activity, the at X-ELIO, we contribute to their its ambitious goal of 100 GW of solar generation of clean, renewable solar mitigation. capacity in the 2020 Horizon (Source: energy, which allows us to generate EnergyTrend). power in remote locations. In Africa, 4.1 GW of new capacity was installed, doubling the capacity installed by 2015. Our business European countries installed around 6.9 GW of solar power in 2016, a 20% Our business is the development, design, construction, maintenance and operadecrease compared with the 8.6 GW tion of solar plants to generate renewable energy. installed in the previous year (Source: Solar Power Europe). This growth was Construction Operation Development (O&M) mainly driven by the United Kingdom, (EPC) Germany, Turkey and France. Location of sites. Land preparation. Plant operation. On the other hand, Spain is one of the few developed countries in which the Feasibility studies. Supply of modules, Plant monitoring Project design and structures and and maintenance. implementation of renewable energy definition. cabling. Generation of the remained virtually stagnant in 2016. Management of Transport and information for However, even so, if the objectives assembly. investors related set by the Paris Agreement on climaenvironmental and operation permits Negotiation with to the plant te change (COP 21) are to be met, inactivity. and licenses. suppliers. vestment in new facilities around the world must be increased and acceleNegotiations with Project legalization. rated. land owners. Financial and investment analysis. 39 Sustainability Report 2016 Our goal: To be a global leader in the industry with outstanding financial performance, as well as a provider of sustainable renewable energy, dedicated to helping reduce greenhouse gasses and combat climate change. Our growth Our industry is an essential driving force to the economy, to and Iwate (24.7 MW), both in Japan, became fully operatiowhich it contributes through important investments aimed nal. We have also completed Kuwait Park (10.6MW) which at generating clean energy, in a safe and stable way and is third-party owned and managed. All this, within a weat competitive and sustainable prices. Having this in mind, ll-diversified portfolio, according to size and region, and X-ELIO continues growing in various countries through the with the support of long term power purchase agreements, development of a long-term solid and profitable plan. enabling us to continue to grow in a sustainable way. In 2016, we reached 277.5 MW of power when the facilities In addition, this financial year we have started the construcat Marcovia (42.4 MW), in Honduras, Fukuroda (31.6 MW) tion of 3 new plants, as summarized below: Uribe (Chile) S13 (Japan) Hayato (Japan) Uribe plant came into operation in S13 plant will start commercial Hayato plant will start commercial January 2017. With an investment operation in November 2017. With operation in December 2017. With of around 106 million dollars and an investment of 81.7 million doan investment of around 37.8 miwith a peak power of. llars and a peak power of. llion dollars and a peak power of. 57.6 MW. 33.4 MW. 16.7 MW. This has been possible thanks to the development of an Our goal is to continue to grow and expand our portfolio integral business model that offers flexibility for the vawith greenfield projects in new markets with strong potenlue creation within the full cycle and that will allow us to tial such as: Japan, USA, Australia, Vietnam, Argentina and achieve the objective of surpassing the 2GW ownership by Uruguay, among others, and increase our investment in 2020. brownfield projects, ensuring in any case the availability of long-term tariffs. Also, we analyze the possible divestment In 2017, among other things, we will begin the construction in countries at risk where the gap between our rate and the of 4 solar plants; three of them located in Japan: Tsurusu cost of energy in the market appears to be large. (38 MW), Shiroishi (28.3 MW) and Atami (14.4 MW); and the fourth one in Mexico: Guanajuato (73.4 MW). This will allow us to increase our installed capacity by 154.1 MW. 40 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures G4-EC1 & G4-EC4 Balance: 2016 results X-ELIO continues to make progress The main X-ELIO´s consolidated financial figures are towards the goal of increasing its summarized below: international presence and creating value in the communities where it is Economic Value Generated (EVB) total of 126,950 implanted. This is possible thanks to a thousand Euros, with the following breakdown: positive balance and proper funding. From a global perspective, X-ELIO Economic Value Generated has continued generating value in (EVG) Thousand Euros its portfolio of projects incorporating Turnover 117,659 25 MW in Japan, and has completed Financial income 1,422 the construction of 58 MW in Chile in January 2017. In this regard, it has Other income 7,869 increased its energy sales by 20% in Total EVG 126,950 2016, partly due to the commissioning of these new plants as well as to the good performance of the plants which Economic Value Distributed (VED) total of 191,778 were already operational. thousand Euros, with the following breakdown: At the same time, we began activities Economic Value Distributed for promotion and development of (VED) Thousand Euros new projects in all five continents, and therefore it is worth noting that the CAPEX 137,216 net amount of cash flows earmarked Payment to capital providers 36,148 for investment within the Group has doubled. In this sense, the most sigTaxes 8,542 nificant item under 2016 investments Personnel 9,872 was the purchase of fixed assets for the construction of solar plants in Total EVD 191,778 South America and Asia. These investments were financed through project finance with very favorable terms. Economic Value Retained (VER) total of 26,072 thouBy 2016 year-end, our revenue rose to sand Euros. 117.66 million Euros, with an EBITDA of During the financial year 2016, we did not receive any 54.89 million Euros. additional amount as subsidies. Regarding the remaining accounting obligations, companies comprised within X-ELIO are mostly obliged to perform annual audit reports on their individual annual accounts due to the total volume of their assets, turnover and the average number of employees. There are no audit qualifications in such reports. Following their approval by the relevant body, these reports are submitted in due time and manner to the Commercial Registry every accounting year, for the legalization of its official Accounting Books and the lodging of their annual Financial Statements. In addition, X-ELIO companies are up-to-date regarding their payments to the Social Security General Treasury and their tax obligations. Finally, as per the Code of Ethics, we do not provide any financial support to Governments (G4-EC4). 41 Sustainability Report 2016 Our integration With the entry of KKR as our partner at the end of 2015, we Also, during this financial year, different initiatives were began a process of emancipation from Gestamp Renewalaunched, aimed at processes improvement, primarily wibles, in order to operate as an independent company. thin the corporate area, as summarized below: This process affected the organization of the company, Implementation and migration to “Google Apps for mainly the corporate functions (financial, HR, IT, legal, etc.), Work” cloud platform was performed. This platform which had their procedures and reporting systems modiprovides X-ELIO, not only with an e-mail service, but fied and adjusted to the new requirements. In this area, the also with a series of productivity applications that segregation, adaptation and improvement of all existing complement and enhance the possibilities and servicompany information and reporting systems stand out due ces for each user. to their complexity. Implementation of “SAP Business Planning and ConFor this adaptation, numerous projects were launched, fosolidation” (BPC) module, which allows us to address cused on providing continuity and stability to the informainformation and reporting needs to our shareholders, tion systems, so that the systems segregation would not as well as a greater agility in the periodical accounting affect the day-to-day business operation. closings. The IT Department was tasked with the execution of these Along with the above, we launched “SAP Roll out” projects through the transfer and takeover of X-ELIO manain Chile and Japan, which will allow harmonizing the gement systems on three different levels: processes and information within the administration department and the services internalization and their Organization: a new “Systems Department” was creaefficiency improvement. Both projects were launched ted, recruiting the required staff profiles to adequately in 2016 and its completion is estimated at the beginmanage of the service. ning of 2017. IT infrastructure: the necessary infrastructure was Implementation of commercial “Mercatus” cloud purchased and installed in order to provide continuity software for the energy sector investment lifecycle mato the different services. . nagement. Along with the features included, we have Migration: the applications and services transfer developed and implemented others related to “project project from the previous infrastructure into the new management”. This will allow us to integrate all the X-ELIO infrastructure was implemented. Additionally, information at a single repository. Configuration was the management of our activity was gradually transfecompleted in September and will become operational rred into the new organization. by year-end. Among the main tasks, the Solar Control Center transfer In 2017, X-ELIO goals aimed at the processes improvement, into the new infrastructure of the center of Solar Control the strengthening of systems technical infrastructure and, and the SAP platform services stand out, both successfully primarily, at the protection level improvement of the comachieved within the prescribed timeframe. Subsequentpany´s information against cyber-security risks, as one of ly, we proceeded to integrate the headquarters and the the most critical risk areas we face, through the strengtheIT service was started in a completely independent way. ning of vulnerabilities, both technical and organizational, to Finally, external service operation and maintenance of inensure an adequate level of protection. frastructure systems were adapted. 42 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures DMA, G4-SO4& G4-SO5 Ethics, anticorruption, risk management and compliance In recent years, we have witnessed a growing global concern for all aspects related to corruption, ethics and integrity issues, as well as a demand for information, communication and transparency from businesses, Governments and society. I In addition, with the entrance of our partner KKR by the end of 2015, a period of adaptation and improvement in all areas has started. Among others, we approved an ambitious “Compliance Programme” which encompasses all the policies, guidelines, codes and sets and external communication and is applicable to all X-ELIO employees in their daily activities and in their relations with clients, suppliers, Governments and other partners. Hence, we formally approved the Code of Ethics and Conduct within the Compliance complaint mechanisms, in the area of Programme on 28th July 2016. ethics and compliance, including the existing bans and the consultation and Quality, Environment and Healcomplaint mechanisms through the th and Safety Integrated Policy: Compliance Committee. X-ELIO is aware of the importance to respect the environment in the perforBelow we summarize the policies, comance of its design, construction and des and relevant commitments in 2016: commissioning activities for its solar energy photovoltaic facilities, as well as the safety and health of its emploAnticorruption Code: The Anticoyees and subcontractors. rruption Code and the internal controls established are designed to prevent For this reason, we have a mandatory irregular conducts among employees Quality, Environment and Health and and/or associates (suppliers, custoSafety Policy, under which the Integramers, Governments, etc.). It defines ted Management System sits, certified and establishes the general guidelines under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHon aspects such as: the offering or acSAS 18001 standards ceptance of gifts, meals, entertainment United Nations Global Comor any action which may imply a bribe or any unlawful practice either directly pact: X-ELIO is signatory to the Gloor through third parties. The code was bal Compact, therefore we are commiformally approved on 18th February X-ELIO requires full compliance with tted to promoting and implementing 2016. all legislation related to competition the 10 universally accepted principles which may be applicable to its actiin the areas of human rights, labor Trade sanctions policy: This Povities and does not tolerate any conregulations, environment and fight licy aims to ensure compliance with duct, either voluntary or negligent, against corruption. the applicable regulations in the field that involves, or may reasonably lead The Company meets all compulsory of trade sanctions, preventing conto, a breach of such legislation. The requirements to renovate its committracting with any person or legal encode was formally adopted on 27th ment in the 2017 financial year. tity subject to trade sanctions, and to June 2016. quickly and effectively respond to any It is worth noting that X-ELIO was runinformation which is contrary to this It is worth mentioning that, as a binner-up in the “Iberian Lawyer Gold policy. This Policy was formally approding requirement, in 2016 all staff must Awards 2016” awards. They recognived on 18th February 2016. personally adhere to the Competition ze the excellence among professioCode, the Trade Sanctions Policy and nal lawyers and compliance areas. Competition Code: Through the the Anticorruption Code. The award is divided into 10 categoimplementation of this code, we inries and X-ELIO was runner-up in the tend to prevent actions that may jeoCode of Ethics and Conduct: “Compliance Team” category. pardize the maintenance of free and The Code reflects the requirements of open competition in domestic and inethics, integrity and compliance, parternational markets. ticularly in the areas of conflict of interests, human rights, equality, safety and health, local community support, environment, data protection, information management, healthcare as43 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-SO3, G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4-EN34, G4-LA16, G4-PR9 & G4-HR12 G4-HR1 Compliance Committee Project financing In 2016 the Compliance Committee was created. It is responsible for In 2016, there has been no behest, clauses or defining and communicating the ethical framework to operate in a commitments related to human rights and antransparent and integral manner and according to the commitments ticorruption practices regarding the financing made, for promoting the values and ethical behaviors, as well as for for our two new plants in Japan and the plant establishing the consultation or complaint mechanisms or to denounin Chile. (G4-HR1) ce, investigate and respond to the matters that may be of interest to employees and/or third parties. The Compliance Committee is authorized to solve queries or interpretations that may arise and to gather the information and investigate in relation to any infringement of the Policies and Codes that conform the Compliance Programme, guaranteeing the due confidentiality, discretion and protection to those employees or external parties that communicate alleged breaches in good faith. To facilitate the communication, there are different channels through which any employee or third party, who wishes to raise a query or observes any breach or violation, may communicate or denounce it. Below is a summary of the whistle-blowing channels (G4-SO4): By electronic mail: By Postal mail: compliance@x-elio.com. Compliance Committee X-Elio Energy, S.L. 3 Ombú Street. 2nd floor 28045 Madrid. Spain. Since its inception, the Compliance Committee has received 6 queries, mainly related to the acceptance of presents or invitations from third parties. In 2016, corruption related risks were not assessed (G4-SO3). Neither did we receive any claims related to the environment, work practices, or human rights. (G4-EN34, G4-LA16 and G4-HR12). We have also not received, and are not subject to, any process related to unfair competition, monopolistic behavior (G4-SO7), breach of any legislation or regulation (G4-SO8), nor have we been imposed any sanctions for breaches related to product supply and use (G4-PR9), the Marketing communication and our customer’s data privacy protection. 44 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Social Dimension / PEOPLE MATERIAL ASPECTS CONTENTS Management focus Talent attraction and retention. Training Talent attraction and retention Next steps… Human rights in general Human rights DMA Management focus 2016 was a period of change at X-ELIO because, half way into the year, Human Resources management was segregated from Gestamp Renewable. This meant the need to adapt to I the new environment and the requirements of our new shareholder KKR In this sense, there were a number of management changes. The human resources objective is to become a strategic Among others, a new HR department was upheld, incorpopartner to the Company to ensure the implementation of rating a new HR director and expanding the department, the Human Resources Policies to pursue attraction, integraredefining its functions and scope. tion, development and retention of our professionals and contribute to achieve X-ELIO business targets. As a starting point for this process, there was a deep review of existing information, practices, policies and procedures, to allow the drafting and definition of a “Human Resources Strategic Plan”. 45 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-LA12 & G4-EC6 The following tables show the breakdown by country, position, age and gender: Our team Directors In 2016, our team is formed by 181 professioMale Female nals (119 males and 62 females). Out of them, > 30 > 30 59% is located in Spain, where our headquarCountry 30 50 > 50 30 50 > 50 ters sit. Compared to the previous financial Chile 0 0 0 0 0 0 year, the staff headcount increased by 17.1%. Spain 0 15 2 0 2 0 Our headcount is balanced regarding experience and dynamism. The majority of staff, Italy 0 1 0 0 0 0 84.5% is within the age range between 30 and Japan 0 0 1 0 0 0 50 years old; 6.1% is younger than 30 years; Mexico 0 1 0 0 0 0 and the remaining 9.4% is older than 50 years. Peru 0 0 0 0 0 0 South Africa 0 0 0 0 0 0 USA 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 0 17 3 0 2 0 Directors 12% Middle management Male Female > 30 > 30 Middle 10% Country 30 50 > 50 30 50 > 50 Management 78% Technical Chile 0 0 0 0 0 0 Administration Spain 1 10 0 0 1 0 and Plant Staff Italy 0 2 0 0 0 0 Japan 0 2 0 0 1 0 Mexico 0 0 0 0 0 0 Peru 0 0 0 0 0 0 South Africa 0 0 0 0 0 0 USA 0 1 0 0 0 0 Total 1 15 0 0 2 0 Plant staff Male Female > 30 > 30 Country 30 50 > 50 30 50 > 50 Chile 0 1 0 0 3 0 Spain 4 32 6 5 28 1 Italy 1 16 1 0 3 1 Japan 0 7 5 0 8 0 Mexico 0 1 0 0 3 0 Peru 0 4 0 0 0 0 South Africa 0 1 0 0 4 0 USA 0 4 0 0 2 0 Total 5 66 12 5 51 2 Regarding governance members, 16.7% is over 50 years old and the remaining 83.3% is between 30 and 50 years old. Further, 66.7% holds local nationality and all are males. (G4EC6). 46 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures DMA Talent attraction and retention G4-LA1 G4-LA11 Hiring and internal promotion Performance X-ELIO is aware that the company future development depends upon, the assessment commitment and work from its team. Therefore, internal promotion is a core The Performance Assessment or evaluatool to achieve employees’ satisfaction through the development of their tion is a key process within Human Recareers and their talent recognition. sources, whose mission is to define the main pillars in the staff management to Internal promotions achieve a high performance. In order to internally fill a specific position, the communication was through In 2016 financial year, we have been woremail which described the vacant position requirements and characteristics. king on the design for the Performance Assessment, which be progressively put This communication was addressed to the “target population”, which accorin place throughout the 2017 and 2018 ding to their qualities, would meet the required conditions. Employees within financial years, and aims the following this population interested in such vacant position would follow the establigeneral targets: shed processes until their final approval. I Facilitate the staff and the managers In 2017, this process will be streamlined through the corporate Intranet. The a work methodology that ensures job offer will be published internally on the Intranet announcement board, a dynamic, continuous, clear and called “Job Posting”, which will contain information about the available vaefficient process showing the perforcancies so that any interested employee may access, in an efficient and easy mance evolution and the employees manner, both the job description and the process to follow to submit their development at any time throughout application. the year; The job offer is made public only if, after some time, which depends on the II Create a uniform process that applies urgency, it is not filled by internal candidates. to the full organization, on the same dates and with the same criteria; Hiring III Create an effective communication channel between the employees and Currently, the external hiring process for new professionals who meet the their managers; job requirements include the use of computer and job seeking tools, presence in employment forums and ad-hoc collaborations with specialized IV Facilitate the information that allows advisors. a consistent management for the variable remuneration calculation, the In 2017, our target is to design a “Centralized Procedure to Hire” new prosalary review and the talent identififessionals. This includes the design and implementation of a global space cation. in X-ELIO webpage that allows for the orderly collection of CVs. To expand the hiring frame, we will also redesign the company website in certain job seeking and social networks pages with the aim to reinforce our presence in this type of forums and to improve the company visibility. International mobility We are global Company in constant growth, which implies the existence of international career paths that allow our staff a greater professional development. In this sense, the kick-off of international projects, as well as the market exploration in other countries or specific geographies, offers the company staff both professional development opportunities through long-term international careers, and temporary overseas assignments linked to specific projects. 47 Sustainability Report 2016 DMA, G4-HR2, G4-HR7, G4-LA9 & G4-LA10 Training At X-ELIO, our priority is to count with the meTo analyze the quality and usefulness of the chanisms to allow us to know our staff training training received, in most cases staff attending needs so that we can adapt the training to the fills in feedback surveys and evaluates if their different levels and profiles within the comexpectations were met. In general, in light of pany. the surveys received, we may conclude that the result was satisfactory. At X-ELIO there is In 2016, 3,142 training hours were delivered, no training oriented to manage the career end which means an average of 17 training hours within the teams, because there are no emploper employee, mainly focused on languages yees close to retirement age. (G4-LA10). and health and safety. The following table details their breakdown by country (G4-LA9): At X-ELIO we consider it is very important to help the new professionals that incorporate into the job market. To this extent, we have kicked-off a “studentship Programme” managed Plant staff through agreements with leading universities, Country Training hours business schools and study centers, in order to get young professionals to make practices in Chile 19 our company and gain experience. Once the Spain 2,986 term is over, if their performance was satisfacItaly 21 tory and according to the production needs, they are presented with the opportunity to Japan 30 continue growing their career in our company. Mexico 58 Usually, our activity does not require hiring Peru 2 physical staff for the security of our facilities. In South Africa 24 any case, the subcontractors for the physical USA 2 security of our company are legally regulated and recognized, so their training on human riTotal 3,142 ghts is not considered necessary (G4-HR7). The communication effort related to ethics, anticorruption and human rights stands out in 2016. In this sense, staff was informed about the approved policies and codes related to Compliance, including: the Trade Sanctions PoThe percentage licy (formally accepted by 128 employees), the distribution for Anticorruption Policy (formally accepted by 123 training related to employees) and the Competition Code (formaethics, anticorruption lly accepted by 58 employees). Furthermore, and human rights is this training was reinforced in some countries. summarized in the following graph (G4HR2): Chile 11% Spain USA 1% 51% South Africa 1% Peru 1% Mexico 4% Japan 18% Italy 13% 48 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures DMA The new Intranet is conceived as an internal communication cannel and, for this purpose, it contains numerous secCommunication tions, as summarized below: Company: this section includes information of general inX-ELIO’s internal communication model responds to the terest about the Company and information about all our needs of a global team used to make regular international facilities. travels. Directory: it is one of the most frequently used contents. It Under this premise, in 2016 we designed and commissiogathers basic data for each employee (department, phone ned the new X-ELIO intranet, which enables an internal numbers, electronic mail, etc). This allows to contact and communication channel between the company and the search for the appropriate persons in a fast manner. staff. The human resource department is in charge of the intranet management. Releases: this section periodically includes the news, organizational changes or notifications which are relevant for all employees. New X-ELIO Intranet News: this publishes the most outstanding news, both from By the end of 2016, X-ELIO launched its new Intranet. X-ELIO and from the industry, which are considered relevant to all employees. The objective is to have a communication tool according to the needs of all staff and the management with the aim to Press Clipping: it publishes a daily summary containing a promote the internal communication channels, thus creanews selection both from domestic and international meting a better work environment. dia related to the photovoltaic industry and anything related to X-ELIO and KKR. An external specialized company was engaged for its design, which also involved the collaboration of a team of 15 Employee area: this section includes numerous applicato 20 X-ELIO professionals, named “promoters”, scattered tions such as access to payroll, to the program to submit among Spain and the other countries where the company travel and vacation requests, the travel security platform, is present, with the aim of achieving a fast implantation and the fringe benefits, through the Flexible Remuneraprocess and making all users aware of the change that the tion Plan, among others. Each employee may have access, Intranet launch implies. besides the general information and resources within this section, to a country specific section which includes inforThe promoters were tasked with collaborating with the mation related to such country. Intranet design, participating in working groups, which channeled their feedback as users of the different trials and Documents: this section incorporates different contents development of the different spaces, as well as its accessigrouped into folders which include all documents and probility. Once the Intranet final design reached a consensus cedures related to Administration, Quality, Environment, between the promoters and X-ELIO management, it was IT, HR, etc, as well as the most relevant information about formally introduced to the rest of the company. Compliance and Sustainability. 49 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-10 y G4-LA3 Type Of Contrat Length Of Workday Indefinite Temporary Full-Time Part-Time Employment stability Country M F M F M F M F For us, maximizing employment stabiChile 1 3 0 0 1 3 0 0 lity is one way to show the trust in our team, in the long-term relations and in Spain 61 33 9 4 70 36 0 1 their experience. Italy 21 4 0 0 21 4 0 0 In the 2016 financial year, 89.5% of Japan 12 6 3 3 14 9 1 0 staff are under indefinite contracts Mexico 2 3 0 0 2 3 0 0 and the remaining 10.5% a temporary contract. Further, 98.9% of staff have Peru 4 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 full-time Jobs and the remaining 1.1% South Africa 1 4 0 0 1 4 0 0 are part-time. USA 5 2 0 0 5 2 0 0 The breakdown by gender and country is shown below: In 2016 we had the following maternity and paternity leaves: 5 male and 1 female, and 100% are reinstated and remain in the company. Furthermore, 80% of males and 100% of females who took maternity/paternity leaves in 2015 remain in the company. G4-LA1 Staff turnover and mobility The average staff turnover rate at X-ELIO (considering the number of employees leaving our organization is 9%. Within 2016, 43 new professionals have joined the Company: 23 males and 20 females. On the other hand, 16 employees have left the company: 13 males and 3 females. The table shows the breakdown by gender, age and country: Joiners Departures Males Females Males Females > 30 > 30 > 30 > 30 Country 30 50 > 50 30 50 > 50 Country 30 50 > 50 30 50 > 50 Chile 0 0 0 0 2 0 Chile 0 0 0 0 0 0 Spain 1 9 3 4 5 0 Spain 1 3 1 0 0 0 Italy 0 0 0 0 0 0 Italy 0 0 0 0 0 0 Japan 0 4 1 0 5 0 Japan 1 3 0 0 1 0 Mexico 0 0 0 0 1 0 Mexico 0 0 0 0 1 0 Peru 0 1 0 0 0 0 Peru 1 0 0 0 0 0 South South 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 Africa Africa USA 0 3 0 0 3 0 USA 0 2 0 0 1 0 G4-EC5 Remuneration X-ELIO is aware that remuneration is an important factor for Ratio Ratio Overall our professionals. Therefore, and also because of our staff Country Male Female Ratio average profile, our lowest salary is always higher than the one stablished in the local legislation. Spain 1.64 1.64 1.64 The table below shows the ratio between the annual initial Italy nd nd nd salary in the company and X-ELIO lowest salary in those Japan 1.72 1.72 1.72 countries with a significant number of employees: 50 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures G4-HR3, G4-HR5, G4-HR6 & G4-HR9 Human rights Mobility To enhance the professional deDiversity velopment opportunities, X-ELIO At X-ELIO, we consider that the perspective and the way of thinking from profespromotes the international mobility sionals with different origins help us achieve positive changes in the organizaamong its staff. That is why, when tion, in the work methods and increments our innovation capacity responding to the market strategy requires so, a demanding market with high quality standards such as the current one. there is the possibility to take on greater responsibilities or develop The headcount in 2016 is made up of 65.7% males and 34.3% females. new projects in other countries or regions, which boosts the development of their professional careers. In 2016, the number of company expatriates is 5 (4 males and 1 female). Besides, due to our activity and presence in a number of countries, 65.7% Male Female 34.3% every year there are multiple shortterm business trips linked to specific projects within the company strategic plan. Within the international mobility plan, we may highlight the training Additionally, we uphold local employment as it contributes to reinforce the diaeffort made related to “Security in logue with the local communities and allows for a more exact knowledge of their international travel”. In this sense, in culture, thus improving integration. Thus, 96.7% of staff are of local origins, out collaboration with an external suof which 66% are males and 34% females. pplier, a number of training sessions The following table shows the breakdown by gender, position and country: were held both in our central offices as well as in some of the company G4-EC6 Male Female offices in other countries, in which, Local Middle Middle as a precautionary measure, some nationality Director Mgr Plant Director Mgr Plant practical aspects have been adChile 0 0 1 0 0 2 dressed related to basic security to be taken into account in internatioSpain 16 10 41 2 1 34 nal trips. Italy 1 2 18 0 0 3 This initiative has been reinforced Japan 1 2 12 0 1 8 with the launch of an electronic platform where staff making interMexico 0 0 1 0 0 3 national trips may find specific and Peru 0 0 4 0 0 0 updated information on the country they travel to. South Africa 0 0 1 0 0 4 USA 0 1 4 0 0 2 Likewise, the Intranet contains information for travel insurance, which At X-ELIO we have not identified in any plant or office, nor in suppliers, any besides general information, inclurisks related to children work and/or forceful work or breaches related to human des an emergency telephone numrights. In 2016 the Compliance Committee has not received any related compber to call in case any incident takes laints (G4-HR3, G4-HR5 and G4-HR6), nor have our facilities been inspected or place in order to get directions on evaluated related to human rights, as it is not considered an important risk due the fastest way to solve it. to the activity developed (G4-HR9). 51 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-LA2 Next steps Work-life balance and fringe Currently, the Company is working on the debenefits sign and implementation of a number of projects that, focusing on the human team, have The balance between staff´s work and personal life is important the main objective of aligning the company for their health and well-being, therefore flexible working hours with the new market trends in the human rewere introduced in 2016, which allows adapting the check-in and sources area. check-out times to the personal situation of each employee in Spain. In the other countries, where the staff headcount is much lower, the flexibility requirements are managed individually, attending local legislation and the uses and customs in each counThe energy that moves try. X-ELIO aspires to improve que life quality of its staff, and therefore there are a number of fringe benefits adapted to the needs of each location. Below are summarized some examples: Life, accident and inability insurance: all workers in Spain and Italy are covered by a life and accident insurance with a higher coverage than established by local legislation. Further, is the people in 2016, the travel insurance coverage was notably increased, which is consistently applicable to all countries. In this sense, we plan to expand and improve Meal allowance: all staff in Madrid office receives restaurant the information contained in the intranet so vouchers. that it becomes into a backbone channel for internal communication within the company Retirement plan and pension funds: both the retirement and the “Employee Section” gather more and plans and the pension funds are applied in those countries whemore complete and updated information in re required by local legislation, such as: the retirement plans in each of the countries. Japan, the voluntary pension funds in USA, etc. After its launch, in the following years we will Transport allowance: In Japan some economic help is proviwork to consolidate the “Healthy X-ELIO” proded as “commutation allowance” to cover to transportation cost gramme, which will count with monthly initiatito the workplace. ves and will address different issues aimed at enhancing healthy life habits among our staff. Flexible Remuneration Plan: Staff in Spain has a Flexible Remuneration Plan (FRP) that presents the opportunity to adapt Additionally, the company staff performaneach employee’s remuneration package to his personal situation ce management programme will materialize through a number of products included in the plan. which, together with the launch of a competence management programme called “X-ELIO Currently, the offered services are: kindergarten allowance, transADN” will form the base for the company huportation allowance and health insurance. In 2016, the FRP had man resource management. 23 requests, distributed as summarized below: 22% Transportation allowance 39% Kindergarten allowance 39% Health insurance 52 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Social Dimension / Health and safety MATERIAL ASPECTS CONTENTS Management focus Healths and safety at work Measurement, communication and training DMA Management focus X-ELIO prioritizes the health and safety of its staff and all external workers present in O the work environment. Our organizational culture demands an exemplary performance from each member. It concentrates on fostering Responsibilities and good habits and behaviors, consultation and participation organization from everyone for continuous improvement and ZERO toPrevention organization at X-ELIO is coordinated at a corlerance with recklessness or any type of breach in general. porate level through the Health and Safety and EnvironThe health and safety management is organized following ment Directorate which establishes the guidelines, plans the guidelines established under the Quality, Health, Safeand programs to develop. ty and Environment (QHSE) Policy, the Code of Ethics and In each country or facility there is a Health and Safety ResConduct and the Management System, which also fulfills ponsible, who is in charge of implanting the established the OHSAS 18001 regulation for the “Design, construction plans and programs and controlling and monitoring the and commissioning” activities. commitments arising from the Management Integrated SysThrough manuals, procedures and instructions, the system tem and the applicable legal requirements, both for our staformally collects personal protection equipment (PPE) speff and for subcontractors. cifications, training, and accident notification and complaint Likewise, in all countries we have the support from a speciachannels, among others. Besides, X-ELIO makes an accurate lized local external consultant, with the objective of helping tracking of the health and safety of its operations in order to us not only with the identification of all applicable legal improve its management. requirements but also during the Project execution phase. 53 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-LA7 Health Risk identification Project monitoring and control management For X-ELIO, staff health is a key factor mechanisms because it is fundamental to their weIn order to define the adequate preBefore the start of works and the proll-being and their work performance. ventive measures, X-ELIO carries out ject execution, a Health and Safety The health monitoring and control rethe “Risk Assessment”, which is perioPlan or Programme must be prepared. lated to workers risk exposure in their dically updated, as well as whenever respective jobs is externalized, relying In this document, the contractor identhere is any change to the work conon the different medical services actifies plans, organizes and controls ditions that implies the identification cording to the local legislation dispoeach activity to be undertaken from a of new damages or risks, or when the sitions at the time. preventive point of view, as well as the implanted measures are not sufficient. applicable work procedures. Besides, Besides, the company understands The risk assessment follows probabiit will inform on any risks related to the that worker’s good health translality/impact criteria evaluating aspects activities to undertake and the preventes into a higher performance, either related to: tive measures to take in each case to physical or intellectual, and into abavoid or mitigate them. senteeism reduction due to illnesses • Physical safety (falls, bumps, …). derived from bad eating habits or lack The subcontractors tracking and conof physical exercise. Therefore, we fos• Hygiene (exposure to contaminants, trol is performed through “UBYQUO” ter staff participation in healthy habits noises,...). platform. It aims to be a common campaigns. • Ergonomics (excessive loads, inadeworkplace so that subcontractors and In this line, in 2017 we plan to launch a quate tools,…). Health and Safety staff interchange documents within a unified environ“Healthy X-ELIO” campaign, which will • Psychosocial factors (mental load, ment integrating all documents in an monthly deal with issues focused on work contents,…). efficient, fast and simple manner. improving eating behaviors and healthy life habits among our staff. This assessment considers the preThrough this tool, all subcontractors, sence of especially sensitive workers, workers and machinery documentaboth for their personal characteristics tion are identified and checked, fulfias well as for their biological status (for lling the legal requirements from the example, pregnant workers) indicating country. if there are specific risks for this workforce for each job position. The duties of the Head of Occupational Risks Prevention include reThe assessment results conclude that viewing, checking and approving all workers do not have jobs presenting a documentation. From that point, UBhigh risk/incidence of getting specific YCUO automatically generates an acdiseases; therefore it is not necessary cess document authorizing entrance to establish related preventive measuto companies, workers and machinery. res. 54 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures G4-LA5 Measurement, communication and training At X-ELIO, we have established different communication channels to facilitate a two-way flow, allowing information and participation from all in-house R and external staff in areas related to health and safety. Risk communication and health and safety instructions are made through internal memos, training and the announTraining and awareness-raising cement board. Besides, the heads of the contractors/subBefore joining the company or incorporating into a new job contractors receive written copies of the health and safety position, all workers receive training related to risk preveninstructions for the activities they will perform in the plants. tion tailored to their position and functions, so that they are aware of their related obligations and responsibilities. This Likewise, there are periodic coordination meetings to follow requirement also applies to subcontractors which, before up safety issues. These meetings are attended by staff in starting any plant construction activity, must have the regucharge of X-ELIO health and safety as well as the competent latory training to ensure quality standards and minimize the staff from contractors/subcontractors. accident/incident risks. On the other hand, contractors and subcontractors report Besides, staff receives additional training to strengthen and on a monthly basis the accidents, incidents and work hours update their knowledge related to risk prevention. In 2016, for each of them. These measures allow for an accurate we held 460.5 training hours related to health and safety. tracking and regulation of the health and safety conditions in the operations, as well as a precise identification and solving of the possible failures in the management system so that pertinent measures can be adopted. On top of direct communication, there are other channels that encourage consultation, such as the intranet. The Intranet integrates, collects and standardized the policies, initiatives, indicators and other documentation of interest related to work Health and Safety. Notification of accidents The internal communication of accidents is performed first by reporting to the site manager and, subsequently, to the head of health and safety who will be in charge for the accident investigation and reporting through an “Incident/ Accident Investigation Report”. The notification of accidents to the corresponding labor authority is performed according to the timeframes and mechanisms established for such purpose. Inspection For accidents or leaves of absence of external staff, the In order to assess the compliance with all the established responsible company is in charge of initiating the required obligations and guidelines related to Health and Safety, procedures to notify them to the labor authority and submit “Inspections” are made with the aim of measuring and conthe accident report to X-ELIO, so that we can proceed with trolling the activities to monitor the health, control the perits investigation and keep an updated record of the accisonal protection equipment, technical / competent health dents occurring. and safety staff and safety inspections. These inspections are carried out at least monthly at construction sites to accurately identify, on-site, the practices or habits that may pose a risk, determine the training needs and check whether working methods are adequate and the results are included in a report, for the sake of continuous improvement and prevention. In 2016, there were a total of 89 reports, mainly corresponding to Uribe Project (Chile) which gathers a total of 86. The remaining 3 are distributed among Hayato and S13 projects, both in Japan. 55 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-LA6 Tracking indicators X-ELIO performs an exhaustive tracking of the indicators related to accidents, both internal and within subcontractors. This allows us to establish adequate measures and, thus, continue improving the safety and work environment for our professionals. In 2016 there was only one accident with leave of absence corresponding to a female within our own staff. This accident represented the loss of 67 work days. We have not had any accidents without leave of absence, neither within our staff nor within subcontractors. In 2016, there are no records of fatal accidents, nor is any occupational disease, therefore the average rate per employee in both cases is 0.00. Below is a summary for cumulative frequency and severity for the full financial year: Country Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Cumulative frequency 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.4 1.3 1.2 index * Cumulative severity index 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.03 0.05 0.05 ** *Rate: Number of accidents implying leave of absence for every 1,000,000 worked hours. **Rate: Number of workdays lost due to contingency for every 1,000 hours. Lost days due to absenteeism In 2016, we had a total loss of 640 workdays due to absenteeism from our own staff. The average rate of lost days per employee and country is shown in the following table: Country Internal staff rate Spain 258.2 Chile 20.8 Mexico 58.1 South Africa 53.8 Japan 198.1 Italy 207.3 USA 51.2 Peru 27.4 Rate: (number of days lost due to other causes + days lost due to accidents) / 1,000,000 hours worked. 56 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Social Dimension / Society MATERIAL ASPECTS CONTENTS Management focus Social impact on the local community Social catalyst Relations with public administrations DMA, G4-EC7, G4-EC8 & G4-EC9 Management focus Generating value for the local community At X-ELIO, we generate wealth through different approa191,8 million Euros of economic value distributed. ches such as employment, purchases from local suppliers 181 professionals under headcount, and tax payment that contribute to reinforce and consoliincluding 43 new hires. date the socioeconomic fabric of the communities where we operate. 9.9 million Euros destined to remuneration and other fringe benefits. To this purpose, below is a summary of our key figures for 2016: 29.8 million Euros for local suppliers. 8.5 million Euros in taxes. 57 Sustainability Report 2016 Contribution to a more Regarding local hiring, Uribe Solar Photovoltaic Project stands out, as part of our voluntary commitments under sustainable energy model the Environmental Impact Assessment, indicated that “within the construction phase of the project, we will prioRenewable energies are now the first choice to expand and ritize the hiring of workers from Antofagasta community modernize energy systems worldwide. Renewable energies for non-qualified tasks”, so that the construction company are winning the race, in which solar photovoltaic systems subcontracted for the project prioritized the local hiring have reached network parity in many countries. in the area. The sun is our main source of energy. An inexhaustible, independent resource that does not produce emissions to the atmosphere and fuels a sustainable energy model, capable of meeting current needs without compromising the Land Lease future resources and possibilities. (G4-EC8) Another source for local wealth are the land lease and concession agreements that X-ELIO executes with the AdBesides, the thrust in the renewable energy deployment ministration and the owners of the land where the plants will nourish the economic growth, create new employment are located, through long-term agreements, with a duraopportunities, improve human well-being and contribute to tion longer than 20 years. a safe future for the climate. One example of such benefits is the leasing of the land where the South African plants are located, where the renJob creation tal fee is a percentage of the gross revenue of the plants. This is performed through a family Trust, which ensures Renewable energies are already an important source of job high incomes for the families for the next 20 years, extencreation, with an estimated 9.4 million employments in 2015 dable according to the plant life cycle. (G4-EC8) (including hydroelectric energy). Asia is the leading region and the major developed technologies are: photovoltaic and bioenergy. If renewable energies reach 36% by 2030, it is estimated that employment will reach 24.4 million (Source: Contributions to the local IRENA). community Within this frame, solar energy is an employment source The municipalities or regions where X-ELIO plants are lothroughout all the chain value: development, manufacturing, cated receive income in the form of taxes that contribute construction, operation, maintenance and recycling. Depento the improvement of the life quality and services for the ding on the technology used, for each MW produced it is residents in the neighborhood. calculated to create between 15 and 27 direct and indirect The amount paid in 2016 as local taxes and fees ascends jobs. (EPIA 2012, SUSTAINABILITY OF PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSto 8,543 thousand Euros, as detailed below: TEMS: Job Creation). At X-ELIO, we consider that local job creation is a signifiCountry Taxes and fees (thousands of Euros) cant boost for the economy in the area that fosters integraBrasil 1 tion between the company and the local communities. As summarized under “People” chapter, in 2016 our headcount Chile 112 grew by 17% reaching 181 staff, out of which 96.7% corresSpain 3,397 pond to local employees. The percentage breakdown by country is summarized in the adjoining graph. USA 551 Honduras 149 Italy 436 Japan 2,173 South Africa 1,724 97% 100% 100% 100% 100% 96% Total 8,543 80% 75% Chile Spain Italy Japan Mexico Peru South USA Africa 58 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Local suppliers At X-ELIO, we are committed with Total Suppliers Local suppliers the economic and social progress of Country expenditure expenditure % Local Suppliers the countries where we are present. thousands of Euros thousands of Euros In 2016, the expenditure on local suppliers rose to 29,730 thousand Euros Chile 137 137 100% and represents 54% of total expendiSpain 36,029 10,494 29% ture. Costa Rica 18 18 100% Its distribution is uneven, as local suDominican Rep, 7 7 100% ppliers expenditure is 100% of expenditure in all countries, except in Spain, Italy 3,694 3,694 100% where it only reaches 29%. South Africa 1,629 1,629 100% The following graph summarizes its Japan 7,139 7,139 100% breakdown (in thousand Euros) by Honduras 2,553 2,553 100% country (G4-EC9). Mexico 384 384 100% USA 3,677 3,677 100% Suppliers expenditure (thousands of Euros) Local suppliers expenditure 55,266 29,730 54% Percentage of spending on local suppliers 10,494 7,139 100% 100% 3,677 3,694 2,553 100% 29% 100% 91% 100% 100% 100% 93% 1,629 137 384 18 7 Chile Spain Costa Dominican Italy South Japan Honduras Mexico USA Rica Rep. Africa 59 Sustainability Report 2016 G4-SO1, G4-SO2 & G4-SO11 Social catalyst Local development support With its activity, X-ELIO enables a larenergy plans in each country and/or With the aim of reinforcing the comger and better development in rural through the different mechanisms espany’s contribution to society, diffeor isolated areas through clean enertablished by local regulations. rent collaboration agreements have gy generation, as it suits areas where been established with non-profit orWe also carry out different consultaelectrical network does not reach or ganizations (see indicator G4-15), to tion projects, which enable the local its implantation is costly and complijointly perform corporate actions. Adcommunities to participate in the procated. Besides, its useful life is greater ditionally, we implement initiatives in cess and also allow the company to than 30 years and the technological order to improve the life quality for the identify their needs. costs have significantly reduced. local community. These studies contribute to design Depending on their location and chaIt is worth noting we have received strategies to prevent and/or mitigate racteristics, X-ELIO plants consider nor solved any claims about social imthe possible impacts perceived, incluand incorporate the economic, sopacts in 2016 (G4-SO11). ding the undertaking of commitments cial and environmental impacts from with the local communities and moniBelow, we summarize the main local its start, through various mechanisms toring programs to track the different programmes and initiatives undersuch as the environmental impact asissues identified, which assists in the taken in 2016 in 33.3% of the countries sessments, the commitments estasafeguarding of the community rights where the company is present (G4blished by investors (Equator Princias the relevant issues are incorporaSO1). ples), the obligations derived from the ted into the projects. South Africa Education In this manner, we hope to increase the positive attitude Back to School and pride among the beneficiaries and foster their develoThe project started in 2015 and is aimed at improving the pment, as most of these students come from unemployed life quality for the least privileged children from Siyathemba families and depend on government subsidies. municipality, providing shoes for primary school students. In 2016, thanks to company disbursement, we could hand out school shoes to 40 students across 6 primary schools. Award of iThemba Prieska scholarships In 2015, X-ELIO started a project to award scholarships for vocational training and higher education in the municipality of Siyathemba for youngsters from disadvantaged backgrounds coming from unemployed families and dependent on government subsidies. The previous financial year, 14 youngsters received scholarships to pursue further studies and in 2016 the scholarships expanded to 19 new students. These scholarships include both the tuition fees and book costs as well as accommodation costs. 60 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Sports and health Small businesses development Dreamfields From X-ELIO, we contribute to the development of small local businesses through funding support, training and The Project started in 2015 and aims to promote the creaconsultancy. tion of children´s football and basketball teams, encouraging their participation in sports leagues, mainly in rural Support for small and medium micro areas, in collaboration with the South African Department enterprises (SMME´ s) of Education and the local primary schools. For this project, we hired an accountant to help 10 small and medium micro enterprises (SMME’s) with their financial management and submission of compulsory reports. His purpose was to reduce the financial load over these businesses so that they could concentrate on the business development and growth. Besides, within this financial year we have collaborated with 3 SMME with their purchase of support equipment that facilitate their progress. To this extent, in 2016 we made donations to 6 local schools in Siyathemba municipality to contribute to the purchase of sports equipment and the sport fields´ maintenance. This municipality presents a high risk of drug and alcohol abuse, therefore it is essential to promote sports so that children are kept active and busy, while also providing them with future opportunities. Mama Mimi´ s Bakery Given the high unemployment rate at Siyathemba, the Mamma Mimi’s Project is focused on providing participating women with the necessary knowledge and tools to become owners of small businesses, such as bakeries, which can operate from their homes at a competitive price. The Project is divided into 3 phases that will finalize within the first quarter of 2017: • Phase 1: Includes manufacturing, purchase and assembly of all bakery components and accessories, up to the pre-delivery phase. Medical supplies • Phase 2: Entails the organization for product commerHealth systems at Siyathemba face numerous challenges, cialization and distribution, by searching and training a so that they require the support from local organizations person in charge among other tasks. that contribute to help a growing number of persons who • Phase 3: This phase encompasses the training and capasuffer from terminal illnesses. citation of 20 female bakers and assistants. For its proper Our objective was to support these organizations through distribution, includes a “Mamma Mimis” branded vehicle. donation of medical supplies, as they receive little funding Finally, we will promote the project communication in difrom the government. The beneficiary organizations were: fferent media and the product commercialization at local Moeder Theresa Hospice, which looks after over 30 paevents. tients with HIV and cancer, and Huis Pickard asylum, which looks after over 50 elderly people. 61 Sustainability Report 2016 Chile Honduras In 2016, Uribe (Chile) solar plant was built and, simultaIn view of the population growth experimented by Marneously, numerous social initiatives were undertaken to covia municipality, X-ELIO collaborates with the Municipal benefit its environment in the region of Antofagasta, Chile. Hall in financing two important projects that will mainly benefit the youngsters in the area. In this environment, the Gen Community stands out, formed by professionals and nature lovers who search to create self-sustainable life. We summarize below the main collaborations made with this community: Improvements to Lobo Soccer Field Given the importance of sports for youth, X-ELIO and the Municipality Hall are financing the implementation of different improvements to the “Lobo” soccer field, focused on: construction of the perimeter fencing, installation of new grandstands and adaptation of the fast soccer field and the recreational plaza. The project was kicked-off on 20th December 2016 and will be completed in 2017. Photovoltaic facility: as a support for the electricity consumption with the GEN community enclosure, we have built an isolated photovoltaic facility made up by 16 modules with a power of 310W each, which represents a total of 4,960W. This energy provides support to the following facilities: the caretaker´s home, the auditorium and the stage. Besides, a user manual has been provided that makes it easier to understand and use, enabling the final user to take advantage of all the energy produced by the system. Access and signage improvements: a new access has been built, adapted to the weather conditions of the environment that will enable and facilitate the entry to larger vehicles to Villa Marco Institute the existing facilities. Besides, new signs have been instaAs the facilities where the institute currently operates are lled, providing greater visibility from the highway entrance not owned and belong to a primary education school, theand the road fork re are frequent conflicts, so that municipal authorities saw Lookout: A lookout, integrated with the environment, was the need to endow the area with an adequate and indebuilt with the aim of promoting the use of renewable enerpendent facility for the institute. gies, facilitating the plant view from its location. Thus, X-ELIO and the Municipality Hall are financing the Access porch and checkpoint shelter: A new access porch construction of an educational building for secondary eduwas installed at the entrance that facilitates the access to cation, which can be used in different schedules, including all kind of vehicles, providing a better image to the environweekends, through an agreement with the Autonomous ment. This new access includes a checkpoint shelter. National University of Honduras and other private institutions. Internal roads and fencing: in line with the new access, a new road was built within the GEN community, similar to Within the first year from its inception, the institute achiethe outside road and new fencing was installed. ved registration of 60 students and it is expected to increase by 40 students in the two next years. 62 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures G4-SO6 Relations with public administrations X-ELIO selflessly collaborates with public bodies, establishing relations with regional and local administrations with total transparency, following the guidelines under the Code of Ethics. Besides, the company considers important its participation in associations and organizations, as it allows being up to date with the trends, participating in consultations, industry studies and work groups and contributing to establish a reference framework. The industry associations it belongs to are listed under indicator G4-16. Iwate (Japan) plant inauguration On 26th May 2016, an inauguration ceremony was held for X-ELIO’s new solar photovoltaic plant in Iwate, Japan. This is the second Project that the Company completes in the country. The plant has a power of 24.78 MW, occupying a total are of 40 hectares on a former golf course The ceremony was attended by representatives from the government, as well as from the Spanish Embassy in Japan and several companies that participated in the project construction. Jorge Barredo, CEO, and Keji Yasuoka, Country Manager for Japan & Asia, attended representing X-ELIO. 63 Environmental Dimension MATERIAL ASPECTS CONTENTS Environmental management Environmental performance and environmental impact Energy and efficiency Energy consumption CO2 and climate change. Carbon footprint X-ELIO and the climate change Nature conservation, biodiversity and Nature conservation. Biodiversity and landscape landscape DMA Environmental performance X-ELIO is committed to the respect and conservation of the environment. Therefore, it has the suitable means to operate in an efficient and responsible manner, generating B clean and renewable energy projects. Besides, it has a rigorous integrated system, which conThrough the system, we measure and analyze consumptains the environmental management under UNE-EN ISO tions, emissions, waste and spills in the maintenance and 14001:2004 standard for the activities of “design, construcconstruction activities in order to analyze their efficiency tion and commissioning” for solar photovoltaic energy faciand, thus, establish periodic improvement targets that conlities. It also complies with the obligations derived from the tribute to minimize our environmental impact. In parallel, regulations in force, the environmental impact assessments we collaborate with administrations and local communities and the environmental and activity licenses. in the areas where we are present offering our support in different social and environmental issues. Therefore, the management system applies in 2016 to the plants under construction: Uribe in Chile, and S13 and HaBelow is a summary of the main environmental performanyato in Japan. Likewise, Iwate plant was commissioned duce indicators, related to Uribe plant (Chile), S13 and Hayaring this financial year, so it is partially within the scope. to plants (Japan) under construction and partially to Iwate plant (Japan): 64 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Water consumption Environmental expenditure and claims During construction phase, water is mainly used for wateIn 2016, X-ELIO’s main environmental expenses are those ring the roads and, to a lesser extent, for sanitary use. derived from consulting and auditing activities (management systems maintenance, environmental impact assessIn 2016, the corresponding consumption rises to a total of ments, plant tracking and measurement plans) and are esti12,133 m3. Its breakdown is 1% for human consumption and mated at 20,000 € (G4-EN31). sanitary and the remaining 99% for watering and maintenance of tracks and cleaning. In this financial year there have been neither significant penalty fees nor monetary sanctions for environmental legislation or regulation breach (G4-EN29). Waste Since they are material, the performance indicators related The management system includes within its proceduto energy, emissions, nature and biodiversity are covered in res the guidelines to follow for production, segregation, greater depth throughout the chapter. tracking and measurement of the waste produced by the plants. In total, 3.975 tons of waste were generated, the majority of which (87.3%) is forest waste. The following graph shows the percentage by waste type: Forest 12,7% Non-hazardous waste waste 87,3% 0,032% Hazardous waste 0,002% Electrical and electronic waste DMA, G4-EN3 & G4-EN5 Energy consumption X-ELIO´ s activity has a very low energy consumption, mainly used for plant maintenance and Company offices. Internal energy Energy intensity Renewable energy consumption X-ELIO considers that measuring its generation In 2016, X-ELIO consumed a total of energy intensity is a good way to 16,402 GJ of energy generated from know the efficiency and impact of its At X-ELIO, we are aware that climate non-renewable sources. activity. change is one of the main environmental issues for the planet, as well as a relevant The adjoining table shows its breakThe resulting annual ratio is calculamatter for the interest groups. Therefore, down by countries: ted dividing the energy consumption our activity, the generation of renewable (G4-EN3) by the total weight of enerenergy, contributes to this fight. Energy consumption (GJ) gy sold in each country. In 2016, we generated a total 1.638.006 X-ELIO Spain 4,692 The following table summarizes the GJ of energy from renewable sources, X-ELIO Italy 2,362 results: with a country breakdown as summariX-ELIO Japan 1,662 zed below: Energy intensity X-ELIO South Africa 2,754 GJ consumed/GJ produced Energy generation (GJ) X-ELIO USA 516 X-ELIO Spain 0,013 X-ELIO Spain 373,073 X-ELIO Honduras 2,075 X-ELIO Italy 0,018 X-ELIO Italy 129,604 X-ELIO Peru 2,341 X-ELIO Japan 0,014 X-ELIO Japan 121,978 Total 16,402 X-ELIO South Africa 0,012 X-ELIO South Africa 226,198 X-ELIO USA 0,005 X-ELIO USA 114,426 X-ELIO Honduras 0,007 X-ELIO Honduras 309,907 X-ELIO Peru 0,006 X-ELIO Peru 362,819 Total 0,010 Total 1,638,006 65 Sustainability Report 2016 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY 13 Climate Action X-ELIO and the climate change Goal 7: Ensure access to Goal 13: Take urgent action DMA, G4-EC2, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, affordable, reliable, sustaito fight climate change and G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN20 & G4-EN30 nable and modern energy its impacts, in particular, for all. incorporating measures Risks and opportunities related to climate change in the national policies, Climate change is increasingly relevant, being one of the strategies and plans. major challenges we face which humanity will need to address in the 21st century. Therefore, it represents an urgent threat with potentially irreversible consequences for the At X-ELIO, we consider that the main options to fight cliplanet. It is a given fact that in order to tackle this burst we mate change from our industry are focused on the use of need to implement all available mechanisms and to obtain modern and efficient technology, to generate renewable the cooperation from all countries. energy throughout its useful life, on the development and 2016 has been a very relevant year due to decisions taken implantation of innovation and efficiency measurements in the international arena in the fight against climate chanthat improve the performance of our plants and on staff ge. After holding in Paris the 21st United Nations Summit retraining and awarenessraising. lated to Climate Change (COP 21), the approval of the work Below is a summary of the main indicators of emissions in agenda at COP 22 in Marrakech for the implementation of the climate change area. the targets approved in Paris allows us to advance in the world objective to reduce the CO2 emissions no later than between 2020 and 2025 and reach half by 2050. Direct emissions (scope 1) In 2016 this becomes especially relevant as the carbon dioxide levels in the Earth atmosphere consistently exceed Solar radiation is the source for X-ELIO’s production prothe symbolic mark of 400 ppp of CO2. Although this threscess, so it has no direct emissions related to it hold had already been surpassed in specific planet places Regarding harmful substances to the ozone layer, they are for some months, it had never before been the annual avepresent at electrical substations allowing X-ELIO plants to rage and in a global manner. evacuate energy, which use SF6 gas as insulator. This gas In this same line, we positively note the current transforis within confined circuits and strictly supervised to avoid mation of the global energy markets, as the photovoltaic leaks. In 2016 there was no SF6 recharge (G4-EN20). energy has become, for the first time, the cheapest way to produce electricity. As developers and generators of photovoltaic energy, we Indirect emissions (scope 2) contribute to mitigate the causes for climate change, as we This chapter includes the emissions from the electricity gepractically do not generate CO2 emissions. Besides, photoneration plants as a consequence of the consumption in our voltaic energy is inexhaustible and does not rely on other plants and offices. finite resources such as fossil fuels, fosters social and economic development, improves access to energy and ensuEmissions generated res supply in remote areas. Country tons of CO2 Therefore, from our commitment to sustainability and in X-ELIO Spain 379 accordance with our activity, X-ELIO wants to contribute X-ELIO Italy 264 to the mitigation of these impacts and to the achievement X-ELIO Japan 229 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), related to adopting urgent measures to fight climate change and its X-ELIO South Africa 665 consequences: X-ELIO USA 72 X-ELIO Honduras 214 X-ELIO Peru 193 Total 2,016 The estimate of its CO2 emissions is based on the Green House Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) standard, taking as a reference the emission factors from the International Energy Agency (2013). 66 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Clean Development Mechanisms Other indirect emissions (scope 3) X-ELIO participates in the development of projects in countries under development in cooperation with developed The emissions included under the scope 3 cover the concountries, contributing to the objective of reducing CO2 sumption in staff commuting and work travel and rise to a emissions and transfer of clean technologies to other countotal of 1,549.3 tons of CO2, distributed as shown below: tries under the scheme of “Clean Development Mechanis• Staff commuting to work centers*. As a result of this, ms” (CDM). emissions are estimated at 132.3 tons of CO2. As of 31st December 2016, the following solar plants, with • Emissions derived from corporate travel by plane: shareholding participated by X-ELIO, have been registered 1,397.4 tons of CO2. under United Nations. • Train trips: 1.2 tons of CO2. UN registered Plants • Use of rental cars for work travel: 18.4 tons of CO2. Country Plant Power tCO2 eq *The calculation is based on a transport survey made in 2014 and the number of employees in 2016. Peru Panamericana 20 MW 36,513 Peru Tacna Solar 20 MW 34,006 South Avoided emissions Africa De Aar 10 MW 18,115 Due to our activity, we generate energy without direct reSouth lease of CO2 into the atmosphere, so that this activity is, in Prieska 20 MW 38,314 Africa itself, a way of contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions intensity In 2016, we generated 1,638,006 GJ of renewable energy, X-ELIO considers that measuring the emissions intensity is thus avoiding the emission of 193,930 tons of CO2 to the a good way to track its facilities efficiency and impact (G4atmosphere (G4-EN19). The breakdown by country is shown EN18). below: This indicator is calculated taking as common denominator the GJ of renewable energy generated by the company in each country and as numerator the emissions corresponding to its internal consumption (scope 2). Country Avoided tons of CO2 The following table shows the results obtained: X-ELIO Spain 30,157 Country tCO2 /GJ generated X-ELIO Italy 14,472 X-ELIO Spain 0.081 X-ELIO Japan 16,840 X-ELIO Italy 0.112 X-ELIO South Africa 54,602 X-ELIO Japan 0.138 X-ELIO USA 15,988 X-ELIO South Africa 0.241 X-ELIO Honduras 31,938 X-ELIO USA 0.140 X-ELIO Peru 29,933 X-ELIO Honduras 0.103 Total 193,930 X-ELIO Peru 0.083 Total 0.118 67 Sustainability Report 2016 DMA, G4-SO2, G4-EN11, G4-EN12 & G4-EN13 Nature conservation, biodiversity and landscape At X-ELIO, we are aware that there are or there may be cerRegarding the projects undertaken within the 2016 finantain aspects within our activity with a negative impact on cial year, the plants in Japan did not require environmental the environment and the local communities. To mitigate and impact assessments nor environmental control measures. prevent them, in addition to meeting the obligations estaBoth of them were performed following the guidelines esblished under the environmental impact assessments, we tablished in our integrated management system and good have defined numerous prevention/mitigation measures, as environmental practices. described below. (G4-SO2 and G4-EN12); However, Uribe plant in Chile did require the corresponding environmental impact assessment and the environmental license which collects the environmental tracking and measurement reports according to the country legislation. Impact (potential or real) Preventive / corrective measures (G4-EN12) Selection of locations with reduced visual basins. Impact on landscape Replanting at plants boundaries, to integrate the photovoltaic facility into the surrounding landscape. Dust and noise generation Particles and dust control by watering the soil. (only during construction phase) Concentrate the heavy machinery use during daytime to reduce inconveniences. Conservation of the top soil during earth movement works, and subsequent use Impact on soil and water for its conditioning. conditions Erosion control: measures to keep the soil natural drainage and work in periods of intense rain to reduce sediment trawling. SSite selection in locations of low biological value, reducing the impact on Impact on fauna and flora protected or special interest species. Replanting and wildlife tracking according to local administration criteria. Conduct social studies in the required areas, establishing an open dialogue with Social and archaeological the local community. impact Previous analysis of the area to verify the existence of archaeological remains of interest. We monitor and measure wildlife as established under the Out of the areas where our plants are located, only De Aar environmental impact assessments, the commitments ariand Prieska plants, both in South Africa, have some presensing from our Environmental Management System, and the ce of endangered birds. No impact on them caused by our requirements established by administrations for their licenfacilities has been identified. ses and/or authorizations 68 Part II Specific Standard Disclosures Environmental tracking at Uribe PV The solar plant construction project at Thus, the Environmental Impact As• Visitor report – archaeological Uribe contemplates installing 235,200 sessment (EIA) declaration provides a supervision: aimed at supervising polycrystalline silicon photovoltaic “Favorable” environmental rating. the possible appearance of Heripanels with 245 Wp each of them, protage findings, archaeological and/ Within the voluntary commitments esjecting a total generation of 50 MWn. or historical, present within the tablished under the EIA, we delivered project coverage area, which had Therefore, we contribute to achieving induction lectures about environmennot been previously identified, the objective of the State of Chile of tal matters to all personnel who woraccording to provisions under having 20% of electrical energy geneked in the project, prior to its commenthe regulatory framework of law rated within the Chilean energy mix, cement. number 17,288 from the National coming from renewable sources within Besides, during the project construcMonuments of Chile Council. The the 2025 horizon. tion phase, the corresponding monthly periodical reports issued do not The project is located in Atacama Deenvironmental tracking and measureshow any anthropogenic evidence sert, in the Antofagasta region. The ment reports were issued as establiand/or cultural findings. project was implemented according shed under the EIA and the Environ• Noise monitoring within the plant to the appropriate environmental mental License, through companies construction area, as set out under processes and the previous studies with expertise in the area, which weeSupreme Decree number 38/11 performed in the area conclude that kly collect the measurements taken, as from the Ministry of Environment “this project will not affect archaeosummarized below: related to acoustic pollution. logical, cultural, anthropologic, histo• “Monitoring of air quality and The reports show that the noise rical, folkloric, tourism or scenic sites. weather parameters at Uribe thresholds established under the Such area presents neither vegetation station” reports. These reports legislation of reference have not nor wildlife under conservation status, conclude that the particle limits been exceeded. nor water resources, because it sits on have not been reached (for all Atacama Desert, the driest one in the set diameters), according to the world”. thresholds established under the Chilean legislation. 69 Sustainability Report 2016 03 Annexes 72 Independent Review Report 73 GRI G4 Content Index 79 Contents based on the Principles United of the Nations Global Compact 80 List of consolidated subsidiaries companies Sustainability Report 2016 Independent Review Report 72 Part III Annexes GRI G4 Content Index The contents of this index have been externally verified by the independent entity EY. The related independent review report for verification can be found in the Annex of this document. Part I. General Standard Disclosures Description 1. Strategy and analysis Page Omissions G4-1 8-11 G4-2 12-15 2. Organizational profile Page Omissions G4-3 16 G4-4 17 G4-5 18 G4-6 17-18 G4-7 18 G4-8 18 G4-9 17-18 G4-10 19 G4-11 19 G4-12 20 G4-13 21 G4-14 21 G4-15 21 G4-16 21-22 73 Sustainability Report 2016 3. Identified material aspects and boundaries Page Omissions G4-17 22 G4-18 22 G4-19 23-25 G4-20 23-25 G4-21 23-25 G4-22 28 G4-23 28 4. Stakeholders Engagement Page Omissions G4-24 26-27 G4-25 26-27 G4-26 26-27 G4-27 23-25 5. Report Profile Page Omissions G4-28 28 G4-29 28 G4-30 28 G4-31 28 G4-32 28 G4-33 28 74 Part III Annexes 6. Governance Page Omissions G4-34 29 G4-35 30 G4-36 30 G4-37 30 G4-38 31 G4-39 31 G4-40 31 G4-41 31 G4-42 31 G4-43 31 G4-44 32 G4-45 32 G4-46 32 G4-47 32 G4-48 33 G4-49 33 G4-50 33 G4-51 33 G4-52 33 G4-53 33 G4-54 33 Not available. Confidential information. G4-55 33 Not available. Confidential information. 7. Ethics and integrity Page Omissions G4-56 34 G4-57 35 G4-58 35 75 Sustainability Report 2016 Part II. Specific Standar Disclosures Economic Dimension 1. Economic Dimension Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 38-40 G4-EC1 41 Economic performance G4-EC2 66 G4-EC3 NA Not available G4-EC4 41 2. Ethic, anti-corruption, risk management and compliance Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 43 Fight against corruption G4-SO3 44 G4-SO4 43 G4-SO5 43 DMA 43 Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 44 DMA 43 G4-SO8 44 Compliance G4-HR1 44 G4-PR9 44 DMA 43 Mechanisms for G4-EN34 44 environmental claim, labor practices and human rights G4-LA16 44 G4-HR12 44 Environmental Dimension 1. Environmental management Information about management approach Basic specific performance and indicators Page Omissions DMA 64-65 Environmental compliance G4-EN29 65 DMA 64-65 General G4-EN31 65 76 Part III Annexes 2. Energy and energy efficiency Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 65 G4-EN3 65 G4-EN4 NA Not available Energy G4-EN5 65 G4-EN6 65 G4-EN7 NA Not available 3. Emissions and climate change Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 66 G4-EN15 66 G4-EN16 66 G4-EN17 67 Emissions G4-EN18 67 G4-EN19 67 G4-EN20 67 Information on transportation of G4-EN30 67 personnel is included. 4. Biodiversity Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 68 G4-SO2 68 Biodiversity G4-EN11 68 G4-EN12 68 G4-EN13 68-69 Social Dimension 1. Talent attraction and retention Information about management Basic specific performance approach and indicators Page Omissions DMA 47 G4-LA1 47 Employment G4-LA2 52 G4-LA3 50 DMA 51 Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 46 G4-EC6 51 DMA 48 Training and Education G4-LA9 48 G4-LA10 48 G4-LA11 47 77 Sustainability Report 2016 2. Labor conditions and human rights Information about management approach and Basic specific performance indicators Page Omissions DMA 51 Non-discrimination G4-HR3 51 DMA 51 Child labor G4-HR5 51 DMA 51 Forced or compulsory labor G4-HR6 51 DMA 48 Security practices G4-HR7 48 DMA 51 Assessment G4-HR9 51 DMA 48 HR Trainning G4-HR2 48 3. Health and Safety Information about management approach and Basic specific performance indicators Page Omissions DMA 53 G4-LA5 55 G4-LA6 56 Occupational Health & Safety G4-LA7 54 Not applicable. There is no legal obligation to hold a formal health & G4-LA8 NA safety committee. All questions/suggestions of employees are collected and studied. 4. Local Communities Information about management approach and Basic specific performance indicators Page Omissions DMA 57 Indirect economic consequences G4-EC7 57 G4-EC8 58 DMA 57 Purchasing practices G4-EC9 59 DMA 60 Local Communities G4-SO1 60-62 G4-SO2 60 Grievance Mechanisms DMA 60 for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 60 DMA 63 Collaboration with public authorities G4-SO6 63 78 Contents in relation to the Global Compact Principles The following table shows the chapters of this report that provide the most relevant information regarding the 10 principles of the Global Compact, in addition to the one included on the management approaches of every GRI aspect. Each stakeholder can evaluate X-ELIO’ progress concerning these principles by the following this table: Aspect UN Global Compact Principles Progress included in chapter Part I. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the General Standard Disclosures protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Part II. Social Dimension Human Rights Part I. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human General Standard Disclosures rights abuses. Part II. Economic Dimension Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Part II. association and the effective recognition of the right to Social Dimension collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and Part I. compulsory labour. General Standard Disclosures Labour Rights Part I. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. General Standard Disclosures Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of Part I. employment and occupation. General Standard Disclosures Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Part I. approach to environmental challenges. General Standard Disclosures Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Part II. Environment environmental responsibility. Environmental Dimension Part II. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Social Dimension and environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental Dimension Part I. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all General Standard Disclosures Anti corruption its forms, including extortion and bribery. Part II. Economic Dimension Sustainability Report 2016 Scope considered for the elaboration of this Sustainability Report The scope considered by X-ELIO for the elaboration of this Sustainability Report 2016 matches the financial consolidation scope, which includes the following companies: Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country Spain Chile Parque Solar La Robla, S.l. Spain X Elio Chile, S.p.a Chile Vostock Solar Proyects, S.l. Spain X Elio Chile I, S.p.a Chile Tahoe Solar Investments, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande I Spa Chile Pacific Desarrollos Solares, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 2 Spa Chile Tequi Solar 2, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 3 Spa Chile Parque Solar Paramo, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 4 Spa Chile Calaspasol 1, S.l.u. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 5 Spa Chile Fuente Alamo Energia Solar 1, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 6 Spa Chile Fuente Alamo Energia Solar 2, S.l. Spain Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 7 Spa Chile X Elio Mantenimientos, S.l. Spain DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Calaspasol Energia 2, S.l. Spain San Cristobal Solar Ev Sa R. Dominicana Exelio Energy Trading, S.l. Spain FRANCE Ga Solar Real Estate Energy, S.l. Spain X Elio France, Sas France X Elio Zener, S.l. Spain Gestamp Solar France 1, Sas France Saelices El Chico Solar, S.l. Spain Italy Muelas Del Pan Solar, S.l. Spain X Elio Italy S.r.l. Italy Photosolar Medina 3, S.l. Spain X Elio Asi Ree 1, S.r.l. Italy Photosolar Medina 4, S.l. Spain Gasi 7, S.r.l. Italy Calasparra Sol De Murcia, S.l. Spain Gasi 8, S.r.l. Italy Huerto Solar La Mudarra, S.a. Spain Gasi 11, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 6, S.l. Spain Gasi 22, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 14, S.l. Spain Gasi 41, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 17, S.l. Spain Gasi 47, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 19, S.l. Spain Gasi 53, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 24, S.l. Spain Gasi 54, S.r.l. Italy Exelio Energy Salvador, S.l. Spain Gasi 55, S.r.l. Italy X Elio Andaltia Murcia, S.l. Spain Gasi 57, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 28, S.l. Spain Gasi 59, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 29, S.l. Spain Gesi 1, S.r.l. Italy Mursolar 30, S.l. Spain Gesi 2, S.r.l. Italy Tejeda Solar, S.l. Spain Gesi 3, S.r.l. Italy Garnock Spain, S.l. Spain Gesi 10, S.r.l. Italy Glenavon Spain, S.l. Spain X Elio Bonassisi, S.r.l. Italy Planning Business Green, S.L. Spain Isis, S.r.l. Italy X Elio Emena, S.r.l Italy India Gestamp Solar India, Plc India SOUTHAFRICA Mulilo Renewable Energysolar Pv Prieska (Pty) Ltd South Africa Mulilo Renewable Energy Solar Pvde Aar (Pty) Ltd South Africa X Elio South Africa , Ltd South Africa X Elio Contracting, Ltd South Africa 80 Part III Annexes Subsidary/ Associated company Country Subsidary/ Associated company Country Japan Brazil X Elio Japan, Kk Japan Lagoa Energía Solar S.A. Brasil Gestamp Greenquest1 G.k (Gasja 1) Japan MEXico Gasja 2, G.k. Japan X Elio Mexico, Sa De Cv Mexico Gasja 3, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar I, Sapi De Cv Mexico Gasja 4, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Ii, Sapi De Cv Mexico Gasja 5, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Iii, Sapi De Cv Mexico Gasja 8, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Iv, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 10 G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar V, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 11 G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Vi, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 12 G.k. Japan Gestora De Energia Renovable De Mexico Mexico X Elio 9, G.k Japan Fv Mexsolar Vii, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 13, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Viii, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 14, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar Ix, Sapi De Cv Mexico X Elio 15, G.k. Japan Fv Mexsolar X, Sapi De Cv Mexico AMATERAS SOLAR, G.K. Japan Fv Mexsolar Xi, Sapi De Cv Mexico HAYATO HOLDCO, K.K. Japan X-Elio FV Conejos Medanos, SAPI de CV Mexico Shiroishi HoldCo, G.K. Japan X-Elio FV Xoxocotla, SAPI de CV Mexico Tsurusu HoldCo, G.K. Japan Costa Rica X-Elio HoldCo Sol, G.K. Japan Renocaste Solar Fv, Sa Costa Rica X-Elio HoldCo Sun, G.K. Japan Guanacaste Fotovoltaica Renovable Solar Fv, Sa Costa Rica USA El Salvador X Elio North America, Inc. USA Tencoluca Solar S.a. De C.v. El Salvador Gasna 5, Llc (Red Bluff) USA San Nicolas Solar S.a. De C.v. El Salvador Gasna 7, Llc USA Honduras Gasna 8, Llc (Paso Robles Solar Llc Meridian) USA Constructora Solar Centroamericana Honduras Gasna 12, Llc (Ladwp) USA EGYPT Gasna 14, Llc (Williamstown Solar) USA X Elio, S.a.e Egipto Gasna 16, Llc (Joya Del Sol) USA Peru Gasna 18, Llc (Convention Center) USA Energia Fv Peru S.a.c Peru Gasna 19, Llc (Irradia Morovis) USA Gasna 40, Llc (City Of Escondido) USA Gasna 51, Llc (Santander Ses Proj. Sepv1 & Sepv2) USA Gasna 58, Llc (Svep Solar Project Company Llc) USA Gasna Usa Procurement, Llc USA X Elio Development Puerto Rico, Llc USA 81 Sustainability Report 2016
