Electronic Manufacturing Limited Communication on Progress Nov. 2015 – Nov. 2016 1/7 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT With this statement, I am pleased to confirm that AuOne Electronic Manufacturing Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our customers & suppliers using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ao Chi Man Chairman 2/7 INTRODUCTION OF AUONE AuOne was founded in 1996. We specialize in the manufacturing of thermal control and limiting device, such as thermostat, thermo-fuses and electrical contacts. Our products have been widely utilized in many electrical appliances such as hair dryer, fan heater, steam iron, toaster, oven, frying pan, motor and transformer. We are strong in product development and have an innovative team of engineers to provide customized services. On top of having the best quality, competitive prices and prompt delivery, we work closely with customers to develop products to meet their specific requirements. Our products are UL, CUL, ETL, VDE, CQC approved and RoHS compliant. Our products also have PAH & REACH reports. We have also obtained ISO9001:2008 and ISO14001 certificates and we are carrying out the implementation of OHSAS18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series). Our company goal is to make our customers better by continuously upgrading our quality in both product and service. Quality Policy Continuously pursuit excellence With good faith and credibility to customer Always exceeding customers' expectation With high quality and quick delivery Quality Target On Time Delivery 100% Goods Returned in Batches 0% Environmental Policy Observe the environmental law and regulations, Diminish environmental impact; Keep continuous improvement, Protect earth resources. Environmental Objective Classifying and treating hazardous waste. Promoting environmental protection consciousness among all employees through education and training. 3/7 HUMAN RIGHTS • Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policy Respect people with their nature born freedom and equal in dignity and rights to compliant with relevant international human rights law; 1. do not participate the activities of prejudice and/or impede human rights 2. Protection on employee rights Information management and respect on privacy 1. To protect personal information from computer virus intrusion. 2. Base on the respect of human rights, to establish an ethical system for information security maintenance. 3. Information routine update Actions Guarantee of safe and healthy working conditions for all employees Continue to improve working conditions for all employees Development on appropriate security policies to protect network communications Measurement of Outcomes Human rights management system in written form All employees to have a fair working condition Employ a 3rd party for sustainability check. 4/7 LABOR • Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour • Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour • Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Policy Eliminate all forms of distinction 1. In the hiring process, employee treatment and all cooperation business activities, to respect the characteristic and personality of every employee; and 2. Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms as per the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, without distinction of any kind, such as race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth, health condition or other status. 3. Employees to have the same opportunity on work development Respect the fundamental rights at work 1. To promote a employment relationship which concentrates on cooperation social responsibility, employment to be carried out by complying with the laws and rules of different countries and regions, no child labor, no violation again employee’s willing, forced and compulsory labour. 2. To promote a purchasing system which concentrates on cooperation social responsibility, cooperation partners & suppliers must have no child labor and forced and compulsory labour. 3. According to the laws and rules and work habits of different countries & regions and with respect to the guidelines of basic rights for employees under the United Nations Global Compact Organization, to have truth and productive communications with employees and management in operation in order to better understand the issues in between and to solve the issues together. Actions 1. Strictly stated in employment instruction in written form, no child labor as defined in both Chinese and Universal law. 2. Salary is paid according the employees’ work output, with no prejudice to their age and gender 3. A fair work development evaluation system to review employees working performance as part of promotion evaluation. Measurement of Outcomes 1. All employee identities are screened and no child labor is employed. 2. Salary is paid to all employees in a fair manner. 5/7 Environment • Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policy Concentration on Environment Management 1. To achieve the purpose of environment harmony with sustainable developing society by achieving an environmental procedure from raw material purchasing to finished production, in order to reduce environmental burdens. 2. Strictly comply with environmental regulations and the rules and internal standards & rules for environmental protection. 3. To develop products/services base on environmental protection, such as Global Warming Prevention, Resources Recycling and Environmental Protection. 4. To include Global Warming Prevention, Resources Recycling and Environmental Protection into routine activities in work plant and in office. 5. To predict & prevent any foreseeable environmental issues. To take immediate action on the environmental issues in order to minimize the environment damage. 6. Open communication on environmental protection and related information. Actions 1. Systematic management on environment according to ISO 14001 2. Internal training on EU environmental regulation and relatives, RoHS and REACH. 3. Requirement on new product reach & development, production process to comply with EU environmental regulation and relatives, RoHS and REACH. 4. Regular test on material 5. Routine training on environmental protection Measurement of Outcomes: 1. Staff aware of environmental protection as per ISO 14001 2. Better knowhow on environmental protection and its achievement 3. Knowhow on business / production with environmental protection 6/7 Anti-Corruption • Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy 1. Purchase 1) To build up cooperation ship with suppliers base on mutual trusts and understanding. 2) Besides product quality, liability, delivery lead time, price, business stability and R&D ability, the information openness and justice are also includes in supplier evaluation. 3) Suppliers must comply with the laws and rules, respects human rights, elimination on employment discrimination, no child labor and forced and compulsory labor. 4) No personal or private solicitation and acceptance of advantages. 5) To treat suppliers equally and to keep business secrets, as well as personal information. 6) All purchase activities must comply with internal rules and follow the laws. 2. Public Relationship 1) To build up a healthy good relationship with government and administrative departments, to comply with the relevant provisions of the Code of Ethics for administrative office staff. 2) No bribery activities or corruption offer to public servants, including the equivalent personnel and public servants of foreign countries. 3. Prevention of business activities against social virtue 1) Resist any kind of violent groups which activities are against social virtue. Do not anticipate any business activities that are against social virtue. 2) Internal staff and their relatives could not ask for advantages from suppliers / customers. Actions 1. It is clear stated in employee instruction and code of ethic, any form of bribery or corruption is not allowed. 2. Externally it is not permitted any sort of briberies and extortion. 3. Instructions on how to identify bribery and corruption. Measurement of Outcomes No corruption activities are found in the past year. 7/7
