VKR HOLDINg A/S Communication on Progress 2016 Submitted: September 2017 Management’s statement of support VKR Holding A/S joined the UN Global Compact in 2016. This is the first Communication on Progress (COP) for the company. Contents Management’s statement of support 3 I am pleased to introduce our first report presentFor all our businesses, supply ing our support for the Ten Principles of the United chains are focused on reducing The VKR Group Nations Global Compact within the areas of Human waste and energy consumption, Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. on the reduction of CO 2 emisThe VKR Group 2016 6 sions per produced unit, and For decades, the VKR Group of companies has had on ensuring a healthy and safe Corporate Social Responsibility in the VKR Group 15 the ambition to 1) develop products useful to society; working environment. 2) behave as a model company in all the ways we do CSR owner intentions 18 business; and 3) engage with our communities. I am proud that all our business areas have chosen to join the Governance and Commitment 22 We are therefore delighted to use the UN COP as our UN Global Compact initiative new framework for how we alleviate any negative and all have submitted their The Foundations 23 impact on the Ten Principles which our business may first individual Communication have. on Progress Reports. Initiatives and Results The major part of our business portfolio is focused This is the first COP Report for VKR Holding A/S. Our Human Rights 24 on developing, producing and distributing windows. report shows examples of some of the Group’s most We take pride in continuously developing improved important CSR initiatives. Furthermore, it outlines Labour Standards 25 solutions to enhance healthy and energy-efficient how the holding company takes part in ensuring the buildings. Our windows and window accessories are fulfilment of the UN Global Compact goals. Environment 28 characterised by longevity and are to a very large extent composed of reusable and recyclable materials. For detailed information on the activities of each Anti-Corruption 31 business area, we refer to the individual COP Reports, Another business area in our portfolio is focused on published and available on the companies’ websites. providing large-scale solar thermal systems for district heating and industrial processes. Our solutions Appendix actively support sustainable environmental progress Mads Kann-Rasmussen by significantly reducing emissions of carbon dioxide. CEO, VKR Holding A/S Appendix 1: VKR Group Policies 32 2 3 “ We initiate ACTIVITIES which benefit green buildings of the future” Children’s home of the future with VELFAC windows, Kerteminde, Denmark. Mikkel Frost, 2014 4 5 Roof windows Vertical windows Solar Ventilation & & Skylights thermal energy indoor climate The VKR * Group 2016 VKR Holding A/S is a limited holding and investment company with the objective of creating value through financial investments and ownership of companies. The VKR Group at 31 December 2016 VKR Holding owns companies that bring daylight, By the end of 2016, the VKR Group had 14,100 employees in 41 countries. The Group’s revenue for 2016 was fresh air and a better environment into people’s EUR 2.4 billion and the profit after tax reached EUR 351 million. The Group carries almost no interest-bearing everyday lives. VKR Holding is wholly owned by foundebt and has a sizeable portfolio of financial investments in various asset classes such as shares, bonds, private dations and family, with the charitable foundation equity, real estate etc. VILLUM FONDEN as the majority shareholder. *Note: Monodraught was divested on 29 June 2017. 6 7 The VKR Group Roof windows & Skylights For more than 75 years, the VELUX Group (www.velux.com) has created better living environments for people around the world – using daylight and fresh air. The VELUX products help create bright, healthy, energy-efficient places in which to live, work, learn and play. The VELUX Group has manufacturing and sales operations in more than 40 countries, with an extensive distribution network. The products include roof windows and modular skylights, as well as a range of decorative elements, blinds, roller shutters, installation solutions and remote controls. With 17 manufacturing companies in 9 countries and sales companies in 40 countries, the products are widely available. The VELUX Group employs approximately 9,500 people and the company is headquartered north of Copenhagen in Denmark. Altaterra (www.altaterra.eu) is a European leader within the private label segment for roof windows, with sales in over 30 countries. Altaterra is based in Hungary. VELUX roof windows bring more light to life. Carsten Esbensen, 2017 8 9 VELFAC windows. VELFAC, 2012 Vertical windows The DOVISTA Group (www.dovista.com) is a group of leading companies and brands on the North European market for windows and external doors. At present, the Group consists of 10 independent brands and it has a total of approximately 4,000 employees who manufacture and market doors and windows in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Great Britain, Germany, Ireland and Poland. All the companies in the DOVISTA Group have separate identities and market strategies. They all have a strong presence in their local markets and enjoy a close relationship with their customers. DOVISTA A/S, headquartered in Horsens, Denmark, is the active parent company of the business area. 10 11 Arcon-Sunmark has built the world’s largest solar heating plant in Silkeborg, Denmark. Danish AirPhoto, 2017 Solar thermal energy The Arcon-Sunmark Group (www.arcon-sunmark.com) is a merger between two of the world’s leading companies within large-scale solar heating solutions – ARCON Solar and Sunmark. ARCON Solar was established in 1974 in Skørping, Denmark, and was a pioneer in the large-scale solar thermal industry with a special focus on solutions for district heating. Sunmark, founded in 2008, has established highly specialised production facilities in Denmark and in Asia. In 2015, the two companies joined forces to establish the world’s leading large-scale solar heating company. In 2016, ArconSunmark installed the largest solar heating plant in the world. Arcon-Sunmark A/S is headquartered in North Jutland in Denmark. 12 13 Corporate Social Responsibilit y in the VKR Group VKR Holding investing in daylight, fresh air VELFAC windows. Sw-foto, 2009 Corporate Citizenship has been an integral part of the and a better VKR Group’s business strategy and business activities since the company was established in 1941. environment Based on VKR Holding’s mission to own and develop Our CSR ambition was formulated in the Model companies that bring daylight, fresh air and a better Company Objective in 1965 by the company’s founder, environment into people’s everyday lives, CSR Villum Kann Rasmussen. Since then, this objective (Corporate Social Responsibility) is a natural and has been the cornerstone of the values that all the important element for all companies in the Group. companies in the Group are expected to act on. 14 15 The founder of the VKR Group, Villum Kann Rasmussen. Mogens Carrebye, 1978 “  The purpose of the VKR Group is to establish a number of model companies, which cooperate in an exemplary manner. A model company works with products useful to society and treats its customers, suppliers, employees of all categories and shareholders better than most other companies. A model company makes a profit which can also finance growth and maintain financial independence. ” Villum Kann Rasmussen, 1965 16 17 CSR owner intentions The shareholders of the VKR Group have defined a number of CSR owner intentions for all companies in the Group. Products useful to society Eco-friendly initiatives Innovative development and Long-term relationships We bring daylight, fresh air and a better environment We initiate activities which benefit green buildings of experiments We have the ambition to treat our customers, supinto people’s everyday lives. the future. Our company founder held the firm belief that: pliers, employees and shareholders in an exemplary “One experiment is better than a thousand expert manner. VKR Holding owns companies which contribute to Approximately 40% of the energy consumption in views”. This is a philosophy which continues to guide developing and manufacturing products useful to industrialised nations is attributable to buildings. our business. The VKR Group has 14,100 employees in 41 countries society that bring daylight, fresh air and a better As a long-term investor in the construction sector, and cooperates with a wide network of customers, environment into people’s everyday lives. AccordVKR Holding is committed to creating solutions to Experimenting is the foundation for the ability of the suppliers and authorities. Given their extensive globingly, the VKR Group is committed to improving the improve the energy performance of buildings, and to VKR Group companies to contribute to enhanced and al influence, all companies in the Group are expected documentation in order to reduce the environmental forming partnerships which contribute to the develinnovative solutions. Accordingly, all VKR Group comto make a positive difference at both local and global impact of products throughout their lifecycle. All opment of new standards for eco-friendly buildings. panies are expected to: levels. All VKR Group companies are expected to: VKR Group companies are expected to: VKR Holding expects all VKR Group companies to: – invest in experiments that promote innovation and – target their efforts by continuously improving – retain a keen focus on product lifecycle impacts – work systematically on environmental issues contribute new knowhow for future construction occupational health and safety from the moment the product is sourced and / or – endorse standards and environmental – develop new and better products and solutions, as – work on HR and management systems and to manufactured until it is disposed of and recycled certification systems, where relevant well as improving existing products and solutions create conditions and opportunities conducive – increase the utilisation of renewable natural – form strategic partnerships to influence the on an ongoing basis to their employees’ personal and professional resources in the ongoing development of new environmental agenda on a wide front and to – try out new business procedures, methods and development products develop new standards for eco-friendly systems – not tolerate child labour or any violation of – use raw materials, water and energy with increasconstruction universal rights ing efficiency to reduce environmental impacts – operate with a code of conduct, where relevant – comply with the 14 VKR Group Policies*) that support our above-mentioned ambition, e.g. AntiCorruption Policy, Competition Law Compliance Policy, Legal Policy, Crisis Management Policy (please see Appendix 1) – help employees and their relatives who are in need, and contribute actively to the local communities in which our companies operate. This responsibility lies primarily with the Employee Foundation (www.employeefoundation.com) *) We are in the process of formulating a new CSR Policy that all business areas must also comply with. We expect this to be fully implemented by the time of our second annual COP Report. 18 19 VELUX flat roof windows. Jesper Jørgen, 2017 “ We bring daylight, fresh air and better living environment into PEOPLE’S everyday lives” 20 21 21 Governance and Commitment The Foundations VKR Holding is an investment company with a long-term ownership perspective. The business areas within the VKR Group operate Within the overall framework, each business area The charitable foundation VILLUM FONDEN is the at DTU (the Technical University of Denmark) was independently to a very large extent and have their is responsible for setting up its own specific CSR majority shareholder of VKR Holding A/S. In addition granted EUR 20 million to support its huge efforts own boards of directors and management boards. strategies and objectives adapted to the company’s to VILLUM FONDEN, a number of other charitable in conducting research into developing pioneering Only limited business functions are coordinated or organisation, geographical presence and market foundations are closely connected to the VKR Group. technologies to replace fossil fuels by renewable managed via VKR Holding. However, the objective position. Common to all these foundations is that they ultialternatives. is that all business activities in the VKR Group live mately derive their endowments from the Group’s up to the Model Company Objective and to the CSR Joining the UN Global Compact is a natural element current or historical profits. These endowments Social owner intentions described on the previous pages. of the VKR Group’s ongoing CSR efforts. This report now provide funding for non-profit projects with sciThe Central European University, Hungary, initiated Obviously, all Group companies must comply with the highlights the CSR footprint and initiatives of each entific, cultural, artistic, environmental and social a joint project with various European universities Group Policies (see Appendix 1). business area of the Group. An aggregation of the objectives. During 2016, the two major foundations called “Roma in European Societies Initiative”. The reported figures from the individual business areas VILLUM FONDEN and VELUX FONDEN in total made aim is to make a social and educational network to would be misleading, as the business areas work grants worth EUR 154,8 million. support a disadvantaged and criticised population individually based on their own objectives. (www.veluxfoundations.com) group, the Roma people. VILLUM FONDEN donated EUR 2.0 million to support the project’s aim of Roma In 2014, VILLUM FONDEN decided to establish a new integration in Europe. initiative: the KR Foundation. The primary purpose is to engage in environmental issues in an internationEnvironment & sustainability al context and to support international efforts that Organic Denmark, an organic farming and food deal with the interaction of climate and the economy. advocacy organization, had developed the project The intention is to endow the KR Foundation with “Socially Beneficial Agriculture” to devise a sustainAll business areas within the VKR Group are committed EUR 13.5 million every year for ten years. able agricultural model for Denmark´s future, which will benefit society by doing more than just supplyto the UN Global Compact Principles and have submitted their Employee Foundation of the VKR Group was estabing affordable products. VILLUM FONDEN granted lished in 1991 by VKR Holding and VILLUM FONDEN. EUR 2.2 million for the project. The project first COP Reports. This foundation supports the VKR Group’s employees “Plastic-free Sea” received EUR 1.2 million from in various areas, first and foremost: (1) in the event of VELUX FONDEN and VILLUM FONDEN. unfortunate situations with serious consequences. Employees, past and present, and their close families The Employee Foundation examples of are supported, (2) furtherance of children’s education donations to employees made in 2016: Roof windows & skylights Vertical windows and (3) public charitable purposes in the vicinity of – Rehabilitation after surgery for employee in The VELUX Group joined on 21 April 2016 and submitThe DOVISTA Group joined on 6 September 2016 and companies in the VKR Group. Poland ted its first COP on 17 March 2017. submitted its first COP on 16 March 2017. – Assistance regarding diabetes for an employee in Altaterra joined on 23 August 2016 and submitted its Scotland first COP on 31 May 2017. Solar thermal energy Examples – Treatment concerning autism for an employee’s The Arcon-Sunmark Group joined on 23 September child in Spain 2016 and submitted its first COP on 21 February 2017. Science – Scholarships in pursuit of educational proThe VKR Group celebrated its 75th anniversary in grammes to qualify as veterinary surgeon, 2016. The anniversary project “The Villum Centre boilermaker, psychologist, chemical engineer etc. for the Science of Sustainable Fuels and Chemicals” 22 23 Human Rights Labour Standards Commitment During the past years, we have not been subject to Commitment The DOVISTA Group any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving In the DOVISTA Group, the follow-up on health and Support for individual and collective human rights human rights violations. No incidents or violations of The VKR Group is committed to maintaining and desafety issues takes place at a monthly meeting by a is a fundamental part of the culture within the VKR the human rights principles have been reported to veloping a healthy and safe working environment, thorough review of every single incident at the workGroup. We support the Universal Declaration of the Executive Director or the Board of Directors. and to promoting a strong safety culture for all busiplace. The management of each company as well as Human Rights. ness areas. We recognize the rights of all employees representatives of the senior management of the The VELUX Group to form and join trade unions of their own choice DOVISTA Group participate in these meetings. The 99% of all VELUX suppliers have signed the VELUX without fear of intimidation and we have no tolerance seriousness and causes of all incidents are reviewed Initiatives and performance Code of Conduct, versus the objective of 100%. of forced labour, child labour, or discrimination. and corrective measures are discussed to prevent similar incidents in future. In 2016, all companies of The VKR Group The DOVISTA Group the DOVISTA Group have increased their focus on For the Group, the risk of exposure to human rights In DOVISTA, the Code of Conduct was revised in 2016 Initiatives and performance recording “near-miss incidents”, because they offer violations primarily relates to suppliers or subto ensure compliance with the requirements. The important lessons on how to reduce the risk of real suppliers that do not comply with national law or inrevised Code of Conduct was implemented in 2016 The VELUX Group accidents. ternationally accepted standards and conventions. towards all suppliers outside Europe, and the process In 2016, the VELUX Group implemented new safety We assess the risk to be limited since, to a very large has continued with suppliers inside Europe. standards in production and warehousing facilities In DOVISTA’s Polish factories all new employees are extent, we operate in countries with a strong comto support the ongoing efforts to build a strong saferequired to complete a health and safety course mitment to human rights. The Arcon-Sunmark Group ty culture and to improve safety risk management. before they start working, and each shift begins with Prior to and during 2016, Arcon-Sunmark introduced To monitor all critical safety standards, the VELUX a brief meeting focusing on safety. The factories’ proFor several years, our business areas have had a Code its Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct has been Group introduced an extended internal audit system. duction equipment, safety equipment, and protective of Conduct which main suppliers are to comply with. accepted by all main suppliers of components. In general, OHSAS 180001 certification is implementclothing are being improved on an ongoing basis, The Code of Conduct for suppliers demands respect ed on all production sites. drivers of forklift trucks must complete a special for human rights and the right to collective bargainsafety workshop, etc. ing, and it includes a ban on ever using forced or comIn 2016, the VELUX Group experienced 1.9 workpulsory labour or child labour. related accidents per one million working hours – The DOVISTA Group had 8.5 work-related accidents almost five times lower than the comparable indusper one million working hours (only production hours) try benchmark. About 60% of accidents in 2016 were in 2016, which is the lowest level for the past seven due to slipping, tripping or falling incidents. years. The DOVISTA management appreciates that the efforts made in 2016 do not quite meet expectations and objectives, but they are determined to pursue the long-term ambition of further reducing the number of work-related accidents and incidents towards the ultimate goal of zero. 24 25 Building a solar heating plant in Silkeborg, Denmark. Jesper Voldgaard, 2016 “ We are DEDICATED to supplying products useful to society” 26 27 EnvironmenT EnvironmenT – Sustainable – Waste and products sustainable sourcing Commitment air change while offering 75% heat recovery. In 2016 Commitment The production sites in the VELUX Group have been the VELUX Group also entered into partnership ISO 14001 certified for a number of years. With the Our mission is to own and develop companies that with the French company, Netatmo. A new product We have committed ourselves to reducing waste and updated ISO 14001:2015, all the production sites in bring daylight, fresh air and a better environment range will be designed to improve energy efficiency, optimising energy consumption in the production and the VELUX Group are in the process of obtaining cerinto people’s everyday lives and we are dedicated to indoor comfort, health and well-being through in the distribution processes of our business areas as tification according to this more demanding standard supplying products useful to society. The VKR Group smart controls that automatically operate roof winwell as continuously increasing the level of sustainawith special focus on Life Cycle Assessment, manis committed to pioneering innovative solutions that dows, blinds, shutters, etc. according to a range of ble sourcing of raw materials. agement commitment, and risks and opportunities balance care for people and planet and set priorities atmospheric parameters. management. for the development and production of products with a high comparable longevity. The VELUX Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is part of Initiatives and performance The DOVISTA Group the product development process. In 2016, LCA of In 2016, the DOVISTA Group has focused on environIn many countries, buildings account for a major share VELUX roof windows and VELUX flat roof windows The VELUX Group mental data and waste separation at product level. of energy consumption (approx. 40%). In our window were third-party verified to ISO 140040/14044 (Life The VELUX Group has a long-term vision of reaching Those of their products that are most frequently business areas, we are committed to continuously Cycle Assessment standard), EN 15804 (Environmenzero waste at their production sites. Governed by the used in sustainable buildings have been analysed. offering solutions that reduce energy consumption. tal Product Declaration for Building Products and environmental policy, they continuously optimise It confirmed that the basic construction of the prodOur business areas do so by setting priorities for the Materials) and EcoPlatform (cooperation between their resource efficiency and reduce the amount of ucts is simple and well-suited for separation into development of energy-efficient products and by European environmental declaration programmes). waste from production. pure materials fractions. This means that more than participating in relevant fora that aim to develop new The VELUX Group has also introduced an internal 93% of a VELFAC 200 E window can be immediately standards and solutions for eco-friendly buildings. tool for environmental material evaluation with In the VELUX Group, 97% of the waste from producreused. the purpose of making an easy benchmark and tion was recycled or used for renewable energy in Through ownership of the solar heating specialist comparison of different materials’ environmental 2016. All wood suppliers of the VELUX Group are On average, more than 95% of the total amount of Arcon-Sunmark, VKR Holding contributes to the performance to guide decision-making. certified by PEFC (Programme for Endorsement of waste in the DOVISTA Group has been reused or development of sustainable solutions for future Forest Certification), FSC (Forest Stewardship Counrecycled during the last three years. 46% of the energy energy needs. The Arcon-Sunmark Group cil) or both. No tropical hardwood is used. Full comconsumption of the DOVISTA Group is generated In 2016, Arcon-Sunmark installed the world’s largest pliance with the EU Timber Regulation at all times by recycling wood waste from own production. solar heating plant for Silkeborg Forsyning (a municis the policy of the VELUX Group. Regarding FSC and Initiatives and performance ipal district heating company). The plant has a solar PEFC certifications, the VELUX Group carried out The objective of all companies in the DOVISTA Group panel area of 156,694 m2 and will supply 20% of the 51 internal audits and 16 external audits during 2016 is that the vast majority of applied wood must be The VELUX Group annual heating requirements of Silkeborg. The annuto ensure compliance with the standards of the two sourced from certified suppliers. In the DOVISTA In 2016, the VELUX Group launched Smart Ventilation al CO2 reduction will be 15,700 tonnes. Together with systems. Only around 30% of all global wood sales Group, the total share of wood from certified supheat-recovery units which improve indoor comfort improvements in the efficiency of the district heating comes from certified forests. In comparison 98% pliers amounted to 93% in 2016 compared to 91% in by constantly renewing indoor air with a minimum plant in Silkeborg, the solar heating plant is part of of the wood used for VELUX windows comes from 2015. For several companies in the DOVISTA Group of heat loss. Smart Ventilation ensures constant the city’s strategy to become CO2 neutral in 2030. certified, sustainable forests. the share is 100%. 28 29 EnvironmenT Anti-Corruption – CO 2 emissions from production and distribution Commitment In 2016, the VELUX Group achieved 26% CO2 savings Commitment During recent years, we have not encountered any exat their production sites compared to the 2007 baseamples of corruption, extortion or bribery committed The VKR Group is fully committed to fighting climate line. However, despite the isolated effect of enerThe VKR Group does not tolerate corruption, extorby employees of the VKR Group. change. We believe that increased CO 2 emissions are gy-saving and CO2 reduction initiatives, CO2 emissions tion or bribery in any shape or form. We understand among the most significant threats to a continued rose slightly from 2015 to 2016 relative to production the damage caused by bribery and corruption and Before the next edition of this COP Report, the Group habitation of the planet. In the VKR Group we are volume. The increase was caused by temporary we are committed to working hard to safeguard our will have implemented a companywide whistlededicated to pursuing solutions and investing in new factors. Consequently, we expect this development employees against their corrosive influence. blower system to establish a structured procedure technology which could facilitate a reduction in CO2 to be reversed in 2017. for employees and other stakeholders to report emissions. Our business areas are constantly striving illegal behaviour and activities. All material input towards lowering CO2 emissions from their producThe DOVISTA Group Initiatives and performance from the whistle-blower system will be presented to tion and distribution processes relative to the quanIn recent years, the DOVISTA Group has prioritised the Audit Committee of VKR Holding. tities being produced. The development in CO2 emisefficiency improvements in their distribution system, The VKR Group sions are measured and compared with performance having identified this as an area with the potential for VKR Holding has implemented an Anti-Corruption The VELUX Group in previous periods. substantial contributions towards reducing energy Policy. The policy applies to every company in the In the VELUX Group, the VKR Anti-Corruption Policy consumption and CO2 emissions. Consequently, Group where we have a controlling influence. The has been maintained by several actions during 2016. optimal logistics solutions remain high on the agenpolicy addresses fair competition vs bribery, faciliEvery year, all senior managers commit to a strict, Initiatives and performance da, and they strive to continuously optimise their ty payments, money laundering, protection money, unambiguous policy regarding anti-corruption, fair transportation and distribution chain. gifts, political organisations / lobbyism and charity. competition and tax payment. All general managers The VELUX Group We are assured that initiatives tailored for each sign an annual declaration of competition law comThe VELUX Group has defined climate goals and For the DOVISTA Group, the amount of CO2 emitted business area are adequately put in place to ensure pliance and all senior managers have completed an works systematically to fulfil them by the following per unit produced has been reduced by about 15% compliance with our Anti-Corruption Policy. anti-corruption e-learning course by 2016. measures: implementation of energy management, since 2010. investment in energy efficiency projects, and use of All business areas of the Group have measures to renewable energy (e.g. solar panels; wood chip waste avoid corruption in their Code of Conducts. All busifrom production for heat generation). The goal is a ness areas demand compliance from suppliers and 50% reduction of CO2 emissions by 2020 compared other business partners by applying their individual to 2007. In 2016, certified ISO 50001 energy manageCodes of Conduct. ment was implemented at all VELUX production and warehouse sites in Europe and at the VELUX headquarters in Hørsholm, Denmark. 30 31 Production of VELFAC windows at DOVISTA Polska Sp. z o.o. DOVISTA, 2014 Appendix 1: VKR Group Policies In the VKR Group, the below 14 “Group Policies” apply. The Group Policies concern areas that are important or critical to the whole VKR Group. The Policies have been approved by the board of VKR Holding A/S and the boards of the parent companies in each business area: – Financial Information Policy – Dividend Policy – Tax Policy – Transfer Pricing Policy – Risk Management Policy – Foreign Currency Exposures Policy – Cash Management Policy – Legal Policy – Competition Law Compliance Policy – Insurance Policy – Crisis Management Policy – IPR Policy – Communications Policy – Anti-Corruption Policy The above Group Policies support the social, environmental, and economic sustainability required by the UN Global Compact initiative within e.g. contracts, HR issues, communication, insurance, innovation, and trade with customers and suppliers. We are in the process of formulating a new CSR Policy that all business areas must also comply with. We expect this to be fully implemented by the time of our second annual COP Report. 32 33 14,500 SOLAR LAMPS FOR AFRICA To mark the VKR Holding 75th anniversary in 2016, we donated 14,500 solar lamps – one for every VKR employee – to local entrepreneurs in off-grid African communities in Senegal, Zimbabwe and Zambia to bring clean light, employment opportunities and empowerment. 34 35 VKR Holding A/S Breeltevej 18 2970 Hørsholm Denmark Tel.: +45 39 69 11 44 www.vkr-holding.com 1736-0917 Design: Prolog Reklamebureau A/S
