Think Hartmann Sustainability report 2016 100 y susta ears o inabl f e thin king CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE CEO statement Materiality assessment We are celebrating Hartmann’s 100 year-anniversary in 2017, capacity with state-of-the-art technology in Europe, the US and As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Hartmann contiand our company’s continued progress and strong market poSouth America. We are investing in automation and efficiency nuously strives to improve within all four areas of the Global sition within moulded-fibre egg and fruit packaging is based on enhancements to enable us to do more with less – and we Compact – Environment, Anti-corruption, Human Rights a century of sustainable thinking. Since Hartmann was establispursued this line of thinking as we closed our German factory and Labour Rights. And we require our suppliers to respect hed in 1917 by three brothers inheriting their father’s paper and successfully moved volumes to other factories in Europe and support our commitment to the ten Global Compact bag factory in Denmark, the creativity and ingenuity of the during the year. principles. Hartmann family led to a number of inventions ranging from motorbikes and milk cartons to automatic butter packaging We are constantly working to reduce our consumption of enerAs a consequence of the group’s primary activities within systems. Technology and packaging solutions has always been gy, raw materials and waste while improving working conditions production of moulded-fibre packaging across Europe and the at the heart of the business, and in 1936 Hartmann ventured for our employees. During the year, we saw positive results of Americas, we focus mainly on Hartmann’s environmental and into the world of moulded-fibre packaging. our efforts to reduce CO2-e emissions levels and the number climate impact to ensure the greatest possible effect of our of work-related accidents. We maintain our climate ambition sustainability efforts. Life Cycle Assessments have shown that Since then, Hartmann has built a unique brand in the highly-speof a 25% cut in CO2-e emissions by 2020 and aim to further our products’ climate footprint constitutes the group’s most sigcialised moulded-fibre egg packaging industry supported by improve safety at the factories in 2017. nificant environmental impact. We therefore remain committed quality fruit packaging solutions in South America and technoto accommodating this impact and reducing our emissions. logy service and sales offered globally by Hartmann Technology. We are pleased to reaffirm our commitment and endorseBased on sustainable products and solutions, we have establisment of the UN Global Compact and its principles. We operate our business in adherence with European and inhed a strong and profitable business with a positive outlook. ternational regulation and frameworks as well as expectations to companies such as Hartmann within the fields of Labour In 2016, we continued on our strategic path under the headline Ulrik Kolding Hartvig Rights and Human Rights, and we consider our responsibility ‘Unpacking our potential’ and expanded our production CEO to reach throughout our sphere of influence. Materiality – Global Compact themes Highlights 2016 Environment 4/4 Anti-corruption 9.5% CO2-e reduction since 20% reduction in work-re100% of paper raw mate59 supplier evaluations 3/4 2012 (excl. South America) lated accidents per million rials from FSC or recycled conducted and 5 employees working hours from 2015 sources trained in anti-corruption Human Rights 2/4 This Communication On Progress report is part of the management report in Brødrene Hartmann A/S’ annual report 2016 covering the period 1 January to 31 December 2016. This report ensures compliance with section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Labour Rights 2/4 H A RT M A N N 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 6 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Environment and climate ment processes provide a strong foundation for reducing energy emissions excluding contributions from South America by 9.5% Policy consumption further in the future. compared to the base level in 2012. We systematically and proactively protect, respect and safeguard ISO 14000 certificates for environmental management and Hartthe environment and climate in daily business activities by developmann’s Climate Partner certification were renewed in 2016. ment of production methods and products, training of employees Risks and influencing suppliers and stakeholders. The ISO 50001 certification of our Hungarian factory’s energy maThe main environmental risks related to our activities include uninnagement in 2016 has improved our overview of on-site energy We support a precautionary approach to environmental and tended wastewater spill and excessive emissions of CO2. consumption and contributes to ensuring efficient use of energy, climate challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater reducing CO2 emissions and providing evidence of efficient energy responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of Our activities are subject to environmental laws and regulations management to external stakeholders. environmental and climate-friendly technologies in accordance governing, among other things, noise reductions, wastewater with principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. treatment and waste disposal as well as CO2 emissions. Risks are The commissioning of the wastewater treatment plant in Hungary monitored locally and from the head office to prevent, remedy or has reduced wastewater loads in peak manufacturing periods, and minimise any adverse effect on the external environment. monitoring shows that chemical and biochemical oxygen demand (COD and BOD) levels are well below the defined emissions Action limits. We continued our efforts to reduce the environmental and KPI We maintain our group climate target for 2020 of reducing CO2-e climate impact of Hartmann’s business activities in 2016. Our main emissions by 25% compared to the base level in 2012. focus areas were: We measure and monitor CO2 equivalent (CO2-e) emissions from •• Investments in new process technology electricity and heat-related energy consumption at our factories CO2-equivalent emissions Index (2012 = 100) •• Improvement and optimisation of existing equipment relative to the sellable product quantities on stock (kg). This KPI •• Product and production process development reflects the overall progress made within our main environmental 125 •• Waste reduction focus areas. 100 •• Replacement of fossil energy with renewable energy 75 In Hungary, we completed the construction of a combined chemical and biological wastewater treatment plant during 2016. FollowResults 50 ing a mandatory test period of 6 months, the plant was commissioned with a view to reduce wastewater loads in peak manufacturing Our CO2-e emissions per kg increased in 2016 and were up by 1% 25 periods and minimise Hartmann’s footprint in the area. compared to the base level in 2012. Performance was adversely impacted by integration of our South American actitivies and the 0 Efforts have been made to obtain ISO 50001 certification for construction and commissioning of new factories as testing of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 energy management at our Hungarian plant, and the certification manufacturing equipment entailed significantly higher CO2-e emisCO2-equivalent emissions per kilogram of product, excl. South American activities was achieved in 2016 as expected. The improved energy managesions levels with very limited sellable output. We reduced CO2-e CO2-equivalent emissions per kilogram of product, incl. South American activities H A RT M A N N 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 6 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Anti-corruption Policy Risks We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Hartmann’s manufacturing is located in lowand relatively high-risk bribery. countries1 in terms of corruption, and Hartmann sells packaging and technology globally. We enter into open dialogue with relevant business partners, and we have set up guidelines specifying how to avoid bribery and The main risks related to our activities include employees’ and corruption, in accordance with principle 10 of the Global Compact. suppliers’ violation of Hartmann’s anti-corruption policy and We contribute to minimizing bribery and corruption in companies potential legal and financial consequences hereof. forming part of the value chain to which Hartmann belongs. Our business activities are subject to various national laws and Our commitment is furthermore expressed in Hartmann’s regulations as well as legislation with an international reach. anticorruption policy. KPI Action We monitor results of internal anti-corruption training and Enforcement of the anti-corruption principle is an integrated part supplier audits on an ongoing basis and adapt our policies and of our supplier handling process, and we maintained our focus on processes if necessary. ensuring that suppliers acknowledge and respect their responsibility when doing business with Hartmann. We have resolved to revise and update our internal anti-corruptiResults on training programme reflecting the group's increased geographical footprint with activities in South American markets characteriIn 2016, we conducted a total of 59 local and central supplier sed by higher risk of corruption. evaluations, and no supplier contracts were terminated as a result. 5 employees completed our anti-corruption training programme in 2016. No employees reported cases of attempted bribery, facilitation payments or similar during the year. 1 Transparency International, www.transparency.org/cpi2016 H A RT M A N N 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 6 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Human Rights have investigated and followed up on incidents at the factories and Following the integration of our South American activities in 2015, Policy initiated corrective measures to continuously improve conditions. we have updated Hartmann’s accident statistics data to reflect Our factories have introduced various safety initiatives including, consolidated group figures. We have thus rebased figures with We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s among other things, hiring a dedicated safety manager, implemen2015 as the base year for future measurement. human rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are ting a structured observation program for monitoring accidents part of the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. and near-misses, integration of safety parameters in performance reviews and completion of internal factory audits. Results In accordance with principles 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, Hartmann supports and respects the protection of internationally We maintained our focus on safeguarding food safety at our We improved safety at the workplace significantly in 2016 and proclaimed human rights and ensures that the group is not complifacilities during the year by continuously monitoring and controlling reduced the number of work-related accidents per million worcit in human rights abuses. We endeavour to secure: production processes and the materials used as well as testing king hours (LTI-FR) by 20% compared to 2015. We aim to further end-products in accordance with applicable requirements. reduce the number of work-related accidents per million working •• Health and safety in the workplace by means of cleaner hours (LTI-FR) in 2017. technologies and improved procedures and practices as well as Finally, Hartmann established and nurtured ties with local comcompetency development. munities at new and existing sites as the group expanded the All OHSAS 18001 certificates for working environment and ISO production network in the US and South America. 22000 certificates for food safety management were renewed. •• Fair wages by means of a wages policy and alignment with the level at local industrial companies. •• The well-being of employees and their families by means of Risks local initiatives, practices and procedures in keeping with local traditions, conditions and needs. The main risks related to our activities include unintended inciAccident statistics Index (2015 = 100) dents at factories and non-compliance with the Global Compact’s •• Good relations with the local community by means of active principles internally or in the value chain to which the Hartmann 100 participation in social and business-related activities at local level. group belongs. 80 60 Action KPI 40 We stepped up efforts to improve safety at the workplace We measure and monitor the number of work-related accidents 20 further in 2016 following a range of initiatives set in motion in per million working hours (LTI-FR). The KPI reflects overall develprior years, including installation of additional safety equipment opments in safety performance at our factories. 0 at several factories and training of employees concerning safety 2015 2016 and quality to reduce the number of work-related accidents. We Work-related accidents per million working hours (LTI-FR) H A RT M A N N 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 6 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Labour Rights Policy Action KPI We promote the conditions outlined in the UN Global Compact’s We maintained our focus on sourcing in 2016 and conducted We monitor results of supplier evaluations and continuously labour rights principles at Hartmann and in companies that are evaluations of selected suppliers. measure developments in the gender composition at our other part of the value chain to which the Hartmann group belongs. managerial levels and on the Board of Directors. Following the introduction of a new European HR master data syIn accordance with principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Global Compact, stem in 2015, Hartmann has continuously monitored and assessed Hartmann: HR data to increase internal transparency and promote gender equality. The system provides an overview of parameters such as Results •• Recognises the right of employees to be members of a trade gender statistics and pay comparisons for equal work, which have union and negotiate pay and working conditions. been considered in connection with employment, promotion and We evaluated 59 suppliers under our sourcing programme, and no redeployment during 2016. supplier was de-selected on that background in 2016. •• Supports elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, and does not accept use of forced labour. We closed our German factory in 2016 following negotiations Hartmann's recently introduced HR master data system contribuwith employee representatives. The initiative entailed 77 dismissals ted to the basis for decision for management and the HR function •• Applies preventive procedures and practices to ensure that and was planned and executed based on respectful dialogue with in connection with employment, promotion, and redeployment in persons below the minimum age are not employed. trade unions and employees. We subsequently supported local 2016. Based on the positive experiences with the system in Euroefforts to initiate new activities in the area. pe, we aim to roll-out the system in other locations during 2017. •• Endeavours to prevent discriminatory practices and secure equal opportunities by means of the application of procedures and We did not reach the target of raising the share of the underrepractices to prevent discrimination in connection with recruitpresented gender to a minimum of 40% of the shareholder-elecment or dismissal, career development, training and education, Risks ted board members as there were no changes to the composition or the granting of staff benefits. of the Board of Directors in 2016. We maintain our ambition and The main risks related to our activities include non-adherence now aim to reach the target by 2021. Our commitment is furthermore expressed in our policy on to Hartmann’s principle of preventing discriminatory practices gender equality in other management, which serves to increase and securing equal opportunities and potential legal, financial and Representation of women the number of the underrepresented gender at Hartmann's other HR-related consequences hereof. managerial levels. Target 2015 2016 2021 Our business activities are subject to various national laws and The policy defines and describes focus areas within recruitment, regulations. Board of Directors2 25% 25% 40% performance evaluation and development as well as networking. Other managerial levels3 10% 12% The policy is available at our website, www.hartmann-packaging.com. 2 Shareholder-elected members 3 Includes presidents of regional business units as well as corporate heads of functions and managers reporting to them H A RT M A N N 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 6 CEO STATEMENT · ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE · ANTI-CORRUPTION · HUMAN RIGHTS · LABOUR RIGHTS · HARTMANN AT A GLANCE Hartmann at a glance Products and customers Sustainability Production Hartmann sells egg and fruit packaging to manufacturers, distriSustainability and protection of the environment are integral Hartmann’s production platform consists of 12 factories in Europe, butors and retail chains, which are increasingly seeking specialised elements of Hartmann’s business model and strategy. All of HartIsrael and North and South America. Our deep technology knowmarketing expertise. Our comprehensive product portfolio is mann’s products are based on recycled paper, which is a renewable how and extensive experience in manufacturing moulded-fibre customised to accommodate customer and consumer needs in and biodegradable resource. Working closely with our customers packaging form the basis of the establishment, development and each individual market. to accommodate demand for sustainable products in the retail maintenance of our production platform. industry, Hartmann was the first manufacturer to offer both Hartmann’s technology and related services are sold to manufactuFSC-certified and CO2-neutral retail packaging.. Every year, the group’s 2,000 employees manufacture billions of rers of moulded-fibre packaging. moulded-fibre packaging units. Production process Pulp Deinking Moulding Drying After-pressing Print/labelling Delivery Moulded fibre is made from recycled Packaging is made in several shapes and The end product is provided with a paper that is deinked colours to accommodate specific customer customised graphic design and is requirements delivered to the customer H A RT M A N N 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 2 0 1 6 Hartmann at a glance Denmark Canada Hartmann is the world’s leading manufacturer of Germany Hungary moulded-fibre egg packaging, a market-leading Croatia manufacturer of fruit packaging in South America and USA one of the world’s largest manufacturers of machinery Israel for the production of moulded-fibre packaging. Founded in 1917, Hartmann’s market position builds on its strong technology know-how and extensive experience of moulded-fibre production since 1936. Markets Brazil Hartmann’s egg packaging is sold globally. Our key markets are Europe, South AmeBrazil Brazil rica and North America, where Hartmann has strong market positions. Hartmann is a market leader in Europe and South America, where our product portfolio also Argentina includes fruit packaging. Hartmann has a small, but growing share of the North Production American market. Hartmann’s technology, including machinery and services, is also Argentina Office sold globally. Argentina Brødrene Hartmann A/S Corporate memberships Ørnegårdsvej 18 DK-2820 Gentofte •• UN Global Compact •• UN Global Compact – Caring for Climate Tel (+45) 45 97 00 00 •• European Moulded Fibre Association (EMFA) Fax: (+45) 45 97 00 01 •• Green Industry Platform e-mail: bh@hartmann-packaging.com Web: hartmann-packaging.com CVR no. 63 04 96 11
