COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2016 CONTENTS A message from our Chief Executive 4 Who is the Intrepid Group 6 Our Vision & Values 8 The 5 P’s & UN 17 SDG’s 10 People 12 Women Move Mountains 14 Child Protection 16 Examples of Actions 16 Planet 18 Environmental Footprint 20 Animal Welfare 22 Examples of Actions 22 Prosperity 24 Namaste Nepal Campaign 26 Porter Project 28 Examples of Actions 28 Partnerships 30 Business Partnership Platform 32 Travel for Good 34 Examples of Actions 34 Peace 36 Female Leaders 38 Support to Life 40 Examples of Actions 40 B Corp Progress Report 42 Policies & Guidelines 44 2 MACHU PICCHU, PERU A message from our Chief Executive 2016 was a milestone year for the Intrepid Group, our first full year as an independently owned business. The year began with the development of a 2020 Strategic Plan, which clearly outlined our vision of Changing The Way People See The World and established two key goals for the business: Growth and Purpose Beyond Profit. We believe that these two goals are indelibly linked. While having a Purpose Beyond Profit has long been a part of the Intrepid DNA, we’ve seen that having a Purpose Beyond Profit can be profitable. Not only was it the Intrepid Group's most profitable year ever, but The Intrepid Foundation also achieved a milestone of giving $5M to more than 75 local and international charities. By 2020 we will donate a further $3M through The Intrepid Foundation. To do this, we need to continue to grow in scale and shift our focus from philanthropy to projects that create shared value for all stakeholders. This report includes the results of Intrepid’s Namaste Nepal campaign, which is our best example yet of a shared value project. More than $750K was donated to Nepal, but perhaps more importantly we managed to get travellers to return to the country when they were most needed. While there were many achievements for the Intrepid Group in 2016, it’s widely acknowledged that it was a tumultuous year in global politics. As a responsible business, we believe that it is more important than ever that good businesses show leadership and commitment to achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 2030. We’ve been a carbon-neutral business since 2010; as the first travel company to end elephant rides, we’ve led the industry on animal welfare, bringing awareness to the cruelty of lion walks; and last year we took a leadership position on child protection when we removed orphanage visits from our itineraries. In this report you can read about actions taken in 2016 towards achieving those goals. This is the Intrepid Group’s seventh Communication on Progress Report since becoming a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2008. It builds on our previous reports and commitment to support public accountability and transparency. There are many significant achievements in this report, but I believe the most noteworthy has been incorporating Purpose into the strategic goals of the entire Intrepid Group business. We look forward to updating our progress in the next report. For now, please take the time to read over this year’s Communication on Progress. James Thornton Chief Executive 4 OUR PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBLE TRAVEL Run by travellers, for travellers, The Intrepid Group is the world’s largest provider of Respect the destination adventure travel experiences, carrying over 250,000 passengers a year. Our brands Support local people – which form a part of the scope of this report – offer over 2,000 itineraries on every Preserve the environment continent, catering for all ages, budgets and appetites for adventure. Protect the vulnerable The Intrepid Foundation is the Intrepid Group's not-for-profit fund that supports Give back to local communities non-government organisations. The Foundation is supported by all Intrepid Group brands, 100% of the administration costs are covered and all donations are matched dollar for dollar, up to AUD $400,000 per year by the Intrepid Group.* C E L E BR AT IN G 2 8 Y E A R S O F R E S P O N S IBL E T R A V E L 1 MILLION+ people have travelled with Intrepid 50,000 TREES in Australia, Kenya & Thailand TUK TUK TO TRAINS We’ve used 21 different kinds of public transport AUS5M+ Our trips have injected over raised and donated to over 75 not-forAUS500 profit organisations MILLION in more than 30 into local countries economies 6 HALONG BAY, VIETNAM * Emergency appeals are not matched unless specified OUR VISION CHANGE THE WAY PEOPLE SEE THE WORLD OUR VALUES GROWTH RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION Stakeholders in Think global, Thriving on new ideas our own success act local and embracing change PASSION FUN INTEGRI TY We are inspired by It’s ingrained into Doing the the work we do and who we are and right thing the trips we offer what we do 8 NAKURU NATIONAL PARK, KENYA THE 5 P’S & UN 17 SDG’S In both this report to the UN Global Compact and other Intrepid Group communications, PEOPLE PEOPLE PLANET we have attempted to simplify our sustainability initiatives by categorising them under five 11. SUSTAINABLE CITIES themes: People, Planet, Prosperity, Peace and Partnerships. 01. NO POVERTY 05. GENDER EQUALITY & COMMUNITIES Each of these “5 P’s” are linked to the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. Launched by the UN in 2015, the 17 SDGs outline a plan of action for people, planet Sustainable tourism can be Tourism can empower women in A city that is not good for its citizens and prosperity to end extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice, strengthen universal linked with national poverty many ways, but particularly through is not good for tourists. Sustainable peace, and fix climate change. They are aimed at all countries and stakeholders, asking reduction goals, such as promoting the provision of jobs and incometourism has the potential to advance them to act in a collaborative partnership to implement this plan. entrepreneurship and small generating opportunities in small and urban infrastructure and universal businesses, and empowering young larger-scale tourism and hospitality accessibility, promote regeneration of As a global leader in sustainability within the travel industry, the Intrepid Group has people, women and ethnic minorities. related enterprises. areas in decay and preserve cultural identified 9 of 17 UN SDGs that we can contribute most to as a tourism business. These and natural heritage – all assets upon 17 goals are interlinked and need to be addressed collectively, so we are developing which tourism depends. indicators that measure our contribution to all of these goals. We recognise that by doing so we can ensure a strong commitment to areas where our business can make the most difference and be a real force for good. PLANET PLANET PROSPERITY 12. RESPONSIBLE 8. DECENT WORK & CONSUMPTION & 13. CLIMATE ACTION PRODUCTION ECONOMIC GROWTH A tourism sector that adopts Tourism contributes to, and is affected Tourism is one of the driving forces sustainable consumption and by, climate change. By lowering of global economic growth and production practices can play a energy consumption and shifting to currently accounts for one in every significant role in accelerating the renewable energy sources, especially 11 jobs worldwide. With decent work global shift towards sustainability. in transport and accommodation, opportunities in the tourism sector, tourism can help tackle one of the society – particularly youth and most pressing challenges of our time. women – can benefit from increased skills and professional development. PROSPERITY PEACE PARTNERSHIP 10. REDUCED 16. PEACE, JUSTICE & 17. PARTNERSHIPS FOR INEQUALITIES STRONG INSTITUTIONS THE GOALS Tourism can be a powerful tool in Tourism is built on the interaction of Due to its cross-sectorial nature, reducing inequality if it engages local people from diverse ethnic, religious tourism can strengthen private/ populations and key stakeholders in and cultural backgrounds. Billions and public partnerships and engage its development. It can contribute to billions of them. The industry has a multiple stakeholders – international, urban renewal and rural development, unique potential to foster multicultural national, regional and local – to work and reduce regional imbalances by and inter-faith tolerance and together to achieve SDGs and other giving communities the opportunity understanding, laying the foundation common goals. to prosper in their place of origin. for more a peaceful society. 10 BAGAN, MYANMAR PEOPLE We treat all people impacted by our business with fairness and respect. It’s our aim to promote justice and equality across our global communities and offer protection to our most vulnerable societies. 12 LAKE ZIWAY, ETHIOPIA PEOPLE Women Move Mountains A solidarity trek up Mt Kilimanjaro, supporting women’s land rights across Africa “For the past ten years, I have been leading my community in the campaign for compensation for land that was grabbed from us by a UK-based biofuels company. As part of our commitment to human rights, the Intrepid Group is a Because of ActionAid’s support, we managed to secure the money that we were supporter of international global justice organisation ActionAid. promised. But our problems aren’t over. When the opportunity came to climb I was Gender equality and women’s rights have been the focus of our partnership with ActionAid, including a Safe Cities campaign with determined to do something to put a stop to land grabs and to claim women’s land rights.” Urban Adventures and a community-based tourism project in Myanmar ~ Halima, smallholder farmer, Tanzania that has become a model for sustainable tourism in the country. In 2016 Intrepid and ActionAid embarked on an ambitious project that would take advocacy on women’s rights to new heights: the top of Kilimanjaro, Africa’s highest mountain. More than 400 women from across Africa came together in an assembly near the base of Mt Kilimanjaro to proclaim a charter of principles and demands concerning women’s access to and control over their land. The goal was to correct the systemic imbalance in African agriculture where women are denied their rights to land ownership. While women are responsible for the production of nearly 80% of the continent’s food, they own just 1% of its land. Part of this initiative included the Women Move Mountains solidarity trek that took a group of 28 African female farmers to the summit of Mt Kilimanjaro to help raise awareness of the challenges they face, as well as raise funds for ActionAid's ongoing work on this issue. These women came from across the African continent – from Cameroon, Gambia, Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia – all united in their mission to reach Africa’s highest peak. Joining these extraordinary women were 17 Intrepid Travel trekkers, as well as 25 guides, five cooks and 105 porters. The group was also joined by media and celebrities, including Zambian celebrities Maiko Zulu and Sista D, and Australian sports personalities Katie Brennan and Mel Hickey. The climb provided an opportunity for women from around the world to share stories, support and inspire each other. Katie and Mel’s participation in the climb was widely covered by Australian media, resulting in four radio interviews reaching almost 250,000 listeners. The story was featured as part of the pre-game entertainment in the inaugural Women’s AFL match on Channel 7, reaching an audience of 700,000 viewers. At the end of the trek, the 28 African female farmers who summited Kilimanjaro were warmly met by the larger assembly, and together they created a declaration that was delivered to the African Union (AU) and the United Nations. The AU have stated that they are committed to pursuing this agenda. With the funds raised through The Intrepid Foundation, ActionAid will send a representative of the African female farmers to New York to attend the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) Forum in 2017. 14 MT KILIMANJARO, TANZANIA PEOPLE Child Protection Removed orphanage visits from itineraries Intrepid often receives requests for travellers who want to volunteer or visit children in developing countries. And while most have the best intentions, the Child reality is that many travellers are contributing to an exploitative system, one that actually harms the children they’re trying to help. protection Over the years The Intrepid Foundation has provided support to several studies suggest that children’s organisations, some of which have residential care. However, we’ve come to realise that this support could actually have negative side effects on children who grow up children, their families and their communities. in orphanages are: The issues around orphanage tourism include: 10X • Foreign, unskilled and transient strangers are allowed intimate access to vulnerable children, which is a major child protection risk. • Children are not tourist attractions. A steady stream of visitors and volunteers to a child’s home violates their right to privacy. more likely fall • The demand for orphanage tourism actually fuels the creation of orphanages and the need for children to fill them. Research shows that, in into sex work some countries, between 70-90% of children living in orphanages have one or more living parents, or extended family, who (with a little support) could 40X care for them. That’s why, in May 2016, the Intrepid Group removed visits to orphanages from all itineraries. Many residential care facilities rely on tourism for income, times more so we’ve been working closely with Foundation partners to find better ways to support children at risk. likely to have a The issue of child protection will be a key focus for us in the year ahead. criminal record Intrepid is representing the tourism industry on the ReThink Orphanages working group to help to end the unnecessary institutionalisation of children. We’re also developing guidelines for our staff, leaders and suppliers that address the areas where our trips pose a risk to children, including school visits, homestays, photography, gift giving and voluntourism. 500X more likely to take their PEOPLE own lives Examples of Actions Source: ReThink Orphanages • Through the Intrepid Foundation, we support grassroots organisations around the world, addressing issues like poverty and gender equality. • Our Myanmar office was the first company in Myanmar to be certified as ‘Childsafe’ through a certification program with Friends International. • Our ATA brand is supporting the Australian Conservation Foundation and the Kimberley Land Council to help develop a Cultural Enterprise Hub, strengthening the existing Indigenous Ranger Program and develop new tourism opportunities. • Our Ecuador office supported those affected by the 7.8 magnitude earthquake in April 2016 by providing grocery essentials and raising money for a house rebuilding project. • We supported Team See Possibilities to climb Mount Kilimanjaro in the dark over 2.5 days with blind athlete Dan Berlin. Team See Possibilities takes on epic endurance challenges to inspire others, with or without disabilities, to go beyond their perceived limitations. 16 MADAGASCAR PLANE T We protect the environment by using resources in an efficient, fair and responsible way. Our trips are designed to limit their physical and environmental impact, and preserve destinations for generations to come. 42,000+ Intrepid Travel TONNES 1400+ achieved CARBON multi-day trips Total carbon NEUTRAL STATUS are carbon offset emissions for 2016 in 2010 Total office emissions for 2016 were 7.23 TONNES AU$1.6 MILLION Source of per staff member invested into renewable carbon emissions energy projects since 89 % from trips, 2010 11 % from offices 18 MU CANG CHAI, YENBAI, VIETNAM PLANET Environmental Footprint We are committed to protecting our planet, and that’s why we 2. REDUCE follow the Measure – Reduce – Offset principles to manage the Reducing plastic use on trips Using public transport on Introducing efficiency measures, environmental footprint of our trips and offices around the world. by encouraging sustainable our trips to reduce fuel use including energy efficient light bulbs water canteens. per passenger. and Skype conferencing. 1. MEASURE Recycling our waste in our Minimising the number Conserving water use in our offices around the world. of flights included in trips. offices and on our trips. We measure and offset the main sources of passenger emissions created on our trips from transport, accommodation and waste by our passengers. When it comes to our offices, we measure emissions from electricity, gas, waste, business travel and water. 3. OFFSET Investment in renewable energy projects such as: OFFICE EMISSIONS SOURCES GLOBALLY TRIP EMISSIONS BY REGION (TONNES CO2-e) 8,598 10,000 7,730 Office paper Waste 8,000 5,988 Marketing paper 724 4,684 5,602 Company vehicles 6,000 Natural gas 1,968 1,327 4,000 Electricity 800 Flights 2,000 0 Antarctica Australia Sth-East Asia Sth & Cen Asia Middle East Africa Europe Nth America Sth & Cen America INTREPID GROUP CARBON KENYA REDD+ WIND TURBINE PROJECT WATER FILTERS EMISSIONS (TONNES CO2-e) REFORESTATION PROJECT IN TURKEY IN CAMBODIA 42,039 40,000 This program avoids unplanned Supported the installation Helped to provide access to clean 37,645 36,471 35,000 deforestation and degradation in of 15 new wind turbines in Turkey. drinking water for an estimated 30,000 the habitats of vulnerable species 400,000 people in Cambodia. Our 2016 emissions have increased on 25,000 like the African elephant, cheetah, previous years, due to an increase in the 20,000 lion, African hunting dog and number of passengers we carried and trips 15,000 we operated in 2016. Our office and trip Grevy’s zebra. It is estimated that 10,000 reporting processes have also improved deforestation accounts for 18% of 5,000 0 and, as such, we are capturing even more global carbon emissions. This is 2014 2015 2016 data than before. greater than transport and aviation Office Emissions Trip Emissions combined. 20 ARIZONA , USA PLANET Animal Welfare Introducing our animal welfare guidelines The Intrepid Group is a long-time supporter of international animal welfare organisation, World Animal Protection. In 2010, The Intrepid Foundation funded research into animals in entertainment, which resulted in our decision to end elephant riding on all our trips. The research was used to persuade more than 100 other travel companies to follow in our footsteps. However, the tourism industry still contributes to animal cruelty around the world. That’s why, in 2016, we worked closely with World Animal Protection again to create animal welfare guidelines that demonstrate best practice in the industry. We believe that wild animals should be viewed – with no contact or interaction – doing what they do best: living in the wild. Our guidelines address the following topics: • The basics of animal welfare • Viewing wildlife in the wild • Why we no longer ride elephants • Animal photography • Riding horses, donkeys & camels • Animal products & food • Lion walking, cub petting & other • Sanctuaries for wildlife interactive experiences In 2016, we also signed the ‘Born to Live Wild’ pledge – a commitment to never knowingly work with operators offering lion walks, cub petting or other exploitative wildlife activities. Thousands of lions and other predators are being held in captivity across Africa, with tourists visiting for cub petting, lion walking and volunteering experiences. These same animals are often used in canned hunts, where the animal is confined to give an easy advantage. In South Africa alone, around 800 lions are shot and killed in canned hunts each year. Over the past 12 months, our Responsible Business specialists have worked with tour leaders and suppliers to raise awareness of these issues, providing training on animal welfare best practice. This empowers our leaders to actively discourage travellers from participating in any activities that exploit animals. PLANET Examples of Actions • Our Marrakech office won the ‘Tourism and Climate’ prize in the Moroccan Sustainable Tourism Awards. • Our Marrakech office staff used their Volunteer Day to clean up litter in the Atlas Mountains. • Our South America operations were audited by Rainforest Alliance and received the highest score for any tour operator in Peru, achieving 100% for all critical assessment criteria. • We educate our travellers on the dangers of plastic waste, how to obtain safe drinking water, and alternatives to plastic water bottles. • We provide travellers in many locations with a cloth bag made by a fair-trade supplier, to encourage travellers to ‘say no to plastic bags’. • Many of our offices around the world have waste management systems, including organic compost bins and recycle bins for plastics and paper. 22 BORNEO PROSPERITY We implement best practices in everything we do to reduce inequalities, support local communities and ensure our business earnings are distributed in a way that is beneficial to our key stakeholders. We do this while achieving the responsible and sustainable growth of the Intrepid Group. 24 BALI, INDONESIA PROSPERITY 0% O 10FR F PROFITLS OM TRIPS TO NEPA In response to the devastating earthquake that struck Nepal in April 2015, the Intrepid Group, through the Intrepid Foundation, launched the Namaste Nepal campaign to encourage travellers to visit Nepal and help get the country back on its feet. This is a summary of the campaign’s impact. Supported the AU$40,000 rebuilding of the Raised in the first 24 Khagendra New Life Supported the hours Special Education rebuilding of tea Secondary School houses along the AU$400,000 Langtang trekking Funded a health post 97% increase Raised in the first month route which provides care for In sales to Nepal AU$750,000 in 1 year trekkers and locals at their Two main trekking routes health post in Manang, assessed by expert engineers near the Everest Base Supported the development of Camp route a new tailoring shop for local women and a new professional grade onsite kitchen used for cooking classes ITS GO TO OF N PR L AL EP AL 26 HIMALAYAS, NEPAL PROSPERITY PROSPERITY Porter Project Supporting porter welfare in Tanzania As part of the Intrepid Group’s commitment to ensure respectful and fair working conditions for our employees, we partnered with Intrepid Foundation partner Kilimanjaro Porters Assistance Project (KPAP) with the aim of becoming a Partner Climb Outfitter. Despite the significant efforts of KPAP to improve conditions for porters working on Kilimanjaro, there are still reports of an astonishing amount of abuse, mostly from companies looking to maximise their profits at the expense of basic welfare for their porters. To achieve certification as a Partner Climb Outfitter, all Kilimanjaro climbs that are part of Intrepid Group itineraries were assessed and scored based on several criteria, all of which are designed to ensure the proper treatment of porters on the mountain. Some of these key criteria include: • Paying crew a living wage • % of traveller tips going directly to porter • Weight of bag carried by porter • Number of appropriate meals provided per day • Quality of tent and space for sleeping The assessment took place between May and November in 2016, and the Intrepid Group have now been accepted as a full KPAP partner organisation with an impressive score of 89.8/100. This certification is a great example of the Intrepid Group’s continued commitment to be at the forefront of responsible tourism practices around the world. PROSPERITY Examples of Actions • The funds raised by the Intrepid Group to support the 1 million people affected by the 2015 floods in Myanmar has been used to establish micro finance loans that provide community members access to long-term financial support. • We hire local leaders and staff in the destinations in which we travel. • We use locally-owned ground transportation and accommodation to support people in the communities we visit. • We support local eateries and vendors on our tours so that money spent stays within the community. • We incorporate public transport on our itineraries wherever possible. • We invest in renewable energy projects that support the local economy through temporary and permanent employment. • The Intrepid Group operates in over 120 countries around the world, providing a significant economic benefit to local communities in these destinations. 28 MT KILIMANJARO, TANZANIA PARTNERSHIPS We develop and maintain healthy cross-cultural partnerships across our global business, particularly through our non-profit, The Intrepid Foundation. These partnerships are created to benefit the poorest and most vulnerable members of society. 30 KENYA PARTNERSHIPS Business Partnership Platform (BPP) Creating shared value opportunities through partnerships The BPP is a funding initiative of the Australian government’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) overseas aid program. It seeks to incorporate the private sector in the delivery of aid and development, with a view to creating partnerships and shared value opportunities that achieve economic and social impact. In early 2016, the Intrepid Group submitted two proposals for the first round of this initiative’s funding. From a pool of over 180 submissions, both of the Intrepid Group's proposals were successful. These two projects will remain ongoing through 2017: Myanmar Tourism Business Hub The Myanmar Tourism Business Hub initiative is an innovative, sharedvalue partnership between Australian Volunteers International (AVI), DFAT and the Intrepid Group. This partnership will promote sustainable economic growth by enabling Small to Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to deliver Sustainable Experience Rich Travel (SERT) products and capitalise on the booming Myanmar tourism market. The partnership will provide funding and skills development to SMEs to boost the economic growth potential of responsible tourism. Investing in this undersupplied but rapidly growing market will have a wide development impact, especially considering tourism’s unique ability to target small communities and marginalised groups, particularly women. In view of the substantially lower participation of women in Myanmar’s workforce, all Hub activities will be underpinned by support for gender equality and women’s economic empowerment. This will be reflected in equitable gender provisions in the selection process for the clients the hub will support, as well as ensuring gender is taken into consideration throughout the hub’s operating systems, training programs, and those of any partner organisations. Community-based Ecotourism in Nepal This partnership, developed in conjunction with DFAT and World Wide Fund for Nature Australia (WWF), will establish community-based ecotourism in the southern ‘buffer zone’ of Chitwan National Park. It will create a sustainable venture that provides income generation for Chitwan residents, and new experiences for Intrepid travellers. While northern and western areas in Chitwan National Park enjoy benefits from 175,000 annual visitors to the Park, the current eco-tourism options in Madi Valley are relatively small-scale. There is great opportunity to increase the positive impact for local communities through this partnership by growing community-based ecotourism options in the area. Some of these options will include the establishment of alternative livelihood activities for women and youth in the area, and tourism activities designed to provide wildlife viewing opportunities while also reducing human-wildlife conflict. 32 INLE LAKE, MYANMAR PARTNERSHIPS Travel for Good A purpose beyond profit story from North America In 2016, the Intrepid Group launched the Travel for Good campaign in North America, an initiative designed to give back to the communities we visit. For every trip purchased by American travellers between the 29th November and 20th December 2016, we donated 10% of the trip cost to the Intrepid Foundation. Thanks to our travellers’ generous donations and support, we were able to raise over USD $150,000. Through this fundraising campaign we were able to make a huge difference to four important Intrepid Foundation partners; Blue Dragon, Friends of the Asian Elephant, Pollinate and Kusimayo. Blue Dragon’s primary aim is to rescue children from danger, reunite them with their families when possible, and provide all the services needed for recovery and growth. Friends of the Asian Elephant is a Thailand organisation that rehabilitates elephants who were once used in entertainment venues, or in the tourism industry. Pollinate improves the lives of India’s urban poor by providing access to sustainable energy products to improve health and lighting, burn less toxic fuels, and save money. Kusimayo improves the living conditions of children and adults affected by poverty and malnutrition in one of Peru’s poorest regions, the high plains of Puno. PARTNERSHIPS Examples of Actions • We raised over AU $10,000 through the Intrepid Foundation’s Christmas Global Gifts initiative. • Geckos partnered with Student Flights for their ‘Bucket List Travel Getaway’, where, for every entry into the competition, $1 was donated to the Intrepid Foundation – we raised AU $17,000. • We teamed up with Flight Centre Foundation Canada for a charity trip to Thailand, designed to educate agents about elephant welfare and conservation, and to raise funds for the Intrepid Foundation project, Friends of the Asian Elephant – we raised over AU $14,000. • Various fundraisers were held in Intrepid Group offices around the world, raising money for Intrepid Foundation partners. 34 INDIA PEACE We foster peaceful, just and inclusive societies by promoting cross-cultural understanding and diversity across our business. Our approach is built on the principle that sustainable, grassroots travel can be fundamental in preventing prejudice, bigotry and misunderstanding. 36 OLKOLA, QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA PEACE Female Leaders Our commitment to gender equality across our business Diversity and inclusion has always been at the forefront of everything we do. The Intrepid Group has 1600 staff from 68 nationalities based in 27 offices all over the world. We know that our strength comes through our differences and the freedom for everyone to be themselves – locals, leaders and travellers. Around 65% of Intrepid Group travellers are female, and 60% of global staff are women, but most our female staff work in our offices – in fact only 21% of our leaders are female. This is something we want to rectify. Our team in India have been particularly proactive in trying to improve the gender balance of their leaders. By specifically advertising for female applicants, creating Instagram and Facebook campaigns, putting up posters in beauticians and cafes, and asking staff to approach female friends, for the first time ever we have achieved a 50/50 gender split of new leaders in India. We now have a passionate group of 11 female leaders who are ready to pave the way towards gender equality in Indian tourism. With the support of the Intrepid Group, these new leaders hope to inspire and empower other women to follow in their footsteps and chase their dreams. While we still have a long way to go, we’re committed to providing an environment that encourages people of all ages, physical abilities, cultures, races, religions, sexual orientations and genders to have the same opportunities. Our vision is to create the Best Travel Experience Ever, for everyone. 38 TAJ MAHAL, AGRA, INDIA PEACE Support to Life Supporting the refugee crisis in Turkey Support to Life (STL), or Hayata Destek in Turkish, is one of our Intrepid Foundation partners. STL are a humanitarian aid agency that works with communities in Turkey and the surrounding regions to help them meet their basic needs and rights. Given the significant increase in the number of refugees in Turkey since 2012, providing support to Syrian refugees is now STL’s largest program. STL’s focus is on refugees who are unable or unwilling to settle in camps. They help by providing basic goods and services and offering a cash assistance program. The Intrepid Group raised significant funds for STL in 2016 through a Christmas Global Gift program, where donors could purchase a $100 gift that would provide warm clothing and heating for Syrian refugees in Turkey. Staff members from the Intrepid Group also participated in the Istanbul Marathon, raising money for STL’s child labour project through the Intrepid Foundation. At least 1 million young people under the age of 18, including Turkish children, Syrian refugees and others seeking asylum, are spending their childhood working, instead of learning and playing. The aim of the marathon was to raise funds for migrant farmworker children through STL, providing hygienic products for their campgrounds, stationery for their school work and the educational material they need to improve their skills. PEACE Examples of Actions • Our Urban Adventures In Focus tours, which are run in partnership with local NGOs, non-profits, and social enterprises tackle real community issues. • Our groups stay at the Magdas Hotel in Vienna, Austria’s first social business hotel operated by refugees and aided by tourism professionals. • Our London office carried out a food drive for local charity The London Welcome Project, which supports refugees within the community. AA 40 KAYSERI, TURKEY B C O RSSP PROGRE REPORT The B Corp movement is one of the most important of our lifetime, built on the simple fact that business impacts and serves more than just shareholders—it has an equal responsibility to the community and to the planet ~ Rose Marcario, CEO of Patagonia B Corps (or Benefit Corporations) are for-profit companies certified to meet the highest standards of social and environmental performance, accountability and transparency. Historically, companies have been too focused on maximising shareholder value. B Corp aims to shift this focus towards maximising shared value, which means using business as a force for good, rather than just for profit. Today, there is a growing community of more than 2,000 Certified B Corps from 50 countries and over 130 industries working together toward one unifying goal: to redefine success in business. The Intrepid Group has been working towards B Corp certification and aims to apply for certification in 2017. For certification to be achieved by the Intrepid Group, all 23 of our global companies must complete an assessment in which each company is weighted and graded. One area that we are still addressing is measuring the impact that the Intrepid Group has on the places that it visits. The impact of this section is significantly weighted, so it’s important that we can measure the impact our travel and travellers have on local communities. We are currently in the process of finalising our 2016 assessments across the Intrepid Group, with the majority of companies having completed their assessments. Throughout the process we have implemented a number of new policies, which have positively impacted our B Corp assessment (you can read about them on the next page). If we achieve certification in 2017, we are on track to be the largest B Corp in the travel industry, globally. 42 MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA TORRES DEL PAINE NATIONAL PARK, PATAGONIA Policies & Guidelines Responsible Travel Policy Porter Policy NEW POLICIES IN 2016 OH&S policy for Australia Intrepid Group supports the 2030 Sustainable Development The Intrepid Group believes in responsible travel and Intrepid Group recognises its moral and legal responsibilities Goals. The five principles (Respect, Support, Preserve, Protect is committed to ensuring respectful and fair working Animal Welfare Guidelines under Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) legislation and Give Back) mentioned in the policy, outline our approach in conditions for all trekking porters. We actively discourage the participation of Intrepid Group to provide a safe and healthy work environment. The Global embedding sustainable practices throughout our operations. passengers in activities that exploit animals, whether they be Leadership Team is accountable for ensuring local workplace Supplier Code of Conduct wild, domestic or working. health and safety standards are met. Responsible Travel Guidelines PEAK DMC, as part of the Intrepid Group, is committed to These detailed guidelines are a part of our “Intrepid Group sustainable, ethical business practices that obey applicable Internship Guidelines Prevention of Bribery & Corruption Responsible Travel Kit” and are designed to support our laws, conventions and regulations. The Intrepid Group wishes to provide opportunities to those Intrepid Group is committed to carrying on business fairly, global Intrepid Group Responsible Travel Policy. They also seeking experience in our workplace and providing those openly and honestly. We inherently oppose bribery and act as a practical guide for PEAK Destination Management Carbon Management Program opportunities in a fair and equitable way. corruption. We recognise that these inappropriate ways of Companies (DMCs) and third party operators when conducting Intrepid Travel achieved carbon-neutral status in late 2010. doing business are a cause of hardship and crime in several Each year the Intrepid Group measures and offsets its main Global Study support policy Intrepid Group brand leader training and for guidance for DMC countries in which we operate. Laws in a number of countries sources of carbon emissions: those from our trips and our To support the continued learning and development of Intrepid operations managers. hold our companies, our staff and our suppliers accountable offices around the world. Group employees through study opportunities that enhance for preventing bribery and corruption anywhere in the world Global Human Rights Policy the capability of the company and promote personal growth. in which we do business. The aim of this policy is to formalise our commitment to protect Flexible Working Policy We will endeavour to assist all employees to achieve their Purchasing Policy human rights within our sphere of influence and ensure that all Volunteering policy personal, professional or family goals by facilitating flexibility Every year the Intrepid Group spends a substantial sum our people, including our staff, passengers, suppliers and local The Intrepid Group offers all staff the option to spend up to where possible in their work arrangements. of money purchasing goods and services. With this communities, as well as other stakeholders who are impacted 20 hours per calendar year volunteering for a charity of their purchasing power come responsibilities. The purchasing by our business, are treated with fairness and respect. choice and receive paid leave for this time. The volunteering Prevention of Discrimination, Bullying and decisions we make have a real impact not only on our time is designed to benefit local communities as well as our Code of Conduct Harassment in the Workplace business, but the environment and communities in which staff, and support our purpose beyond profit. The Code is intended to help in overcoming ethical and legal This policy confirms the Intrepid Group’s stance that we do not we operate. The aim of this Purchasing Policy is to ensure challenges in day-to-day working life, and to provide a basis condone any form of discrimination, bullying or harassment in that these impacts are positive, while still serving the for dealing with conflict. the workplace, and will act to stamp out any such behaviour operational needs of the business. reported to Management or Human Resources. 44 Tourism helps people to develop a variety of skills. As a service sector with cross-cutting impact on agriculture, construction or handicrafts, tourism creates millions of jobs and business opportunities. Its capacity to lift people from poverty, promote gender empowerment and help protect the environment has made it a vital tool for achieving positive change in communities across the world.” Ban Ki-moon UN Secretary-General 46 HOI AN, VIETNAM Intrepid group supports the United Nations Global Compact & Principles THE PRINCIPLE AREA COLOURS HUMAN RIGHTS OJOTQJSBUJPOBMHVJEFUPJNQMFNFOUJOHUIF6OJUFE/BUJPOT(MPCBM$PNQBDU UFOQSJODJQMFTPGUIF LABOUR FE/BUJPOT(MPCBM$PNQBDU ENVIRONMENT SJHIUT FTTIPVMETVQQPSUBOESFTQFDUUIFQSPUFDUJPOPG ANTI-CORRUPTION PARTNERSHIPS JPOBMMZQSPDMBJNFEIVNBOSJHIUTBOE SFUIBUUIFZBSFOPUDPNQMJDJUJOIVNBOSJHIUTBCVTFT UBOEBSET Level 7, 567 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC, Australia, 3000 FOR DEVELOPMENT FTTIPVMEVQIPMEUIFGSFFEPNPGBTTPDJBUJPOBOEUIF +61 3 9473 2626 // responsible.business@intrepidtravel.com SFDPHOJUJPOPGUIFSJHIUUPDPMMFDUJWFCBSHBJOJOH JOBUJPOPGBMMGPSNTPGGPSDFEBOEDPNQVMTPSZMBCPVS UJWFBCPMJUJPOPGDIJMEMBCPVSBOE JOBUJPOPGEJTDSJNJOBUJPOJOSFTQFDUPGFNQMPZNFOU QBUJPO OJOTQJSBUJPOBMHVJEFUPJNQMFNFOUJOH UIF6OJUFE/BUJPOT(MPCBM$PNQBDU NFOU FTTIPVMETVQQPSUBQSFDBVUJPOBSZBQQSPBDIUP NFOUBMDIBMMFOHFT LFJOJUJBUJWFTUPQSPNPUFHSFBUFSFOWJSPONFOUBM CJMJUZBOE HFUIFEFWFMPQNFOUBOEEJGGVTJPOPG NFOUBMMZGSJFOEMZUFDIOPMPHJFT SVQUJPO
