RECIPHARM AB COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT CEO statement UNIQUE GLOBAL PLATFORM FOR FUTURE GROWTH We made significant progress on our strategic commitments during the year – including the expansion of our geographic footprint beyond our strong European base, and building on our public listing in 2014 to leverage international investment. STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS our customers around the world with cost-effective develThrough acquisitions in 2016, we established a strategic opment services that are typically labour-intensive, such as presence in both the emerging Indian market, and the innoanalytical and quality services. This development capacity in vative US market. Our geographic footprint is now unique in an emerging market is again unique in the CDMO industry, the CDMO industry, and going forward we will capitalise on which we will capitalise on by integrating such services into our access to new customers, markets, capabilities and comour developing global business. mercial synergies – and all the opportunities this brings. In India, our acquisition of Nitin Lifesciences in April 2016, world’s largest CDMO market and one of the most innowhich manufactures injectables, gives us access to the vative, by acquiring a small development company. The rapidly expanding Indian market, as well as the growing acquisition provides us with a shop window for US customdemand for exports to other emerging markets. Our second ers, and we are now considering further acquisitions in the acquisition in India, which is a combined development and c manufacturing facility that was finalised in Q1 2017, is a start-up in Israel, which is also a highly innovative market game changer for Recipharm as it will allow us to provide albeit much smaller, with great potential for us to share cutting-edge expertise and services with the rest of the Group. / 2 / Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report CEO statement We also made complementary acquisitions to our strong Our cost efficiency programme in Sweden has led to positive portfolio in Europe. In February 2016, we acquired Mitim S.r.l results over the past two years. We believe there are further in Italy, which provides sterile liquids manufacturing serimprovement opportunities and we will seek to implement vices – a segment with good growth potential and attractive these during the coming years. margins. Another acquisition in Sweden was in the solids segment, which is a mature market, but gives us access to strategically important customers. Our geographic footprint is now INTEGRATING NEW ACQUISITIONS INTO THE GROUP The effective integration of new acquisitions into the unique in the CDMO industry, Recipharm Group is essential for the successful developand going forward we will capitalise ment of our business. Our approach to integration involves drawing on the local resources, expertise and management on our access to new customers, structures, whilst unifying them around our four core values markets, capabilities and commercial and our long heritage in the CDMO industry. synergies – and all the opportunities The integration of new acquisitions strengthens our custhis brings. tomer offering and provides opportunities for commercial synergies, such as using our geographic footprint to gain access to international markets for our acquired companies. OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Another important commercial synergy is cross-selling, As a company working with human health, it is natural for us where we can offer customers various manufacturing and to take our responsibility seriously. We also see increasing development services from our different facilities. interest in sustainability from our investors and employees. STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE In 2016, we identified the most important sustainability Building on our status as a listed company, we carried out issues together with our stakeholders. We also formally a rights issue of shares for the first time in June, which committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact, which strengthened our balance sheet and equity, and later we we have followed for many years. The principles are a base issued 1 billion SEK of convertible bonds in October. Issuing for our sustainability work going forward. This annual report such bonds is unusual among Swedish companies but has is also the first report in accordance with the sustainability provided us with access to international financial markets. A reporting guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative. benefit of being one of only a few listed CDMO companies is In 2017 we will be focusing our sustainability efforts on that we are more transparent, which provides greater secureducing greenhouse gas emissions and further improving rity for our customers and investors. governance of business ethics and supplier assessment. In 2016, we met our target EBITDA margin of 16 per cent. CAPITALISING ON OUR UNIQUE With net sales of SEK 4.7 billion, 38 per cent higher than OPPORTUNITIES AHEAD 2015, we are well positioned to achieve our growth target of We have some exciting years ahead of us at Recipharm, with at least SEK 8 billion in net sales by 2020. large transactions and numerous opportunities to capitalise upon. Our unique geographical footprint that we expanded We developed a good platform for future organic growth to cover three continents in 2016 also provides us with the during the year, with investments in increased lyophilisation foundations to become a global leader in the CDMO industry. capacity in Italy and Germany, and blow-fill-seal capacity in France, which are both segments with high growth potenFinally, I want to express my gratitude to all the hard work tial. Our new base in India also offers excellent potential for and fantastic personal investments that have been made organic growth – both in the rapidly growing Indian market, throughout the organisation this past year. We want to conand other emerging markets. tinue to be best-in-class in all areas of our operations, which makes your individual contributions essential to our longDuring the year, our plans to be a leader in serialisation – the term success. track and trace of pharmaceuticals – progressed according to plan and we are well positioned to meet the forthcoming regulations in the US in 2017, and the EU in 2019. Being ahead of the game in terms of serialisation will provide us with a competitive advantage and ensure that our organic growth is not limited by new industry regulations. STREAMLINING OUR OPERATIONS We have implemented lean programmes at almost all our Thomas Eldered, CEO facilities. Lean helps us make long-term step-by-step efficiency improvements, which have been particularly successful in our operations in Portugal and Spain for example during the year. Our new acquisitions in India also offer opportunities to streamline our operations by integrating cost-effective standardised services into our customer offering, which will provide us with competitive advantages. /3/ Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY Recipharm takes responsibility for all aspects of our operations by mitigating negative impacts, and taking advantage of opportunities. Recipharm's operations are based on the conviction that high ethical standards, accountability and good stakeholder relations create long-term benefits. This approach permeates all our decisions, policies and activities. NEW APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY In 2016, we began a process to improve our sustainability second focus area is supplier assessment and monitoring. work and develop our sustainability reporting. Recipharm Good relations with suppliers and other business parthas assigned to United Nations’ Global Compact and ners are important for Recipharm to be able to operate acknowledges the 10 principles concerning human rights, successfully. This also involves ensuring sustainable and anti-corruption, labour and environment. During the year ethical conduct among suppliers. The third focus area is we conducted stakeholder dialogues and identified three economic value. Good corporate governance means that focus areas going forward. the company is managed in accordance with the owners' interests, but also that Recipharm shall deliver value for Long-term success requires Recipharm to use natural other stakeholders, such as customers and employees. resources in a sustainable manner and continuously Effective management and control mechanisms influence reduce our environmental impact. One focus is thereexternal confidence in the company and ultimately its fore to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, primarily by ability to deliver good business results. working with energy consumption and transport. The FOCUS AREAS We have identified three focus areas going forward. More information about the rationale behind our priorities is included in our GRI-Appendix. Reduced greenhouse Supplier assessment and Economic value gas emissions monitoring Long-term success requires To be able to operate sucGood corporate governance in Recipharm to use natural resourcessfully, it is important that accordance with the owners' ces in a sustainable manner and Recipharm have good relations interests and delivering value continuously reduce our environwith business partners and to our stakeholders, such as mental impact. ensure sustainable and ethical customers and employees. conduct among suppliers. About the sustainability report This report also serves as Recipharm's Communication on This is the first year Recipharm reports sustainability infor­ Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. Recipharm’s mation in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI-Appendix with GRI-index and associated reporting (GRI) guidelines G4 – Core level. information is available on Recipharm's website www.recipharm.com/sustainability/gri-report /4/ Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report Sustainability OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES IN 2017 1 Establish sustainability reporting in During 2016, we have carried out stakeholder accordance with GRI G4 dialogues on sustainability with main shareholders, A priority in our sustainability work has been to ensure customers and employees. Together with a materithat our systems and processes are adapted to meet ality analysis, these discussions have been used as the requirements of the GRI Sustainability Guidelines. the basis for setting our objectives and priorities We conducted a materiality analysis during the year for 2017: to identify focus areas, performed a risk analysis and stakeholder dialogues. During the year, we also devel1 Reduce Recipharm's environmental impact. The oped processes to collect sustainability data. overall objective is to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions per employee. Our environ2 Assign to UN Global Compact mental management system will be developed to Recipharm assigned to the ten principles of United gradually certify all operating companies according Nations’ Global Compact in May 2016. Work on the to ISO 14001. adaptation of internal processes and management is ongoing and will continue throughout 2017. 2 Recipharm will continue to monitor suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct, with a focus 3 Develop Recipharm’s environmental on the suppliers of active ingredients (APIs). management system The ambition for Recipharm’s environmental manage3 Recipharm’s internal control and Business Conduct ment system is to achieve ISO 14001 certification in Guidelines will be further developed around proall our operating companies. The focus in 2016 has cesses for review, communication and training. been on Recipharm’s facilities in Brescia, Masate and Procedures for prevention of corruption will be Pessac. The facility in Pessac achieved ISO 14001 cerstrengthened. Work to develop internal processes tification in December 2016 and the facility in Masate to align with Global Compact will also continue. is expected to achieve certification in spring 2017. Work in Brescia is ongoing. 4 Develop internal governance Recipharm’s internal control systems and governance processes are continuously developed to ensure appropriate standards. Internal policies, including the Code of Conduct, have been updated in 2016. One priority has been our work with supplier auditing. We established a supplier Code of Conduct during the year, and have worked to communicate the Code and begin auditing supplier compliance. /5/ Sustainability EMPLOYEES Recipharm has grown substantially in recent years, priEMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT marily through acquisitions. As we continue to grow, our Employee competence and commitment are crucial to objective is to maintain Recipharm’s flat organisational Recipharm's future success. We value the competence and structure, which allows effective decision making. The collective industry experience of our employees, and we diversity we now have, combined with the resources availencourage personal development and initiatives for knowlable to a company of Recipharm’s size, is a valuable asset. edge sharing. At Recipharm, the exchange of professional skills and knowledge is similar to that of a small company, RECIPHARM’S EMPLOYEES but within an international network and brand. At the end of 2016, the Group had 3,537 (2,569) employees, of which 3,207 (2,314) on permanent contracts and Strategic competencies, positions and special areas critical for 330 (255) on temporary contracts. As the Group grows, Recipharm's success are identified. Employee development we strive to find a balance between the need to enrich the is therefore in line with the role and needs of the individual. organisation with new competence, whilst also drawing on Adequate training and development of people is ensured on existing experience and procedures. During 2016, employee local level. Individual performance and development reviews turnover within Recipharm was 13 per cent. should generally be carried out on an annual basis. HEALTH AND SAFETY EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY Recipharm shall be a safe, healthy and pleasant workplace. Recipharm's Code of Conduct states that all employees and All our companies have detailed employee and safety legisjob applicants should be treated equally. Discrimination based lation manuals to ensure we comply with the relevant labour on gender, gender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or and safety legislation. All employees have the right to join belief, disability, sexual orientation, or age may not occur. No trade unions, and we work actively with unions on health cases of discrimination were recorded in 2016. and safety issues. 83 per cent of Recipharm’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of Recipharm’s employees, 49 (55) per cent are women and 51 (45) per cent men. In management positions, 39 (40) Most of Recipharm's facilities currently have an occupational per cent are women and 61 (60) per cent men. Recipharm health and safety system certified according to OHSAS strives to increase the proportion of female managers. 18001. 52 per cent of the total workforce is represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. During the year, a total of 126 (134) work-related accidents were reported. Most involved minor injuries among manufacturing employees. The accident rate in 2016 was 0.023 (0,030) per cent, which is considered to be low. All operating companies actively monitor work-related 49% accidents and take corrective actions in the event accidents occur. 51% Sick leave amounted to 4.7 (5.0) per cent. Sick leave is relatively evenly distributed between men and women and between age groups. Follow up and possible actions are managed at local level. /6/ Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report Sustainability ENVIRONMENT Recipharm's greatest environmental impact is from Our direct emissions result from use of natural gas and energy consumption, emissions and waste at its manoil in manufacturing and development facilities, and from ufacturing and laboratory facilities. Emissions from company owned vehicles. Our indirect emissions result transports and travel also contribute to the company's from energy use in our manufacturing and development environmental impact. facilities, which relates to electricity consumption and use of district heating, cooling and steam. Indirect GHG emisENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM sions also include business travels. Recipharm's facilities all have the relevant environmental permits required by law in each country. All business units The increase in total GHG emissions in 2016 primarily are actively monitored and no deviations were noted in resulted from the company’s growth. Long-term, our most 2016. important measures to reduce GHG emissions will be related to energy consumption in our facilities. We are committed to ensuring that all our operating companies have environmental management systems certified In 2016, Recipharm worked with a number of projects to to ISO 14001. Our goal is to certify newly acquired facilireduce energy consumption by upgrading systems for venties to ISO within two years of being incorporated into the tilation, lightning and heating. Recipharm Group. In 2016, environmental management systems have been introduced in Pessac and Masate. WATER AND WASTE During 2017, we plan to continue the work in Italy and From 2016, we began to compile water and waste data for develop plans for our new facilities in Uppsala and India. all our manufacturing and development facilities. ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Our process wastewater primarily results from cleaning Reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) of equipment. The quantity of drug residues in our wasemissions are Recipharm's most important environmentewater is small and all Recipharm facilities are authorised tal objectives. We report our GHG emissions and how we to release wastewater into normal sewage systems for manage our climate impacts in the annual CDP Climate processing in treatment plants. In 2016, a sewer system Change questionnaire. Responding to CDP supports further downstream to our facility in Monts, France, was improvements in our environmental and climate work, and flooded due to rain. This caused contamination in the provides us with feedback on our climate reporting and nearby river. Water samples included product residues. actions. Recipharm’s CDP reporting in 2015 was graded at No deviations from normal routines were recorded at the level C-. The CDP data for 2016 will be submitted in May facility. Recipharm is cooperating with the local authorities 2017. to prevent such an incident in the future. In 2016, Recipharm's direct and indirect carbon emissions Because most of our facilities handle final formulation and amounted to 40,486 (30,422) tonnes. This is equivalent to packaging, with only a small number of chemical synt8.7 (9.0) tonnes per SEKm of sales and 13.8 (15.1) tonnes hesis operations, our emissions of solvents to the air are per employee. The calculation method was improved in small. All units comply with their respective environmental 2016 and data from previous years has been updated to permits by a wide margin. allow comparisons to be made. WATER AND WASTE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 50,000 10 Water 1,580,312 m3 Of which own 40,000 8 sources 969,814 m3 30,000 6 The water used is municipal water and ground water from own sources. 20,000 4 Most of the consumption is used in production processes in one specific 10,000 2 facility in Italy. 0 0 Waste 3,193 tonnes 2015 2016 Total emissions Of which hazardous waste 1,396 tonnes Emissions per SEKm sales The table shows total amount of The table shows Recipharm's total waste generated and waste defined amount of greenhouse gas emissions as hazardous. and emissions per SEKm of sales. /7/ Sustainability RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Recipharm's operations affect people's lives and health. SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS This means that, in addition to complying with laws and Our suppliers provide active ingredients, raw materials, regulations, our business must also be conducted in a packaging materials as well as machine and laboraresponsible and ethical manner. tory equipment. We also have agreements with service providers. To enable us to keep our commitments with GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS customers and other stakeholders, we place high standards Ethics are managed by our ethical guidelines – our Code of on safety, quality, price, performance and the capacity to Conduct. The guidelines cover business ethics and relations deliver. with employees, customers, suppliers, authorities, competitors and other actors. Our guidelines explicitly prohibit Our internal requirements on ethics, work environment and any interference that aims to create undue advantage conditions, environmental impact and management are for Recipharm and/or for individual employees. None of governed in Recipharm’s Global Policy. In 2016, we develoRecipharm’s operating companies during the year reported ped equivalent standards for suppliers in a Supplier Code deviations from the Code of Conduct. Compliance to the of Conduct. We strive to ensure that suppliers actively Code is reported and reviewed through a Letter of Assuendorse the requirements of the Supplier Code of Conduct, rance process. and we began the communication and follow-up of the Code in 2016. As part of our 2017 sustainability objectives, we will continue to develop the model for how we monitor our Code of There are legal requirements for us to make regular audits Conduct. The focus will be on implementation, monitoring of our suppliers to verify they comply with the pharmaand employee training. We also follow ongoing developmeceutical industry's quality system, Good Manufacturing nts concerning anti-corruption legislation and will continue Practice (GMP). In connection with these audits, complito strengthen the organisation and our competence to ance with our Supplier Code of Conduct will be reviewed. ensure necessary adaptation. If necessary, specific audits focusing on sustainability matters will be conducted. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Recipharm assigned to the United Nations’ Global Compact In 2016, Recipharm assessed twelve of our key suppliers. (UNGC) in May 2016. This means that Recipharm is comFour of the assessments generated action plans, but no mitted to promoting the UNGC's ten principles on human major deviations from the Code of Conduct were identified. rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We also support all internationally recognised principles on human rights, International Labour Organization (ILO) core conventions, and are committed to develop our work with these matters. OUR VALUES Entrepreneurship Reliability Professionalism Tenacity • We are innovative and • We create trust by always • We maintain a high level • We show commitment creative in finding ways delivering on promises of competence to deliver in everything we do to develop and improve • We deliver with quality a return on investment to • We are committed to our business and in time our stakeholders reaching our goals • We are open to change • We are honest and • We are flexible, service • We are persistent and but respect that it can always follow our Code minded and always lookwe will not give up easily take time to achieve of Conduct ing for the best solutions • If we encounter an • We have a “can do” atti• We learn from our obstacle, we try harder tude and always take on mistakes to find a solution challenges with a mind• We show respect – to set that nothing is too customers, peers, partdifficult ners and managers /8/ Introduction Market Strategy & targets Operations Sustainability Annual report Sustainability CASE: ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD RECIPHARM'S NINTH INTERNATIONAL Boxall’s research has led to an improved understandENVIRONMENTAL AWARD ing of the emerging ecological and health risks posed by chemical contaminants, including pharmaceuticals Recipharm grants annually the International and nanoparticles, in the natural environment. Environment Award for best environmental performance, practice or innovation, in order to encourage and inspire best practice and foster diaAlistair Boxall’s work, which extends far logue in the pharmaceutical industry. beyond measuring concentration levels, has helped change attitudes and improve This year Alistair Boxall, professor in environmental understanding of the detection, fate, effect and science at the University of York, was granted the risks of contaminants on both human health and award for his research into the impact of chemical contaminants on the environment and human health. whole ecosystems. Spanning more than two decades, Professor Alistair Lars Backsell, Chairman of the Board of Recipharm OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY Recipharm companies engage in DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED social aspects relevant to Recipharm's operations. Our companies work locally with various issues depending on local priorities. Our internal guidelines for ethical behaviour – the Operating costs 53% Code of Conduct – govern which actiEmployee wages and benefits 33% vities local companies can engage in. Payments to providers of capital 3% We take our responsibility to operate Payments to government 4% within the framework of competition Economic value retained 7% law in all our activities. The Recipharm Code of Conduct complements this legislation and prohibits partnerships or agreements with competitors regarding price, Net sales in 2016 totalled SEKm 4,678 (3,389). The diagram shows how much that was reinvested and distributed to Recipharm's stakeholders. terms or other areas. We operate in a strictly regulated market, where all our products and services are subject to regulation and requirements regarding ingredients, preparation and quality control. /9/ RECIPHARM GRI APPENDIX 2016 Recipharm’s sustainability report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines G4, level Core. Our sustainability report is presented yearly as part of our annual report, and this document supplements the information provided in the annual report. No third party has audited the sustainability report and we will evaluate the need for external review. In this document, we present our GRI-index, describe our stakeholder dialogue and how we have selected our most material sustainability aspects. We also outline the underlying methods and assumptions used for the sustainability data. / 10 / GRI INDEX The following list references the GRI indicators that Recipharm has decided to report on. AR = Annual report; GRI = GRI Appendix; DMA = Disclosure on Management Approach Indicator Description Reference G4-1 CEO’s statement on the organisation’s sustainability strategy AR 4–5 G4-3 Name of the organisation AR 29 G4-4 Primary products and services AR 18–21 G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters AR 1 G4-6 Countries where operations are conducted AR 1 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 88–89 G4-8 Markets served AR 1 G4-9 Scale of the organisation AR 1,3, 55, 61 G4-10 Total number of employees GRI 24 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements GRI 24 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain AR 6–8, 10 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 2–3 G4-14 Organisation’s compliance with the precautionary principle GRI 4 G4-15 External initiatives that the organisation subscribes or endorses AR 23 G4-16 Memberships of associations GRI 3–4 G4-17 Entities included in the scope of the report AR 58–59, GRI 3 G4-18 Process for defining report content AR 22–23, GRI 3 G4-19 Material aspects of sustainability identified GRI 3 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation GRI 3 G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organisation GRI 3 G4-22 Restatements of information AR 22 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reports AR 22 G4-24 Stakeholder groups with whom the organisation is engaged GRI 3 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders GRI 3 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement GRI 3 G4-27 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement GRI 3 G4-28 Reporting period GRI 1 G4-29 Date of publication of most recent report AR 22 G4-30 Reporting cycle GRI 1 G4-31 Contact person for questions regarding the report GRI 4 G4-32 Reporting level and GRI Index GRI 1 G4-33 External audit GRI 1 G4-34 Governance structure for the company AR 26, 33–36 G4-56 The organisation’s values, codes of conduct etc. AR 26 DMA Economic performance AR 11–13, 27 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 27 DMA Emissions AR 22–23, 25 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) GRI 4 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GRI 4 DMA Supplier assessment for environment, labor practices, impacts on society and human rights AR 22–23, 26, GRI 3 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken AR 26, GRI 3 LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken AR 26, GRI 3 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken AR 26, GRI 3 SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken AR 26, GRI 3 DMA Occupational health and safety AR 24 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender GRI 4 Re ci p ha rm GR I Appen di x 2016 / 11 / STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Recipharm has identified employees, customers, owners, investors, analysts, suppliers and government agencies as key stakeholders. The company has an ongoing dialogue with all relevant stakeholders regarding important business topics, including sustainability. As part of preparing priorities and reporting, Recipharm has had specific meetings with the four largest institutional owners, carried out a survey with employees and conducted two workshops within the Group Management Team. Recipharm’s key stakeholders Forum for dialogue Key topics and Recipharm’s response Owners, investors and • Regular meetings • Scope and objectives analysts • Ongoing contact • Prioritized areas • Capital Market Day • Current performance • Annual general meeting • Planned activities • Annual Report Employees • Regular dialogue • Performance reviews • Performance reviews • Personal and team contribution to sustainability • Conferences • Wider input survey open for all employees Customers • Ongoing contact • Customer meetings addressing sustainability • Responding to several customers’ • Customers’ sustainability requirements sustainability surveys • Recipharm’s performance regarding sustainability Suppliers • Procurement requirements • Start of implementation of Recipharm’s Supplier Code of Conduct • Ongoing contact • Sustainability assessments included in supplier quality audits • Supplier audits Government agencies • Ongoing contact • No specific topics raised in 2016 The table shows Recipharm’s key stakeholders, the forum for dialogues and their key topics and Recipharm’s response. Recipharm is also responding to the key Boundaries topics and concerns in the annual report and this GRI Appendix. Recipharm’s sustainability report covers the entire Group, excluding the newly acquired operations in India, unless other is stated. The material sustainability aspects have impacts on our own business and our employees. MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Some of the aspects have impacts beyond Recipharm’s organizational Recipharm conducted a materiality analysis during 2016. The analysis boundaries, such as assessment and monitoring of suppliers. In the was based on Recipharm’s strategy, sustainability context and sustainability report, we continuously describe the impact of each stakeholder expectations. Recipharm’s management team made sustainability aspect, both within and outside the company. the prioritizing of the most material sustainability topics. The table below lists the sustainability topics that have been defined as the most material to Recipharm. GOVERNANCE As a company listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Mid Cap Recipharm follows Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Recipharm has developed Material GRI G4 aspects a number of governing documents, such as the Code of Conduct and • Economic Performance Internal Control Standards. Auditing and monitoring are achieved with the help of external resources and through self-evaluation. Self-evaluation • Emissions includes monitoring of local companies’ compliance with Recipharm’s Code of Conduct, Internal Control Standards and other rules and guide• Supplier Environmental Assessment lines through a Letter of Assurance process. • Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society • Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Targets are monitored regularly and Recipharm’s operating companies • Supplier Human Rights Assessment are responsible for implementation and management. Overall control is carried out at the group with direct feedback to the CEO and the Board. • Occupational Health and Safety Recipharm applies an ISO 14001 certified environmental management The table shows Recipharm’s material sustainability aspects. system and a management system for health and safety, certified Recipharm’s sustainability report focus on the material topics but also according to OSHAS 18001, across the majority of Operating Companies. addresses other aspects of sustainability when relevant. Recipharm will Internal governing document Global Policy was introduced 2005 and develop the sustainability work gradually and have an active dialogue complemented in 2008 with Recipharm’s Code of Conduct. Recipharm with stakeholders for input on Recipharm’s priorities and improvements. became members of the UN Global Compact in 2016, a commitment to support the ten principles regarding human rights, anti-corruption, Re ci p ha rm GR I Appen di x 2016 / 12 / labour and environment. Recipharm is taking the precautionary KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS approach into account in the company’s risk management processes. This section contains data on disclosures that are not fully reported in Work methods and processes are constantly adapted to external expectathe annual report. tions, requirements and legislation relevant to Recipharm. Recipharm is a member of the Swedish Life Science Industry Organization, SwedenBIO, Greenhouse gas emissions 2016 2015 where Recipharm’s CEO is a member of the board. Scope 1 (Use of natural gas and oil in premises, and fuel in company vehicles) 15,379 12,442 BACKGROUND DATA FOR GHG CALCULATIONS Scope 2 (Electricity, district heating, All calculations are made according to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. cooling and steam) 24,436 17,517 Direct GHG emissions in Scope 1 includes combustion of natural gas and Scope 3 (Business travel by train and airplane) 671 463 oil for our factories and premises and fuel for company vehicles. Energy Total 40,486 30,422 indirect GHG emissions in Scope 2 include consumption of electricity, district heating, cooling and steam. Emissions of other indirect GHGs The table shows the total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the reported sources. in Scope 3 include business travel by train and airplane, but exclude e.g. upstream and downstream transportation of products due to insufficient data. Number of employees Share of Share of 2016 women 2015 women Calculation of Total number of GHG emissions Source of data employees 3,537 49 % 2,569 55 % Permanent contract 3,207 49 % 2,314 56 % Combustion of natural Conversion factor for natural gas and oil gas and oil from Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Full time 2,979 46 % 2,111 52 % Part time 228 91 % 203 91 % Fuel from business Statistics on fuel consumed or distance travel in company travelled gathered from employee expenTemporary contract 330 52 % 255 53 % vehicles ses. Assumptions of gasoline cars when The table shows the total number of employees by employment contract and unknown and conversion factors from gender. Greenhouse gas protocol. Electricity Country by country data for conversion factors from “Reliable Disclosure Health and safety 2016 2015 Systems for Europe – Phase II” (RE-DISS II) project, which was supported by the Injury rate (IR), number of injuries European Commission through the Intelliper working day 0.00023 0.00030 gent Energy Europe (IEE). When specific Occupational diseases rate (ODR) rate based agreement for 100 % renewable energy, on number of occupational diseases per zero emissions assumed. working day 0.00004 0.00002 Lost day rate (LDR) rate based on number District heating, cooling Statistics from suppliers. of lost days from injuries and occupational and steam diseases per working day 0.00343 0.00185 Absentee rate (AR) rate based on number Business travel Data on emissions from travel agencies of days of absence per working day 0.04745 0.05046 when possible, conversion factors from Greenhouse gas protocol when only disThe table shows the rate of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absentance travelled is known. tee. No work-related fatalities in the reporting period. No information on independent contractors. Transportation of Insufficient activity data, further material and other evaluation during 2017. potentially relevant indirect emission sources Economic value generated and distributed 2016 2015 Revenues 4,678 3,389 Operating costs -2,459 -1,759 Employee wages and benefits -1,551 -1,176 Payments to providers of capital -119 -77 Payments to government -200 133 Economic value retained 350 511 The table shows the direct economic value generated and distributed. Contact For questions regarding our sustainability report, contact Erik Haeffler, Head of CSR, erik.haeffler@recipharm.com. Re ci p ha rm GR I Appen di x 2016 / 13 /
