Inspiring Your Digital Life Sustainability Report 2016 Making it easy is one of the core values of the Telenor Way, and this is what we have a9empted to in this sustainability report. It may look simplis?c, but embedding sustainability at Digi is anything but that. Our sustainability report is to communicate transparently with stakeholders on our sustainability ini?a?ves. We welcome stakeholders to engage on issues raised or indicate informa?on they would like to read about in our future disclosure. Visit www.digi.com.my/sustainability to view the online version of this report. CONTENT 4 CEO’S MESSAGE 13 WINNING TEAM CLIMATE CHANGE 5 ABOUT DIGI 16 AND ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY EMPOWER 7 18 GOVERNANCE SOCIETIES 10 STAKEHOLDERS 21 DATA REPORT SCOPE 11 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE GRI 4 CEO’s MESSAGE Welcome to Digi’s 2016 sustainability governance, and ensure robust privacy reach and impact of these programmes to report. Our sustainability report is a pla;orm protocols are in place. reduce inequaliBes in various aspects of for stakeholders to gain a deeper society. understanding of our eﬀorts to be a We conBnue to enable a working environment that allows our employees the These sustainability pracBces are guided by responsible business and to empower socieBes. We welcome engagement on freedom to inspire the next. Our inclusive a sharpened framework in 2016 mapped culture conBnues to elevate gender diversity against the Sustainable Development Goals these sustainability issues to ensure our in our leadership team and across our (SDG), a landmark global commitment of 17 business is built for the future. organisaBon. A suite of apps help Digizens to goals to collecBvely end poverty, protect the Sustainability at Digi is seen in the context of connect and stay engaged. We invested in planet, and ensure prosperity for all by 2030. our overall business ambiBon, which is to be three digital learning pla;orms to allow We have prioriBsed SDG 10 to reducing our customers’ favourite partner in digital learning by anyone, at anyBme, from inequaliBes, by leveraging on our digital life by 2020. We commit to achieving this by anywhere. We launched mulBple innovaBon competencies to build a sustainable world operaBng in a responsible manner, pla;orms that have received overwhelming for all. assembling a winning team that engages, response from Digizens who want to be part Our sustainability leadership eﬀorts are understands and develops innovaBve digital of our digital transformaBon. services that is delivered on an eﬃcient deeply embedded in our business strategy, Our commitment to responsible, fair and and a way of doing business that will network to our customers. safe workplace extends to the over 75,000 conBnue to have the highest aIenBon of our The mobile internet is increasingly the basis individuals esBmated to be working in our Management team. This underscores our upon which we integrate the world to the supply chain. The rollout of the Digi determinaBon to be a trusted company, many opportuniBes that advances the way Permission to Work app has allowed us to be delivering services to our customers that we live, work, learn, share, and solve societal more eﬀecBve in governing the performance guarantee their safety and privacy, creaBng challenges to create a beIer future. We of safety in our supply chain, and help to an inclusive, digitally-enabled and want everyone to leverage on the beneﬁts of uncover more cases of major nondevelopment-focused workplace for our a digitally connected world, as we believe compliance by our contractors. people, building trust with our stakeholders that a connected society is an empowered across our supply chain grounded in our zero society. We remain steadfast to conBnue exploring tolerance policy on corrupBon and HSSE cost eﬃcient technologies to reduce our compliance, digitally empower communiBes DemonstraBng responsibility and carbon emissions. Our goal is to stabilise the while ensuring the cybersafety of our accountability remains at the core of being a energy consumpBon in our network while children, and respec;ully manage our impact sustainable business. Our Code of Conduct growing our market share. With the on the environment. We remain steadfast to outlines our expectaBon of all Digizens, and raBﬁcaBon of the Paris Agreement to conBnue se\ng the standard of excellence we mandate training to drive a message that address climate change, our industry can and industry leadership in this area, and look we won’t compromise on integrity. The play a signiﬁcant role to enable reducBon of forward to working with partners who share launch of a third party independent hotline carbon emissions in other sectors by rolling in our commitment to high standards of for Digizens, supplier and stakeholders to out digital soluBons. integrity, and vision of building a connected speak up on any non-compliance to our and empowered society. Code, has contributed to an increase in Our aim to create a more sustainable future for everyone enabled by connecBvity has incidents reported. seen us strengthen our community impact As we connect more customers to the programmes. We took a deeper posiBon on internet, ensuring the privacy of our online child safety and our CyberSAFE customers’ is protected is even more important. We have invested signiﬁcant programme by working with partners to organise forums and events. Aided by the Albern Murty resources and training to strengthen launch of several new innovaBve digital pla;orms, we were able to help scale the Chief ExecuNve Oﬃcer 5 ABOUT DIGI PERFORMANCE RM6.23B 45% RM1.67B NORMALISED PROFIT SERVICE REVENUE EBITDA MARGIN AFTER TAX Our ambiBon is to be our customers’ favourite partner in digital life. CUSTOMERS We are a mobile telecommunica?ons company providing mobile voice, internet and digital services. With over 20 years of opera?ons, we have built a strong legacy of product and services innova?on. 12.3M 8.1M 3-4GB AVERAGE MONTHLY INTERNET DATA USAGE BY Our ambi?on now is to become our customers’ favourite partner in their digital lives providing relevant, personalised and engaging digital CUSTOMERS products and services that will further enable all Malaysians’ digital lifestyles. We will achieve this through developing digital products and CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS services that are loved by customers, delivered over an eﬃcient, consistent and responsive network, supported by a winning team, and working in a transparent and responsible manner. We serve over 12.3 million customers across Malaysia, oﬀering a wide porLolio of market-leading, mobile connec?vity and data services. Delivered on Malaysia’s widest 4G LTE network, we reach 85% popula?on coverage across 275 ci?es and towns na?onwide. COVERAGE We are part of global telecommunica?ons provider Telenor Group, recognised as a leader in driving progressive and responsible business 41% prac?ces. Four Strategic Pillars that Support Our 2020 AmbiNon FOOTPRINT 85% #1 4G LTE NETWORK WIDEST LTE-A COVERAGE LATENCY NETWORK Creating a strong and engaging Leveraging digital tools, customer relationship, technologies and ways of satisfying our customers’ work to become most cost RETAIL digital needs efficient operator in our markets Creating a winning team with a Responsible, accountable and >15,000 customer-driven, collaborative transparent because it makes RETAIL TOUCHPOINTS NATIONWIDE WITH culture good business sense 100% DIGITAL AND PAPERLESS EXPERIENCE 6 OUR PEOPLE SUPPLY CHAIN 2,048 76% 33% DIGITISING SAFETY 37:1 EMPLOYEE COVERED BY EMPLOYEES ENGAGEMENT COLLECTIVE Digi’s Permit to Work is Malaysia’s ﬁrst loca?onJOBS CREATED WITH SCORE BARGAINING based app to strengthen HSE governance at sites EACH DIGI HIRE DIVERSITY SAFETY 44% 40% 40% 11 HSSE WOMAN OF THE 12 IMPROVEMENT IN CONTRACTORS AND DRIVING INDUSTRY COLLABORATION TO SUBCONTRACTORS 56% LEADERSHIP TEAM NATIONALITIES MINOR NONTERMINATED OR STANDARDISE HEALTH MEN ARE WOMEN COMPLIANCE AND SAFETY SUSPENDED UPSKILLING OUR COMMUNITY RM4M 3 29,000 4 ONLINE SAFETY NEW DIGITAL NEW DIGITAL COMMUNITY INVESTED IN PEOPLE TOTAL LEARNING WORKING WITH PARTNERS TO END LEARNING PLATFORMS TO EMPOWER DEVELOPMENT HOURS ONLINE CHILD SEXUAL EXPLOITATION PLATFORM SOCIETIES INNOVATION EMISSIONS 3 180 2 <1% 11.8% 1.25% NEW PLATFORMS FOR GENERATING NEW EMPLOYEES IN INNOVATION NEW DIGITAL GROWTH IN VS INCREASE IN GROWTH VENTURE STARTUPS CO2 EMISSIONS PER KWH IDEAS INTRODUCED PROGRAMMES FOUNDED CUSTOMERS PER CUSTOMER PER CUSTOMER AWARDS AWARDS BEST MALAYSIAN ORGANISATION BY TALENT CORP MALAYSIA ACCA MALAYSIA FTSE4GOOD FTSE4GOOD CHANNEL NEWS ASIA SUSTAINABILITY EMERGING MARKET BURSA MALAYSIA SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING AWARDS INDEX 2016 INDEX 2016 RANKING 2016 (MaSRA 2016) DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY 8 SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Our commitment to sustainability leadership is deeply embedded in our business strategy. We believe our posi?on, governance and management of material In 2016, we mapped our sustainability framework to include the issues have an impact on the long term success of our business, and are also what’s important to our stakeholders. This approach ensures Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), a landmark global commitment to collec?vely end poverty, protect the planet, and BUILDING ON CORE VALUES SUPPORTING GLOBAL GOALS we build trust with stakeholders to future proof our opera?ons, give ensure prosperity for all by 2030. The SDG accelerates expecta?ons us a compe??ve advantage to a9ract the best talent, remain agile in for the private sector to join the interna?onal community in taking delivering our services, while engaging communi?es to create a be9er meaningful ac?on. As part of Telenor Group, we have priori?sed Goal future together. 10 in Reducing Inequali?es, leveraging on our digital competencies and strength. We are commi9ed to the United Na?ons Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights which holds us accountable to respect and remedy any adverse impacts on human rights linked to our opera?ons. We are signatory to the UN Global Compact Principles, SUSTAINABLE which encompasses commitment to an?-corrup?on, labour standards and protec?ng the environment. We adhere to the Interna?onal Four Key Outcomes of Telenor DEVELOPMENT GOALS by 2020 Labour Organisa?on Core Labour Standards of freedom of Reduced Inequali?es associa?on, recognising the right to collec?ve bargaining, elimina?on • Support income growth for poor and disenfranchised of forced and child labour, and discrimina?on in our opera?ons and popula?ons through s?mula?ng ecosystem that of our suppliers. employment. Our sustainability framework underscores our commitment to EMPOWER SOCIETIES operate an accountable, transparent business. It steers our focus to • Leverage digital services and connec?vity in innova?ve ways to address social and economic challenges. Safe Internet uphold ethical and responsible conduct across our opera?ons, build a highly mo?vated, skilled and collabora?ve workforce, and reduce our Digital Enablement environmental impact. It also guides our broader purpose of • Create opportuni?es for meaningful and safe digital empowering communi?es to address social, economic and par?cipa?on for everyone. environment inequali?es by working with like-minded partners to RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS scale and accelerate the rollout of appropriate digital solu?ons for the Raise opera?ng standards in line with interna?onal best Ethics and Compliance • be9erment of local communi?es. prac?ces, and improve working condi?ons through supply chain sustainability. Winning Team Climate Change and Environment 9 GOVERNANCE MATERIALITY Sustainability is under the division of the Chief Execu?ve Oﬃcer. The Ethics and Sustainability is a standing quarterly agenda to the Digi Our materiality assessment is conducted based on a methodology our opera?onal context, corporate strategy and stakeholder Head of Communica?ons and Sustainability oversees the daily Board of Directors. Non-ﬁnancial Repor?ng (NFR) on social and developed by the Global Repor?ng Ini?a?ve (GRI). This methodology expecta?on. Feedback from stakeholders is reviewed and addressed opera?ons of the team to meet a set of non-ﬁnancial Key environmental data is collected on a quarterly and annual basis by the is linked to the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008) developed by by relevant func?onal personnel. Issues that are strategically Performance Indicators (KPIs) that are established jointly with Telenor NFR Coordinator and signed oﬀ by the Chief Financial Oﬃcer. AccountAbility. important to our business are subsequently integrated into our Group Sustainability. corporate strategy, and form the basis for our sustainability focus We align our materiality issues with Telenor Group’s matrix. Issues areas and related ini?a?ves. We conduct a biennial human rights risk assessment to iden?fy areas iden?ﬁed by Telenor is assessed and priori?sed according to Sustainability KPIs are monitored and reported on a quarterly basis to where there are risks of complicity to human rights abuse. Findings of the Ethics & Sustainability Forum. Chaired by the Chief Execu?ve the assessment are addressed to the Management Team. Where Oﬃcer, the forum includes the Chief Human Resource Oﬃcer, Chief there are poten?al areas of complicity, we have developed Network Oﬃcer, and Chief Corporate Aﬀairs Oﬃcer. transparent processes and conducted engagement with stakeholders to minimise any poten?al of complicity in our opera?ons. Materiality Matrix Quarterly Repor1ng Management Team Board of Directors Ethics & AnB-CorrupBon Digital Responsibility Service Reliability & • Oversee Digi’s Sustainability • Responsible for sustainable business Quality HIGH Performance policies Enabling Services • Oversee ethics and sustainability related Sustainable Supply Chain risks and progress of non-ﬁnancial KPIs IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Quarterly Repor1ng Employees Quarterly EMF Telenor Group Sustainability MEDIUM Repor1ng Energy Eﬃciency Waste Management Ethics & Sustainability Forum Data Security & Privacy • Set KPIs and alignment • Quarterly reporBng of supply • Formulate sustainability strategy, policies chains KPI and goals • Annual non-ﬁnancial reporBng • Monitor and facilitate adherence to the sustainability policy • Support divisions to meet sustainability LOW Tax Licences goals Ongoing • Conduct sustainability awareness & Divisions engagement acBviBes • Sustainability performance reporBng • Day to day management of LOW MEDIUM HIGH sustainability risks and issues • Ensure compliance of relevant RELEVANCE FOR DIGI TELECOMMUNICATIONS sustainability related policies 10 STAKEHOLDERS We engage, understand and respond to expectaBons of our stakeholders in a transparent way. These individuals, communi?es and ins?tu?ons are aﬀected and can impact our business opera?ons and our sustainability eﬀorts. We u?lise a wide range of plaLorms to engage stakeholders to ensure we are accessible to our stakeholders. Issues raised by stakeholders is priori?sed and validated with relevant key personnel and func?onal representa?ves, including Digi's Board of Directors. The following table provides a list of our key stakeholder groups, the various engagement plaLorms and some key issues which are raised. ENGAGEMENT PLATFORMS ISSUES HOW WE ADDRESSED ENGAGEMENT PLATFORMS ISSUES HOW WE ADDRESSED ‣ Aﬀordability of internet ‣ ‣ Regular reports and informa?on Rolled out the na?on’s widest 4G Local and overseas non-deal ‣ Corporate strategy and sharing with Ministry and ‣ Quality of calls LTE network. We organised several roadshows ﬁnancial performance We conducted quarterly brieﬁngs regulators to analysts and investors on ‣ Spectrum alloca?on incubators and challenges to ‣ Corporate presenta?ons ‣ Corporate governance business performance and strategy ‣ Public-private partnership engage and support the digital start ‣ and compliance REGULATORS ini?a?ves ‣ Na?onal digital innova?on up communi?es. INVESTORS & Analyst brieﬁngs agenda ANALYSTS ‣ Product presenta?ons ‣ Health and safety in supply chain ‣ Network coverage We launched the MyDigi app and We conducted informa?on sharing ‣ Digi retail outlets the Mobile Sales App which gives ‣ Annual Self-Assessment ‣ Mi?ga?ng nonand training with business partners ‣ Bill disputes customers more autonomy to the Ques?onnaires compliance in supply and increased compliance audits to ‣ Customer service channels ‣ Service quality (MyDigi app, Mobile Sales App, types of services, and enhance ‣ Site inspec?ons and audits chain ensure they meet our supplier their customer experience. Our standards social media, 24-hour helpline) ‣ subscrip?on of services BUSINESS ‣ CUSTOMERS network technical teams engaged ‣ Training for suppliers An?-corrup?on and ‣ Communica?ons and Mul?media directly with customers which have PARTNERS business integrity ‣ Barred accounts with issues over our network Consumer Forum Malaysia Credit Repor?ng Agency performance CTOS ‣ Corporate strategy We conducted regular media engagements to share business ‣ Media interviews, brieﬁngs, ‣ Financial performance performance and strategy updates, launch of new products and ‣ Best of People Council events, and familiarisa?on visits ‣ Products and services services, and clarify issues of ‣ Digi Telecommunica?ons Sdn Bhd MEDIA ‣ Customer related issues customers’ concerns Employee Union ‣ Career planning and development Our Employee Engagement Scores ‣ Annual Employee Engagement averaged 76% over three years, and EMPLOYEES Survey ‣ Fair and transparent is above that of high performing rewards companies, and Malaysian ‣ Mul?ple internal engagement companies. We launched a range of ‣ Leveraging mobile Digi’s CyberSAFETM, Challenge for channels (CEO's emails, Digimail, ‣ Ac?ve engagement process innova?on plaLorms to engage and ‣ Engage and partner with other technology on mee?ng Change, and Wanita Era Digital are Workplace, quarterly company across the region by Digi local social needs and support our digital journey. corporates, industries and NGO core programmes to our Empower and division townhall) management team issues forums to iden?fy issues and Socie?es. The programme has ‣ Leadership forums with extended concerns in the community. ‣ Concerns of safe internet engaged over 130,000 individuals and middle management COMMUNITY use by young children since its incep?on & NGOs 11 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE We believe in establishing a BROADENING DUE BUILDING LIKE-MINDED DILIGENCE ALLIANCES business environment with partners who share our commitment to high standards of ethics and integrity. Business managers are now required to conduct an Integrity Due We are a member of the Business Integrity Alliance (BIA), a private Diligence (IDD) assessment for all business partners. The IDD serves sector ini?a?ve comprising companies commi9ed to doing business to measure the level of integrity held by poten?al business partners. with integrity. Through collec?ve ac?on, the BIA allows members to The IDD ﬁndings are reviewed by the ethics and compliance, and the engage relevant government agencies and stakeholders to address Anchored on the founda?ons of our principles and core values, we con?nuously assess and improve our internal processes to demonstrate these commitments to our partners. Our focus in ethics and compliance are on an?-corrup?on, customer privacy, consumer responsibility, supply chain procurement teams before contracts are awarded. corrup?on aﬀec?ng the business environment, and at the same ?me sustainability, and safe use of equipment. create value in the preserva?on of business integrity. ANTI-CORRUPTION PROTECTING PRIVACY Digi has a zero tolerance towards corrupt prac?ces and has a Respec?ng and safeguarding our customers’ privacy is a strong TRAINING AND IMPROVING structured approach to integrate ethics and an?-corrup?on commitment we make in enabling trust in our services. We are considera?ons across all process, func?ons and levels. We embed SUPPORT commi9ed to keeping our customer’s personal data safe and secure, COMPLIANCE these values into our corporate DNA through a range of policies, and be transparent in how we collect and use their data. procedures and training that applies to all employees. We developed and launched the ‘Say No to Corrup?on Training’, Privacy by design ensures that protocols regula?ng the collec?on, use consis?ng of an e-learning module and a face-to-face scenario A Privacy Oﬃcer oversees the governance of privacy and ensures and disposal of personal data are built into all our systems and An Ethics and Compliance oﬃcer oversees the governance of compliance with the Personal Data Protec?on Act 2010 and our training based on ethical dilemmas faced by employees. The integrity processes before it is rolled out. We ?ghtened privacy governance integrity. Repor?ng to the Head of Legal and Compliance, the Ethics scenario training began with the Digi Management team, and all Privacy Policy. Repor?ng to the Head of Legal and Compliance, we and compliance in the year, and incorporated privacy by design & Compliance oﬃcer has direct quarterly repor?ng to Digi conduct an annual privacy risk and impact assessment which is people managers had the responsibility to engage and train their Management, and the Audit and Risk Commi9ee to ensure full assessed by Telenor against a performance scorecard. Our security protocol into all opera?onal ac?vi?es, and business and vendor direct reports once they were trained by their respec?ve immediate selec?on processes. independence. An integrity risk assessment is conducted annually by managers. systems are ISO 27000 Informa?on Security Management Systems Telenor, which guides workplan for the year. cer?ﬁed to ensure robustness of our processes. INCREASING A CULTURE Digizens completed TRANSPARENCY OF INTEGRITY 86% ‘Say No to CorrupAon Training’ by 31st December 2016 RAISING AWARENESS We are commi9ed to analysing customers’ data to provide them with be9er value and relevant services with their consent. The launch of a All Digizens are guided by the Code of Conduct which sets the Over 60 privacy ambassadors from various func?ons help drive the new privacy no?ce ensures we are data network analysis compliant, standard for proper business conduct with customers, stakeholders privacy agenda within their divisions. We rolled out a mandatory and that we help customers understand their rights to the use of their and partners. It deﬁnes the culture and the main principles by which BUILDING e-learning informa?on handling training to ensure all Digizens data. we create value. All employees must read, acknowledge and sign the AWARENESS understand the importance of privacy, and to live the values of Code of Conduct annually. safeguarding customers’ data at all ?mes. RESPONSIBLE Following the Integrity and Ethics Survey 2015, we conducted focus ENABLING group sessions and roadshows with Division leaders and employees HANDLING OF REQUESTS to discuss ﬁndings and solu?ons. Key focus areas were in managing REPORTING exposure to corrup?on, conﬂict of interest, girs and business We respect the right to privacy and freedom of expression while courtesies, and improving trust in the whistle blowing policy. These RESPECTING & recognising that we operate under legal provisions of the The launch of an independent integrity hotline contributed to the engagements allowed us to be9er understand ethical dilemmas faced SAFEGUARDING Communica?ons & Mul?media Act 1988. In 2016, we invited the repor?ng of compliance issues that were more complex, substan?ve, by our employees, and for them to have more conﬁdence to report CUSTOMERS’ DATA Telecommunica?ons Industry Dialogue Group to engage regulators and a 37% year-on-year increase of issues reported. Almost half of compliance incidents and understand management’s expecta?ons of OUR COMMITMENT and industry peers on emerging issues on data privacy and rights of the reports were related to business integrity. behaving with integrity. users. 12 CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Every customer interac?on across key channels is rated, and We expect business partners to adopt our high standards of business detractors engaged to improve services. We want to deliver RESOLVING conduct, working condi?ons and environmental management. TRAINING experiences that delight our customers. Every customer interac?on DISPUTES Through the Supplier Conduct Principles and the Agreement of across key channels is rated, and detractors engaged to improve Responsible Business Conduct, we help business partners build We conducted 2,050 man hours of supplier training with our services. We conduct extensive customer engagement at stores, Bill disputes were one of the top three detractors raised by customers across the industry. We were the ﬁrst in the industry to introduce a capacity and reduce inequali?es. Our inspec?on teams conduct contractors and sub-contractors. The training focused on safety quarterly network drive tests, and the annual Customer First Day engagement, inspec?ons, and training to ensure workers’ rights are awareness, proper skills and use of equipment, and ins?lling a safety ensures we have a constant pulse on crea?ng experiences that customer guarantee to resolve a customer’s bill dispute within 24 respected and safety are protected. culture among network rollout partners. delights customers. hours, or they will receive a full waiver on the disputed amount. We have seen a reduc?on in escala?on of cases, a signiﬁcant drop in We are members of the Communica?ons & Mul?media Consumer Forum (CFM) which protects consumer rights by ensuring service repeated calls on billing, and improvement in NPS on billing PROMOTING adjustment. providers adhere to the requirements of the General Consumer Code DIGITISING COLLABORATION and the Internet Access Code and resolve issues within a s?pulated ?me frame. GOVERNANCE We partnered with industry peers to conduct a baseline calibra?on of INNOVATING We completed the rollout of the Digi Permit to Work (D’PTW) app to health and safety requirements. This baseline led to the development ENGAGING NETWORK of a common industry safety standard, which was endorsed by ﬁve SERVICES all our main contractors and their sub-contractors. This digital industry CEOs. This common standard will transform the industry’s DETRACTORS loca?on-based app has allowed us to strengthen the governance of safety culture, allow for cost savings, and increase eﬃciencies for all The MyDigi app was designed as an intui?ve self-management of monitoring compliance to safety requirement of workers at our base stakeholders. Our network and technical backend teams take responsibility of sta?ons and technical sites. For the ﬁrst ?me, the app allows our relevant Digi services such as bill payment, services subscrip?on, and customers’ experience by engaging and understanding the challenges account status. Over 75% of the 1.6 million ac?ve users log on at inspec?on team to have a real-?me overview of when, and where our of network detractors. Members of the teams volunteer to call least once a month, and is rated consistently as one of the Top 5 apps contractors and sub-contractors are working. This enables eﬃcient INTERNALISING detractors to deep dive on issues and a9empt to provide resolu?ons. deployment of inspectors to respec?ve sites. on Google PlayStore Malaysia. The digital Mobile Sales App (MSA) has SAFETY Informa?on collated from this Network Net Promoter Score (NPS) reduced customers’ average wai?ng and handling ?me at stores by exercise is then cross-referenced against our network performance 35% and 16% respec?vely. Average registra?on ?me is now only 20 We conducted 984 inspec?ons, of which 99% were unannounced. We apply the same high level of safety standards to our employees. KPIs by the network quality team. seconds for prepaid and 3 minutes for postpaid. Though major non-compliance was reported in less than one per cent Our health and safety management systems are OHSAS 18001:2007 of inspec?ons, we had two more cases of major non-compliance cer?ﬁed, and regional health and safety commi9ees roll out safety compared to last year. In 2016, we terminated eight sub-contractors inspec?ons and health programmes. Having achieved three years of and suspended three sub-contractors for failing to meet our safety zero lost ?me injury frequency (LTIF), we recorded our ﬁrst signiﬁcant standards. We saw a 40% year-on-year reduc?on in minor nonemployee injury in 2016. Our LTIF was 0.23* per million hours of compliance cases. work. SAFE USE “ DEMONSTRATING RESPONSIBILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY REMAINS AT THE CORE OF BEING A We are commi9ed to providing mobile connec?vity safely to our customers. The scien?ﬁc evidence on low risk associated with electromagne?c frequency (EMF) con?nues to be overshadowed by misunderstanding among general public. We support proac?ve engagement with stakeholders concerned about this issue and are open in how we ensure our emissions are within the prescribed guidelines of the Interna?onal Commission on Non-Ionizing Radia?on Protec?on (ICNIRP) standards and Technical Working Groups of the 3rd Genera?on Partnership Project, endorsed by the World Health Organisa?on. An internal EMF Response Team inves?gates and addresses any complaints. ” SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS. levels. We are a founding member and an ac?ve par?cipant of an industryled EMF ini?a?ve that engages and respond to concerns raised by In many Malaysian states, companies linked to state government are communi?es and local authority. In 2016, together with the responsible for iden?fying sites and erec?ng towers. The companies Malaysian Technical Standards Board, and the regulator, the industry work with local authori?es to obtain the required permits and engage performed a series of benchmark assessment on EMF levels at high local communi?es. Our transmission equipment adheres to stringent traﬃc connec?on points. BUILDING FUTURE READY TALENT AND A CULTURE THAT INSPIRES EVERYDAY INNOVATION 14 SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE WORK LIFE BALANCE ENGAGEMENT INDEX In January 2016, we launched a six months fully paid maternity policy EEI measures percentage of employees commi9ed to the for all full ?me employees. Sixty ﬁve Digizens have gone on maternity organisa?on and willingness to apply discre?onary eﬀort in their under this new policy, and 37 have returned to their posi?ons while work. Our EEI averaged 76% over the last three years, which is above the remaining are s?ll on maternity leave. the benchmark of high performing, and Malaysian companies. The results point towards a strong culture of customer centricity and higher employee net promoter score. WINNING TEAM Diversity in the Workplace Empowerment in the Workplace ‘Freedom to Inspire the Next’ Women InspiraNon Network 20 Top Performing Women is our belief in creaBng a workplace iden?ﬁed & provided with where everyone’s voice is heard, and aspiraBons fulﬁlled. 56% 44% CXO mentor MEN WOMEN We believe that it is this freedom that will a9ract and retain top talent and innovates the next genera?on of products and services in our drive to be our customers’ favourite partner in digital life. We are cul?va?ng a culture of innova?on 360°. Digizens par?cipate in innova?on plaLorms that allow them to test new products and services before scaling it up commercially. We invest in learning and development plaLorms to develop agile leaders 3% 3% 15% Bumi Others Indian and prepare all Digizens for the digital future. Women Representa?on in Board of Directors 33% 46% 43% INCLUSIVE AND ENGAGED CULTURE Malay Chinese A_racNng Future Talent We promote a workplace where all employees feel a sense of belonging, everyone is respected, diﬀerences embraced, and there DIVERSITY are equal opportuni?es for all. We have a strong culture that focuses IN LEADERSHIP Below 30 22% on developing talent, and believe that everyone should have the opportunity to grow and inspire. Women comprise 43% of our current Board of Directors, which is CXO ApprenNce Challenge 73% 31-50 above the ambi?ons set by the Malaysian government. On average 8 young appren?ces with ATTRACTING over the past three years, women represented 39% of the Digi Above 51 5% respec?ve CXO leadership team, which comprise of CXOs and their direct reports. FUTURE TALENT Today, roles tradi?onally held by men, such as in network and AGE informa?on technology, are led by women of equal capability. We created unique opportuni?es to accelerate learning of young talent as part of building our future talent pipeline. The CXO The Women Inspira?on Network (WIN) is a plaLorm to strengthen Appren?ce Challenge a9racted over 800 young adults with the the management leadership pipeline. An ini?al group of 20 top unique opportunity to spend a year shadowing and being mentored performing women were iden?ﬁed and provided with a CXO mentor. by a CXO. Following a rigorous online recruitment, a workshop to Members of WIN are provided diverse opportuni?es to develop, observe and shortlist poten?al candidates, eight individuals were share, and network with other corporate women leaders. selected to appren?ce with the respec?ve CXOs. 15 INNOVATION EVERYDAY TRANSFORMATION CATALYSTS We have established a culture of everyday innova?on where We believe every Digizen should have a pathway to be part of our DISRUPT @ DIGITAL Digizens are provided a conducive, enabling environment to try new digital transforma?on. The Telenor Development Plan allows every things. Various plaLorms are oﬀered to allow Digizens to ideate, DIGI Digizen to map their professional development and learning needs to FUTURE understand customer needs, validate, prototype, and pitch their support business goals. Through a rigorous and transparent process, ideas. Winners are given ?me oﬀ from their du?es to dedicate ?me Over 80 Digizens formed 15 teams to create the next innova?ve high performing Digizens are iden?ﬁed for future leadership roles. We ran two workshops to ensure every Digizen understands their to bring their ideas to market. product or service over a non-stop 30 hour event. Connect Kindie, Future leaders are exposed to regional Telenor leadership role, adopt new skills, and transform their mindset to the digital an app to enable be9er communica?ons between kindergarten programmes to develop their poten?al as local leaders with global future. ‘Leading Digital’ is a two day programme by McKinsey & teachers and parents, was selected to be commercialised. The team outlook. Company for leaders at Digi, while ‘What’s your Next’ is a half day TELENOR IGNITE is now embedded within Digi-X to further develop and commercialise workshop for all Digizens. Both workshops explains why and how the INCUBATOR their product. FREEDOM business is changing, enables Digizens to chart their next step within Digi, urgently commits to future skill, are free to challenge, and Team Alfredz, a team of 3 Digizens, was one of the ﬁve winners at TO LEARN experiment with new opportuni?es. the inaugural Telenor Ignite Incubator. Alfredz is a wireless intercom BETA system to connect security guards with residents in high-rise LABS We launched our new Digital D’Academy allowing every Digizen to INNOVATION condominiums and gated communi?es. The team is now embedded freely access three world class online learning plaLorms any?me and within Digi-X to further develop and commercialise their product. An intrapreneurial plaLorm designed to harness collec?ve validated anywhere. Ninety eight Digizens have enrolled for a six months nano MINDSET learning through small, autonomous teams. Supported by an degree on Udacity. Five have graduated having undergone on Innova?on Catalyst, teams win approval from the monthly Beta average of 72.4 online learning hours per nano degree. Digizens on We developed a partnership with the Asia School of Business, a Council to prototype and test their ideas. Thirty ﬁve ideas were average completed 14.2 hours of training. collabora?on of the Massachuse9s Ins?tute of Technology Sloane submi9ed, and ﬁve are being beta tested with customers. One idea and Bank Negara, to develop a customised programme on ﬁnancial has garnered interest from the Marke?ng team, and may be turned valua?on on digital business modelling. The ﬁrst of its kind in the region, the programme is being rolled out across Telenor business into a Digi product. units in Asia. In collabora?on with Telenor Group and INSEAD Business School, we launched the ‘Strategic Execu?on Programme’ for all head of sec?ons and senior experts. The six-week online course exposes leaders to the external disrup?ve forces and trends shaping our industry, inspires new ways of work and thinking, and ins?ls skills to lead their teams to make the digital shir. Leaders need to demonstrate and Digital D’Academy reﬂect execu?on of the new knowledge by comple?ng a project over three months. coursera.com For Expert Cer;ﬁca;on 98 Enrolledfor a 6 months nano degree on Udacity udacity.com 72.4 Average Hours Nano Degree Programs of online learning per nano degree lynda.com Learning For All 14.2 Average Hoursof total training per Digizen MINIMISING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT WHILE GROWING OUR NETWORK 17 TOTAL ENERGY USE BY TYPE (GWh) RENEWABLE ENERGY 159.58 155.01 149.97 151.62 Green energy contributes less than 1% of energy to power our network. There was a slight reduc?on of renewable energy output due to vandalism at ten sites. The 64 opera?onal sites generated an CLIMATE CHANGE es?mated 0.52GWh. 101.22 The ongoing industry proof of concept (POC) self-sustaining 86 hydrogen fuel cell at our base sta?on with 2G and 3G technologies, 75.02 69.53 con?nues to operate within the established parameters and passed AND ENVIRONMENT several stress tests. The hybrid system extracts moisture from the atmosphere and extracts hydrogen molecules, reducing carbon emissions and maintenance cost. Results from the POC will guide future energy system op?misa?on to ﬁt diﬀerent varia?ons of base 13.2 11.5 14 15 sta?ons. 8.98 9.05 8.25 7.54 2013 2014 2015 2016 KWh/CO2e Per Customer A mission to stabilise energy consumpBon in our network Network (Grid) Network (Diesel) Transport Building 11.5 11.8 11.6 11.2 while increasing our coverage footprint. 23.1 EMISSION BY SCOPE ( TONNES CO2e) 22 21.7 21.8 In 2017, Telenor Group will formulate a new strategic climate ambi?on with localised climate roadmaps working towards 2030 that are aligned with 19.27 1,912 18.6 the Paris Climate Agreement. 1,703 1,628 17.27 16.56 1,968 6.24 6.3 Our environment management systems are ISO 14001:2004. Our primary climate measure has been to stabilise the energy consump?on in our SCOPE 3 5.74 5.58 network while increasing our coverage footprint. We disclose to the Na?onal Corporate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Repor?ng Programme for Malaysia (MYCarbon), and to the Carbon Disclosure Project as part of Telenor Group SCOPE 2 104,587 112,193 111,586 114,573 ENERGY EFFICIENCY SCOPE 1 19,575 20,730 22,048 26,351 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Kg CO2e KWh Telenor Avg Telenor Avg In 2016, we u?lised 284 GWh of energy across our opera?ons, a Over the years, we have invested in infrastructure and capital 7.4% increase year-on-year. The increase in energy use is primarily projects to deliver a network that is environmentally eﬃcient. In from our network, which saw a 102% year-on-year growth in data 2016, we op?mised and reduced the size of generators appropriate MANAGING E-WASTE traﬃc. Our energy intensity per RM revenue rose 19% to 0.046 kWh to its related network coverage. We rolled out a Charge Discharge due to lower revenues, and our KWh per customer is above the Cycle Genset and Ba9ery, which allows for reduc?on in diesel Telenor Group average of 18.6 KWh. consump?on. We installed Base Transceiver Systems in 3G equipment in all base sta?ons to allow for more savings. We overlaid Our total carbon emission is 142,835 tonnes, a 5.6% year-on-year 4G LTE network cards on exis?ng equipment to reduce the need of increase, and our carbon intensity per RM value added increased The increasing tonnage of e-waste not properly disposed of has installing addi?onal equipment. health and environmental implica?ons. E-waste directly produced RECYCLING 4.5% to 0.044 tonnes, while our carbon emission per customer is above the Telenor Group average of 6.3 kg CO2e. from our opera?ons is managed under the Environmental Quality MOBILE PHONES BUILDINGS (Scheduled Wastes) Regula?on 2005 and our E-Waste Guidelines. & TRAVEL Collec?on of old mobile phones cons?tutes a small tonnage of eNETWORK RECYCLING waste as there are currently no regula?ons on domes?c e-waste in Malaysia. We oﬀer ‘take back’ schemes of selected phone models and Energy used in our buildings and travel account for 8% of total energy REDUNDANT EQUIPMENT make available e-recycling boxes in all Digi stores. Energy used to power our network accounts for 92% of our total use and has remained stable over past 3 years. We completed the energy usage. Our 2017 – 2020 network energy use is forecasted to renova?on of D’House, which is in the process of being cer?ﬁed Decommissioned network equipment cons?tutes the largest tonnage The Mobile e-Waste: Old Phone New Life, is a joint recycling and increase as we strengthen and broaden our coverage to provide LEED Gold (Commercial Interior). As part of the cer?ﬁca?on process, awareness programme by MCMC, Malaysian Technical and Standards of our e-waste generated. As we complete our network upgrade, the be9er service to our customers. Emissions from generators we have assessed and recalibrated air-condi?oning units and installed Forum Berhad, and industry peers. In its second year, a key ini?a?ve amount of e-waste from decommissioned network equipment has accounted for the most signiﬁcant increase of 17% year-on-year as LED ligh?ngs to maximise energy savings. declined. In 2016, we collected only 18 tonnes of equipment, down was a media awareness tour of a recycling centre, explaining how ewe rolled out 4G LTE network to reach 85% popula?on coverage, from the peak of 343 tonnes year-on-year. waste is recycled and the poten?al dangers if not disposed of and provide rural coverage through rollout of over 100 T3 sites. responsibly. EMPOWERING SOCIETIES IN THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES WHERE WE HAVE A PRESENCE 19 EMPOWER SOCIETIES We believe a connected society is an empowered society. SAFE DIGITAL PARTICIPATION By leveraging on our digital ambi?on, we can bring many beneﬁts to the lives of individuals and communi?es. Our core programmes to empower Over the six years of Digi’s CyberSAFETM programme, more than 100,000 students and 7,000 teachers na?onwide have been trained and engaged. socie?es through safe digital par?cipa?on and digital enablement are Digi’s CyberSAFETM, Challenge for Change, Wanita Era Digital. We also support We have curated the na?on’s largest repository of informa?on on schoolchildren’s online behaviour through biennial na?onal quan?ta?ve and other digital empowerment ini?a?ves, such as the Telenor Youth Forum, Digital Winners Asia, and Kampung Internet For All. qualita?ve surveys. We have developed a range of online resources for educators and parents to understand this issue, and how to engage their children to discuss online safety. Working with partners, this year we focused on raising the level of discussion on child online safety by broadening our reach to the wider community. Together with UNICEF Malaysia, we Digi’s CyberSAFETM Champion, organised the ﬁrst ever Digi Philip Ling, was awarded the CyberSAFETM Digital CiBzen Camp Cybersafe Professional 2016 by in D’House. Held over 3 days 2 Cybersecurity Malaysia, an agency nights, this educaBonal and under the Ministry of Science, interacBve camp was aimed at Technology and InnovaBon. The award building capacity of young recognises an individual’s contribuBon ambassadors who would insBl digital and commitment to Malaysia's cyber ciBzenship among their peers. and informaBon security. More than 60 videos on anB-cyberbullying were created by school children to raise awareness on Partnering with UNICEF, The Star R.AGE and Women:girls, we kicked oﬀ the With our partners, we launched a public campaign, ‘Us vs Cyberbullying, the issue. We trained 64 school debaters in the ‘ReplyForAll’ public townhall to trigger a conversaBon on online child sexual that reached over 3,000 people with the Mayor of Petaling Jaya. naBonal ICT security school discourse. exploitaBon and the call to acBon for anB-grooming laws in Malaysia. 20 EMPOWER THROUGH DIGITISATION We look to work with partners who have the vision of how digital services can bring meaningful impact to their communi?es. With our partners, we developed scalable solu?ons which underscore our vision to leverage digital connec?vity and services for good. CREATING A DIGITAL IDENTITY In partnership with the United NaBons Global Compact (UNGC) The Digi Family Safety app, allows a subscriber to Malaysia, we developed an app to support the rollout of Bluenumbers, a keep track & connect in real ?me with up to seven free self-generated registry of basic informaBon volunteered by farmers family members. The app allows customers to and agri-suppliers to idenBfy themselves in the supply chain. Businesses create a geo-fence alert, check-in upon arrival, will be able to tap into this big data repository for analyBcs, connect parental control on ?me and apps used, and to deeper into their supply chain, and to evidence impact. remotely lock and erase informa?on on a stolen Family Geo Check NoBﬁcaBons Panic Parental Phone phone. LocaBon Fencing Ins Alert Control Security www.asuhan.my ENHANCING LEARNING OF SIGN LANGUAGE Eddy, an edutainment app which intends to gamify the learning of sign language emerged ACCESSING SAFER CHILD CARE as the winner of Digi Challenge for Change 7. Working alongside Childline Malaysia & the Eddy uBlises 3D animaBon, localised content AssociaBon of Registered Childcare Providers and games to make learning sign language Malaysia, we developed asuhan.my to help easier and more fun for everyone. The Eddy families idenBfy & review over 3,000 child care team won a RM50,000 cash prize, and an centres registered under the Child Care Centre addiBonal RM70,000 from Digi and Agensi Act 1984. It idenBﬁes care centres that are not Inovasi Malaysia as they meet development registered with local authoriBes, provides an milestones over the next six months. avenue to report suspected abuse, and locate the nearest support systems. REGIONAL EXPOSURE FOR STARTUPS WOMEN EMPOWERMENT DIGITISATION FOR PEACE Vase, a market research startup, represented Malaysia at the Digital Winners Wanita Era Digital project reached out to rural and urban poor communi?es to engage Nora Nabila Ahmad Sabri and Alina Amir represented Malaysia at the annual global Telenor Youth Forum, in Asia Conference, Telenor’s ﬁrst regional start up event. Aimed at breaking women and to close the gender digital divide. The programme equips women with partnership with Telenor and the Nobel Peace Center. Themed Digitalisa?on for Peace , the forum engaged inspiring down borders to access new markets, startup teams competed to pitch for basic internet and e-commerce skills, and online safety awareness. youths to tackle social challenges with the use of digital solu?ons. NOK100,000 of ini?al expansion funds. DATA REPORT SCOPE GRI 22 Responsible Business Climate Change & Environment Unit 2014 2015 2016 Unit 2014 2015 2016 AnN-CorrupNon Carbon Emissions Material cases of corrupBon Number 1 0 1 Air travel Tonnes CO2e 978.11 1,394.21 1,344.11 Supply Chain Sustainability Leased vehicles Tonnes CO2e 725.36 233.70 567.44 Signed Agreement of Business Conduct* Number 63 120 119 Total carbon emissions* Tonnes CO2e 134,628.01 135,262.55 142,835.52 Self Assessment Risk indicator % 37 55 55 Tonnes CO2e/Per Carbon eﬃciency* 0.039 0.045 0.048 RM value add InspecBons conducted Number 421 887 984 Carbon emission per customer Kg CO2e/customer 11.8 11.2 11.6 Incidents of major non-compliance1 Number 8 10 Other environment indicators Incidents of minor non-compliance2 Number 154 92 E-waste collected Tonnes 3,338 343 18 Contractors suspended <6 mths Number 1 3 Municipal waste Tonnes 337.51 333.65 308.17 Contractors terminated Number 2 7 8 Water consumpBon m3 90,821 111,054 118,865.67 FataliBes3 Number 1 1 0 Supplier training Hours 2,000 2,500 2,050 Winning Team % of contracts <USD250,000 meeBng sustainability criteria % 100 100 100 Unit 2014 2015 2016 Gender Climate Change & Environment Male Numbers 1,216 1,174 1,140 Female Numbers 922 907 902 Unit 2014 2015 2016 Total Numbers 2,138 2,081 2,042 Energy ConsumpNon 86.53 100.98 116.75 Race Total direct energy used* GWh 75.02 86.30 101.22 Bumi % 3 Network GWh 11.46 14.57 15.49 Malay % 36 33 Fleet GWh 0.05 0.11 0.04 Chinese % 45 46 Buildings GWh Indian % 15 15 Total indirect energy used* GWh 160.61 163.26 167.08 Others % 4 3 Network GWh 151.62 155.01 159.58 Age Buildings GWh 8.99 8.25 7.50 < 30 % 17 22 Total energy consumpBon* GWh 247.14 264.24 283.83 31 – 50 % 82 73 Energy intensity* KWh/RM revenue 0.035 0.038 0.046 >50 % 1 5 Energy use per end use customer KWh/customer 21.7 21.8 23.1 Other indicators Solar power generated (Network)* GWh 0.57 0.60 0.52 % of women in leadership4 % 37 34 40 Carbon Emissions Employee Engagement Index (EEI) Score5 % 76 76 76 Total Scope 1 emissions* Tonnes CO2e 20,730.78 22,048.25 26,351.00 Lost Time Injury Frequency6* No/Million hrs 0 0 0.23 Network Tonnes CO2e 19,629.00 21,036.45 25,430.15 % of employees under bargaining agreement % 31 33 Fleet vehicles Tonnes CO2e 1,099.36 995.78 918.70 Average total training hours7* Hours 14.2 Building Tonnes CO2e 2.42 16.02 2.15 Employees that completed the TDP DIALOGUE and Total Scope 2 emissions* Tonnes CO2e 112,193.76 111,586.39 114,572.97 % of employees 88 93 50 follow-up8 Network Tonnes CO2e 105,886.18 105,925.71 109,475.06 Turnover (Male) Numbers 213 168 192 Buildings Tonnes CO2e 6,307.58 5,660.68 5,097.91 Turnover (Female) Numbers 163 117 147 Total Scope 3 emissions* Tonnes CO2e 1,703.47 1,627.91 1,911.55 4 Based on CXO minus 2 level managers only. Does not include specialist. 5 2015 EEI score was recorded as 80% based on aggregated 7 ques?ons result. For comparable result to 2016 EEI score, we have aggregated 2015 EEI score based on 1 Major non-compliance includes climbing base sta?on without a Work At Height Permit, safety harness, safety shoes, and child labour on site aggregated 5 ques?ons which is 76% 6 LTIF is based on 9 working hours x actual working days in a year (minus leave and public holidays) x number of employees 2 Minor non-compliance includes illegal labour, no ﬁrst aid kits, no ﬁre ex?nguisher. 7 Based on total training hours / no. of employees. Physical training hours is based on 8 hours (does not include lunch). Training hours for D’Academy (mandatory, programme, 3 Fatali?es of any worker of contractors or sub contractor sorskills complete and completed) are based on system. Online training on Lynda is based on system. Udacity is based on numbers of graduated x hours of videos for the * Deloi9e PLT has provided a limited external assurance of select indicators presented in this sec?on of the Annual Report. The limited external assurance opinion can be found course. Training hours do not include hours from D’Academy (Processes). on page 153 to 155 of the Digi.Com Berhad Annual Report 2016. 8 In previous year, all employees had to complete their review and dialogue by 31 Dec. The TDP process for YE2016 has changed to align with Telenor Group. For 2016, the TDP dialogue has to be completed end of March 2017. 23 REPORT SCOPE Our 2016 report is our eighth Sustainability Report and the seventh Communica?on on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. Our last Sustainability Report was published on May 14th, 2016. REPORTING COMPLETENESS: SCOPE PRINCIPLES ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES This sustainability report covers the en?re opera?ons of Digi Our Sustainability Report is developed in accordance with the Digi Material issue Material Aspect Boundary Key stakeholders Telecommunica?ons Sdn Bhd for 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2016. We have Standard Opera?ng Policy and Procedures on Sustainability published an annual sustainability report since 2010. Since 2011, we Repor?ng. The policy and procedures aim to provide guidance on the • Employees have obtained Limited Assurance on our Sustainability Reports. We scope and boundaries of repor?ng, roles and responsibili?es, internal • Customers have chosen to use the Global Repor?ng Ini?a?ve (GRI) Guidelines as control processes, and deﬁni?ons for all reported parameters. They Service reliability and • Product and service labelling • Internal • CommunicaBons & MulBmedia the basis of repor?ng and have adopted the GRI 4.0 (Core) for this are consistent with the Telenor Group Non-Financial Repor?ng quality • Compliance • External Consumer Forum of Malaysia • Malaysia CommunicaBons & report. Procedures and other established repor?ng standards such as the MulBmedia Commission (MCMC) Global Repor?ng Ini?a?ve 4.0 Guidelines, Greenhouse Gas Emissions The report brings together our sustainability ini?a?ves, including Protocol, Carbon Disclosure Project and the UN Global Compact. current and future direc?ons. It is intended to be useful to all our • Internal and with our • Employees Ethics and stakeholders – our customers, employees, shareholders, communi?es • AnB-corrupBon external suppliers • Suppliers anB-corrupBon as well as being a communica?on tool to various interested par?es and parBes • Partners about our approach to the social, environmental and economic COMPLETENESS: • Supplier Assessment • Contractors aspects of our business. ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Supply chain (Environment, labour pracBces, society, human rights) • External • • Suppliers Vendors • OccupaBonal Health and Safety We have iden?ﬁed 15 aspects to be disclosed in this report. These • Training and EducaBon REPORTING aspects were iden?ﬁed as issues linked to the materiality matrix and Employees • • Diversity and Equal Opportunity Non-discriminaBon • Internal • Employees our commitment to the UNGC. Issues rela?ng to these aspects are PERIOD addressed through our various engagement with our stakeholders. • Freedom of AssociaBon and CollecBve Bargaining Table as shown on the right. • Telenor Group This is an annual report which covers the period from January 1, • Energy • Internal • Carbon Disclosure Project 2016 to December 31, 2016 (Fiscal Year 2016). Unless otherwise Energy eﬃciency • Emissions • External • Project stated, all data is as at 31 December 2016. We are commi9ed to AUDIENCE AND • Environmental NGOs con?nuing our repor?ng journey, and expect to publish a Customer privacy Employees ACCESSIBILITY • • • Internal sustainability report biennially. Data security and Privacy • Human rights • Customers • External • Compliance • Privacy Commission Our report content has been prepared in accordance with GRI 4.0 This report is made available on our corporate website. The report • Safe Use Digital responsibility • Customer health and safety • External core guidelines. We referred to the principles for deﬁning report has been wri9en for the interest of investors, regulators, current and • CyberSAFETM content when planning our report. For selected performance poten?al employees. We have made a conscious decision not to • Challenge For Change indicators that have been historically tracked, we have included data print a report as part of our environmental commitment to reduce • Wanita Era Digital • Internal from the past three years. our prin?ng. Enabling services • Local communiBes • Telenor Youth Forum • External • Strategic partners • Relevant government ministries 24 GRI TABLE DMA and Indicators Compliance Cross reference or direct answer GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES IdenNﬁed material aspects and boundaries DMA and Indicators Compliance Cross reference or direct answer EnBBes included in the organisaBon’s consolidated G4-17 Full Annual Report 2016 ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents Strategy and Analysis Process for deﬁning report content and the Aspect G4-18 Full Materiality Boundaries Statement from the most senior decision-maker of CEO's Message G4-1 Full Material Aspects idenBﬁed in the process for the organisaBon Chairman's Statement G4-19 Full Materiality deﬁning report content OrganisaNonal Proﬁle G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisaBon Full About Our Disclosure G4-3 Name of the organisaBon Full About Our Disclosure G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisaBon Full About Our Disclosure G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Full Management Discussion and Analysis • Carbon eﬃciency changed to millions tonnes CO2/ value add. G4-5 Headquarters locaBon Full Notes to Financial Statement Restatements of informaBon provided in previous • 2015 EEI was recorded as 80% based on aggregated G4-22 Full reports results of seven quesBons. For comparable results to G4-6 Countries of operaBon Full Digi only operates in Malaysia. 2016 EEI, we have aggregated 2015 EEI based on aggregated results of ﬁve quesBons which is 76% G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Full Notes to Financial Statement Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporBng in the G4-23 Full There is no change from previous report G4-8 Markets served Full Management Discussion and Analysis Scope and Aspect Boundaries G4-9 Scale of the organisaBon Full Management Discussion and Analysis Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the G4-10 OrganisaBon’s workforce Full Winning Team G4-24 Full Stakeholders organisaBon Basis for idenBﬁcaBon and selecBon of stakeholders G4-25 Full Stakeholders Total employees covered by collecBve bargaining 33% of employees are covered by collecBve bargaining with whom to engage G4-11 Full agreements agreement as at 31 Dec 2016. Approach to stakeholder engagement, including G4-26 frequency of engagement by type and by Full Stakeholders Ethics and Compliance stakeholder group G4-12 OrganisaBon’s supply chain Full Telenor Impact Report Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 Full Stakeholders Signiﬁcant changes during the reporBng period organisaBon has responded to those key topics and G4-13 regarding size, structure, ownership or its supply Full There was no signiﬁcant change concerns, including through it reporBng chain Report Proﬁle ExplanaBon of whether and how the precauBonary Code of Conduct G4-28 ReporBng period Full About Our Disclosure G4-14 approach or principles is addressed by the Full Climate Change and Environment organisaBon G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Full About Our Disclosure G4-30 ReporBng cycle Full About Our Disclosure About Our Disclosure Externally developed economic, environmental and Sustainability Governance G4-15 social charters, principles or other iniBaBves Full G4-31 Contact point Full About Our Disclosure Sustainability G4-32 GRI content index Full This page G4-33 External assurance Full Assurance Statement As part of Telenor Group, we are members of the GSMA, The TelecommunicaBons Industry Dialogue, which has Governance observer status in the GNI, and the Global eMemberships of associaBons and naBonal/ G4-16 Full Sustainability IniBaBve. internaBonal advocacy organisaBons G4-34 OrganisaBon’s governance structure Full Statement on Corporate Governance Digi is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and a member of the Malaysia Compact. Ethics & Integrity OrganisaBon’s values, principles, standards and Statement on Corporate Governance G4-56 Full norms of behaviours Ethics and Compliance 25 Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Compliance Comments SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Total weight of waste by type and disposal Data: Climate Change and Eﬄuents and waste G4-EN23 Full Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Compliance Comments method Environment IniBaBves to miBgate environmental impacts of Products and Services G4-EN27 Full Climate Change and Environment products and services, and extent of impact Economic Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total Digi contributes directly through license, fees, taxes, Compliance number of non-monetary sancBons for nonThere was no case of non-compliance G4-EN29 Full contribuBon to the Universal Service Provision, job Environmental compliance with environmental laws and in 2016 creaBon, and support to local business partners. regulaBons Economic performance Management Approach Indirectly, our core oﬀering of mobile internet is an Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of Climate Change and Environment enabler of socio economic development of the transporBng products and other goods and TransportaBon accounts for less than country. Transport G4-EN30 Full materials for the oganisaBon’s operaBons, and 3% of Digi’s total CO2 emissions, and Financial Summary: Statement of transporBng members of the workforce does not have signiﬁcant impact. Direct economic value generated and Comprehensive Income G4-EC1 Full Supply Chain Sustainability distributed Telenor Impact Report Digi evaluates current and Financial implicaBons and other risks and CEO's Message Suppliers environmental Percentage of new suppliers that were screened prospecBve suppliers to idenBfy risks G4-EN32 Full of violaBon of Supplier Conduct G4-EC2 opportuniBes for the organisaBon’s acBviBes Full Climate Change and Environment assessment using environmental criteria due to climate change Principles. Contracts above Telenor Group’s Carbon ReporBng USD250,000 have an environmental Notes to Financial Statement: Coverage of the organisaBon’s deﬁned component as part of sourcing G4-EC3 Full Employee Beneﬁts, Proﬁt Before Tax, beneﬁts plan obligaBons Signiﬁcant actual and potenBal negaBve Deﬁned Beneﬁt Plans. G4-EN33 environmental impacts in the supply chain and Full None reported in 2016 Financial assistance received from G4-EC4 Full Statement of Cash Flow acBons taken government RaBos of standard entry level wage by Digi’s standard entry level wage is Number of grievances about environmental Environmental Grievance Market presence G4-EC5 gender compared to local minimum wage at Full more than the gazeIed minimum impacts ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through Full None reported in 2016 Mechanisms signiﬁcant locaBons of operaBons wage. formal grievance Management Proﬁle Social Winning Team: Inclusiveness ProporBon of senior management hired from We are an equal opportunity Labour pracBces and decent work G4-EC6 the local community at signiﬁcant locaBons Full employer and all posiBons are open of operaBon Our Approach to Sustainability to local candidates. SelecBon is based Management Approach Ethics and Compliance on best ﬁt to meet speciﬁc needs of Winning Team the role. Our Present Total number and rates of new employee hires Indirect economic Development and impact of infrastructure G4-EC7 Full Telenor Impact Report Employment G4-LA1 and employee turnover by age group, gender ParBal Data: Winning Team impacts investments and services supported Empower SocieBes and region Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, Ethics & Compliance Digi hires temporary employees from G4-EC8 Full Beneﬁts provided to full-Bme employees that including the extent of impacts Telenor Impact Report third party agencies and they are not G4-LA2 are not provided to temporary or part-Bme ParBal enBtled to any beneﬁts given to Digi’s ProporBon of spending on local suppliers at employees, by signiﬁcant locaBons of operaBons Procurement pracBces G4-EC9 Full Telenor Impact Report full Bme employees. signiﬁcant locaBons of operaBon Minimum noBce period regarding signiﬁcant Digi gives one month noBce to inform Environmental G4-LA4 operaBonal changes, including whether it is Full all employees of operaBonal changes speciﬁed in collecBve agreements. that result in loss of employment. Management approach Climate Change and Environment We comply with the regulaBon which Percentage of total workforce represented in sBpulates that there shall not be less Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumpBon within the organisaBon Full Climate Change and Environment OccupaBonal health and formal joint management-worker health and G4-LA5 ParBal than four representaBves each from safety safety commiIees that help monitor and advise the employees and the management. Energy consumpBon outside the on occupaBonal health and safety programmes G4-EN4 Full Climate Change and Environment organisaBon Type of injury and rates of injury, occupaBonal G4-EN5 Energy intensity Full Climate Change and Environment diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total G4-LA6 Full Supply Chain Sustainability number of work-related fataliBes, by region and G4-EN6 ReducBon of energy consumpBon Full Climate Change and Environment gender Data: Digi organises educaBon, training, Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Full Climate Change and Environment Workers with high incidence or high risk of counselling, prevenBon and risk G4-LA7 Full diseases related to their occupaBon control programmes related to Our water is from the local municipal. outbreaks. Emissions G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Full Climate Change and Environment Health and safety covers all Health and safety topics covered in formal G4-LA8 Full employees regardless of union agreements with trade unions G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Full Climate Change and Environment membership. Average hours of training per year per employee Training and educaBon G4-LA9 ParBal TransformaBon Catalyst G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Full Climate Change and Environment per gender, and by employee category Programmes for skills management and lifelong G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Full Climate Change and Environment learning that support the conBnued TransformaBon Catalyst G4-LA10 Full employability of employees and assist them in InnovaBon Everyday G4-EN19 ReducBon of GHG emissions Full Climate Change and Environment managing career endings 26 Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Compliance Comments Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Compliance Comments Winning Team Digi evaluate its operaBons for risks 50% as at 31 Dec 2016. There is a of violaBons to our code of conduct, Percentage of employees receiving regular change to the Bmeline of the annual Supplier Human Rights Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Supplier Conduct Principles, G4-LA11 Full G4-HR10 Full performance and career development review performance review from 31 Assessment using human rights criteria Agreement of Business Conduct, and December 2016, to 31 March 2017 UN Guiding Principles of Business to align with Telenor Group. and Human Rights. ComposiBon of governance bodies and Signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have Diversity and equal breakdown of employees per employee category Directors Proﬁles G4-HR11 Full Ethics and Compliance G4-LA12 ParBal undergone screening on human acBons taken opportunity according to gender, age group, minority group Inclusive and Engaged Culture membership, and other indicators of diversity Number of grievances related to human rights Human Rights Grievance There has been no grievance ﬁled in RaBo of basic salary and remuneraBon of Digi pracBces equal opportunity for G4-HR12 ﬁled, addressed and resolved through formal Full Equal remuneraBon for Mechanism 2016 G4-LA13 women to men by employee category, by Full salaries and remuneraBon for equal grievance mechanisms women and men signiﬁcant locaBons of operaBon skills Society Signiﬁcant actual and potenBal negaBve impacts G4-LA15 for labour pracBces in the supply chain and Full Supply Chain Sustainability acBons taken Safe Use Management approach Number of grievances about labour pracBces Empower SocieBes Labour pracBces G4-LA16 ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal Full There were none ﬁled in 2016 grievance mechanisms grievance mechanisms Ethics and Compliance Human rights Digi assesses its operaBonal impact Percentage of operaBons with implemented on communiBes, and carries out Management Approach Sustainability Governance Local communiBes G4-SO1 local community engagement, impact ParBal relevant engagement to address All signiﬁcant investment agreements assessments, and development programmes concerns of local authoriBes and Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant are subject to the terms of our communiBes. Investment & investment agreements that include human G4-HR1 Full Supplier Conduct Principles which Procurement PracBces rights clauses or that have undergone human has adopted UN Guiding Principles rights screening on Business and Human Rights. Percentage and total number of business units AnB-corrupBon G4-SO3 Full AnB-CorrupBon Total hours of employees trained on policies and analysed for risks related to corrupBon procedures concerning aspects of human rights G4-HR2 ParBal Supply Chain Sustainability that are relevant to operaBons, including percentage of employees trained AnB-CorrupBon CommunicaBon and training on anB-corrupBon G4-SO4 Full Code of Conduct There were no incidents of policies and procedures Total number of incidents of discriminaBon and discriminaBon in 2016. We are Non-discriminaBon G4-HR3 Full correcBve acBons taken commiIed to promoBng equal opportunity Digi was ﬁned RM720,000 by the Malaysian CommunicaBons and OperaBons and suppliers idenBﬁed in which the Digi evaluates current and Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total MulBmedia Commission for breaching right to exercise freedom of associaBon and prospecBve suppliers to idenBfy risks Freedom of associaBon Compliance G4-SO8 number of non-monetary sancBons for nonFull the Mandatory Standards for Quality G4-HR4 collecBve bargaining may be violated or at Full of violaBons of Supplier Conduct and collecBve bargaining compliance with laws and regulaBons of Service and Guidelines signiﬁcant risk, and measures taken to support Principles, which includes freedom of on RegulaBons of End Users these rights associaBon. of Prepaid Public Cellular Services. Digi evaluates current and prospecBve suppliers to idenBfy risks Supplier assessment for Signiﬁcant actual and potenBal negaBve impacts G4-SO10 Full Supply Chain Sustainability of violaBons of Supplier Conduct impacts on society on society in the supply chain and acBons taken Principles, which include clause on Number of grievances about impact on society OperaBons and suppliers idenBﬁed as having Grievance mechanisms child labour. G4-So11 ﬁled, address, and resolve through formal Full There were no cases ﬁled in 2016. signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labour, and for impacts on society Child labour G4-HR5 Full grievance mechanisms. measures taken to contribute to the eﬀecBve In 2016, there were two cases of aboliBon of child labour underage workers (between 15-18 Product responsibility years old) in our supply chain. We terminated one contractor and Management approach Consumer Responsibility suspended another for 6 months. Percentage of signiﬁcant product and service OperaBons and suppliers idenBﬁed as having Digi evaluates current and Safe Use G4-PR1 categories for which health and safety impacts ParBal signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or prospecBve suppliers to idenBfy risks Empower SocieBes Forced or compulsory are assessed for improvements. G4-HR6 compulsory labour, and measures to contribute Full of violaBons of Supplier Conduct labour to the eliminaBon of all forms of forced or Principles, which includes forced compulsory labour labour Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulaBons and voluntary codes concerning Percentage of security personnel trained in the All security personnel have been G4-PR2 the health and safety impacts of products and Full There were no cases ﬁled in 2016. organisaBon’s policies or procedures concerning trained in basic health, safety, and Security PracBces G4-HR7 Full services during their life cycle, by type of aspects of human rights that are relevant to security as part of the requirements outcomes operaBons of the Supply Chain Sustainability Percentage and total number of operaBons that Governance: PracBces related to customer saBsfacBon, Product and service Assessment G4-HR9 have been subject to human rights reviews and/ Full Human Rights Risk Assessment G4-PR5 including results of surveys measuring customer Full Consumer Responsibility labelling or impact assessments saBsfacBon YOU HAVE REACHED THE END OF OUR REPORT Please direct your enquiries or feedback to Ms Quah Yean Nie Head of CommunicaBons & Sustainability sustainability@digi.com.my 03 5721 1800 Digi.Com Berhad (425190-X) Lot 10, Jalan Delima 1/1 Subang Hi-Tech Industrial Park 40000 Shah Alam, Selangor T 03 5721 1800 W www.digi.com.my
