Table of 24 Contents Customers 30 Shareholders 04 Presentation 34 People 08 Message from the President and CEO 38 Partners 10 Message from the Board of Directors 40 Society and the Environment 12 Institutional Profile 44 Annex |G4-18| Since 1999, Embraer S.A. has shared its annual report, with a statement on operational, financial and socio-environmental performance, explained results in their context and presented advances in practices of corporate governance, ethics and compliance. |G4-3, G4-7, G4-30| This edition complies with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines from version G4, the essential “agreement” option. The content was prepared through interviews with the Board of Executive Officers and based on the company’s Materiality Matrix (see page 6). The data covers the financial year of January 1 through December 31, 2016, and encompasses all sites in Brazil and abroad, except where identified otherwise in explanatory notes. All Embraer sites included in the consolidated financial statements are within the scope of this report. Eventual reformulations of information disclosed in previous reports are clarified throughout the content. |G4-17, G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-32| In line with best market practices, references from the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), from the BM&FBOVESPA’s Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE, in Portuguese) and from the Global Compact of the United Nations (UN), of which Embraer is a signatory, were also considered. The financial data follows International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and was submitted for external verification by KPMG Independent Auditors. The inventory of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions was audited by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA), whereas the other information was verified internally, without external verification of this publication. |G4-33| To learn more, access www.ri.embraer.com.br or contact the e-mail 4 address investor.relations@embraer.com.br. |G4-31| Enjoy! MASTER SUSTAINABILITY PLAN |G4-2| No. Aspect Indicator Dec. 2017 Goal 20151 2016 Managers: 100%* Managers: 96% Percentage of adherence to compliance Non managers: 98.98%* Non managers: 98% 1 Ethics 100% policy and procedure.2 *considering the trainings held on *considering the trainings held on STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY DIRECTIVE |G4-18| Anti-Corruption Code of Ethics and Conduct Anti-Corruption Code of Ethics and Conduct Building a sustainable future is one of Embraer’s values (see page 15), and as such, it is part of the company’s strat2 Attraction, development and retention of Favorability percentage in the climate survey. 80% 89% There was no survey in 2016; the company opted for a bi-annual engagement survey. Enhuman resources gagement survey will take place in May 2017. egy. In order to identify high-priority issues of sustainability, Embraer carries out a specific consultation process with a formal review every three years. Thus, the Materiality Matrix graphically expresses the combined vision of the compa2 Attraction, development and retention of Number of staff training hours per year. 500,000 hours per year 557,077 hours 625,416 hours human resources ny’s management and stakeholders regarding the relevance of a predefined set of sustainability issues. The current Maintenance of type-approval certificates (CHT, in Portu3 Product safety 100% of type certificates valid. 100% 100% matrix is the result of consultations made in 2013. Throughout 2016, a new and amplified survey was conducted, guese) for commercial and executive aviation planes. Maintenance of company-approval certificates (CHE, in generating the 2017-2019 materiality, which is presented in the Annexes section. 3 Product safety Portuguese) in all Embraer sites of interest as defined in conjunction with the business units. 100% of all sites of interest certified. 100% 100% Finalized: the first phase of the modification of the registration of hazardous substances Phase I – definitions and structuring: until February 2015; Finished the structuring and definitions phaDevelopment of the new chemical substance managein SAP. In progress: training of employees who Phase II – platform availability and data input: ses. Carried out training for all those involved Management of ment system to ensure an adequate level of knowledge register substances in the system. Start of 4 until December 2016; in the registration of chemical substances chemical substances of the product’s chemical composition for compliance data input into the system, aiming to comply Phase III – full operation of the system: until December 2017. in the SAP system. All inputs comply with with current and future environmental legislation. with environmental legislation. As of December current legislation. Embraer Materiality Matrix (2014-2016)* 2015, all registrations already incorporate the modifications made to the modified system. |G4-27| Management of Percentage of suppliers classified as high 5 0% 0% 0% supply chain environmental risk in risk evaluations. 6 Export control Percentage of adherence to export policy and procedure. 100% adherence to the compliance evaluation survey. 77% 97% Partnership with Boeing in the Eco demonsSustainable new • Management of natural • Ethics 7 business, products Number of new business, products and services incorporating principles of Sustainability. Annually launch project that demonstrates the inclusion of sustainability. Non-chrome leather available from tannery for use in aircraft interiors. trator program. Technology tests aimed at reducing fuel consumption, CO2 emissions resources and waste • Attraction, and services and noise. • Atmospheric emissions developing and • Noise Management of natural Reduce by 3% consumption by equivalent plane, in relation to 551.96 MWh/aircraft equivalent 499.79 MWh/equivalent aircraft 8 Consumption of energy (MWh) per equivalent plane. • Human and labor rights retaining HR resources and waste the base year 2014 (603.78 MWh/equivalent aircraft). (reduction of 9%) (reduction of 17%) • Health and safety •P  roduct safety 8 Management of natural resources and waste Consumption of water (m3) per capita. Reduce by 4% per capita consumption of water, in relation to the base year 2014 (44.66 m3/per capita). 41.78 m3/per capita (reduction of 6%) 42.49 m3/per capita (reduction of 5%) Importance for interested parties Reduce by 3% the total generation of waste per million dollars Management of natural 8 Generation of solid waste/net revenue. of revenue, in relation to the base year 2013 3,21 t/million dollars (increase of 16%) 2,95 t/million dollars (increase of 7%) resources and waste (2.76 t/million dollars). Reduce by 3% the total generation of dangerous waste per Management of natural 8 Generation of dangerous solid waste/net revenue. million dollars of revenue, in relation to the base year 2013 0.57 t/million dollars (increase of 14%) 0.5 t/million dollars (maintenance) • Transparency and •M  anagement of resources and waste (0.5 t/million dollars). communication chemical substances 8 Management of natural Percentage of manufacturing plants and 100% of manufacturing plants and service centers that 47.05% (FLM, EGM, ELEB, BOT, 47.05% (FLM, EGM, ELEB, BOT, • Management of •M  anagement of resources and waste Embraer service centers with ISO 14,001 certification. existed in 2014 with ISO 14,001 certification. GPX, TTE and EVO)3 GPX, TTE and EVO)3  reventing •P environmental life cycle supply chain 100% of manufacturing plants and improper use • Local socio-economic •C  ontrol of exports service centers that existed in 2014 with relation to environmenPercentage of manufacturing plants and tal liabilities (and their respective treatment plans). Management of natural of product development  ustainable new •S 8 resources and waste Embraer service centers with relation to environmental liabilities. New acquisitions of buildings, installations or businesses, must be preceded by evaluation of environmental liabilities (environ76.47% (13 of 17) 76.47% (13 of 17) • Research, development business, products mental due diligence), aiming to ensure access to necessary information for the company to make decisions. and innovation and services Emission of greenhouse gases Reduce by 3% the emission of greenhouse gases (scope 1+2) per 9 Atmospheric emissions 5.48 t/million dollars (increase of 8%) 4.09 t/million dollars (reduction of 19%) (scope 1+2)/net revenue.4 million dollars of revenue, in relation to the base year 2013. Reduce by 3% the emission of VOC per million dollars of revenue, 9 Atmospheric emissions Emission of VOC/net revenue. 0.0034 t/million dollars (reduction of 46%) 0.0011 t/million dollars (reduction of 82%) in relation to the base year 2013 (0.0063 t/million dollars). • Bio-diversity Standard of excellence (to be a reference in the market), remain• E ngagement with •C  risis management Percentage of individual suits and labor complaint 0.391%* 10 Human and labor rights ing below the national average for companies in the same sector, 0.306% •P hilanthropy procedures per employee. *corrected number in accordance with each country’s regulating organizations. public authorities •P  rivacy and security and volunteering • Local production chain of information Employee health To reduce the frequency rates of lost time accidents by 30%, • Dematerialization 11 and safety Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) in relation to 2014’s accident frequency rate (1.74). 2.25 (increase of 29.31) 1.19 (reduction of 31.6%) Employee health Percentage of manufacturing plants and 100% of manufacturing plants and service centers that 47.05% (FLM, EGM, ELEB, BOT, 47.05% (FLM, EGM, ELEB, BOT, 11 and safety Embraer service centers with OHSAS 18,001 certification. existed in 2014 with OHSAS 18,001 certification. GPX, TTE and EVO) GPX, TTE and EVO)3 Transparency and Percentage of indicators responded to in the company's 12 Annual GRI Report Coverage Level. 89.65% 89.65% communication Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) report. The incorporation of the product’s environmenThe incorporation of the product’s environInfluence for business strategy tal requirements was implemented in the E2 program. The verification of satisfaction of these mental requirements was implemented in the E2 program. The verification of satisfaction of Management of the environmental requirements, in the E2 program, these environmental requirements, in the E2 Incorporate environmental requirements, in addition to those for 13 product’s environmenEnvironmental requirements for developing products. is in progress. program, is in progress. sound and emissions, for 100% of products launched. tal life cycle For the next aircraft program to be launched by For the next aircraft program to be launched the company, all environmental requirements by the company, all environmental requireGOVERNANCE | ENVIRONMENT | STAFF | VALUE CHAIN | PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND CUSTOMERS will be incorporated, using the DIP (Integrated Development of Products) process. ments will be incorporated, using the DIP (Integrated Development of Products) process. New products in 2015: Legacy 450, which was There were no product launches in 2016. Management of the Use DfE Matrix to evaluate 100% of new products launched; evaluated using the DfE Matrix. Total portfolio: The company’s performance in relation to the priority themes of the Materiality Matrix is evaluated by 13 product's environmenUse of the simplified evaluation of the product life cycle ( DfE Matrix ). for already existing products, evaluate the equivalent for at a E-jets, Phenoms and Legacy 500/450 already Total portfolio: E-jets, Phenoms and Legacy 500/450 already evaluated, responsible for tal life cycle minimum of 50% Embraer revenue. evaluated, responsible for 86% of 84.6 % of Embraer revenue. the Master Sustainability Plan, which presents indicators and triennial targets. With a review every Embraer revenue. Concluded: the technical guide containing three years and annual revaluation, the first cycle of the plan came into force in January 2015, with Management of the Customer orientation regarding the end of Define document containing Embraer product strategic Concluded: the technical guide containing operoperational guidelines for customers for the 13 product's environmenational guidelines for customers for the proper proper disposal of products at the end of their the product's life. guidelines with relation to its end of life. horizon of December 2017. |G4-2| tal life cycle disposal of products at the end of their life. life. Started: the forming of Corporate Policy for Products' End of Life. * The limit of the material aspect outside of Embraer can be found in the GRI indicators. |G4-21| Local socio-economic Evaluation average (Balance Score Card) for the results 14 of annually supported projects in the scope of the Social Grade 4, in an evaluation of 0 to 5 points. 2.45 3.44 development Partnership Program. 6 Number of Embraer volunteers engaged in EntrepreneurLocal socio-economic 14 ship programs, Social Partnership Program and other Increase 20% the number of volunteers. +12% (565 volunteers) +56.72% (793 volunteers) development social projects recognized by the Embraer Institute. Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School: 84% Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School: 86% Local socio-economic Approval of Embraer High School students Maintain the rate of approval above 80% for Embraer High of public university approval of public university approval 14 development in entrance exams. School students for their entrance exams. Embraer Casimiro Montenegro Filho High Embraer Casimiro Montenegro Filho High School: 83% of public university approval School: 87% of public university approval Continual increase of the percentage of annual investment in Research, development Percentage of annual investment in technological develtechnological development applied to projects with environmen15 78% 80% and innovation opment applied to projects with environmental gains. tal gains, up to the minimum of 50% for the base year 2017 (resource to be applied in 2018). 1. Due to fall of revenue in 2015, some indicators have been significantly altered. 2. Considering the training carried out on Anti-corruption – Code of Ethics and Conduct. 3. This goal has been revisited and to ensure its achievement its deadline has been extended to the next 2018-2020 cycle. 4. Considering Scope 1 emissions related to: fugitive emissions; fuel consumption other than kerosene (jet fuel); and jet fuel consumption from production flights (the current portfolio aircraft). Fuel consumption from development flights, new product certification, as well as the Defence and Security UN aircrafts, are not considered. Revenues for the year were US$6.2 billion, respectively. This strengthens our position up from US$5.9 billion the previous year. in customer loyalty, which must be achieved In our order portfolio, we have accounted through every relationship opportunity, from for US$19.6 billion in firm orders (backlog) prospecting to after-sales. At the end of the and we have achieved an adjusted net profyear, we announced the creation of a busiit of US$290.5 million, with positive operaness unit focused on services and customer tional margins for our three business units support. With the start of operations sched– a result we will seek to intensify in the uled for the first half of 2017, the unit will be upcoming years. responsible for the development of support Our programs have consistently progressed, solutions for products and services, both curensuring proper execution of their schedrent and new, as well as for managing the ules and budgets. Earlier this year, we celassociated processes and resources. ebrated the inaugural flight and the start of This was also the year of the conclusion the certification campaign for the E190-E2, of the investigation into misdeeds in four the first second-generation jet of Commertransactions conducted abroad, between cial Aviation’s E-Jets family. Since its launch, 2007 and 2011. We deeply regret these the aircraft has received 275 firm orders events, but we are certain that we have and 415 letters of intent, options and purgrown with this experience. We entered into chasing rights, a total of 690 commitments agreements with Brazilian and U.S. authorifrom airlines and leasing companies. The ties and we have turned the page, focusing model’s first units will be delivered in 2018. on the continued strengthening of a sustainMessage The KC-390, a multi-mission military airable culture that is founded on the pillars of craft, successfully completed its first inintegrity and business ethics. With improved ternational mission: it has traveled more processes and controls, we have advanced than 30,000 kilometers in Africa, Europe in our trajectory of success, which has been from the and the Middle East, in addition to the long transatlantic ferry flights. This is the recognized throughout our 50 years, with more than 8 thousand aircraft delivered to President and CEO largest aircraft ever to be manufactured in the market, in 90 countries. Brazil, and it sets new standards for the We are prepared for the future, with modcategory opening up the opportunity for us ern products and adjusted operations. |G4-1| to expand the globalization of the Defense We continue to focus on the company’s & Security business. The program’s current sustainability and we reaffirm our comPrepared for the future focus is on solely on the certification cammitment to the United Nations (UN) Globpaign, scheduled to be completed in the al Compact. For the same reason, we are We finished 2016 with the certainty that we overcame many chalsecond half of 2017, with the first delivery celebrating one more year of listing on the lenges, and that we are ready to start a new cycle of achievements planned for the following year. Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and in the company. At the beginning of the year, we inaugurated the In Executive Aviation, we have continued to on the BM&FBOVESPA’s Corporate SustainEmbraer Corporate Office (ECO) in São Paulo, with the goal of coninvest in the improvement of the Phenom ability Index (ISE, in Portuguese). centrating the company’s corporate activities in one central unit, in 100 and Phenom 300 (the world‘s best-sellWe believe that the secret to Embraer’s lonsearch of greater synergy and a global vision. This period has been ing business jet for the fourth consecutive gevity are the people who are part of the marked by adverse conditions and a deterioration of the competyear) and of the Legacy 450 and Legacy 500 company, to whom we are extremely grateitive landscape: emerging markets’ commercial activity continued jets, in addition to enhancing the Legacy ful. Together, we remain confident that we in deceleration and global political and economic instabilities have 650. We also delivered the 1,000th executive will always generate value for customers, affected sector demand. In this context, our company has been dilijet, a Legacy 500, and we were recognized by shareholders and communities. 8 9 gent in adjusting costs and expenses to the current market scenarU.S. publications Aviation International News io and launched “Challenge 200,” in search of US$200 million in (AIN) and Pro Pilot Magazine in the rankings Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva annual savings throughout our operations—these are fundamental for product support and customer support, President and CEO adjustments to ensure the growth of our strength and competitiveness in the coming years. and the Securities and Exchange Commisto the Board of Directors through the Ausion) and U.S. authorities (Department of dit and Risk Committee. The company has Message Justice and the Securities and Exchange learned from these facts and is taking the Commission) due to certain irregularities necessary steps to ensure that similar identified in four sales contracts, this past events never happen again. decade. The company has greatly strengthWe look to the future with great optimism, ened its Compliance and Internal Controls backed by a modern and competitive portfrom the Board Program and has implemented an ongoing folio of products in all business units, by training program for ethics in relationships the satisfaction of our current customers, with its business partners, both internal by the level of governance achieved and by and external. Additionally, important structhe high quality of our employees. of Directors tural changes have been made over the last few years, with the Compliance and Alexandre Gonçalves Silva |G4-1| Internal Audit department now reporting President of the Board of Directors 2016 was a year marked by important events for the company. The continued development of the E2 Programs in Commercial Aviation and of the KC-390 Program in Defense and Security has progressed successfully, and on track with the schedule established for certification and entry into operations in 2018. Significant changes were made to the Board of Executive Officers, with the appointment of a new President and CEO, Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva, formerly the head of the Commercial Aviation unit, the company’s main business, and the replacement of the General Counsel & Chief Compliance Officer, with the hiring of Fabiana Klajner Leschziner. Additionally, new leaders were selected for Commercial and Executive Aviation, and the creation of a new business unit was announced with a focus on Service and Support. These changes aim to bring the company closer to final customers and to increase the agility of the company’s decision-making process. After six years of in-depth independent investigations and the company’s unrestricted collaboration, an agreement was reached with Brazilian authorities (Federal Public Prosecutor Israel Vainboim, Josué Christiano Gomes da Silva, Samir Zraick, Alexandre Gonçalves Silva, Sérgio Eraldo de Salles Pinto, Alexandre Magalhães Filho, Cecília Mendes Garcez Siqueira, José Magno Resende de Araújo, João Cox Neto, Pedro Wongtschowski and Hebert Claros da Silva 10 11 Institutional Embraer is the result of the work of thousands of people who, throughout 47 years, have taken on the challenge of establishing a Brazilian company as one of the main forces in the global aerospace market. Founded in 1969, the company started operations in São José dos Campos, Brazil, its headEVERY 10 quarters to this day, with current presence in SECONDS, 10 Brazilian cities and 17 more cities abroad. AN EMBRAER The company also holds 51% of the shares of AIRCRAFT TAKES Visiona Tecnologia Espacial Telebras, a joint OFF SOMEWHERE venture with Telebras; and 65% of the PorIN THE WORLD tuguese company OGMA, which specializes in aircraft maintenance and manufacturing. Comprising the holding structure are also the companies ELEB, Embraer Aero Seating TechLARGEST BRAZILIAN nologies (EAST), Atech, Savis and Bradar. |G4-5, COMPANY IN THE G4-6, G4-8, G4-9| DEFENSE AND With cutting-edge technology and human SECURITY SEGMENT resources, the company designs, develops, manufactures and sells aircraft, systems and solutions for the Commercial Aviation, Executive Aviation and Defense & Security segment (see page 24), offering customer support and services in over 100 countries. |G4-4| Embraer ended the fiscal year with 18,506 employees throughout the world and delivGLOBAL LEADER ered 240 aircraft, recording US$6.2 billion in net income and US$19.6 billion in firm IN COMMERCIAL orders. |G4-9| JETS WITH UP TO 130 SEATS 5 LARGEST th MANUFACTURER OF EXECUTIVE JETS IN THE WORLD 12 Every day the world VISION |G4-56| VALUES |G4-56| Embraer will further conOUR PEOPLE ARE WHAT MAKE US FLY | solidate its position as gets more Brazilian. Our people are happy, competent, valued, one of the leading forces fulfilled, and committed to what they do. in the global aerospace People who work as teams and who act Every day Brazil is more global. |G4-6, G4-8| and defense and security with integrity, coherence, trust in each other and respect for diversity. industries. Embraer is a market leader in the segWE ARE HERE TO SERVE OUR CUSments in which it operates TOMERS | Customer loyalty is earned by UNITED STATES IRELAND DALLAS NASHVILLE DUBLIN and commands a reputaensuring their total satisfaction and by FORT LAUDERDALE TITUSVILLE tion for excellence. building strong and enduring relationships. IRWINDALE WINDSOR LOCKS UNITED KINGDOM Partnerships are established based on real JACKSONVILLE MESA BURGESS HILL commitment and flexibility. MELBOURNE FARNBOROUGH WE STRIVE FOR COMPANY EXCELLENCE | FRANCE LE BOURGET Company actions are aimed at simplicity, agility, flexibility and safety, while constantly striving for improvement and excellence. An entrepreneurial attitude is built on integrated planning, responsible delegation and disciplined execution. BOLDNESS AND INNOVATION ARE OUR NETHERLANDS CHINA HALLMARKS | Company on the technoAMSTERDAM BEIJING logical forefront, with a capacity for continPORTUGAL uous learning; internal transformation and ALVERCA influencing the markets of its businesses. A ÉVORA strategic vision and an ability to overcome challenges with creativity and courage. GLOBAL PRESENCE IS OUR FRONTIER | MEXICO SINGAPORE CHIHUAHUA SINGAPORE We demonstrate a global presence and UNITED ARAB EMIRATES mindset, acting locally to leverage competiDUBAI tiveness and using the best of each location, SERVICE envisioning a world without borders, one that CENTER values diversity. MANUFACTURING PLANTS ENGINEERING AND WE BUILD A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE | TECHNOLOGY CENTERS BRAZIL We are constantly striving to build the founLOGISTICS CENTER BELO HORIZONTE (MG) dation for the company’s longevity, considBOTUCATU (SP) ering stockholders’ profitability, respect for BRASÍLIA (DF) quality of life, environment and society. CAMPINAS (SP) 15 GAVIÃO PEIXOTO (SP) SÃO JOSÉ DOS CAMPOS (SP) SÃO PAULO (SP) SOROCABA (SP) TAUBATÉ (SP) MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE positary Receipts (ADRs) program, level III. In Board of Directors (BD) Human Resources Committee AND MODEL addition to the New Market requirements, the •Composition: 11 members, one elected •Internally designated as the Committee of People, Embraer has adopted the most strict stancompany’s bylaws impose onerous conditions by the Brazilian government (as holder of Compensation, Organization and Governance. dards of corporate governance and is assoon any shareholder who might hold shares the special class share); two are elected •Composition: up to five members. ciated with the Brazilian Institute of Corpoequal or superior to 35% of the capital, includby the company’s employees (one appoint•Meets every trimester. rate Governance (IBGC, in Portuguese), the ing submission to Public Tender Offer (OPA, in ed by the Embraer Employee Investment •Guides the BD with regards to the election Brazilian Association of Public Companies Portuguese) as well as an authorization from Club – CIEMB in Portuguese – and anothand dismissal of the members of the Board (ABRASCA, in Portuguese), Brazilian Institute the Brazilian government, holder of a special er nominated by the company’s non-shareof Executive Officers, the establishment of of Investor Relations (IBRI, in Portuguese) and class share, which grants a veto right in some holder employees); and eight elected by compensation and human resources policies, the National Institute of Investors (INI, in Porstrategic matters for the company and the the other shareholders. and to the transfer of resources to employtuguese). In 2016, the company was listed Country. |G4-41| •Two-year term, reelection permitted. ee associations as well as entities for assison the DJSI for the seventh consecutive year, •Eight independent members. tance, recreation and private pension; guides with three years of continual growth in its overGeneral Assembly (GA) •Eight ordinary meetings per year and extraoron matters of governance of the activities of all score. The company also comprises the •Elects members to and dismisses members dinary sessions as necessary – 13 meetthe BD and of its Committees. ISE and the theoretical portfolios of the Brafrom the Board of Directors and the Fiscal ings in 2016. |G4-47| zil Index (IBrX, in Portuguese), the Corporate Board; sets the global compensation for di•Defines strategies; elects, supervises and Fiscal Board Governance Stock Index (IGC, in Portuguese), rectors and board members; deliberates on dismisses members of the Board of Exec•Composition: from three to five members. the Stock Index with Differentiated Tag Along account approvals and proposals for profit utive Officers; monitors risks; and estab•Meets every trimester. (ITAG, in Portuguese), the Industrial Sector Inand dividend allocation; among the other atlishes general business policy. |G4-35| •Examines the financial statements. dex (INDX, in Portuguese), the Bovespa Index tributions contained in the provisions of the •Carries out annual formal performance •Permanent and independent administration Value 2nd Line (IVBX 2, in Portuguese) and the Brazilian Companies Act. evaluation – of the Board, the board mementity. Brazil Index 50 (IBrX 50, in Portuguese). •The votes of foreign shareholders are limited bers and the Committees – supported by a The company’s shares are listed in São Paulo to 40% of the votes of Brazilian shareholders. specialized external consultant. Members Board of Executive Officers on the New Market (BM&FBOVESPA: EMBR3) •Information on voting rights and meetings evaluate themselves, each other, and also •Composition: from four to 11 members elected and in New York, on the New York Stock Exare given in detail in the bylaws, available at the President and CEO, who, in turn, evaluby the BD. change (NYSE: ERJ), through the American Dehttps://goo.gl/wFNwsr. |G4-40, G4-42| ates the execution of the BD activities every •Two-year terms, with the possibility of re-election. fiscal year. |G4-44| •Monthly meetings. •The BD’s Internal Regiment disciplines •Responsible for daily administration, followCorporate governance structure |G4-34, G4-40, G4-41| its operations and the body’s relationship ing the guidelines of company bylaws and the with the committees that advise it. deliberations of the BD and GA. •Formally responsible for the company’s perforShareholders Fiscal Board Strategy Committee mance on economic, environmental and social •Composition: up to five members. topics: the Executive Vice President of Finance •Meets every trimester. and Investor Relations and the Vice President •Supports the BD in preparing the Strategic of People and Sustainability, respectively. |G4-36| Board of Directors Plan and the Action Plan; evaluates market •The Board of Executive Officers is evaluated Strategy opportunities; and monitors results. annually with the 360° methodology, whereCommittee Compliance as the evaluation of the President and CEO Audit and Risk Committee is the responsibility of the BD. All attributes Audit and Risk •Composition: up to five members. and composition of the BD, the Committees, Committee •Meets every bimester. the Fiscal Board and the Board of Executive Internal Auditing •Supports the BD in identifying and managing Officers are provided in detail at https://goo. Human Resources risks; oversees the quality of financial stategl/nfyTAo. |G4-35, G4-38, G4-39| Committee ments; recommends and supervises the Board of Executive Officers Risk and Internal external audit firm1; monitors performance Controls and independence of the internal audit. 16 1. Function exercised in compliance with American law, especially the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 17 Lectures were attended by more than 500 employees from several departments and ETHICS AND Board of Executive Officers by members of the Board of Directors. Among the advances in the Compliance INTEGRITY |G4-DMA: Non-discrimination, G4-DMA: Fighting Program, we highlight the development of corruption, G4-56, G4-SO3| the Know Your Customer procedure, which requires a reputational analysis of potential The Anti-Corruption Policy and the Code of Ethics and Conduct clients based on risk factors, and the adopensure the company’s integrity in all tion of a continuous audit system that peroperations. The former establishes forms monitoring of critical operations, such guidelines to prevent conflicts of as supplier payments, travel expenses, dointerest, deal with donations and nations and sponsorships. The intention is sponsorships, the offering and receivto expand the system, which already serves ing of gifts, and outsourcing. It also establishes mechanisms for investithe Internal Audit area, to other processes gations to be carried out prior to the in the coming years. formation of company partnerships. In 2010, when potential nonconformities in certain overseas business transactions The Code of Ethics and Conduct were questioned by U.S. authorities, the shares norms for responsible busicompany hired external lawyers to conduct ness management in all operations. independent investigations, proactively exThe document is guided by internal panding the initial scope and sharing the business values and by the Global Compact of the United Nations, in findings with the competent authorities. addition to complying with anti-corThese investigations found that the comruption laws, international trade, pany was responsible for irregular actions and initiatives such as the Internain four transactions involving 16 aircraft tional Forum on Business Ethical between 2007 and 2011 in Saudi Arabia, Conduct (IFBEC) and the Partnering India, Mozambique and the Dominican ReAgainst Corruption Initiative of the World Economic Forum (PACI-WEF). public. On October 24, 2016, Embraer anIn 2016, the Board of Directors nounced the terms for closing this case, approved a revision regarding the Michael Amalfitano, José Antonio de Almeida Filippo, John Stephen Slattery, Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva, which had been investigated by U.S. authorprohibition of contributions to politJackson Medeiros de Faria Schneider, Fabiana Klajner Leschziner, Mauro Kern Junior, Mauricio Rodrigues Aveiro, Johann Christian Jean Charles Bordais and Nelson Krahenbuhl Salgado (absent) ities – the United States Department of Jusical parties. The Code is available tice (DOJ) and the Securities and Exchange at https://goo.gl/mbmEu5 and all Commission (SEC) – and by Brazilian auboard members, members of the Board of Executive Officers, employCompliance |G4-DMA: Fighting corruption, G4During the fiscal year, the program intenthorities – Federal Public Prosecutor (MPF) ees and third-party collaborators are SO3, G4-SO4| sified its relationship with the group of and the Securities and Exchange Commistrained in the document’s guidelines. The Compliance Program aims to ensure more than 200 compliance agents – emsion (CVM). As part of the agreements, the the adoption of the highest standards of ployees from various departments, in Bracompany agreed to contract external and integrity and international good practices zil and abroad – who act as multipliers of independent monitoring for three years to as well as the adherence to the laws of the culture of ethics and compliance in the monitor compliance with the terms and will the countries in which Embraer is present, company. Workshops were also held to enmake a payment of US$205.5 million to above all those that govern anti-corruption sure full comprehension of the company’s U.S. and Brazilian authorities. Upon timely practices and export control. The initiative policies and how to execute them during fulfilment of the agreements, no charges will is coordinated by the department of Complidaily tasks. The training plan includes lecbe brought against Embraer (see more inforance and supervised by the Board of Directures on ethics and integrity administered mation in the GRI Indicators). tors, the Audit and Risk Committee, and by by Marjorie Doyle, member of the Society of the President and CEO. Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE). 18 19 Categorization of risk |G4-DMA: Economic performance| Helpline |G4-DMA: Procedure for complaints and claims related to environmental impacts, G4-DMA: Procedure for complaints and claims related to labor practices, G4-DMA: Procedure for complaints and claims related to human rights, STRATEGIES OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL REGULATORY/ G4-DMA: Procedure for complaints and claims related to LEGAL impacts in society, G4-57, G4-58| The Helpline is a tool to register allegations and concerns related to attitudes that violate the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the law. Contacts are consolidated by an independent company and forwarded to Risk management |G4-2, G4-14, G4-46| the Compliance department, in order to asEmbraer’s risk management methodology is RISKS THAT COULD RESULTING FROM FAILURISKS RELATED TO EXREFERS TO COMPLIANCE sure the confidentiality2 of the person who backed by the Risk Management Policy and IMPACT THE ECONOMIC RES OR INADEQUACIES POSURE OF FINANCIAL WITH LOCAL LAW WHERE files the case, who also receives a protocol is segmented into four categories (see CatVALUE OF THE BRAND IN INTERNAL PROCESSES OPERATIONS. THE COMPANY EMBRAER OPERATES, number to monitor its progress online. egorization of Risk). This structure enables AND THE IMAGE OF THAT RESULT IN LOSS OF ADOPTS PROTECTIVE MEAINCLUDING REGULATIONS Among the issues raised throughout 2016, the concentration of efforts for more asserEMBRAER, WHICH ARE PRODUCTION, ASSETS, CUSSURES AIMED AT INCREAOF THE AERONAUTICAL nearly 60% were related to conduct deviative monitoring, identification and mitigation, RELATED TO DECISIONS TOMERS OR REVENUES. SING THE GENERATION OF SECTOR AT EACH STAGE tion, of which 45% were pertinent. Referin each situation. FROM THE BOARD OF ALSO INCLUDES EXTERNAL OPERATING CASH FLOW, THE OF AIRCRAFT MANUFACrals and solutions to the issues included Upper management relies on the support of EXECUTIVE OFFICERS. EVENTS, SUCH AS NATURAL POSITIVE RETURNS ON FITURING, FROM DESIGN TO coaching and conduct monitoring, in adthe Risk and Internal Controls department CATASTROPHES AND OTHER NANCIAL TRANSACTIONS AS POST-SALES SUPPORT. dition to disciplinary measures, such as and is also involved, through interviews and EVENTS RESULTING FROM WELL AS FUNDRAISING. THE warnings, suspensions and dismissals. |G4meetings, in the periodic revision of trends CLIMATE CHANGE. COMPANY’S OPERATIONS LA16, G4-HR12| and adversities that might compromise opFOLLOW GUIDELINES OF THE In total, 325 reports were filed during the erational performance. The structure is reFINANCIAL MANAGEMENT year, a 7% increase over 2015. This rise inforced by the Audit and Risk Committee, POLICIES APPROVED BY THE demonstrates the growing credibility of which ensures autonomy to the Internal Audit BOARD OF DIRECTORS. the channel and of the awareness among area as well as to the external audit services. employees and third-party collaborators regarding the conduct expected by the comWith respect to climate change, Embraer carComittment to excellence pany. In 2017, the Helpline changed its ries out risk analyses for periods of five years, |G4-DMA: Economic performance| name to Helpline – Whistleblowing Chanconsidering aspects such as environmental Embraer establishes a corporate procedure nel, in order to help the public better underlaws (Brazilian laws and of countries in which for identifying relationship guidelines related stand its purpose. Embraer operates), discussions on carbon to each stakeholder. Based on the Principles taxation and the European Union Emissions of Excellence in Management and on the Trading Scheme (EU ETS). The most recent Model of Management Excellence (MEG, in Employees, partners and suppliers may analysis, carried out in 2012, did not identify Portuguese) from the National Quality Founcontact the following telephone numbers: any vulnerabilities of the company to these dation (FNQ, in Portuguese), Embraer keeps Brazil: 0800-721-5968 changes. The main factories are located in the Embraer Business System (SEE, in PortuPortugal: 800-180-118 Brazil, a country that is not prone to extreme guese), which defines the main guidelines for United States: 1-877-900-8779 natural phenomena, and the units abroad are the company’s business model. By presentSingapore: 800-130-2122 also at a low risk. Nevertheless, all operations ing a systematic vision of Embraer, the SEE China: 400-120-4946 follow guidelines to minimize adverse effects. makes it possible to understand the main France: 0805-080608 In addition to categorizing risks considered to objectives of management by value streams, Netherlands: 0800-450-0019 be environmental catastrophes, Embraer monstimulating continuous improvement with fo20 21 itors potential impacts to its operations. Most cus on the stakeholders (customers, shareor on the site www.embraerhelpline.com of the units are ISO 14001 certified and the holders, people, partners, society and the encompany maintains its goal of implementation vironment), ensuring that all activities result of this certification at 100% of its manufacturin shared values (see more information in 2. Except in countries whose laws do not allow reports to be made anonymously. In this case, Embraer abides by local legislation. ing plants and service centers. |G4-EC2| the GRI Indicators). |G4-24, G4-25, G4-26| Results Culture Business efficiency Embraer: Values by Staff value stream stakeholder Leadership CUSTOMERS | Tr an n t sfo me WIN AVAILABILITY, rm a ti o n m a n a g e CUSTOMERS PERFORMANCE, COMPETITIVE OFFERING/ SOLUTIONS, SAFETY The application of the lean management phi> losophy is the essence of P3E. Guided by the DEVELOP optimization of processes and the reduction SHAREHOLDERS | PRODUCTS of waste, this philosophy provides reduction FINANCIAL RETURN/ FINANCIAL HEALTH in costs as well as gains in productivity and quality. In 2016, P3E has made it possible to improve the efficiency of Commercial Aviation, through a project aimed at reducing DELIVER PEOPLE | PROFESSIONAL production cycles. The program also resultORDERS AND PERSONAL FULFILLMENT ed in the qualification of the sales process for Executive Aviation, which is generating better operating margins. Best Companies for Human Resources | “Vehicles and Car Parts” and stood out among PARTNERS | Award given by the newspaper Valor Econômithe ten leaders in Corporate Governance. SERVE INTEGRITY AND CONTINUITY Awards and recognition co and by the consulting firm Aon to compaAviation International News’ 2016 Product CUSTOMERS Brazil’s Most Innovative Company | Award from nies that adopt the best practices in human Support Survey | Product support survey conthe Valor Econômico newspaper, in partnership resources management. ducted annually by the U.S. magazine Aviation with the consulting firm Strategy&. The compaTransparency in Corporate Reports: EvaluInternational News (AIN). In 2016, Embraer’s SOCIETY AND THE ENVIny came in first place in the ranking based on ating Multinationals in Emerging Markets | Executive Aviation reached the top of the rankRONMENT | RESPECT FOR SOCIETY AND THE ENVIRONan evaluation of the revenues invested in innoStudy conducted by the International Transing with the highest average for all aspects of BUSINESS MENT, WITH GENERATION OF vation, the creation of new products and the parency NGO, which analyzed 100 compathe survey (8.4 points out of a total of 10) for MANAGEMENT* WEALTH AND WELL-BEING maturity of innovation processes. nies operating in 185 markets and headnew and used executive jets. 2016 Best Companies to Work For in Brazil | quartered in 15 countries. Among the 12 Pro Pilot magazine’s Corporate Aircraft Prod* In 2016, the company established the Business management value stream, which Ranking shared by the consulting firm Great Brazilian companies analyzed, Embraer was uct Support Survey | Executive Aviation also joined the previous flows Serving shareholders, Generating value for partners, Respecting society and the environment and Attracting and retaining people. Place to Work®and by the magazine Época. the only one to be graded above 5 (5.6) on a stood out by taking first place, for the secThis recognition demonstrates the culture of scale from zero (least transparent company) ond consecutive year, in the customer supOne of the fundamental elements of the comvaluing the internal public and its committo 10 (most transparent company). port survey for executive aircraft from the pany’s management model is the Embraer ment to the company’s performance. Empresas Mais | Prize given by the newspamagazine Pro Pilot. Embraer achieved 8.58 Enterprise Excellence Program (P3E), through The Best Companies for Starting your Career | per O Estado de S. Paulo in partnership with points, the highest score among all manwhich employees are engaged in re-envisionSurvey conducted by the magazine Você S/A the Fundação Instituto de Administração ufacturers in the 26 years that the survey ing processes for continual improvement of in partnership with the Fundação Instituto de (FIA). Embraer won first place for the category has been conducted. results. Divided into four pillars, the program Administração (FIA) and Companhia de Talen22 23 is considered a key element for the evolution tos, which evaluates the satisfaction of young of corporate management. people starting their careers. Commercial Aviation Embraer Commercial Aviation is a global E195-E2 leader in the manufacturing of jets with up (120 TO 146 SEATS) to 130 seats. In 2016, the company celebrated the inaugural flight of the first prototype of the E190-E2 as well as its first international mission, which marked the beginning of the certification campaign. The delivery of the first aircraft is scheduled for E190-E2 2018. Also, the campaigns for the E195-E2 (97 TO 114 SEATS) PRODUCTS AND SERVICES and E175-E2 models are on track and their |G4-4, G4-8| entry into service are scheduled for 2019 In 2016, Embraer participated in the Farnborand 2021, respectively. ough International Airshow, a global tradition The second generation E-Jets have high perin the airspace sector that is held in London. formance engines that – together with new For the first time, the company had each of its wings, fly-by-wire flight controls and advancE175-E2 three business units featuring a new product: es in other systems – result in significant re(80 TO 90 SEATS) the latest generation E190-E2 commercial ductions of fuel consumption, maintenance jet (see page 25), the KC-390 multi-mission costs, emissions and external noise. Since military freighter (see page 27) and the Legits launch, this product has won 275 firm acy 500 executive jet (see page 26). These orders and a total of 415 options, purchase products demonstrate a commitment to cutrights and letters of intention. |G4-EN7| E195 ting-edge innovation and technology, as well as Despite the schedule of new products in the (106 TO 108 SEATS) continual portfolio modernization. upcoming years, sales performance for the In Commercial Aviation’s Customer Satisfacfirst generation of E-Jets, mostly the E175 tion Survey (CSS), the Index of Spontaneous and E190 models, has been on par with General Satisfaction (ISGE, in Portuguese) previous years. This reflects customers’ reached 84.9% and the Embraer Absolute preference for these aircraft and validates Favorability (EAF) index reached 83%, preservthe decision to offer aircraft with 70 to 130 E190 ing an improvement trend over the last seven seats, within one family. (97 TO 114 SEATS) years and positioning the company in second The business unit had a significant participlace among all sector manufacturers. All surpation in the United States with the replacevey topics for 2016 showed an increase in ment cycle of the 50-seat fleet. On the other the absolute favorability index. These results side of the globe, China is presenting opporreflect a commitment to serve customers with tunities stemming from new policies issued excellence. In this regard, starting in 2017, by the Civil Aviation Administration of China E175 (76 TO 88 SEATS) the company will operate a business unit focused on customer support and services (see more information on the customer satisfaction survey results in GRI Indicators). |G4-DMA: Labeling of products and services, G4-PR5| MORE THAN 1,800 E170 (70 TO 78 SEATS) COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT IN SERVICE WITH OVER 24 25 THIRD LARGEST 100 MANUFACTURER OF COMMERCIAL JETS IN FAMILY ERJ 145 AIRLINES AROUND THE WORLD (37 TO 50 SEATS) THE WORLD (CAAC). The largest country in East Asia has been strategic for Embraer, accounting for Throughout the year, sales channels were 80% of the region’s market share of the fleet also opened with representatives in Mexiof jets with less than 130 seats. Africa also co, Chile, Japan, and in Europe. In addition presents a potential market, not only among to enhancing Embraer’s global presence, LEGACY 450 (7 TO 9 SEATS) the major airlines, but also with smaller opSERVICES AND SUPPORT: the initiative aims to develop a global erators that are migrating to E-Jets. Maintenance and repair of aircraft brand that comprehends the culture and Revitalization of aircraft On-Site stocks (OSS) the uniqueness of buyers in the countries Field support where relationships are established. Technical support SERVICES AND SUPPORT: Flight operations Maintenance and repair of aircraft Training (Embraer Executive Care – EEC) eSolutions Aircraft refurbishment Far beyond executive use On-Site Stocks (OSS) In 2016, Embraer delivered two Phenom LEGACY 500 Performance software Learn more at (8 TO 12 SEATS) Reduced Vertical Separation 100E to Etihad Flight College, an integral www.embraercommercialaviation.com Minimum (RVSM) subsidiary of Etihad Airways, the national Integrated diagnostic solution airline of the United Arab Emirates. The (Aircraft Health Analysis and contract provides for the delivery of two more Diagnosis – AHEAD) Comfort and verticalization jets of the same model at the beginning of In 2016, Embraer Aero Seating Technologies (EAST) began operations in Titusville, Florida, where it manufactures commercial 2017. The aircraft will be used in the pilot and executive aircraft seats, including those for the first class of the E2. This represents an important step for the company’s training academy, created to support the verticalization strategy. This new unit’s products are characterized by quality, ergonomics, and the use of light materials. rapid growth of the airline’s fleet. LEGACY 650E The Phenom 100E will also be used to Learn more at (13 TO 14 SEATS) www.embraerexecutivejets.com train pilots in the United Kingdom’s armed forces. The contract signed with Affinity Flight Training Services provides for the acquisition Executive Aviation of five aircraft for the Military Flight Training MORE THAN In 2016, shortly after having completed 10 years of operations, System (MFTS) program of the United Kingdom’s Ministry of Defense. The aircraft 1,000 EXECUTIVE JETS Embraer Executive Aviation celebrated the delivery of its 1,000th jet, a model is already being used at flight schools DELIVERED IN MORE THAN 60 COUNTRIES Legacy 500. The model was also approved for operations at London in the United States, Finland and Australia. City Airport, one of the most restrictive landing sites in the world. PHENOM 100 This year was also marked by investments in the improvement of (4 TO 7 SEATS) the Phenom 100 and Phenom 300 (the world’s best-selling business aircraft for the fourth consecutive year) and of the Legacy 450, Defense & Security Legacy 500 and Legacy 650E. The company also began the testing Embraer Defense & Security plays a strategic test campaign and toured eight countries, campaign for the Phenom 100EV (the new generation of the Phenom role in the Brazilian defense system and is the traveling more than 16,300 nautical miles 100), which was presented at the main international event for execusegment leader in Latin America. Additional(nearly 30,200 kilometers), and in 23 days tive aviation, the National Business Aviation Association (NBAA) Conly, it is present in over 60 countries. The A-29 off base, it demonstrated 100% availability. ference and Exhibition, in Orlando, Florida. The new product version introduces a superior avionics system and more powerful engines, PHENOM 300 Super Tucano turboprop, for instance, was the business unit’s best-selling model for the Embraer expects to receive the Initial Operational Capability (IOC) declaration by DEFENSE (6 TO 10 SEATS) AND SECURITY with better performance in high temperatures and elevated altitude year and already serves 13 air forces in tactithe end of 2017 and the Final Operational SOLUTIONS IN airports. The new jet is scheduled to enter the market during the first cal support missions, counterinsurgency opClearance (FOC) in 2018. The first deliveries MORE semester of 2017. Further globalizing the business unit and to be closer to customers, erations, advanced training and surveillance. Participation in the global market will intenwill also occur in 2018. In recent years, Defense & Security has inTHAN 60 Embraer has transferred part of the final assembly of the Legacy LINEAGE 1000E sify in the coming years with the launch of vested continuously in portfolio diversification COUNTRIES 450 and Legacy 500 jets to Melbourne, Florida, where the Phenom the KC-390, a multi-mission aircraft that sets with air traffic control products and radars (13 TO 19 SEATS) 100 and Phenom 300 models are already being produced. |G4-13| new standards in the category. In addition to operating under the most challenging climatdelivering more performance and efficiency ic and topographic conditions, in addition to (with jet propulsion and reduced operating integrated border protection systems. During 1 OUT OF EVERY 5 costs), the new freighter is capable of performing various missions such as transportthe year, the process of consolidating the operations of Savis Tecnologias e Sistemas S.A. 26 27 EXECUTIVE JETS DELIVERED ing and launching troops and cargo, humaniand Bradar Indústria S.A. started. The comIN THE WORLD tarian aid, in-flight refueling, rescue missions and wildfire suppression. In 2016, the airpanies are engaged in the development and production of radars, as well as border monIS FROM EMBRAER craft completed major milestones of its flight itoring for remote sensing and protection of strategic structures. Both compose the Tepro Consortium, in charge KC-390: THE LARGEST In the coming years, the unit will maintain inThe Innova Program stimulates the culture of innovation and provides of implementing the Integrated Border Monitoring System (Sisfron, in AIRCRAFT DESIGNED AND MANUFACTURED vestments in these projects in order to grow spaces for the consolidation of ideas. The main initiative today is IN BRAZIL Portuguese) in Brazil. Sisfron comprises a border area of 800 km in the sales volume and customer base, increase Green Light, which brings a startup environment into the company by state of Mato Grosso do Sul. By 2016, 70% of the project had already financial results, portfolio diversity, and expanoffering financial support and up to 100% paid time off for employees been executed. sion of international presence. to develop their projects. This year, 28 projects were awarded funding Visiona Tecnologia Espacial is a joint venture formed between Embraer for 76 people. Innova underwent a review and, starting in 2017, the and Telebras with the objective of acting in the integration of the sysResearch, innovation program also assumes the role of catalyzing exponential technolotem of Strategic Defense and Communications Geostationary Satellite and development gies and identifying disruptive opportunities for the business. With (SGDC, in Portuguese) of the Brazilian Government. Scheduled to be Being at the forefront of technology is a this goal, the company will begin immersion into the innovation hubs launched at French Guiana in the first semester of 2017, the SGDC fundamental condition for Embraer, whose of the Silicon Valley and of Boston, USA. aims to meet the country’s satellite communications needs, including KC-390 strategy is based on continuous learning In addition to these initiatives, employees also meet annually the National Program (PNBL) and a broad spectrum of strategies. and the ability to innovate. for the Embraer Seminar on Technology and Innovation (SETI, in The Gripen Design Development Network (GDDN) in Gavião Peixoto, The manufacturing plants house engineerPortuguese), a conference that presents the main technological Brazil, also began operations this year, established for the develing and product development teams – the advances being developed, which can be strengthened through opment of the Gripen NG in Brazil, in partnership with the Swedish largest of which is in São José dos Camintegration of the different departments of the company. company SAAB. Embraer Defense & Security and SAAB will conduct pos, Brazil, which concentrates more than Regarding product sustainability, the program for the Integrated Dethe full development of the two-seat version of the fighter. Between 4,000 professionals in these activities, velopment of Environmentally Sustainable Products (DIPAS, in Por2019 and 2024, 36 Gripen NG fighters will be delivered to the BraA-29 240 of whom are in pre-competitive R&D. tuguese), coordinated by the Engineering department, leads studies zilian Air Force (FAB, in Portuguese). |G4-13| SUPER TUCANO In addition, the company maintains three and actions to insert Design for Environment (DfE) strategies into engineering and technology centers: in Belo the company. Through this initiative, the use of restricted material Horizonte (MG, Brazil), Melbourne (Florida, is managed with consideration for current and future environmenGold Medal in Defense & Security USA) and in the District of Évora (Portugal). tal legislation, technological alternatives to these materials are In 2016, Rio de Janeiro hosted the Olympic and Paralympic Games, and Embraer protects the intellectual property developed, and studies are conducted with respect to the product nearly 2.5 million people passed through Tom Jobim International Airport. Embraer Defense & Security companies – Atech, Visiona Tecnologia generated by its research and development life cycle. There is also extensive interaction with the departments Espacial, Savis and Bradar – worked in partnership with the Brazilian SPECIAL investments. Throughout the year, considerresponsible for the creation of technologies aimed at reducing fuel MISSIONS Government and contributed to the above-average safety compliance ing the portfolios of invention patents and inconsumption, carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, noise, maintenance indices, as measured by the Ministry of Transportation. Atech – which incorporated the activities of Embraer Systems in 2016 dustrial design, the company filed 609 patent costs, and increasing operational efficiency, as well as pilot and – offered the Integrated Air Traffic Management System (SIGMA, in applications and had 314 patents granted. passenger comfort. Since the aircraft’s operation is the longest Portuguese), which provides airspace usage planning, and the Advanced Air The company also allocates resources for instage in its life cycle, exceeding 15 years of activity, reducing fuel Traffic Information Management System and Reports of Operational Interest novation through the Aerospace Participation consumption and, consequently, energy, has a direct impact on (SAGITARIO, in Portuguese), which simplifies airspace management, previously planned with SIGMA. Investment Fund (FIP, in Portuguese), creatthe product’s environmental performance. Additionally, fuel costs Visiona, in partnership with five other companies, carried out a monitoring INTELLIGENCE ed in 2014 with the Brazilian Development are the main expense in aircraft operation, which is why manufacSURVEILLANCE AND pilot project by capturing high and very high resolution images, even under Bank (BNDES, in Portuguese), the Funding turers are always seeking design options that promote efficiency, RECONNAISSANCE adverse climatic conditions. (ISR) Authority for Studies and Projects (FINEP, in thereby meeting both environmental and market requirements. During the football matches held in Brasília, the nation’s capital, with the support of Savis and Bradar, the army relied on a 4G/LTE (700MHz) mobile Portuguese), and the State of São Paulo de|G4-DMA: Products and services, G4-EN7, G4-EN27| broadband network with a more reliable connection, without oscillations velopment agency Desenvolve SP. In 2016, inor interference. In Rio de Janeiro, the company also made available the vestments were made in five companies in the Airborne Monitoring Sensor Based on Radio-Frequency Emission (SABER M60, in Portuguese), which assisted the Brazilian Aerospace Defense space, defense and cyber security segments, United by the common good |G4-EN27| System (SISDABRA, in Portuguese) in protecting the Games’ governmental for which R$44.27 million were allocated. In 2016, Embraer and Boeing conducted tests on an E170 aircraft, and sports facilities. Incremental innovation, in addition to ocwhich received a series of technologies to reduce environmental SERVICES AND SUPPORT: impact and increase aircraft efficiency and performance, such as a Maintenance and repair of aircraft curring vigorously within P3E (see page system for measuring air data; special paint to lessen the accumulation Modernization of aircraft 21), is stimulated among employees by of ice and insects; aerodynamic modifications to reduce noise on Agricultural Aviation -U  nmanned aerial vehicles takeoff and landing; and a bio-fuel blend, produced in Brazil, with 10% T raining and Operation Support System (TOSS) the Good Idea and the Innova programs. Embraer’s Ipanema aircraft is the leader in the Brazilian -S  ecurity systems/C4I (command, control, bio-kerosene and 90% fossil kerosene. This initiative is part of the agricultural aviation market, with 75% market share and Good Idea is a program of suggestions for communication, computing and intelligence) partnership between these companies in the context of the Boeing ecomore than 1,300 units sold. The product has been Air traffic control systems the development of routine activities with Demonstrator program, which, without precedent, unites the efforts of manufactured for 50 years, without interruption, focusing on Remote sensing more efficiency. Throughout its history, the two of the world’s leading aircraft manufacturers for the benefit of the market trends and customer needs. This is the world’s first Aerial surveillance radar Satellites program has received contributions from environment and of the aerospace industry. airplane to be certified to fly with 100% ethanol for fuel. -D  evelopment and integration of complex Learn more at www.embraeragricola.com.br systems for segments other than aviation 13,000 people and, in 2016, recorded and defense 11,650 implementations of initiatives. Learn more at www.embraerds.com Strategic plan guidelines ECONOMIC/FINANCIAL Commercial Aviation | Solidify Embraer’s leaderPERFORMANCE |G4-DMA: Economic performance| ship position in its segment, expanding the cusThe year was challenging for Embraer due to tomer base, perfecting the E-Jets, and pursuing excellence in the customer support model. reduced sales in the Defense & Security and Executive Aviation | Consolidate Embraer’s Executive Aviation, in line with other compaposition as one of the world’s most admired nies in these segments. The consolidated brands of executive jets, with recognition of results, however, were positive in light of the customers for the quality of products and service. good performance of the Commercial Aviation Defense & Security | Maintain Embraer’s segment and the reduction of costs and exleading position in the domestic market penses, mainly for the qualification of sales and expand its international performance through the modernization of products and and margin improvement in Executive Aviation. support services. In 2016, the company delivered 240 airBusiness Diversification | Develop new business craft, the same volume as the previous year. from the core competencies of the company, Net revenue was US$6,217.5 million, slightaccelerating the adoption of new technologies ly higher than the estimates for the year. and business models. People, sustainability, organization and processes | Keep advancing as a global Operating income organization committed both to delivering and operating margin customer satisfaction and valuing its people; Operating income (EBIT) and operating mara company that grows sustainably and serves gin closed 2016 at R$717.8 million and as reference in the market for innovation and corporate excellence. 3.3%, respectively, slightly down when comSTRATEGIC PLAN |G4-45| pared to the previous year (operating income Embraer conducts its planning with a 15-year of R$1,103.1 million and operating margin horizon, but attentive to external scenarios, of 5.4%) due to non-recurring items, such as the company promotes annual review cycles provisions related to the termination of the with all administrative and operational deINTANGIBLE ASSETS investigation of non-compliance with U.S. partments. The strategic plan is approved Annually, during the review cycle of the straauthorities, and also related to the payment by the Board of Directors, which evaluates it tegic plan, Embraer identifies and prioritizof benefits offered in the Voluntary Dismissbased on risk management, growth expectaes its intangible assets in order to guide al Program (PDV, in Portuguese). Excluding tions and stakeholder demands. its performance as a company that values these factors, adjusted EBIT was R$1,700.5 The review process carried out in 2016 people and is committed to customers and million and adjusted EBIT margin was 7.9%, considered the economic moment faced business excellence. in line with the company’s annual guidance. in the aerospace and defense segments, Brand | Monitored by material published in which resulted in a decrease in the number the press, presence in the sustainability indiNet income and earnings per share of sales in the segment, especially in Execces and external acknowledgments referring Adjusted net income, excluding deferred utive Aviation, in relation to the last eight to the management of people and the quality income and social contribution taxes reyears. In this scenario, Embraer adjusted of service and products (see page 22). lated to the impact of exchange variation costs, expenses and operations – essenKnowledge | Measured through the maon non-monetary assets, and also the tial adjustments to uphold the commitment turity index of processes implemented in aforementioned provisions, was R$964.9 to the goals set forth. the company, as well as by the practices of million. Adjusted earnings per share were During the year, the company announced knowledge management. R$1,3179 for the year. the closure of Harpia Sistemas S.A and Intellectual property | Measured by numHarbin Embraer Aircraft Industry Co. joint ber of patents for inventions and for indusCapital indicators venture (HEAI) and, consequently, the tertrial designs. In 2016, the company had a negative admination of the manufacturing of the LegaPeople | Evaluated periodically by compejusted free cash flow of R$1,478.7 million, cy 650 jets in China. |G4-13| tencies (see page 35). Another indicator is lower than the positive free cash flow of external recognition related to personnel R$1,391.7 million in 2015, mainly due to management (see page 22). lower cash generation from operating activ30 31 Leadership | 360° evaluations (see page 35). ities, and also due to an increase in investments in property, plant and equipment as well as the development of new products. DELIVERY OF AIRCRAFT BY UNIT 2014 2015 2016 COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL 92 101 108 AVIATION AVIATION AVIATION Capital market EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE Investment level confirmed 116 120 117 The shares traded on the BM&FBOVESPA JETS JETS JETS In 2016, the credit risk classification DEFENSE & DEFENSE & 20 DEFENSE & (EMBR3) closed 2016 quoted at R$16.00. agencies Fitch Ratings and Standard SECURITY 7 SECURITY SECURITY 15 The American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) & Poor’s (S&P) Ratings Services TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL reiterated the BBB classification for 215 241 240 traded in New York (NYSE: ERJ) ended the Embraer. The same rating applies to year quoted at US$19.25. Embraer’s marsecurities issued abroad. NET INCOME BY SEGMENT (%) ket value was US$3.6 billion at the end of 2014 2015 2016 the year (US$5.5 billion in 2015). Fitch also attributed a national long-term grade of AAA (BRA) and COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL COMMERCIAL AVIATION 50 AVIATION 56 AVIATION 57 S&P removed the negative company EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE Value Added Statement (VAS) classification in CreditWatch, a sign 25 29 28 that credit ratings will be reevaluated. AVIATION AVIATION AVIATION Added value for the year was R$5,733.2 DEFENSE & DEFENSE & DEFENSE & SECURITY 23 SECURITY 14 SECURITY 15 million, which indicates a small decrease of 2.94% in relation to what was recorded OTHERS 1 OTHERS 1 for the previous year. For shareholders, TOTAL (IN BILLIONS OF R$) TOTAL (IN BILLIONS OF R$) TOTAL (IN BILLIONS OF R$) 14.94 20.30 21.43 Embraer distributed R$73.6 million in interest on capital and R$75.0 million in MAIN ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL INDICATORS dividends, totaling R$148.6 million, with a payout of 25.4% of net consolidated MILLIONS OF R$* 2016 Variation 2015 2014 2016/2015 profit, R$585.4 million. Profit per share was R$0.7959. Emphasis should be given Net income 21,435.7 6% 20,301.8 14,935.9 to the distribution of R$3,557.1 million in Gross margin 19,9% 1.4 p.p. 18.5% 19.8% value to employees and R$592.8 million to Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) 1 1,700.5 14% 1,493.7 1,303.8 federal and municipal governments in the Adjusted operating margin 7.9% 0.5 p.p. 7.4% 8.7% form of taxes and contributions. See more Adjusted EBITDA 2 Adjusted EBITDA margin 2,844.2 13.3% 16% 1.2 p.p. 2,450.6 12.1% 1,980.7 13.3% information in the financial statements BRAZIL at: http://ri.embraer.com.br/listresultados. Net profit 585.4 142% 241.6 796.1 aspx?id-Canal=dwxMd7dcHTw/kwbNAc2ESQ. Net margin 2.7% 1.5 p.p. 1.2% 5.3% |G4-EC1| Investments3 12,458.8 (7%) 13,409.1 8,731.2 Debt 12,254.0 (11%) 13,785.7 6,662.0 Net cash (debt) (1,873.0) (6,695%) 28.4 (102.6) Total assets 38,016.7 17% 45,566.9 27,653.6 Net equity 12,844.9 (14%) 15,008.7 10,265.4 VAS CONSOLIDATED (IN R$ MILLIONS) |G4-EC1| Net debt/equity* 1.0 11% 0.9 0.6 ROA 1.6% 1.1 p.p. 0.5% 2.9% 2016 2015 2014 ROE 4.6% 3.0 p.p. 1.6% 7.8% Revenue 23,416.0 22,360.1 16,343.0 ROCE4 0.2% (6.1 p.p.) 6.3% 11.6% Inputs acquired from third-parties (17,157.1) (16,364.1) (11,144.2) Inventory 8,136.2 (10%) 9,037.9 6,388.9 Gross added value 6,258.9 5,996.0 5,198.8 Inventory turnover* 2.1 17% 1.8 1.9 Depreciation and amortization (1,265.6) (1,073.4) (676.8) Asset turnover* 0.6 50% 0.4 0.5 Net added value produced by the entity 4,993.3 4,922.6 4,522.0 Backlog of firm orders (billions in USD) 19.6 (13%) 22.5 20.9 Received added value being transferred 739.9 605.2 418.7 Delivery of aircraft (units) 240 241 215 Distribution of added value 5,733.2 5,527.8 4,940.7 Number of employees 18,506 (4%) 19,373 19,167 Personnel 3,557.1 3,342.4 2,502.3 EBIT per employee (in thousands of R$) 91.9 19% 77.1 68.0 Government (taxes, rates and contributions) 592.8 1,251.6 1,058.1 Distributed dividends 148.6 26% 117.8 214.4 Interest and rentals 991.7 652.2 553.7 32 33 Profit per share1 (R$) 0.7959 141% 0.3309 1.0851 JCP and dividends 174.0 117.8 214.3 Quantity of shares (thousand) 1,5 735,571 1% 730,205 733,677 Retained profit/losses from fiscal year 411.4 123.8 581.8 Shares of non-controllers 6.4 40.0 30.5 Verified numbers are in compliance with the IFRS international accounting norm. * Except Debt/Net Equity, Inventory Turnover, Asset Turnover, Profit per Share and Quantity of Shares. 1. The ajusted term is used for amounts calculated excluding provisions relating to non-recurring items that impacted the result of For more information, access the Annual Financial Statement at the period. 2. Represents net profit plus net financial revenue (expenses), income tax and social contributions, depreciation and http://ri.embraer.com.br/Download.aspx?Arquivo=5QjXT9Bt2eaIHjlqenPhYg==. amortization, minority shareholding and equity pickup. 3 Values include investments in Development, CAPEX and Shareholding. 4. ROCE = NOPAT/Shares employed with non-monetary items period average. 5. Weighted average of existing basic shares during the fiscal year, excluding shares acquired by the company and kept in the treasury. DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING In order to provide direct contact with uni|G4-DMA: Training and education, G4-DMA: Investments| versity students, the company is also esDeveloping talents and preparing them to take tablishing partnerships with educational on positions of leadership are fundamental institutions, such as the Engineering Speconditions to ensure the longevity of the busicialization Program (PEE, in Portuguese), ness. For this purpose, Embraer uses training conducted by the Technological Institute of programs that cover technical as well as beAeronautics (ITA, in Portuguese). Students havioral abilities. Throughout the year, more The company ended the fiscal year with complete a professional Master’s curricuthan 300 courses were offered, mostly online, 18,506 employees, 16,007 located in Bralum for Aeronautical Engineering and, upon with the support of videos, tutorials, games zil and 2,499 located abroad. The turnover completion of the course, they may be hired and infographics. rate was 15.03% (see formation of operatby Embraer. Another initiative is the Embraer Training for leaders and future leaders is ing team environment and the hiring rates in Designer Program (PPE, in Portuguese), in planned based on PSE guidelines (see page GRI Indicators). |G4-DMA: Employment, G4-10, G4-LA1| which participants are technically trained at 21), with emphasis on the Embraer Leaderthe São Paulo College of Technology (FATEC, ship Development Program, which offers conATTRACTION AND RETENTION in Portuguese), and work as interns within tinued education, improvement for upward moWith employees from more than 20 counthe company. This year, US$1,278,805.96 bility in careers and other measures focused tries, respecting differences is an Embraer and US$626,077.18 were invested in these on the Leadership, Business and Results, and principle. Embraer also invites the participrograms, respectively. Market axes. The initiative, developed in partpation of people with special needs through Retaining committed talent requires the denership with Dom Cabral Foundation, graduthe On the Path to Diversity program, in opvelopment of a work environment that stimated two classes in 2015 and four in 2016, eration since 2012, in partnership with the ulates the upper mobility of positions. With which represents 183 managers trained in Center for the Integration of Businesses and this in mind, Embraer promotes the Internal Brazil and abroad. Schools (CIEE, in Portuguese). |G4-DMA: Diversity Employment Program (API, in Portuguese), Employee performance is analyzed periodicaland equility of opportunity, G4-LA12| in which available positions are exclusively ly through a skill evaluation. This process was In 2016, Embraer started its first trainee disclosed to employees before being ancarried out between April and June. Results program. Through next year, those selected nounced to the market. This makes vertical guide the Personal Development Program will be trained in the classroom and in opmobility (promotion) and horizontal mobility (PDI, in Portuguese) and make it possible for erations, and will cycle through various de(changing departments) available for career leaders to recommend the most appropriate partments in order to become familiarized planning. In 2016, 36% of positions open courses to each of their employees. Another with challenges inherent to a global comwere filled by employees. performance indicator is the automatic salary pany’s daily routine. In Brazil alone, more progression, geared to production employees than 11 thousand young people expressed interest in the first 23 open positions. 34 35 at the beginning of their careers, which proThrough year end, the company invested and the Prevention through Design program. in continuity with the reviews of processes vides for adjusting the compensation of those R$14,298,941.00 in 625,416 total hours of Furthermore, emphasis is given to the Welland the quest for efficiency (see page 30), who receive positive evaluations. Leaders are training, which represents 34 hours per emBeing program, which aims to encourage the which included a Voluntary Dismissal Proevaluated based on 360° assessments, the ployee (see average number of training hours practice of healthy habits among employees. gram (PDV, in Portuguese). All applications Performance Map and the Calibration Comper year per employee, as well as the total numThe Internal Accident Prevention Comwere evaluated by the company, and the mittee (see performance analysis and career ber of employee training hours for human rights mittee (CIPA, in Portuguese) exists since 1,463 people who were awarded received, development in GRI Indicators). |G4-LA11| policies in GRI Indicators). |G4-LA9, G4-HR2| 1971, and it is made up of representatives in addition to their severance pay, comelected annually by employees, and an pensation of 40% of the nominal monthly equal proportion of members are named salary proportional to their time of service by the company (87.26% representation), in the company, six months of health and with the objective of ensuring safety in the dental plan coverage, and support through INTERNAL COURSES AND PLANNING FOR PRE-RETIREMENT |G4-LA10| operating environment. |G4-LA5| lectures and career qualification and/or The company is also in dialogue with unions transition workshops. |G4-LA10| 2016 2015 2014 regarding terms related to employee health A satisfaction survey was conducted with Employees 90 90 116 and safety. Clauses negotiated in collective these employees, revealing that 85% of the Value invested (R$) 115,305.08* 80,000* 190,820 conventions cover 100% of Brazilian employrespondents expressed their gratitude for Grants awarded 90 90 116 ees and include: offering Personal Protective the time they worked at Embraer. This data * The 2015 program ended in 2016. The 90 participants of the 2015 program are the same in 2016. Equipment (PPE); training and education reshows the respect with which the PDV was garding this issue; complaint recording sysconducted and reaffirms the high satisfactem; and accident audits and periodic visits tion rates recorded in surveys over the last with the participation of employees’ represeven years. sentatives. |G4-11, G4-LA8| Every year between 2007 and 2015, EmCOMPENSATION AND BENEFITS amount. Abroad, benefits packages vary in Internationally recognized certificates, such braer conducted an Internal Organizational |G4-DMA: Economic performance, G4-DMA: Market presaccordance with the current legislation in as the OHSAS 18001 (since 2001), accredClimate Survey, seeking to evaluate the deence, G4-DMA: Employment| each country. |G4-EC3, G4-LA2| it Embraer operations with regard to adoptgree of employee satisfaction. Because it is Employees receive fixed compensation, ed practices. Incident reduction and work often above the market average, the compaestablished in accordance with the comHEALTH AND SAFETY condition improvement goals defined in the ny opted to improve practices in 2016, with plexity of their functions aligned with sala|G4-DMA: Workplace health and safety| Master Sustainability Plan (see page 7) are a biannual engagement survey, which will ries practiced on the market, and variable Concern with employee health and safety supplemented annually. In addition, safety take place in 2017, for the first time. compensation, based on company results is the focus of the Environmental, Health indicators are also monitored and analyzed and individual performance (see variation and Safety Policy (MASS, in Portuguese), monthly by the Board of Executive Officers of the proportion of the lowest salaries, which aims to ensure a work environment and by the Board of Directors. gender discrimination, compared to local that complies with labor and environmental For the year, the total number of accidents minimum wage in GRI Indicators). |G4-EC5| law, in addition to complying with health, with lost time was 82, and the occupational Brazilian employees have a benefits packsafety and ergonomic requirements. sickness rate was 0.22% (see more inforage (described at https://goo.gl/4OMPS8) The initiatives are developed based on mation in GRI Indicators). |G4-LA6| and may participate in the Embraer Prev periodic medical exams (for all employees) complementary pension plan. Membership in order to trace each department’s MANAGEMENT OF is voluntary, without restrictions, and time of epidemiological profile. With this information ORGANIZATIONAL CLIMATE service is considered for withdrawal. Contribthe company developed the Behavioral In 2016, various sector companies anutors define a monthly value of up to 8% of Program, the Tensional Reeducation nounced cost and expense adjustments, their salary and the sponsor matches that Training Program (PERTO, in Portuguese) including those related to the operating environment. In this context, Embraer approved a plan for operational adjustments 36 37 EVOLUTION OF PEG IN 2016 3 classes trained EVOLUTION OF PDCA 17 projects AERONAUTICS CHAIN completed IN 2016 DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PDCA, IN PORTUGUESE) MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLY CHAIN Increase of 12% for In partnership with the Brazilian Industrial 14 goals |G4-DMA: Environmental evaluation of suppliers, G4-DMA: delivery volume and Development Agency (ABDI, in Portuguese), defined Evaluation of suppliers in labor practices, G4-DMA: Freedom increase of 12.4% the PDCA seeks to improve all companies involved in the direct supply of industrial of association and collective bargaining, G4-DMA: Child for billing. labor, G4-DMA: Forced or slave labor, G4-DMA: Evaluation of processes. The initiative was based on the 231 measures suppliers in human rights, G4-DMA: Evaluation of suppliers in Excellence Management Model (MEG, in identified societal impacts, G4-12| Part numbers number Portuguese) of the National Quality Foun2014 Embraer’s supply chain is divided into 1,200 direct suppliers, with which resources are 2016 +10.1% dation (FNQ, in Portuguese) and promoted significant improvements related to service, 32 hours of traded for the manufacturing of products, costs, quality and waste reduction. training and 3,000 indirect suppliers, who support High risk suppliers technical and administrative activities. The 2014 EXCELLENCE IN relationship with this public is guided by the 2016 -83% MANAGEMENT PROGRAM More than Code of Ethics and Conduct (see page 18) (PEG, IN PORTUGUESE) 640 hours of and goals are established in the Master An initiative that aims to enable indirect kaizens Direct employment Sustainability Plan (see page 7). 2014 suppliers to continuously pursue excelBusiness partners are subject to risk as2016 -2% lence, contributing to increased productivity sessments that include monthly monitorand technical improvement. Reduction of ing of performance indicators, face-to-face Companies – selected from risk mapping and 169 days and audits at contractor companies’ plants and On-time deliveries cost reduction opportunities – participate in 9 hours of 2014 processes the periodic assessment of environmental impact surveys. In addition, all contracts 2016 +7.7% courses on lean management philosophy and receive guidance for kaizen practices (97.2% of deliveries contain clauses regarding human rights and made on-time) (continuous performance improvement). labor as well as environmental laws. This Savings of year, no significant negative impacts were R$12 million identified with regard to labor practices in the supply chain. |G4-EN32, G4EN33, G4-LA14, 1 2 3 4 G4-LA15, G4-HR1, G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR10, G4-SO9| IDENTIFICATION THEORETICAL KAIZENS PRESENTATION OF SUPPLIERS TRAINING OF RESULTS 38 39 During the fiscal year the company consumed This year, a topic that involved the sector concerned Brazilian Law No. 1,127,226 m³ of water, reusing 5%. |G4-EN8, 258/2016, which instituted the modernization of the Brazilian AeroG4-EN10| nautics Code. The current document is from 1986, prior to the current Brazilian Constitution, the Consumer Defense Code, the new Civil Code Effluent and Waste and the National Civil Aviation Agency. This is an important debate takThe company’s units discard their effluents in ing place in Brazil’s Senate. The Brazilian Aerospace Industries Associthe public network, with the exception of Tauation (AIAB, in Portuguese), in which the company participates on the baté and Gavião Peixoto, Brazil, which discard Board of Executive Officers, was a member of the expert committee SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY |G4-DMA: Energy, G4-DMA: Water, G4-DMA: Emissions, G4-DMA: Effluent and waste| the Environment effluents in the Boçoroca and Mulada streams, respectively. This is possible because they have their own Sewage Treatment Plants (ETE, in Portuguese), and the Gavião Peixoto ETE that analyzed this reform. Embraer has also been attentive to discussions about easing sanctions on Iran, allowing the sale of commercial aircraft under license from the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the U.S. Treasury The MASS Policy also guides Embraer’s Enstands out for its removal of nitrogen-based Department, and on the change of European law to allow the transfer vironmental actions, having among its princimaterial (ammonium, nitrite, nitrate) and the of data between Brazil and the U.S. ples respect for the environment, the pursuit reuse of water. The volume discarded is less The company also favored setting limits for state support in the deof eco-efficiency and the management of the than the supporting capacity of the water bodvelopment and maintenance of aeronautical projects. During the year, company’s products’ life cycle. ies and both are outside the Environmental Brazil appealed to the World Trade Organization (WTO) against subsiProtected Areas (APA, in Portuguese) (see dies granted by the province of Quebec (Canada) for the development GREENHOUSE GASES (GHG) water disposal broken down by treatment and of the Canadian C Series commercial aircraft model, a direct rival of the Since 2012, Embraer has been a signatory destination in GRI Indicators). |G4-EN22| E-Jets, which aggravated the price dispute in commercial aviation. This party of the aerospace industry’s sustainEmbraer waste management is carried out by is a sensitive issue to maintain a level playing field. ability commitment that establishes two third-party companies, specialized in processAfter six years of negotiations between governments, environmental of the industry’s key goals: carbon neutral ing and decontaminating materials for reuse groups and members of the aviation industry, including Embraer, the growth by 2020 and a 50% reduction in net or responsible disposal (see total weight of International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) introduced the first stanaviation CO2 emissions by 2050, considergenerated waste and their destinations in GRI dard for certification of CO2 emissions in aviation. The standard seeks ing 2005 levels. Each year, Embraer disclosIndicators). |G4-EN23| to promote the reduction of CO2 emissions from aircraft, encouraging es an inventory of GHG emissions certified the integration of fuel-efficient technologies in the design and develby ISO 14064 and audited by Lloyd’s RegSector partnerships |G4-15, G4-16| opment of aircraft. The CO2 standard will be applied to all new aircraft ister Quality Assurance (LRQA) (see emisEmbraer establishes dialogs with associamodels launched after 2020 and also, progressively, to all aircraft in sion inventory results in GRI Indicators). tions, entities, multilateral organizations and use starting in 2023, even if designed and launched before 2020. |G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN20, voluntary initiatives in order to contribute to During the ICAO October meeting, the 191 member countries also G4-EN21| the formulation of public policies concerning agreed to implement a Carbon Offset and Reduction Scheme for Interthe aerospace sector. These relationships are national Aviation (CORSIA). The agreement will add to other industry efEnergy and water regulated by guidelines stated in the Code forts to address climate change (see Embraer’s participation in nationIn 2016, energy consumption totaled of Ethics and Conduct and monitored by the al and international associations and organizations in GRI Indicators). 176,889 MWh, a higher value than in 2015, Compliance Program (see page 18). mainly due to the increase of installations and work forces in units of the United States and Portugal. A savings of 2,498 MWh/year LETTERS, PRINCIPLES AND OTHER EXTERNALLY DEVELOPED INITIATIVES |G4-15| was also recorded due to initiatives, such Name Date of Scope Stakeholders involved as the modernization of hangar lighting sysadoption tems, installation of photovoltaic panels, and Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation comUN Global Compact 2008 Global replacement of tubular fluorescent bulbs with panies and organizations from different sectors LED lights. This year, the company also hired Initiative Towards sustAinable 2012 Global Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation comKerosene for Aviation (ITAKA) panies and aerospace sector organizations a consultancy in order to identify improvement Friends of Rio+20 2012 Global Organizations from various sectors opportunities related to the reduction of energy consumption at the Faria Lima, Eugênio Commitment to reducing GHG 2012 Global Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation compaemissions in aviation (ICAO/ATAG) nies and organizations from the aerospace sector de Melo, Taubaté and ELEB units (see more about energy consumption and its reductions Call to Action 2014 Global Suppliers, manufacturers, transportation companies and organizations from different sectors in GRI Indicators). |G4-EN3, G4-EN6| Bio-fuel research center 2015 Brazil (with world Partnership with Boeing impact potential) EcoDemonstrator 2016 Technology test for improving Partnership with Boeing environmental performance of product EMBRAER INSTITUTE |G4-DMA: Indirect economic impacts, G4-DMA: Local communities, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO1| EDUCATION The Embraer Institute for Education and Research, which celebrated 15 years of operations in 2016, was created in order Embraer High Schools | Embraer’s Juarez Wanderley Scholarship Fund | Program for alumni of the Embraer to manage Embraer’s social private investment in programs focused on education. The initiatives are based on three and Casimiro Montenegro Filho High Schools, located High Schools who had excellent academic perforfronts of action: education, engagement with society and preserving the memory of the Brazilian aeronautical industry. in São José dos Campos and Botucatu, respectively, mance, financial limitations and who have been acDuring the fiscal year, in order to encourage good practices, Embraer – through the Embraer institute – embraced four offer three years of education (a full high school term) cepted into public or private universities with full tuition Sustainable Development Goals, established by the United Nations (UN). Learn more at www.institutoembraer.org.br. at no cost, for students from the public school syswaiver. The fund is made up of donations from individtem. In addition to the full scholarship, Embraer High uals, among them employees, as well as companies Schools also provide uniforms, teaching materials, food and organizations. Supporting the sustainability of the and transportation. Their applied educational method program, former students also become donors, once focuses on academic excellence and professional orithey find a place in the job market, and a grace period entation, through socio-environmental and cultural edcomes to an end. In 2016, the initiative benefited 271 ucation, and is a key factor in achieving high approval university students. rates in public and private university entrance exams. For 2016, the two high schools were listed among Entrepreneurship | The Embraer Institute carries out MORE THAN 15 YEARS the best schools in Brazil, based on the results of the initiatives in order to stimulate the entrepreneurial OF SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT WITH SOCIETY Social Partnership | The Social Partnership Program sup150 National Secondary Education Exam (ENEM, in Portuguese). Juarez Wanderley College also won the first four spirit in students of the public system in the areas where the company is present. Noteworthy, among TRANSFORMATION ports educational projects structured by civil organizations. PROJECTS positions in the Intelligence Olympics, organized by the the highlights of 2016, are the various awards reIn building its thematic agenda, the Embraer Institute proSUPPORTED Multiple Intelligences Assessment (AMI, in Portuguese) ceived by the MiniCompany Program, coordinated in SINCE R$20 motes public consultations based on the Sustainable Development Objectives (SDGs) agenda. 2004 and by the Commercial and Industrial Association (ACI, in Portuguese) in São José dos Campos. partnership with the Junior Achievement organization of the State of São Paulo, including the Best MiniMILLION Volunteering | The Embraer Institute coordinates initiatives Company award in the Social Responsibility category. INVESTED focused on disseminating a volunteering culture among employees of the company, and establishes partnerships with 793 public and private entities aiming to intensify volunteerism in EMPLOYEES DURING THE activities that comply with Embraer values. ENGAGED 2016 271 l omciendtade IN FISCAL YEAR i oan UNIVERSITY tci gagsen STUDENTS BENEFITTED oem Troacniasfl otra PRESERVING MEMORY mnasçf iado g IN THE YEAR teerin Embraer Historical Center | Created in 2006 and incorporated into the S yc Hi ECm Volun Institute in 2014, it is responsible for rescuing, preserving and disclosing tar ol h S ébgraioe 2,840 EngCaojamm o ãrom Egm Volun the memory of the Brazilian aeronautical industry in four exhibition spaces brc sr aheo oo catçiã n – São José dos Campos (SP), Gavião Peixoto (SP), Villepinte (France) and PSa rols STUDENTS ParS orciearlia 119,000 Fort Lauderdale (EUA) – and on the website www.centrohistoricoembraer. meun sao Edu GRADUATED eneeraraçãtiond tnoeci GG com.br/en-us/pages/default.aspx. In 2016, the virtual exhibition Women raslhi p SINCE THE CREATION VISITED THE in Aviation was held, in line with the fifth UN Sustainable Development oship lars hond ScFu OF THE INSTITUTE Objective (Gender Equality). See https://goo.gl/EQWdyL. lsas ntoit A FLIGHT Bond de fu eo Guided tours | Launched in 2015 as an experiment, the initiative opens MORE f FOR EMBRAER the São José dos Campos unit’s doors to the community. In addition meda v r a o THAN 80% d og i ass v to bringing the unit closer to the community, the program rescues the a EXHIBITION Pr GVuistioturdas ris m duo company’s history and involves employees who work as guides during a ia AT THE CATAVENTO oa Gu dnee mr v epnre the visits. GRADUATING STUDENTS esee CULTURAL MUSEUM A Flight for Embraer | At the end of 2015 and at the beginning of 2016, ECmebnrtar tre APPROVED IN Enp Histoórri r oe the Catavento Cultural Museum, in São Paulo, held a thematic exhibition PrM rçy icaol ECmebnrtaer Em PUBLIC AND on Aviation Technology, which had an Embraer Institute collection, including ãpo PRIVATE UNIVERSITIES 42 43 er reds e lolur a life size passenger cabin. aermv a e tmioónri a GRI INDICATORS BY WORKFORCE Men 20163 Women Men 20153 Women Men 2014 Women Location of the organization’s headquarters |G4-5| Direct employees 13,108 2,328 14,488 2,519 16,246 2,921 Avenida Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 2170 – Putim, São José dos Campos – SP. Third-parties 4 4,355 3,935 0 Total 19,791 20,942 19,167 Employee profile |G4-10| 1. Includes director-president, vice-presidents and executive officers. 2. In previous years, the count for Brazil was notated by region in the country. Starting in 2015, the counts came to be notated by country. 3. Numbers referring to sites in Brazil. 4. The system used for handling third-parties does not allow for a breakdown by gender. 20163 20153 20142 BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL Men Women Men Women Men Women Participation in national or international associations and organizations1 |G4-16| Board of Executive Officers 1 82 9 73 9 79 8 Manager 269 45 235 40 234 43 NATIONAL AGENDA Is there resource Supervisor 638 82 678 75 726 81 Seat on the Participation Strategic allocation beyond Board in projects/ Pilot 93 0 102 0 106 0 participation the registration/ of Governance commissions association fee? Engineer 3,603 547 3,783 586 3,708 576 Brazilian Association of Public Companies (Abrasca, Professional 1,487 1,036 1,300 965 1,271 961 Yes Yes Yes No in Portuguese) Technical 2,912 332 3,168 300 3,013 277 Brazilian Association of Industries for Defense and Yes Yes Yes No Administrative 435 319 480 377 490 386 Security Materials (ABIMDE, in Portuguese) Operational 6,077 540 6,603 599 6,619 589 Brazilian Association of General Aviation Yes Yes Yes No (ABAG, in Portuguese) Total by gender 15,596 2,910 16,422 2,951 16,246 2,921 Total 18,506 19,373 19,167 Brazilian Association of Mechanical No Yes Yes No Sciences (ABCM, in Portuguese) 2016 3 2015 3 2014 2 Aerospace Industries Association Yes Yes Yes No BY TYPE OF CONTRACT Men Women Men Women Men Women of Brazil (AIAB, in Portuguese) Determined time 306 70 217 89 226 67 Foreign Trade Association of Brazil Yes Yes Yes No (AEB, in Portuguese) Undetermined time 15,290 2,840 16,205 2,862 16,020 2,854 Total by gender 15,596 2,910 16,422 2,951 16,246 2,921 Technology Park of São José No Yes Yes No dos Campos Association Total 18,506 19,373 19,167 National Association for Research and Development of Innovative Yes Yes Yes No 2016 3 2015 3 2014 2 Companies (ANPEI, in Portuguese) BY WORK DAY Men Women Men Women Men Women Center for Competitiveness and Innovation of the Eastern Full work day 15,580 2,905 16,403 2,945 16,219 2,916 Region of the State of São Paulo (CECOMPI, in Portuguese) Yes Yes Yes No Half period 16 5 19 6 27 5 National Confederation of Industry Total by gender 15,596 2,910 16,422 2,951 16,246 2,921 No Yes Yes No (CNI, in Portuguese)2 Total 18,506 19,373 19,167 Federation of Industries of the State Yes Yes Yes No of São Paulo (Fiesp, in Portuguese) 2016 3 2015 3 2014 2 BY COUNTRY Men Women Men Women Men Women Brazilian Institute of Corporate No Yes Yes No Governance (IBGC, in Portuguese) Brazil 13,540 2,467 14,488 2,519 14,571 2,523 Industrial Enterprise Development Institute China 46 21 48 26 43 27 Yes Yes Yes No (IEDI, in Portuguese) USA 1,479 284 1,406 262 1,189 221 Brazilian National Confederation of Industry No Yes Yes No France 93 19 89 19 187 75 (MEI, in Portuguese) Netherlands 75 19 56 10 4 1 Ireland 0 0 0 1 2 1 INTERNATIONAL AGENDA Portugal 324 83 294 97 209 57 Is there resource Seat on the Participation in Strategic particiallocation beyond Singapore 39 17 41 17 41 16 Board projects/compation the registration/ of Governance missions Total by gender 15,596 2,910 16,422 2,951 16,246 2,921 association fee? 44 Total 18,506 19,373 19,167 Aerospace Industries No Yes Yes No Association (AIA) Air Transport Action Yes Yes Yes No Group (ATAG) Aviation Working Group (AWG) Yes Yes Yes No Brazil Industries Coalition (BIC) Yes Yes Yes No G4-EN15 G4-EN16 American Chamber of G4-EN17 Yes Yes Yes No Commerce (Amcham) Atmospheric emissions Emissions G4-EN18 X X G4-EN19 Portuguese Chamber of Commerce G4-EN20 Yes Yes Yes No in Brazil (CPCB, in Portuguese) G4-EN21 Brazilian Center for International Management of natural Yes Yes Yes No Relations (CEBRI, in Portuguese) resources and waste Brazil-China Corporate Council G4-EN22 Yes Yes Yes No Management of (CEBC, in Portuguese) Effluent and waste G4-EN23 X X chemical substances G4-EN24 Brazil-United States Corporate Management of Yes Yes Yes No Council (CEBEU, in Portuguese) chemical substances European Policy Center (EPC) No Yes Yes No Management of the product’s Products and services G4-EN27 X X environmental life cycle Global Compact Foundation No Yes Yes No Environmental evaluation G4-EN32 Foreign Trade Study Center Management of supply chain X X Yes Yes Yes No of suppliers G4-EN33 Foundation (Funcex, in Portuguese) System for complaints and General Aviation Manufacturers Transparency and No Yes Yes No claims relating to G4-EN34 X X Association (Gama) communication environmental impacts International Aerospace No Yes Yes No Attraction, development and Environmental Group (Iaeg) G4-LA1 retention of human resources Employment X National Aeronautic G4-LA2 Yes Yes Yes No Human and labor rights Association (NAA) United States Chamber of Commerce G4-LA5 No Yes Yes No G4-LA6 (US Chamber) Employee health and safety Work health and safety X G4-LA7 World Economic Forum (WEF) No Yes Yes No G4-LA8 G4-LA9 Training and education G4-LA10 X 1. The list does not present the totality of associations in which Embraer participates. However, the most strategic ones were listed. 2. Associative participation Attraction, development and G4-LA11 through the Fiesp system. retention of human resources Diversity and equality G4-LA12 X of opportunity Limit of material aspect inside and outside of the organization |G4-20, G4-21| Management of supply chain Evaluation of suppliers for G4-LA14 X X labor practices G4-LA15 Material aspects Aspect limit in System for complaints Material matters Indicators Transparency and |G4-19| the organization and claims relating to G4-LA16 X X communication labor practices Inside Outside Export control G4-HR1 G4-EC1 Investments X G4-HR2 Attraction, development and Economic performance G4-EC2 X X retention of human resources G4-EC3 Human and labor rights No discrimination G4-HR3 X X Attraction, development and Freedom of association and Market presence G4-EC5 X G4-HR4 X retention of human resources collective bargaining Local socio-economic G4-EC7 Child labor G4-HR5 X X Indirect economic impacts X X development G4-EC8 Management of natural Management of supply chain Forced or slave labor G4-HR6 X X resources and waste G4-EN3 Sustainable new business, G4-EN5 Evaluation of suppliers for Energy X X G4-HR10 X X products and services G4-EN6 human rights G4-EN7 Research, development Transparency and communication System for complaints G4-HR12 X X and innovation Local socio-economic Local communities G4-SO1 X X G4-EN8 development Management of natural Water G4-EN9 X resources and waste G4-EN10 46 47 G4-SO3 In accordance with the Ethics Fighting corruption G4-SO4 X X Shareholder assembly. Legal Vice-President rules for calling a meeting G4-SO5 detailed in the Bylaws Evaluation of suppliers for Administration of Management of supply chain G4-SO9 X X Shareholders Investor Relations Site. Continuous societal impacts Investor Relations System for complaints Transparency and Embraer Day for presenting reAdministration of and claims relating to G4-SO11 X X Biannual communication sults and relevant information. Investor Relations societal impacts Management of Workplace Safety, G4-PR5 Meetings with the Product safety Labeling products and services X X Occupational Health Bimonthly Ministry of Labor. and Environment Meetings with CETESB, Sanitary Surveillance, Federal/StaDate of the most recent report |G4-29| te Police, Ministry of Defense, Management of Corporate Sustainability and Management The previous version of this annual report was published in April 2016, referring to the fiscal year of 2015. mayors, municipal secretaries Continuous of Workplace Safety, Occupational of education, class Health and Environment entities and Brazilian Approach and frequency of stakeholder engagement and consultation processes between business associations. stakeholders and the highest governance body in relation to economic, environmental and Participation in international forums and organizations Administration of External social topics |G4-26, G4-37| (WEF, ATAG, IATA, ICAO, UNDP, Relations and Managing Continuous Global Compact, OMC, AWG, Corporate Sustainability among others). Stakeholders Approach Responsible parties Frequency Meetings with federal and state Administration of External Society governments, mayors' administraRelations and Managing Continuous tions and governmental agencies. Corporate Sustainability Embraer Operators Conference – EOC and Embraer Executive Blog of the Director-President. Presidency Continuous Operators Conference – EEOC Customer Support Annual for discussion of matters relaCycle of Values – events betAdministration of Brand ting to aircraft (maintenance, ween leaders and employees Management and Internal Bimonthly operation and field items). for sharing Embraer Values. Communications Meetings to follow up on PA/ Kaizens to improve Embraer’s Continuous/Depending PMS and alignment Leaders and employees At least each trimester Customers Customer Support each semester. interaction with customers. on demands Climate survey and meetings Studies to develop or Market Intelligence, Customer Continuous/Depending Leaders Continuous between leaders and employees. improve products. Support and Engineering on demands Helpline. Compliance Board Continuous Customer satisfaction surveys. Customer Support Annual Administration of Brand ManageMessage to managers. Continuous ment and Internal Communications Aeronautical fairs for presenIn accordance Sales ting and selling products. with global calendar Embraer Suppliers Conference Measurements taken to develop and improve awareness of the highest governing body (ESC) for strategic alignment Executive-Administration Annual regarding economic, environmental and social topics |G4-43| and awarding the year’s best suppliers. Supply Chain Alignment (SCA) Measurements Body Economic Environmental Social Program managers and and Supply Chain Quality Aligdirectors and department of Annual nment (SQA) for strategic and Lecture on shareholder activism Board of Directors X Supplier Quality operational alignment. Presentation on environmental matters Board of Directors X at company sites Executive Meeting for following Executive-Administration Quarterly Suppliers action plan indicators. Presentation from the Embraer Institute of Board of Directors X Education and Research (IEEP, in Portuguese) Customer Support Meeting (CSM) dedicated to post-sales Annual compliance training Board of Directors X Executive-Administration Quarterly for discussing technical and Presentation from the Committee Board of commercial matters. X of Financial Management Executive Officers Program Review Meeting (PRM) Presentation of work from the Committee for technical/operational Board of Program directors of Control and Environmental Risks X surveillance of development Biannual Executive Officers and managers (CCRA, in Portuguese) activities for series and post sales programs. Presentation of work from Committee Board of 48 X X of Sustainability Executive Officers Board of Presentation from the Committee of Ethics X Executive Officers Board of Anti-trust training X Executive Officers Harbin* Unavailable 830 0 Belo Horizonte Unavailable 636 612 Highest level body or position that formally analyzes and approves the sustainability report for the Beijing Unavailable 179 183 organization and ensures that all material matters are covered |G4-48| President-Director. São Paulo Unavailable Unavailable 111 Total 126,179 168,940 176,889 Process adopted to communicate critical concerns to the highest level governing body |G4-49| * In 2016, electrical energy consumed at the São Paulo office was included and the Harbin unit, in China, was excluded, due to closing of operations. The company’s Board of Executive Officers and Board of Directors’ Advisory Committees communicate critical company concerns where BD ordinary meetings take place or, if necessary, they request Extraordinary meetings. Consumption of energy within the organization |G4-EN3| Variation of the proportion of the lowest wage, separated by gender, compared to the local minimum Type of fuel (non renewable) Total consumption (MWh) wage at important operational sites |G4-EC5| Diesel 736 Country Gender Reference Ratio (%) Gasoline 319 2014 2015 2016 Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) 12,087 Men 1,337.60 1,339.80 1,502.80 171 Natural gas 31,805 Brazil (BRL)1 880.00 Women 1,337.60 1,470.55 1,470.55 167 Aviation kerosene 102,113 Men 1,733.33 1,733.33 2,142.40 154 Total 147,060 United States (USD)2 1,395.33 Women 2,080.00 2,080.00 2,102.53 151 Men 700.00 700.00 700.00 132 Consumed non-renewable fuel values include the consumption in sites certified in ISO 14064 – Part 1 referring Portugal (EUR)3 530.00 Women 700.00 700.00 700.00 132 to Scope 1 (SKJ, EGM, TTE, ELEB, BOT, GPX, BHZ, SOD and SPO). Therefore, consumption referring to Embraer Men 1,891.99 1,891.99 1,851.39 126 sites abroad were not considered. France (EUR)4 1,466.62 Women 1,891.99 1,513.59 1,556.80 106 Type of fuel (renewable) Total consumption (MWh) 1. Minimum wage in Brazil. The salary floor follows of the union category. 2. Minimum wage in the state of Florida. 3. Minimum wage in Portugal. 4. Minimum wage in France. Important operational sites are those in which Embraer is present have that have a significant quantity of staff. The following countries’ offices Hydrous ethanol 83 were not considered: Singapore, China and Netherlands. Total 83 Consumption of electrical energy by unit (MWh) |G4-EN3| 2014 2015 2016 Consumed renewable fuel values include the consumption in sites certified in ISO 14064 – Part 1 referring to Faria Lima 64,210 65,864 62,472 Scope 1 (SKJ, EGM, TTE, ELEB, BOT, GPX, BHZ, SOD and SPO). Therefore, consumption referring to Embraer sites abroad were not considered. Botucatu 17,444 17,291 15,683 Évora Unavailable 14,218 16,021 Quantities of acquired heating, refrigeration and steam not significant. Eugênio de Melo 14,710 13,707 15,320 Gavião Peixoto 14,210 13,443 15,601 Energetic intensity |G4-EN5| OGMA Unavailable 12,929 13,326 The indicator of energetic intensity covers electrical energy consumed during the year for the manufacturing of ELEB 10,775 10,959 10,987 aircraft. Due to the various models of plane manufactured by Embraer, the term equivalent aircraft was created, a Melbourne Unavailable 8,147 13,299 number calculated from the plane model and the work hours required for its manufacture. In 2016, 249 equivalent Taubaté 4,830 4,031 4,264 aircraft were produced. Considering the consumption of electrical energy in manufacturing plants in Brazil in 2016, Nashville Unavailable 3,626 4,853 the energetic intensity indicator was 500 MWh for each equivalent aircraft produced, a value 10% lower when comFort Lauderdale Unavailable 2,180 3,232 pared to that in 2015. With relation to the performance of all sites reported for this indicator, the energetic intensity Sorocaba Unavailable 900 925 of Embraer S.A. sites was 711 MWh per equivalent aircraft, a value 4% lower than that reached in 2015. 50 51 Reduction of energy consumption |G4-EN6| Total of water removed by source |G4-EN8| Unit Project title Economy in the year (kWh) Water sources Quantity (m³) Modernization of the hangar illumination system – G-1340 173,184.00 2014 2015 2016 Gavião Peixoto Underground water 647,616 616,545 563,845 Modernization of the hangar illumination system – G-1560 69,264.00 Modernization of the hangar illumination system – G-1350 221,400.00 Effluent from other organizations 60,315 Modernization of the hangar illumination system – G-1360 173,952.00 Municipal supply of water or other water supplying companies 115,737 344,268 503,066 Modernization of the hangar illumination system – G-1362 112,788.00 Total volume of removed water 763,353 960,813 1,127,226 Modernization of the hangar illumination system – G-1550 304,920.00 The SJK, EGM and GPX sites are supplied with underground water captured in the area of the company. The ELEB, Installation of photovoltaic panels 3,352.00 Taubaté, Botucatu, Belo Horizonte and Sorocaba sites in Brazil and the Évora, OGMA, Fort Lauderdale, Nashville, Patio F 51/57 5,280.00 Faria Lima Melbourne and Beijing sites abroad use municipally supplied water or other water supplying companies. As of Patio F 231 35,868.00 2016, we began to report the volume of effluent treated for reuse from the water company of the municipality of LED lighting – F-30/2 75,200.00 Melbourne. The Harbin unit ceased operations at the start of 2016 and information referring to this unit is not Hangar F30/1 41,040.00 included in the report. Values reported were obtained using direct measurements. LED lighting – F-51/57 15,010.00 Water sources significantly effected by removal of water |G4-EN9| LED lighting – external (layout) 136,800.00 We add that there are no sources significantly effected by our operations. LED lighting – F-101 26,400.00 LED lighting – F-113 116,160.00 LED lighting – F-77 80,256.00 Total percentage and volume of recycled and reused water |G4-EN10| LED lighting – F-50 60,192.00 2016 LED lighting – F-66 170,544.00 Total of recycled and Percentage of Site Total of used water (m³) Eugênio de Melo LED lighting – E-501 394,896.00 reused water (m³) recycled water LED lighting – external areas – layout 31,200.00 SJK 362,813 5,280 1 Replacement of tubular fluorescent lights with LED lights – EGM 143,113 0 0 Botucatu 9,348.00 B01 and B12 TTE 26,464 7,454 28 Installation of photovoltaic lighting posts 6,480.00 ELEB 56,106 29,952 53 Project of compressed gas economy 235,247 GPX 69,000 5,801 8 Total 2,498,780.61 BOT 89,316 0 0 EVO 82,617 1,800 2 FLL 29,560 0 0 For lighting projects, the avoided consumption was estimated using the old and new lighting powers and the operational time in each hangar where the exchange took place. BNA 1,980 0 0 MLB 71,283 0 0 For the photovoltaic energy generation project the avoided energy was estimated based on the power of installed BJS 2,213 0 0 photovoltaic panels and the solar incidence in the region. BHZ 4,760 0 0 OGMA 239,078 2,840 1 For the compressed gas economy project in Botucatu, gas economy was estimated based on energy used before and after implementation thereof, in which habit changes were encouraged, such as turning off compressors in SOD 2,050 0 0 the early morning and on weekends. Embraer Brasil 753,622 48,487 6 Embraer S.A. 1,180,353 53,127 5 52 53 The values of recycled and reused water were estimated according to the consumption of the equipment that Biogenic Emissions (tCO2e) Scope 1 uses recycled and reused water, as well as according to the volume of the reservoir in which it is stored. 2014 2015 2016 The total amount of used water is the sum of water consumed (G4-EN8) and recycled and reused water. 84.8 64.81 48.11 G4-DMA: Emissions Embraer uses the approach of operational control, including operational unit emissions and activities which the Indirect emission of greenhouse gases (GHG) resulting from the acquisition of energy (Scope 2) company controls in the inventory. The reported greenhouse gas emissions cover the SJK, EGM, TTE, ELEB, GPX, |G4-EN16| BOT, BHZ, SOD and SPO sites. The emission factors used in the calculations are attached. Referenced used were: Scope 2 Emissions • IPCC 2006, 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Prepared by the National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Programme, Eggleston H.S., Buendia L., Miwa K., Ngara T. and Tanabe K. (eds). GHG 2014 2015 2016 Published: IGES, Japan. www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl. CO2 (tCO2e) 16,905.26 15,699.16 10,217.33 CH4 (tCO2e) 0 0 0 • National Energetic Balance 2015: Base year 2014/Energy Research Company – Rio de Janeiro: EPE, 2015. N2O (tCO2e) 0 0 0 https://ben.epe.gov.br/downloads/Relatorio_Final_BEN_2012.pdf. HFC (tCO2e) 0 0 0 • GHG Protocol Brazilian Program. Calculation Tool, 2016 Cycle. www.ghgprotocolbrasil.com.br/ferramenta-de-calculo. PFC (tCO2e) 0 0 0 SF6 (tCO2e) 0 0 0 • Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MCTI, in Portuguese). Factors of the CO2 emissions from Total 16,905.26 15,699.16 10,217.33 electrical energy generation from Brazil’s National Interconnected System. Accessed on: Jan. 30, 2016. www.mct.gov.br/index.php/content/view/321144.html#ancora. Biogenic Emissions Scope 2 Direct emission of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 1) |G4-EN15| 2014 2015 2016 0 0 0 Scope 1 Emissions Other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (Scope 3) |G4-EN17| GHG 2014 2015 2016 CO2 (tCO2e) 27,396.26 28,164.26 35,704.63 Scope 3 Emissions CH4 (tCO2e) 399.19 11.68 10.79 N2O (tCO2e) 166.86 171.43 239.76 GHG 2014 2015 2016 HFC (tCO2e) 2,217.17 3,053.97 2,105.83 CO2 (tCO2e) 29,847.30 31,979.47 26,185.27 PFC (tCO2e) 0 0 0 CH4 (tCO2e) 1,776.41 1,862.90 1,250.07 SF6 (tCO2e) 0 0 0 N2O (tCO2e) 250.08 278.61 381.18 Total 30,179.48 31,401.34 38,061.01 HFC (tCO2e) 0 0 0 PFC (tCO2e) 0 0 0 SF6 (tCO2e) 0 0 0 Total 31,873.78 34,120.98 27,816.52 Biogenic Emissions Scope 3 (tCO2e) 2014 2015 2016 54 55 1,156.98 1,086.24 1,348.55 Intensity of emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) |G4-EN18| Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) 0 0 0 Embraer calculates its greenhouse gas intensity indicator by adding the emissions from Scopes 1 and 2 accorVolatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 27 20 7 ding to the company’s net revenue. The company’s reduction goal is 3% during 2017, using 2013 as a reference. Particulate Matter (PM) 36 26 19 Considered in this indicator: Scope 1 emissions referring to: fugitive emissions; burning of different aeronautical kerosene fuels (QAV, in Portuguese); and burning of QAV in production flights (current portfolio aircraft). Not considered: development flight emissions and certification of new products, as well as the Defense and Security Reported values refer to manufacturing plants SJK, EGM, Eleb, GPX and BOT. To calculate emissions, the teBusiness Unit’s aircraft. In this way, the 2016 indicator showed 19% reduction with relation to the year of 2013. chnical norms from the Environmental Company of the State of São Paulo (CETESB, in Portuguese) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) were used. Installations carry out surveillance of atmospheric emissions Reduction of emissions of greenhouse gas (GHG) |G4-EN19| resulting from stationary sources annually or at the demand of a local environmental agency, as per company procedure doc.emb 2314 and the Plan of Surveillance for Atmospheric Emissions (PMEA, in Portuguese). PMEAs identify all installed stationary sources, analyzed parameters and systems for controlling employed pollutants. Reduction of emissions of greenhouse gas (GHG) Weight (tCO2e) Emissions monitored are: Particulated Matter, Volatile Organic Compounds, Nitrogen Oxide, Sulphuric Oxide and Carbon Monoxide. Emissions, measured in mg/Nm3, are converted to tonnes/year in order to verify if they ex2014 2015 2016 ceeded the limits set by law. Results are recorded at the local environmental agency and do not exceed the set Redesigning processes – Scope 1 77 98 0 limits, a compensation project not being necessary. Conversion and modernization of equipment – Scope 2 47 239 185 Emissions from volatile organic compounds were significantly reduced in the last few years due to the installation Conversion and modernization of equipment – Scope 1 120 0 0 of robots in the main painting cabins, which lessened the quantity of paint used for planes, consequently reduChanges in the behavior of employees 22 0 19 cing VOC emissions. Also added are the improvements made for control procedures for calculating emissions. Total emissions avoided 266 337 204 Total discard of water, separated by quality and destination |G4-EN22| Emissions of substances that destroy the ozone layer (SDOs, in Portuguese) |G4-EN20| Total volume Emissions shown in tonnes of equivalent CFC-11, calculated using the Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) adopted of water 2014 2015 2016 Treatment Destination by Montreal Protocol. Values taken from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), available at www.epa.gov/ discard (m³) ozone/science/ods/index.html. Domestic 318,443 373,229 291,422 Public sewage SJK 213,196 164,318 153,752 Primary treatment – railing Emissions of substances that destroy the ozone layer (SDOs, in Portuguese) collection network Precursor ODP (tCFC-11E/t gas) 2014 (tonnes) 2015 (tonnes) 2016 (tonnes) Public sewage EGM 46,867 56,970 48,270 Primary treatment – railing collection network HCFC-22 0.055 0.08 0.08 0.04 GPX 38,009 34,465 34,319 Anaerobic treatment Local stream HCFC-141b 0.110 0.03 0.03 0.02 TTE 20,371 13,311 12,440 Aerobic treatment Local stream Total 0.165 0.11 0.11 0.06 Public sewage OGMA N/C 104,165 42,641 Biological treatment collection network Emissions of NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric emissions |G4-EN21| Industrial 71,108 116,126 108,047 Physical-chemical Public sewage SJK 23,708 25,690 24,619 treatment collection network Physical-chemical Public sewage 2014 2015 2016 BOT 37,702 37,670 28,918 treatment collection network Categories Volume of Volume of Volume of Physical-chemical Public sewage EGM 4,160 4,200 3,540 emissions in tonnes emissions in tonnes emissions in tonnes treatment collection network NOx 103 97 91 Physical-chemical GPX 615 827 577 Local stream treatment SOx 2 2 2 Physical-chemical Public sewage ELEB 4,923 4,714 3,699 treatment collection network 56 57 OGMA N/C 19,562 19,530 Physical-chemical Public sewage Total number and rate of employee turnover by age range, gender and region in 2016 |G4-LA1| treatment collection network Physical-chemical Public sewage EVO N/C 23,466 27,164 treatment collection network OBS.: The value of industrial effluent generated at the Harbin unit (1,763 m³) in 2015 was removed from the table since Harbin closed Country Age range Men Women General total its operations in 2016. Only effluents treated within Embraer sites were considered. In this way, the volume of the Botucatu’s efluents, Total % Total % Total % which are sent directly to the municipality concessionaire, was not accounted for in this indicator. Under 30 years 264 1.43 123 0.66 387 2.09 Between 30 and 50 years 760 4.11 216 1.17 976 5.27 Total weight of waste (in tonnes), separated by type and disposal method* |G4-EN23| Brazil More than 50 years 807 4.36 55 0.30 862 4.66 2014 2015 2016 Total 1,831 9.89 394 2.13 2,225 12.02 Disposal method Not danDangerNot danDangerNot danDangerTotal Total Total Under 30 years 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 gerous ous gerous ous gerous ous Between 30 and 50 years 4 0.02 12 0.06 16 0.09 Landfill (non-dangerous) 1,190 0 1,190 1,408 0 1,408 2,009 0 2,009 China More than 50 years 2 0.01 0 0.00 2 0.01 Incineration 0 2 2 374 12 386 394 28 422 Total 6 0.03 12 0.06 18 0.10 Compost 1,295 0 1,295 1,008 0 1,008 867 0 867 Under 30 years 5 0.03 6 0.03 11 0.06 Co-processing 4 1,067 1,071 9 1,091 1,100 12 977 989 Between 30 and 50 years 50 0.27 35 0.19 85 0.46 Decontamination 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 France More than 50 years 14 0.08 7 0.04 21 0.11 Sterilization 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Total 69 0.37 48 0.26 117 0.63 Recycling 10,368 103 10,471 12,284 113 12,397 12,454 97 12,551 Under 30 years 15 0.08 1 0.01 16 0.09 Recovery 853 1,997 2,850 2,490 2,217 4,707 846 2,080 2,926 Between 30 and 50 years 30 0.16 5 0.03 35 0.19 Sewage treatment 557 0 557 695 758 1,453 679 1,479 2,158 Portugal More than 50 years 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 Physical-chemical treatment 0 0 0 29 128 157 23 118 141 Total 46 0.25 6 0.03 52 0.28 Industrial landfill 0 0 0 0 30 30 0 27 27 (dangerous) Under 30 years 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 * The waste data from Évora unit, not included in the table, totaled 3,152 tonnes for non-hazardous waste, in which 61 tonnes were subject Between 30 and 50 years 0 0.00 2 0.01 2 0.01 Netherlands to disposal processes and 3,091 were subject to a recovery process. Considering hazardous wastes, 262 tonnes were disposed of and More than 50 years 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 61 tonnes were recovered. The variation in results between 2015 and 2016 is due to the inclusion of three sites from United States (Melbourne, Nashville and Fort Lauderdale) and the exclusion of the Harbin unit, whose activities ended in 2016. Total 1 0.01 2 0.01 3 0.02 Under 30 years 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Total number and volume of significant leakage |G4-EN24| Between 30 and 50 years 3 0.02 0 0.00 3 0.02 In 2016, the company did not record leakage of significant volumes. Singapore More than 50 years 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Number of complaints and claims related to recorded environmental impacts, processed and solved Total 3 0.02 0 0.00 3 0.02 through formal processes |G4-EN34| Under 30 years 55 0.30 7 0.04 62 0.34 We have not received any report on the Helpline with respect to complaints and claims related to environmental impacts. Between 30 and 50 years 135 0.73 28 0.15 163 0.88 United States More than 50 years 39 0.21 11 0.06 50 0.27 Total 229 1.24 46 0.25 275 1.49 General total 2,185 11.81 508 2.75 2,693 14.55 58 59 Total number and new employee rate by age range, gender and region in 2016 |G4-LA1| Accidents with leave for all workers (direct employees) |G4-LA6| Country Age range Men Women General total Region 2014 2015 2016 Total % Total % Total % South America (Brazil) 47 38 28 Under 30 years 361 1.95 157 0.85 518 2.80 North America (United States) 11 20 13 Between 30 and 50 years 130 0.70 57 0.31 187 1.01 Europe, Middle East and Africa 6 24 2 Brazil More than 50 years 4 0.02 0 0.00 4 0.02 Asia 0 0 0 Total 495 2.67 214 1.16 709 3.83 Total 64 82 43 Under 30 years 0 0.00 1 0.01 1 0.01 China Between 30 and 50 years 4 0.02 6 0.03 10 0.05 Accidents with leave for all workers (third-party employees) |G4-LA6| More than 50 years 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 Total 5 0.03 7 0.04 12 0.06 Region 2014 2015 2016 Under 30 years 79 0.43 22 0.12 101 0.55 South America (Brazil) 22 17 35 Between 30 and 50 years 163 0.88 39 0.21 202 1.09 North America (United States) 0 0 0 France More than 50 years 49 0.26 9 0.05 58 0.31 Europe, Middle East and Africa 12 1 0 Asia 0 0 0 Total 291 1.57 70 0.38 361 1.95 Total 34 18 35 Under 30 years 1 0.01 3 0.02 4 0.02 Between 30 and 50 years 17 0.09 5 0.03 22 0.12 Portugal Accidents rate with leave for all workers (direct employees) |G4-LA6| More than 50 years 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Total 18 0.10 8 0.04 26 0.14 Region 2014 2015 2016 Under 30 years 1 0.01 1 0.01 2 0.01 South America (Brazil) 1.45 1.17 0.88 Between 30 and 50 years 20 0.11 7 0.04 27 0.15 North America (United States) 4.29 7.63 3.65 Netherlands Europe, Middle East and Africa 6.96 22.23 2.68 More than 50 years 1 0.01 0 0.00 1 0.01 Asia 0 0 0 Total 22 0.12 8 0.04 30 0.16 Total 1.77 2.25 1.19 Under 30 years 22 0.12 7 0.04 29 0.16 Between 30 and 50 years 24 0.13 5 0.03 29 0.16 Singapore More than 50 years 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Accidents rate with leave for all workers (third-party employees) |G4-LA6| Total 46 0.25 12 0.06 58 0.31 Region 2014 2015 2016 Under 30 years 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 South America (Brazil) 2.37 1.49 2.78 Between 30 and 50 years 3 0.02 0 0.00 3 0.02 North America (United States) 0 0 0 United States More than 50 years 0 0.00 0 0.00 0 0.00 Europe, Middle East and Africa 29.10 4.95 0 Total 3 0.02 0 0.00 3 0.02 Asia 0 0 0 Total 3.51 1.54 2.60 General total 880 4.76 319 1.72 1,199 6.48 60 61 Occupational illness for all workers (direct employees) |G4-LA6| Rate of days lost (accidents + illness) for all workers (third-party employees) |G4-LA6| Region 2014 2015 2016 Region 2014 2015 2016 South America (Brazil) 15 8 6 South America (Brazil) 24.04 1.49 48.43 North America (United States) 0 0 0 North America (United States of America) 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 4.95 0 Asia 0 0 0 Total 15 8 6 Asia 0 0 0 Total 23.00 1.54 45.27 Occupational illness rates for all workers (direct employees) |G4-LA6| Region 2014 2015 2016 Absentee rate separated by women |G4-LA6| Number of occupational illnesses Rate of occupational illnesses Scheduled hours Hours of absence Percentage South America (Brazil) 15 0.25 0.19 3,918,774.14 265,285.47 6.77 North America (United States) 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 Absentee rate separated by men Asia 0 0 0 Scheduled hours Hours of absence Percentage Total 15 0.22 0.17 22,151,700.83 854,162.27 3.86 Total Scheduled hours Hours of absence Percentage Days lost (accidents + illnesses) for all workers (company employees) |G4-LA6| 26,070,474.97 4.29 1,119,447.74 Region 2014 2015 2016 Total number and rate of occupational illness for third-party employees is zero (0). There were not deaths for the South America (Brazil) 993 6,945* 885 report’s period. North America (United States) 203 423 17 Europe, Middle East and Africa 110 438 25 Asia 0 0 0 Rate of days lost (accidents + illnesses) for all workers (company employees) |G4-LA6| Total 1,306 7,806 927 Region 2014 2015 2016 * Considering a fatal accident which took place in 2015, for which 6,000 lost days were counted, as per NBR 14280. South America (Brazil) 30.55 213.70 27.92 North America (United States of America) 79.23 161.47 4.77 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Europe, Middle East and Africa 127.65 405.64 33.44 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender |G4-LA6| Asia 0 0 0 Total 36.08 214.04 25.65 Days lost (accidents + illnesses) for all workers (third-party employees) |G4-LA6| Region 2014 2015 2016 Employees with high incidence or high risk of illness related to their occupation |G4-LA7| South America (Brazil) 223 210 609 None. North America (United States) 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 17 0 Asia 0 0 0 Total 223 227 609 62 63 Analysis of career performance and development in 2016* |G4-LA11| Average number of training hours per year per employee, separated by gender Percentage Number of Percentage of and functional category* |G4-LA9| Total Number of men of men who Total women who women who Functional category who were regumen were regularly women were regularly were regularly 2014 2015 2016 larly evaluated evaluated evaluated evaluated Men Women Men Women Men Women Board of Executive Officers 72 79 110 9 11 122 Manager 223 235 105 34 32 94 Hour load 1,101 297 5,383 967 3,832 396 Board of Supervisor 625 657 105 69 78 113 Executive Employees in the category 79 8 73 9 72 9 Officers Pilot 93 91 98 0 0 0 Hours per employee 14 37 74 107 53 44 Engineer 3,550 3,465 98 544 538 99 Hour load 4,512 1,692 16,544 3,312 19,280 2,820 Professional 1,236 1,173 95 942 886 94 Manager Employees in the category 234 43 235 40 223 34 Technical 2,879 2,639 92 329 259 79 Hours per employee 19 39 70 83 86 83 Administrative 420 390 93 309 298 96 Operational 6,066 4,727 78 535 375 70 Hour load 31,266 3,901 35,363 4,015 24,152 2,696 Total 15,164 13,456 89 2,771 2,477 89 Supervisor Employees in the category 726 81 678 75 625 69 * Due to the Voluntary Dismissal Program, the number of employees is less than the number of evaluated in some categories. Hours per employee 43 48 52 54 39 39 Hour load 1,332 0 1,285 0 2,694 0 Composition of groups responsible for governing and separating employees by functional category, in Pilot Employees in the category 106 0 102 0 93 0 accordance with gender, age range, minority status and other diversity indicators |G4-LA12| Hours per employee 13 0 13 0 29 0 Functional category Total Woman (%) Man (%) Hour load 133,344 23,180 105,260 18,843 116,927 20,091 Board of Executive Officers 91 10 90 Engineer Employees in the category 3,708 576 3,783 586 3,550 544 Manager 314 14 86 Hours per employee 36 40 28 32 33 37 Supervisor 720 11 89 Hour load 31,691 21,669 29,652 21,756 33,698 27,243 Pilot 93 0 100 Professional Employees in the category 1,271 961 1,300 965 1,236 942 Engineer 4,150 13 87 Professional 2,523 41 59 Hours per employee 25 23 23 23 27 29 Technical 3,244 10 90 Hour load 98,781 14,151 95,219 8,807 128,310 18,772 Administrative 754 42 58 Technical Employees in the category 3,013 277 3,168 300 2,879 329 Operational 6,617 8 92 Hours per employee 33 51 30 29 45 57 Total 18,506 16 84 Hour load 16,108 13,558 11,382 8,679 9,880 6,397 Administrative Employees in the category 490 386 480 377 420 309 From 30 to More than Hours per employee 33 35 24 23 24 21 Functional category Total Under 30 years (%) 50 years (%) 50 years (%) Hour load 197,431 14,677 179,383 11,229 194,844 13,384 Board of Executive Officers 91 0 48 52 Operational Employees in the category 6,619 589 6,603 599 6,066 535 Manager 314 1 65 34 Hours per employee 30 25 27 19 32 25 Supervisor 720 2 80 18 Pilot 93 0 45 55 Hour load 515,565 93,126 479,470 77,607 533,617 91,799 Engineer 4,150 18 72 10 Total Employees in the category 16,246 2,921 16,422 2,951 15,164 2,771 Professional 2,523 17 72 11 Hours per employee 32 32 39 26 35 33 Technical 3,244 23 64 13 * T here was an alteration of data related to prior years since, in 2014, the Embraer standard for functional categorization was used. In consolidating training Administrative 754 32 56 11 hours per capita, for what was considered the total number of training participants, there was an alteration so that the number of company employees would be considered. Data for 2013, 2014 and 2015 is global. In 2015 there was an increase in training hours for Leadership, due to the implementation of the Operational 6,617 20 76 5 Leader School. Total 18,506 19 71 10 64 65 Employees by Total number of employee training hours regarding human rights or procedures related to 20141 20151 20162 minority status human rights matters relevant to the Organization’s operations, including the percentage of Number of black employees who 829 889 1,480 trained employees |G4-HR2| work for the company Percentage of leadership positions Total number of hours dedicated to Percentage of hours dedicated to 2.67 2.60 2.30 Number of hours dedicated occupied by black employees training for policies or procedures training for policies or procedures to training employees related to human rights matters related to human rights matters Number of people 709 755 617 with disabilities Brazil 548,296 1,303 0.2 1. Data strictly refers to Brazil. 2. Data referring to 2016 includes integral subsidiaries – Atech and Savis-Bradar. China 1,526 16 1.0 United States 61,868 500 0.8 Composition of groups responsible for governing and separating employees by functional category, in France 452 14 3.0 accordance with gender, age range, minority status and other diversity indicators |G4-LA12| Netherlands 1,391 46 3.3 Portugal 10,489 199 1.9 Singapore 1,394 3 0.2 Governance body Total Woman (%) Man (%) Total 625,416 2,081 0.3 Board of Directors 11 9 91 Board of Executive Officers 10 10 90 Number of employees trained in Percentage of employees trained Number of employees* policies or procedures related to in policies or procedures related to human rights matters human rights matters From 30 to More than Brazil 15,436 1,168 7.6 Governance body Total Under 30 years (%) 50 years (%) 50 years (%) China 67 13 19.4 Board of Directors 11 0 9 91 United States 1,763 445 25.2 Board of Executive Officers 10 0 30 70 France 112 13 11.6 Netherlands 94 40 42.6 Portugal 407 167 41.0 Singapore 56 2 3.6 Number of complaints and claims related to recorded labor practices, processed and solved Total 17,935 1,848 10.3 through formal processes |G4-LA16| * Data does not include subsidiaries. All reported problems, concerns, complaints or violations addressed to the Embraer Helpline are treated confidentially. The complaint will receive a protocol in order to follow the report status online. The verification process is covered by a policy and a procedure, following a calculation methodology. Embraer does not tolerate retaliation with anyone who Total number of cases of discrimination and corrective measures taken |G4-HR3| reports a concern in good faith. There was no internal or external case of discrimination due to ethnicity, color, sex, religion, ideology, nationality or social origin reported on the official company channel (Helpline) which had been verified and considered as 2016 (Helpline) having happened in 2016. Reports made on the complaint channel 325 Outside the scope 23 Inside the scope 302 Percentage of operations with implemented programs of local community engagement, impact evaluation and local development |G4-SO1| Applied measures 100 Percentage of operations with programs of local community engagement is 49.98%. Warnings and suspensions 31 Exemptions 6 Coaching, surveillance, orientation, awareness campaign and improvement of processes and policies 63 66 67 Total number and percentage of operations submitted to risk evaluation related to corruption Communication and training in policies and procedures for fighting corruption |G4-SO4| and significant identified risks |G4-SO3| Number of individuals and/or employees Region* Governance bodies established in the organization Operations Total number of operations submitted to Percentage of operations submitted to that compose each governance body risk evaluations related to corruption risk evaluations related to corruption Board of Directors 13 Due diligence of suppliers 5,164 100 Southeast Fiscal Counsil 10 Due diligence of sponsors 146 100 Board of Executive Officers 9 Due diligence of donations 34 100 Total 3 32 Due diligence of class entities 96 100 Number of members of the Percentage of members of the Number of individuals and/or governance body to which antigovernance body to which antiRegion* employees that compose each corruption policies and procedures corruption policies and procedures Type of risk governance body in each region Risks related to corruption Action to mitigate risks have been communicated have been communicated evaluation Southeast 32 32 100 Inclusion of the subject of conflicts of interest in training that is related to * Considered only the Southeast region of Brazil anti-corruption and to the Code of Ethics, analysis of suppliers through the Conflicts of interest (improper or due diligence process, in addition to responses to periodic consultations incorrect payments in order to Qualitative held with the Compliance team. Additionally, continuous surveillance was imobtain favors) plemented for payments considered critical and specific tests were included Functional categories Number of employees in each functional category for the departments analyzed by the Internal Audit. Control tests were also Leaders 1,177 performed for SOx certification, by the Internal Controls department. Continuous surveillance was implemented for payments considered critical Non-leaders 16,133 Improper accounting (incorrect and specific tests were included for the departments analyzed by the Internal Qualitative records and/or provisioning) Audit. Additionally, control tests were also performed for SOx certification, by the Internal Controls department. Improper commercial discounts (absence of approval or alteration Qualitative Inclusion of specific tests in the departments analyzed by the Internal Audit. Types of trading partners Number of each type of trading partner of prices) Suppliers 5,064 The Compliance team's carrying out of the due diligence analyses, in addiThird parties (commercial representatives, Failure to observe proper anti100 tion to carrying out training on anti-corruption matters. Additionally, specific law firms and logistics agents) corruption procedures in the Qualitative tests for verifying due diligence in Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) processes M&A process were included in the Internal Audit's work plan. Inclusion of the subject of conflicts of interest in training that is related to anti-corruption and to the Code of Ethics, analysis of suppliers through the Improper or duplicated payment due diligence process, in addition to responses to periodic consultations Number of employees who were notified of the Percentage of employees who were notified of (to public authorities and Qualitative held with the Compliance team. Additionally, continuous surveillance was imFunctional category anti-corruption procedures and policies the anti-corruption procedures and policies certifying entities) plemented for payments considered critical and specific tests were included for the departments analyzed by the Internal Audit. Control tests were also Board of Executive Officers 87 98 performed for SOx certification, by the Internal Controls department. Manager 382 97 Bribery or improper benefits (impropContinuous surveillance was implemented for payments considered critical Supervisor 629 99 erly receiving or paying suppliers, and specific tests were included for the departments analyzed by the Internal commercial representatives, customQualitative Audit. Additionally, control tests are made for SOx certification, executed by Pilot 77 99 ers, public authorities and Internal Controls and training actions and responses to periodic consultaEngineer 3,680 100 external entities) tions made to the Compliance team. Professional 0 0 Technical 3,223 95 Administrative 8,027 94 Operational 1,205 99 Total 17,310 97 68 69 SUMMARY OF Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken |G4-SO5| None. GRI CONTENT Number of complaints and claims related to recorded societal impacts, processed and solved through formal processes |G4-SO11| None. |G4-32| Results from customer satisfaction surveys |G4-PR5| General standard content Page Global compact STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Satisfaction indicators obtained from the annual 2014 2015 2016 G4-1 8 to 9 and 10 to 11 satisfaction survey of Commercial Aviation customers (%) G4-2 6; 7 and 20 to 21 Embraer Absolute Favorability (EAF) 67.20 77.30 83.20 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Relative-to-benchmark Favorability (RBF) 0.85 0.85 0.91 G4-3 4 Embraer Absolute Unfavorability (EAU) 8.00 3.60 3.70 G4-4 13 and 24 to 29 Spontaneous General Satisfaction Index (ISGE) 87.40 85.90 84.90 G4-5 13 and 44 G4-6 13 and 14 to 15 G4-7 4 G4-8 13; 14 to 15 and 24 to 29 G4-9 13 G4-10 34 and 44 to 45 6 G4-11 37 3 G4-12 38 G4-13 26; 28 and 30 G4-14 20 to 21 G4-15 41 G4-16 41 and 45 to 46 MATERIAL ASPECTS IDENTIFIED AND LIMITS G4-17 4 G4-18 4 and 6 G4-19 46 to 48 G4-20 46 to 48 G4-21 6 and 46 to 48 G4-22 4 G4-23 4 INVOLVEMENT OF STAKEHOLDERS G4-24 21 G4-25 21 G4-26 21 and 48 to 49 G4-27 6 70 71 SPECIFIC STANDARD CONTENT Information about Material management aspects approach and Global General standard content Page Global compact indicators Page Omissions compact REPORT PROFILE CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-DMA 21; 31 to 33 and 36 G4-28 4 Economic perforG4-EC1 33 G4-29 48 mance G4-EC2 21 7 G4-30 4 G4-EC3 36 G4-31 4 G4-DMA 36 Market presence G4-EC5 36 and 50 6 G4-32 4 and 71 to 74 G4-DMA 42 to 43 G4-33 4 Indirect economic G4-EC7 42 to 43 impacts GOVERNANCE G4-EC8 42 to 43 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-34 16 to 17 G4-DMA 40 to 41 G4-35 17 G4-EN3 40 and 50 to 51 7|8 G4-36 17 G4-EN5 51 8 Energy G4-EN6 40 and 52 8|9 G4-37 48 to 49 Currently unavailable. There is no information on the energy reductions of G4-EN7 25 and 29 8|9 G4-38 17 products sold during the period covered by the report. G4-DMA 40 to 41 G4-39 17 G4-EN8 41 and 53 7|8 G4-40 16 to 17 Water G4-EN9 53 8 G4-41 16 to 17 G4-EN10 41 and 53 to 54 8 G4-DMA 40 to 41 and 54 G4-42 16 G4-EN15 40 and 54 to 55 7|8 G4-43 49 G4-EN16 40 and 55 7|8 G4-44 17 G4-EN17 40 and 55 7|8 Emissions G4-EN18 40 and 56 8 G4-45 30 G4-EN19 40 and 56 8|9 G4-46 20 to 21 G4-EN20 40 and 56 7|8 G4-47 17 G4-EN21 40 and 56 to 57 7|8 G4-DMA 40 to 41 G4-48 50 Effluent and G4-EN22 41 and 57 to 58 8 G4-49 50 waste G4-EN23 41 and 58 8 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-EN24 58 8 G4-DMA 29 G4-56 15 and 19 10 Products and Currently unavailable. As of the date of publication of this report, the G4-57 20 10 services numerical results of the tests performed were not disclosed. HoweG4-EN27 29 7|8|9 ver, it can be stated that the flights were satisfactory and occurred G4-58 20 10 within normal performance conditions. G4-DMA 38 to 39 Environmental G4-EN32 38 8 assessment of suppliers Currently unavailable. There is no monitoring of negative G4-EN33 38 8 environmental impacts in the supply chain. Procedures for G4-DMA 20 complaints and claims related to environmental G4-EN34 58 8 impacts CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: Labor practices and decent work G4-DMA 34 and 36 Employment G4-LA1 34 and 59 to 60 6 72 G4-LA2 36 G4-DMA 36 to 37 G4-LA5 37 Currently unavailable. Discriminated rates by gender will only be Health and safety G4-LA6 37 and 61 to 63 possible by 2018. Information for absenteeism rate is available, at work but there is no breakdown by region of this figures. G4-LA7 63 G4-LA8 37 MATERIALITY 2017-2019 SPECIFIC STANDARD CONTENT Information about Material management aspects approach and Global The review of the first Materiality Matrix (2014-2016), conducted Executive and Defense and Security Aviation indicators Page Omissions compact during 2016, followed the guidelines of the Global Reporting Inibusiness units; 6 suppliers; 11 representaG4-DMA 35 to 36 tiative (GRI) in its latest version, GRI G4. The definition of the set tives of society (including NGOs, sectoral orTraining and G4-LA9 36 and 64 6 education of themes to be analyzed considered the topics identified in the ganizations and experts in the sustainability G4-LA10 36 and 37 G4-LA11 35 to 36 and 65 6 first matrix, the recently launched Sustainable Development Goals field) and 12 employees from different arG4-DMA 34 (SDGs) and the topics routinely addressed in the sustainability eas of the company. In order to ensure the Diversity and At Embraer we value diversity and we are committed to providing equal indices of the New York and São Paulo stock exchanges. identification of the most significant topics equality employment opportunities, without regard to ethnicity, age, gender, of opportunities G4-LA12 34 and 65 to 66 6 Thus, 21 themes were initially defined for the consultation profor the company’s business, the vice presireligion, national origin, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation or medical condition. cess: biofuels; biodiversity; local community development; persondents and the CEO were also consulted. G4-DMA 38 to 39 al development; socioeconomic development in the local supply The matrix was later validated by the SusEvaluation of suppliers’ labor G4-LA14 38 chain; dematerialization; human and labor rights; availability of raw tainability Committee, the Board of Executive practices Currently unavailable. There is no monitoring of negative materials; diversity and inclusion; atmospheric emissions; ethics, Officers and by Embraer’s CEO. The materiG4-LA15 38 impacts on labor practices in the supply chain. Procedures for G4-DMA 20 transparency and compliance; product lifecycle management; natal issues identified will be the basis for the complaints and ural resources and waste; risk and crisis management; chemical new Sustainability Plan (2018-2020), which claims related to G4-LA16 20 and 66 labor practices substances management; research, development and innovation; will be developed during 2017 and will presSUB-CATEGORY: Human rights noise; health, safety and well-being; product safety; information ent specific indicators and targets for each G4-DMA 35 to 36 security; economic and financial sustainability. issue. The Plan will continue to be disclosed Investments G4-HR1 38 2 The Embraer Business System (SEE, in Portuguese) was used annually, which will allow monitoring of the G4-HR2 36 and 67 1 as a reference to define the stakeholders to be consulted in the company’s results and progress in relation Non-discriminaG4-DMA 19 process. The SEE determines the key stakeholders (clients, custo the achievement of the goals established. tion G4-HR3 67 6 tomers, partners, shareholders and society) of the company and The following materiality presents the eight Freedom of G4-DMA 38 to 39 association defines the business management model, the organization model themes identified in the process considering and collective G4-HR4 38 3 and the main roles and responsibilities for the management of the combined vision (significance of the enbargaining G4-DMA 38 to 39 Embraer. The process also involved sectoral and regulatory organivironmental, social and economic impacts Child labor zations, aviation experts and civil society organizations. related to the Embraer activities versus the G4-HR5 38 5 Forced work or G4-DMA 38 to 39 The process was attended by 46 representatives of Embraer’s main influence of the theme for the company’s analogous with slavery G4-HR6 38 4 stakeholders, of which: 6 shareholders; 11 clients of the Business, stakeholders) of the evaluations carried out. Supplier evaluaG4-DMA 38 to 39 tion as to human rights G4-HR10 38 2 Procedures for G4-DMA 20 Natural resources complaints and and waste Ethics, transparency claims related to human rights G4-HR12 20 1 and compliance Other issues covered: SUB-CATEGORY: Society Biofuel Local commuG4-DMA 42 to 43 Biodiversity nities G4-SO1 42 to 43 and 67 1 Local community development Health, Economic G4-DMA 18 and 19 safety and and financial Socioeconomic development in the Fight against G4-SO3 18 to 19 and 68 10 well-being sustainability local supply chain corruption G4-SO4 18 to 19 and 69 10 Dematerialization G4-SO5 70 10 Human and labor rights Supplier evaluaG4-DMA 38 to 39 MMATERIALITY AT E R I ALI T Y tion as Diversity and inclusion to impacts on society G4-SO9 38 Availability of raw materials Procedures for G4-DMA 20 Product lifecycle management complaints and Atmospheric Risk and crisis management claims related Product to impacts on G4-SO11 70 emissions safety Chemical substances management society Noise SUB-CATEGORY: Product liability Information security Labeling of G4-DMA 24 products and services G4-PR5 24 and 70 Personal Research, development development and innovation Credits OVERALL COORDINATION VICE PRESIDENCY OF PEOPLE AND SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY FOR INDICATORS, EDITORIAL COORDINATION, LAYOUT AND REVIEW THEMEDIAGROUP CONTENT THEMEDIAGROUP/KMZ CONTEÚDO ENGLISH TRANSLATION CENTRAL DE TRADUÇÕES & GLOBAL LANGUAGES PHOTOGRAPHY EMBRAER’S COLLECTION 76
