! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 1 ! TABLE OF CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE CEO…………………….……………2 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY………………………………………3 OUR CSR VISION……………………………………………..4 CSR OVERVIEW ………………………………………………6 ! HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS………………………………..7 Our Commitments……………………………………….…….7 System of Implementation…………………………………….8 Activities & Outcomes (Internal)……………………………..9 Activities & Outcomes (External) …………………………..13 ! ENVIRONMENT………………………………………………14 Our Commitments…………………………………………….14 System of Implementation …………………………………..14 Activities & Outcomes ………………………………………..15 ! ANTI-CORRUPTION………………………………………….17 Our Commitments…………………………………….………17 System of Implementation ……………………………….….17 Activities & Outcomes ………………………………………..18 ! COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT……………………………….20 ! CAPACITY BUILDING…………………………………………24 ! MICRO-FINANCE………………………………………………30 ! CONTACT US…………………………….………………….….32 ! ! 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2016 has been an exciting and successful year for TMA: we have embarked on a variety of projects which have delivered a positive impact on Egyptian society and which also demonstrate our strong commitment to the principles of the UNGC. Our efforts are primarily concentrated in Giza where our offices are located, enabling us to engage closely with our community and to create valuable relationships. I am delighted to be able to share with you news from across our three main mandates: training & capacity building; micro-finance and community involvement. ! !In terms of training and capacity building, empowering women has been a key priority throughout 2016. This special emphasis will continue on into 2017, enabling us to deliver long-term prosperity. Our work in this field reflects the third Millennium Development Goal, which is to “promote gender equality and to empower women.” UN Women Deputy Executive Director Lakshmi Puri highlighted the importance of this focus, stating that: “Women in leadership, women empowered, and women at the helm make a difference.” !TMA values gender equality very highly, and took exceptional cooperate leadership in this field, adhering to the UN’s Women’s Empowerment Principles. Similarly, we at TMA believe that “equality means business” and we strive to embed the UN’s Women’s Empowerment Principles within our work. The Fourth WEP principle advocates “promoting education, training and professional development for women.” However, this principle has to translate into meaningful action so that women “have enough knowledge and skills to occupy a position and to handle all that they face.” ! In order to realise this objective, TMA’s charity arm, The Peoples’ Development Foundation (PDF) has continued to work closely with women in Badrasheen on the outskirts of Giza, delivering a series of workshops which aim to eradicate illiteracy. These programme ran in cooperation with the Social Fund for Development and the Authority for Educating Adults. I am very pleased to say that these workshops have seen the highest success rate in terms of providing over 1500 women and teachers with the literacy skills they need to flourish in the future. In a further effort to promote cultural prosperity in the region, PDF, in collaboration with the Adobe Foundation and other local organisations, has continued to help schools in the region foster artistic expression in young children. ! !Other highlights of this year include PDF’s community involvement initiatives which have improved the infrastructure and quality of life for citizens of Giza. Furthermore, they address several of the Millennium Development Goals, such as “ensuring environmental sustainability.” Since 1998 we have delivered blankets to those in need, and recently we have been improving street lighting as well as working closely with the youth of Giza to help clear dirt and water from the roads. Partnering with young people has created a sense of community and empowered them to take this challenge into their own hands. ! !Collaboration is at the heart of what we do, and I am most grateful to all those with whom we have partnered and to those who have made our work possible. Looking towards the future, 2017 will be the year in which we focus on special needs, in close partnership with local NGOs. We are very proud to be long-standing members of the UN Global Compact Initiative, whose principles and vision align closely with our own. ! ! May ElBatran PhD! CEO! ! ! 3 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ! ! TMA is a limited education company that provides professional skills enhancement and capacity building services to diﬀerent stakeholders via integrated education management services to its partners. Our objective is to ensure sustainable economic development in Egypt and the MENA (Middle East & North Africa) region through education and human capital enhancement and to foster a sense of independence and security among the youth. ! Our core education services are integrated management and education consulting services which we provide to the institutions of higher education in Egypt and more recently to K1-12 schools as well. Our flagship project is the management of the High Institute for Specific Studies HISS, a four year bachelor granting institution with around 15000 students. Our expertise covers the full range of services starting from initial market survey, location and building specifications, permits, and integrated management including; technical, operational, legal and accounting services of educational institutions. ! Our training services are mainly targeted towards three stakeholder groups: the industrial and trading sector, the government, and recent graduates from all levels of education. We oﬀer three tracks in our professional training and capacity building programme to suit varying demands: • The executive education track • The middle management soft-skill enhancement track • The vocational training track. ! In order to maintain our vision, we are dedicated to delivering a positive impact on society by enhancing our network of partners. Our major partners include the National Management Institute, The High Institute for Specific Studies (HISS), The Egyptian Junior Business Association (EJB), The Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI) and the TADE Group LLC. ! At TMA, we uphold a strong commitment to corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. Over the past many years, we have undertaken numerous projects in the field of social, environmental, and anti-corruption advocacy. ! After joining the United Nations Global Compact, we wish to present to you, in this following report: TMA’s fifth Communication on Progress (COP) which highlights our activities in advocating, protecting, and advancing the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights and labour, the environment and anti-corruption. ! ! ! ! ! ! 4 OUR VISION: CSR “For us, CSR is not a social liability; it is an existential issue.” ! ! For us at TMA, corporate social responsibility (CSR) is not a matter of profits; it is a matter of our existence. As a company, we must act in a socially responsible manner to promote our aim, and to build trust and a sense of belonging. Our core business is focused on training individuals to seek out more enriching and productive lives. It is equally important for us to find additional channels to assist those who may lack the means (financial or otherwise) and strive to achieve the same.! ! Networking, teamwork, and cooperation are the central principles on which we base our values. It follows that we have found the United Nations Global Compact of tremendous value in helping us to build new processes of collaboration based on a mutual understanding of responsible corporations.! ! ! The main vehicle of our CSR work, the People’s! Development Foundation (PDF), was created! as a result of joining UNGC. While the! foundation is mainly funded by TMA, it has! also received donations from other companies! and individuals. Through the networks offered! by UNGC, we sought to enhance and capitalise! the importance of partnerships and cooperation! with the aim of building a foundation where! different actors can work together to create a! ! more sustainable Egypt. ! ! ! ! ! “The general aim of our CSR work is to create a positive social impact on human security.” ! ! ! 5 CSR OVERVIEW ! ! As a company, we recognize that TMA has the opportunity to make a positive and enduring impact on society. However, corporate social responsibility should not be simply an internal matter. We wish to demonstrate to the public what we, as a company, are doing to help those around us. For this reason, we believe publications such as this report, are tremendously helpful in displaying and promoting transparency to the public and to our stakeholders. ! ! Our own direct operations have a vast impact on the environment and the society. It is the contribution we make to and through our clients in educating them, enhancing not only their technical knowhow but also making them aware of the environmental and social issues surrounding their communities. Our aim is that our clients to use their acquired knowledge in all aspects of their activities. By reaching as many clients as possible, we contribute via our core business to a more sustainable society. ! ! Our reason for submitting this report is, first and foremost, to demonstrate the work we are doing so that other companies are inspired to do the same and that we may garner support for our goals. Secondly, we want to show and emphasize the importance of collaboration and partnerships, which furthers the foundation for our work.! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 6 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ! OUR COMMITMENTS: ! “In the training TMA provides to its clients, we integrate the attention to human rights and labor as an indissoluble part.”! TMA considers itself as a responsible and forward-looking business and takes its responsibility in the field of human rights and labor very seriously. We pledge to respect them in every business transaction, whether it is with internal stakeholders such as employees, or with external stakeholders such as suppliers, customers, partners, and the civil society.! ! We have chosen to address human rights and labor in the same section because of the strong connection and overlap between the two areas. It is our belief that the steps undertaken to respect and protect human and labor rights within our workforce can be addressed with similar actions. In order to avoid duplicating information, we think that combining the two topics together in this report is the most effective way of presenting to you how TMA addresses these concepts.! ! As a member of the United Nations Global Compact Initiative, TMA is committed to the following six principles on human rights and labor:! UNGC PRINCIPLES ON HUMAN RIGHTS! ! Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclai-! med human rights; and! Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. UNGC PRINCIPLES ON LABOUR RIGHTS! ! Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognit-! ion of the right of collective bargaining;! Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;! Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and! Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 7 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ! ! SYSTEM OF IMPLEMENTATION: ! ! ! We have used the following guidelines to help us achieve the UNGC principles on human and labor rights:! ! [1] The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the two covenants that ! ! together form the Bill of Human Rights;! ! [2] The Core Conventions of the International Labor Organization;! ! [3] United Nations Global Compact; and! ! [4] The Global Strategy for women and children’s health. From an internal perspective, we wish to reference TMA’s own Human Rights Policy Statement relating to its employees. In this statement, we express our commitment to respecting the international labour rights of our employees, and to promote international human rights when interacting with business partners and local communities.! ! TMA’s recognition of the importance of human rights led to our decision to take the respect for human rights a step further and enlarge the concept of “respecting” to “protecting”. In addition to our responsibility “not to violate” human rights, TMA, as a socially responsible enterprise, endeavours to contribute further by helping to ensure that others do not violate these same rights. This is done through careful selection of our partners and suppliers, evaluating them not only on their financials, but also on their commitment towards sustainability.! ! Our commitment to these guidelines helps us assess what entails good, internal management practices. For externally based CSR initiatives, TMA has founded the People’s Development Foundation (PDF), which serves as the company’s CSR arm. In addition to its core functions, PDF also provides the opportunity to network with likeminded organizations with similar motivations. In the field of CSR, the value of networking and coordination cannot be understated. Through PDF, we strive to enhance the long-term sustainability of our society via partnerships and cooperation between businesses, NGOs, and governmental agencies.! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 8 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ! ! ACTIVITIES & OUTCOMES – ! INTERNAL: ! ! As an expected outcome of implementing the UNGC principles on Human and Labor Rights, we can state that the policies which we are committed to are integrated throughout all layers of our operation. ! ! TMA’s sustainable impact, as expressed previously, is mainly delivered to and through the educational services we provide to our clients. This is the reason why TMA endeavours to use its educational expertise to create awareness, promote leadership among business leaders, and propose successful business applications and best case practices. We also seek to embed the respect for human and labor rights and the integration of CSR into the trainings and solutions we offer to our! clients. We endeavour to be an active player in raising awareness and providing practical business solutions and applications on the subject. In the training that TMA provides to its clients, attention to human rights and labor is an integral part. In addition to the Health and Safety Programme which focuses exclusively on this subject, we also outline the need for access to safety equipment and the formulation of safety measures as an integral part of our operations.! ! In collaboration with others in the business community, TMA continues to organize and sponsor two annual events aimed at developing sustainable leadership. The first of the two events is the Global Entrepreneurship Week (GEW) for the High Institute for Specific Study (HISS), and aims at fostering social and business entrepreneurship. The second event is the Enhancement of Skills for SME Development Programme, conducted in collaboration with Cairo University and the Social Fund of Development as a series of courses on how to develop and manage a SME. In these courses, the subject of sustainability and how to implement it in SMEs is a key focus of the teaching materials.! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 9 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS INTERNAL MANAGEMENT: GOOD PRACTICES TOINTEGRATED MANAGEMENT WARDS OUR EMPLOYEES SYSTEM: ! ! ! ! TMA is the first education company to be awarded the full ISO integrated! management system in Egypt counting with ISO 9001:2000 certification, ISO 14001:2004 certification and OHSAS 18001:2007 certification. Last year, TMA was assessed and achieved the renewal for all our quality certifications for next three years. In addition, TMA also acts as a UNESCO approved testing centre for information technology and is also qualified to provide ICDL (International Computer Driving License)! ! RECRUITMENT: We consider some fundamental rights to our workforce. In TMA, our workforce consists of more than 315 part-time trainers, 25 full-time employees, and 4 full-time interns. Among our full-time employees, 45% are women, and 55% are men. Among our parttime trainers, 13% are women and 87% are men. We take pride in our objective and impartial recruitment process. Our employees come from all levels of the social stratum. TMA does not stipulate any special hiring requirements for its employees beyond the qualifications expected of the task to be performed. In accordance with! Principle 6 of the UNGC, we uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.! SAFE ENVIRONMENT: ! TMA is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees. We have undertaken all necessary steps to prevent the occurrence of accidents during the course of business activities. Implementing Principle 3 of the UNGC, as provisioned in TMA’s Human Rights Policy Statement, all TMA employees have the right to form, ! ! ! 10 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ! ! ! ! join, and/or organize an association of their choice that gives them the possibility to bargain collectively on their behalf. TMA complies with the national law on reasonable! working hours and remuneration to ensure the basic needs of our personnel are met. ! Full-time employees are entitled to a 7% increase in salary every year and full vacation rights after their first full year of work according to their age and status.! INTERNAL LABOUR POLICY: In accordance with Principles 4 and 5 of the UNGC, TMA upholds the elimination of all forms of child labor, compulsory and forced labor, and any form of discrimination based on race, nationality or social origin, cast, birth, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, family responsibilities, marital status, union membership, political opinions, or age. TMA does not permit any form of harassment in its workplace.! ! The standard of acceptable practices pertaining to our human resource management is stipulated in TMA’s Human Rights Policy Statement. This document includes all legal and practical information relating to our internal policies and management systems. We believe in the importance of establishing a clear and consistent policy at the company-level that addresses all aspects of our workforce, including matters such as labor legislation, rights and responsibilities, social services, emergency procedures, holidays, employee evaluation, and salaries.! ! With this document, we hope to achieve greater transparency and trust within the company. We recognize the need for documentation on sound management! practices so that new employees who come to work at TMA will receive consistent instructions and clear standards to follow.! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 11 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ! ! ! We follow very specific employment contracts for both full-time and part-time employees. Employee evaluations are conducted every three months. We have taken the initiative to incorporate a segment on employee satisfaction into our quarterly evaluation. We hope to demonstrate, through these actions, our openness and commitment towards upholding labor rights. As an SME, our relations with our employees are very close-knit. We wish to emphasize the family spirit and maintain an! atmosphere of tolerance. We strive to treat every employee and potential employee with dignity and fairness. Similarly, we ask that our employees treat each other with the same degree of kindness and respect.! AIESEC A notable aspect of our human resource strategy is our relationship with AIESEC, the world’s largest student network and youth development platform. This year, we have 20 interns from different international backgrounds through AIESEC, representing countries such as India, Mexico, Romania, China and Italy. We believe this is an effective way to increase TMA’s human resource capacity with educated, passionate, and motivated individuals. In addition, this year we have included Arabic courses for our international interns so that they can have an enriched experience and an understanding of our culture. In turn, we believe these cultural exchanges also serve to broaden the international perspective of Egypt. As an organization we aim to provide our interns with a real life working experience and to enhance their personal and professional development. Cooperation with international organizations such as AIESEC has served to increase TMA’s networking scope as well as CSR awareness in Egypt and globally.! ! INTERNAL COMMUNICATION The communication process within TMA is characterized by simplicity and accessibility. We have two primary methods of communication: emails, and the internal board for distributing general information. Internal committees may be set up when faced with larger and more complex decisions. An integral part of our communication strategy is to offer regular feedback to our employees on a quarterly basis. Through these actions, it is our aim to establish an open and transparent space for discussion on matters such as work conditions, employee satisfaction, and community initiatives.! ! Many of our employees are actively involved in our CSR projects. We see this as a positive sign indicative of the commitment of the whole of TMA to our CSR goals.! ! ! ! 12 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS ! FUTURE CHALLENGES: ! ! ! The biggest challenge we face, heading into the future, is to improve upon TMA’s communication strategy, both internally to our staff and externally to our stakeholders. Our use of social networking tools can be enhanced for both effectiveness and efficiency. As always, we hope and look forward to seeking out new ways to share our message with a broader audience. We also face several challenges pertaining to our human resources policy. In certain areas of our business, we have experienced seasonal issues with understaffing which has reduced the efficiency of our work. We believe that these problems can be solved with better internal organization and better communication between our company and outside entities. It is crucial that we make our position in the business world more accessible and reachable to others.! ACTIVITIES & OUTCOMES: EXTERNAL In addition to working sustainably in the field of our core business, we are a socially responsible actor in the communities we operate. With this goal in mind, TMA created the “People Development Foundation” (PDF) in February 2009 as TMA’s CSR function in terms of community engagement. The foundation’s mission is to give back to society by empowering and educating young Egyptians to become valuable workers for the local, regional, and global job market, through free of charge capacity building and enhancement programmes. In this way, TMA endeavors to align its community investment with its core business, maximizing the efficiency of TMA’s sustainable efforts.! ! In regions or situations where capacity building is not possible because of the absence of primary necessities, PDF intervenes by providing the community with the necessary resources to build up a dignified life with a programme called “Community Involvement.” Once these basic requirements are fulfilled, PDF moves into the second phase of establishing capacity building programmes to make the community more sustainable. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 13 ENVIRONMENT ! ! OUR COMMITMENTS ! ! ! TMA takes care of the environment in every aspect when delivering its services. We stick to our commitment to the UN Global Compact by implementing the three principles on environment, in all our activities. The principles are:! UNGC PRINCIPLES ON THE ENVIRONMENT! ! Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental !! ! ! challenges;! ! Principle 8: Businesses are asked to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental! ! ! responsibility;! ! Principle 9: Businesses are asked to encourage the development and diffusion of environ-! mentally friendly technologies. ! TMA sustains the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development from 1992. One fundamental and overarching principle of the UNGC on the environment is the precautionary principle. The precautionary approach is applied to minimize the environmental impact of our everyday activities. It also seeks to reduce future impact through the spreading of knowledge via our sphere of influence. We are deeply committed to this principle.! SYSTEM OF IMPLEMENTATION At TMA, we have many management systems and strategies to help us address and achieve our commitment to environmental sustainability. The most important framework that directs our work and thinking is our slogan, “Together towards a Green Future”. With this slogan, we wish to reinforce our commitment to the environment by taking it into serious consideration in all our activities. We further aspire to invite the Egyptian population to contribute to green and sustainable development. We believe adopting a green way of thinking at the company level is one of the best ways to spread green consciousness within our sphere of influence.! ! Our commitment to the environment is also demonstrated in our engagement to the ISO 14000 families of standards concerned with environment management. These ! ! ! ! ! ! 14 ENVIRONMENT ! ! ! standards consist of a framework of polices and strategic approaches that advise organizations on how to improve their environmental performance continuously and how to minimize the harmful environmental effects of their activities. ! ! As a responsible follower of the ISO, we undertake an environmental evaluation once a year and an official audit in environmental protection once every three years. At TMA, we consider it as one of our goals to enhance the environmental sustainability of our company in the years to come. By adopting these standards, our company intends to identify and minimize the negative environmental impact of its activities and services, and demonstrate new methods of raising environmental awareness.! ! When it comes to the environmental management of our business activities, our goals are to:! [1] Raise environmental awareness among youths and other stakeholders through edu! cational material, seminars, and workshops;! [2] Organize campaigns and conferences on the subject of environmental management ! to actors within our sphere of influence;! [3] Emphasize, through education, the importance of recycling and alternative methods ! of saving energy. ACTIVITIES & OUTCOMES In line with our slogan, “Together towards a Green Future”, we have made considerable changes to our facilities to ensure our equipment and appliances are eco-friendly. These environmental initiatives include:! [1] Using notebooks made from recycled paper;! [2] Efficient disposal of garbage;! [3] Avoiding needless use of water and energy;! [4] Avoiding use of chemicals and substances detrimental to the environment. ! ! ! ! ! 15 ENVIRONMENT ! ! ! ! ! These environmental initiatives have been maintained this year as well, along with our goals. Given the nature of TMA’s business activities, our impact on the environment is fairly light. However, we do want to take our commitment to the next level by raising! environmental awareness and spreading knowledge about alternative methods of protecting the environment. Examples of TMA’s environmental initiatives include projects such as the Spirit of Youth and our first International Conference for Green and Sustainable Tourism. Both initiatives seek to further Principles 8 and 9 of the UNGC in promoting greater environmental responsibility and encouraging the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION ! ! OUR COMMITMENTS: ! ! ! TMA is deeply committed to the 10th principle of United Nations Global Compact, stating that businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We believe it is fundamental to sound management to adopt openness and transparency. We will not condone any violation of the law, dishonesty, or unethical business transactions by any employee or partner. TMA has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption in all TMA’s business.! UNGC PRINCIPLES ON PREVENTING CORRUPTION! ! ! Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and ! ! ! bribery dealings and transactions in all countries in which it or its subsidiaries and as societies! operate.! ! It is the fact that corruption prohibits the sound and stable development society. The smaller the company, the more susceptible it is to corruption. As an SME, TMA is committed to the idea that it is every company’s responsibility to maintain an honest way of conducting business. With this principle in mind, we will not support, maintain, or accept any unethical business acts. TMA also commits to providing clear and transparent governance, and well-stated processes in all aspects of its business.! ! According to the strategy of the Management Board, 2013 was decided to be the year of anti-corruption in TMA, which means throughout the company, from the employees to the highest level management were committed to create an anti-corruption working and business environment. This year we have decided to continue our emphasis on anti-corruption to strengthen our commitment to create an honest business environment. In addition, the commitment of TMA with anti-corruption process is also formalized and written down clearly in the internal Anti-Corruption Policy.! ! SYSTEM OF IMPLEMENTATION “We pursue transparency at all levels of our business… To obtain the anti-corruption goal, in addition to the TMA’s internal Human Policy Statement that indicates clearly that TMA pursue transparency in all levels of our business, an external Business Anti-Corruption Portal is also used.! ! ! 17 ANTI-CORRUPTION ! ! ! ! As social awareness about anti-corruption is increased, there are a lot of different tools for companies to establish, manage and implement anti-corruption risks and comply with internal anti-corruption legislation. The system chosen by TMA management board is the Portal developed by Global Advice Network, which is referred to by many major international organizations, for example: OECD, the UN, the World Bank, the IFC and Transparency International.! ACTIVITIES & OUTCOMES ! We have developed an anti-corruption code of conduct with accompanying procedures, reporting systems and anti-corruption training for implementation within the company. We believe that not only the top management needs to understand and commit to this objective but employees from all levels of the company. Thus, a Code of Conduct has been introduced to convey the policy to all staffs. In this, the responsibility of employees and the owners of TMA are clarified. Moreover, to ensure a thorough understanding among TMA employees about corruption, definitions of corruption and different types of business payments that can leads to bribery are mentioned. In addition, due to the nature of its business, TMA has many business relationships. Thus, guidelines to avoid corruption while dealing with external partners have been included into the Code of Conducts as well. Last but not least, information about communication and training, accompanying procedures and sanctions are also mentioned.! ! Understanding that different countries with different business cultures can arise some risks for our TMA’s anti-corruption policy, TMA has also developed a general risk assessment with clear instruction of how to execute and report at the end. Corruption risks are categorized both based on geographic and market sectors and products. The purpose of this is to identify the risks and based on that, to develop strategies and establish priorities for the expansion and development of TMA in new industries or new markets. To ensure the transparency of information inside the company, a guideline of report and control has also been created. This is the key mechanism in the anti corruption programme to monitor how it works and capture the experiences of employees as well as provide data for improvements in the future.! ! ! ! ! ! ! 18 THE PEOPLE’S DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION (PDF) Our Strategy for Community Development ! The work of PDF spans three main mandates: Community Involvement, Capacity Building and Micro-finance. The following diagram serves to illustrate how the UNGC Principles on the Environment, Human & Labour rights and the Women’s Empowerment Principles align closely with the various projects PDF has undertaken, and consequently that these principles are deeply embedded within our organisation.! Environment The most important framework that directs our work and thinking is our slogan, “ToCommunity Involvement gether towards a Green Future” Beautification of Giza Micro-finance Spirit of Youth Workshops Conference for Green and Sustainable Tourism Community Development in Beni Suef Dandara Programme Baladna Programme Human Rights Regular Charitable Donation Programme Blankets, Ramadan Food Boxes Marriage Enhancement Programme Medical Programme Labour Rights “In the training TMA provides to its clients, Women’s Empowerment we integrate the attention to human rights and labor as an indissoluble part.” 4th WEP: “promoting education, training and professional development for women so they have enough knowledge Capacity Building and skills to occupy a position and to handle all that they face.” The Graduates Skills Enhancement and Project Hope Employability Initiative Women’s Empowerment Agricultural Machinery Project illiteracy programme Kardessa Police Academy Project Teacher Ethics Project Mazzica Project ! ! 19 PDF’S 1ST MANDATE: COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT At TMA, we are proud of our active involvement at the community level. Currently, improvements to basic living conditions pose some of the most urgent challenges in many areas of Egypt. Only when these needs are satisfied, can we move forward to pursue sustainability targets. Charity for us does not mean simply creating a bearable situation; it is our desire to deliver fundamental change to communities across Egypt.! ! By taking preventative action and targeting the source of the problem, we hope to achieve lasting result and change. As a forward-looking organization, we take a longterm focus on the challenges ahead. We choose, where possible, lasting community development programme over short-term programme. We further undertake regular charity work in accordance with the seasonal needs of the local community. We also ! act in response to rapid changes in society, such as the Egyptian Revolution of January 25th so as to be ready whenever the community needs us.! ! HUMAN RIGHTS TOTAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BENI SUEF “The ultimate objective of the project is to completely transform Beni Suef into a self-reliant community.”! ! In 2012, PDF launched a new total community development programme in the adjacent village of Beni Suef. The majority of the village’s population consists of widows and children living in sub-standard housing, many of them unable to work. Many of the houses in the village lack proper roofing and drainage system, the absence of which causes excessive humidity indoors, and leads to illnesses such as rheumatism and joint pains. Unhygienic cooking and sanitation standards are also rampant in the village. Based on these observations, there was an urgent need to intervene and drastically change the life of the citizens in this town.! ! After completing the funding phrase in 2012, we executed the construction for houses in the region in 2013. In 2016 we focused on developing the medical facilities in the area enabling more sophisticated medical treatment to reach those in need. Our med-! ! ! 20 PDF’S 1ST MANDATE: COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT ! ical enhancement programme has treated 22 medical cases. The Beni Suef programme has provided better living conditions for the 88 families. At the end, TMA has fulfilled its objective and transformed this town into a self-reliant community. Our relationship with the people of Beni Suef is still ongoing. Our motivation for undertaking this project is linked to our commitment to Principle 1 of the UNGC on Human Rights. We strongly believe, in accordance with Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, that everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of the individual and his/her family. We hope this project will help to achieve that for the people of Beni Suef.! REGULAR CHARITABLE DONATION PROGRAMME: Daily Food: We distribute well-balanced meals to less fortunate individuals on a daily basis. We started the programme in 2008 in response to the increase of food prices. We started with 1000 up to 3000 meals per month, at 6 L.E per meal. To-date, we have delivered 16,000 food boxes.! ! Ramadan Food Boxes: Since 1998, TMA has been distributing food boxes all around the year to families with low income, especially during Ramadan. The distributions cover different areas in Egypt. TMA prepared cooked food for families in the nearby community of Giza and food boxes were sent to families in the regions of Menia, Beni Suef and Fayoum. Each food box weighed 13 kilograms and thought to provide enough food for families of 4 to 6 members for a period of up to 10 days. This project has been taking place every year since 1998 and by now we have distributed approximately 35,000 food boxes to families in underprivileged areas. In 2016, a further 500 Ramadan boxes were delivered. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 21 PDF’S 1ST MANDATE: COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Medical Programme: TMA provides regular medical support to the ICU (Intensive Care Unit) for young children in the Aboul Resch Hospital. We also operate medical camps twice a week for 105 individuals with bone diseases, which are very common in the area, and supply them with medication. Doctors visit the clinic twice a week and give medication to those in need. Patients with more serious cases are transferred to hospitals.! ! Marriage Enhancement Programme for Girls: Our foundation also provides young girls with appliances and home necessities they need for their marriage. To-date, 61 young girls have been helped.! ! Blanket Programme: Since 1998, we have also been distributing blankets to individuals in need, cumulating to a total of 68,500 blankets. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ENVIRONMENT THE BEAUTIFICATION OF GIZA TMA has collaborated with the youth of Giza to improve infrastructure in the region, such as street-lighting, and to clear away rubbish and dirt from the streets. This initiative addresses several of the Millennium Development Goals, such as “ensuring environmental sustainability.” In order to leave a lasting and positive impact on society, we believe it is not only essential to initiate such projects, but partner with local people. This enables the current generation to take this initiative into their own hands and empowers them to make a difference in their own community.! ! ! ! ! ! 22 PDF’S 1ST MANDATE: COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT SPIRIT OF YOUTH WORKSHOPS ! Since 2009, TMA has conducted the “Spirit of Youth” workshops focusing on recycling, separating garbage, and identifying different types of waste. The workshop’s purpose was to raise environmental awareness and demonstrate to participants ways of reducing their daily environmental impact. These workshops serve as a way of implementing the seventh UNGC principle to promote greater responsibility and concern for the environment among youths, who will shape Egypt’s future. Our efforts yielded tangible results and we aspire to greater success in the years to come. The campaign organized by Spirit of Youth was delivered in four sessions, with 70 participants attending each session. In total, we were able to deliver our message on environmental sustainability to 280 youths and students.! ! INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE FOR GREEN AND SUSTAINABLE TOURISM TMA also organized the first International Conference for Green and Sustainable Tourism”. The conference was carried out under the optimistic realization that Egypt is moving towards a greener path of tourism. This is of considerable significance as the tourism industry accounts for one of the most crucial and profitable sectors in the Egyptian economy. The conference’s purpose was to raise environmental awareness and promote greater responsibility on the part of tourist facilities (such as hotels) to improve their energy efficiency. We demonstrated to participants how to provide their clients with a “greener” stay. Methods of saving energy and resources were presented at the conference, such as how to use water efficiently, and the importance of placing garbage bins in rooms to decrease pollution within their facilities. This conference was carried out in collaboration with the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of State and Environmental Affairs, the Ministry of High Education, the Giza Governorate, embassies from Sweden, Korea, Italy, and others.! ! Plans are currently underway to prepare the Second Conference for Green and Sustainable Business. As the tourism industry is highly interrelated with other industries, we consider it our duty to demonstrate to the private sector that going green is a oneway road for Egyptian businesses to enhance sustainability and become internationally competitive.! ! ! ! ! ! 23 PDF’S 2ND MANDATE: CAPACITY BUILDING HUMAN RIGHTS THE GRADUATES’ SKILLS ENHANCEMENT & EMPLOYABILITY INITIATIVE ! The Graduates’ Skills Enhancement & Employability (GSEE) Initiative organized by PDF is an initiative aimed at strategically deploying philanthropic and CSR contributions to train and match new graduates’ qualifications to specific demands in the job market. The aim is ultimately to ensure sustainable growth. The programme offers a wide range of courses that train recent graduates in areas where there is current labor shortage. During the first eight months, 1235 graduates were trained, interviewed, and employed. The job focus areas include tourism, social, and service sectors. The following year, we helped 1100 graduates achieve employment. The social module that trains graduates in becoming shadow teachers for autistic children was an unprecedented success, achieving a 100% employment rate. We place emphasis on educating youths and graduates because they are the most important building blocks for a sustainable Egyptian society. In accordance with Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we believe everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, and we strive to better the employment prospects of youths and recent graduates and offer them a safety net from unemployment.! ! One more achievement of TMA in capacity building for recent graduates is sending a team of students to attend the Fifth Arab Youth Conference that was organized under the patronage of his Royal Highness Prince Hassan Bin Talal of Jordan.! ! The students are from HISS (the Higher Institute for Specific Study) which is the parent institute of TMA, as well as the biggest university in Cairo – Cairo University. The team consisted of five boys and two girls who delivered a great presentation about Egypt and the institutions at which they are studying. In the presentation, they emphasised tolerance and understanding as the main drivers of security in our region. Our students also had the chance to conduct a personal interview with his Royal Highness Prince ! ! ! 24 PDF’S 2ND MANDATE: CAPACITY BUILDING Hassan Bin Talal of Jordan which was a great honour. The interview has helped them to open their minds and acquire a lot of information which will enhance their capacity building in the future.! PROJECT HOPE As part of PDF’s initiative to promote entrepreneurship and innovation amongst the youth, Project Hope was launched in November 2011 as a series of youth to youth workshops targeted towards university students. These workshops range in subject from leadership development to presentation and problem-solving skills. The aim of Project Hope is multifaceted. The long-term objective of this project is to provide youths with interpersonal skills that will enhance their employment prospects and to foster a culture of entrepreneurship and innovation within Egypt’s new generation. Concurrently, Project Hope promotes intercultural tolerance and respect, business networking, early literacy and a competitive globally-orientated mindset. This aligns with TMA’s mission of developing skilled and globally competitive individuals, as well as our commitment towards ensuring the long-term sustainability of our society via education and development.! ! In recognition that sustainability is not an isolated concept, Project Hope was carried out in partnership with several organizations that operate on both local and! international stages. Notably, they include AIESEC, the world’s largest student-run organization, and EJB/KEY, collectively responsible for putting together a diverse team of facilitators from home and abroad to coordinate and deliver the workshops.! ! Additional resources, guidance, and expertise were provided by the Supreme Council of Universities (SCU), an authorized autonomous public body responsible for the management of higher education, and the Global Entrepreneurship Programme (GEP), a US governmental effort which aids growth in developing countries through fostering entrepreneurial activities. Organizations from the private sector, such as Microsoft and Orange, were also instrumental in facilitating several of the workshops on innovation and entrepreneurship.! ! The impact of Project Hope was far-reaching, connecting local students, entrepreneurs, and NGOs with global businesses, student organizations, and initiatives. Over the duration of two months, Project Hope provided workshops and training sessions to many students and youth entrepreneurs across Egypt. This is the sixth year in which Project Hope takes place with successful results. In alignment with TMA’s commitment ! ! ! 25 PDF’S 2ND MANDATE: CAPACITY BUILDING to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which notes that all individuals are entitled to economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality, we hope this project has served to provide Egyptian youths with practical skills that will help them to reach their full potential.! WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT ! Women’s empowerment has been a key focus this year. PDF offers several development programmes specifically set up to empower women to become competent and selfreliant individuals. The first of these programme focused on eradicating illiteracy in Giza. Situated at the foot of the Pyramids, this area has significant potential to develop and benefit from a revival in tourism. We hope that our 15 month programme, will have sewn some of the necessary seeds for prosperity in this region.! ! The “I read” programme was designed to have the maximum impact on society and has already benefited 7421 women. Children are welcome to attend the classes which not only enables greater participation amongst women but also equips the younger generation with essential literacy skills. The success rate of this programme stands at 80% for example 507 of the 672 students passed the first level of the course. We are delighted to say that this result places our programme as the most successful out of 18 similar initiatives. Our motivation to continue our work in this field stems from the visible results that this programme achieved as well as our deep commitment to the UN’s Women Empowerment Principles. In line with the fourth WEP principle we have succeeded in “promoting education, training and professional development for women so that they have enough knowledge and skills to occupy a position and to handle all that they face.” ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 26 PDF’S 2ND MANDATE: CAPACITY BUILDING PDF has also conducted seminars to train women in producing canned pickles and tomato paste. This programme demonstrates what TMA strives to do in its daily business activities—starting from given facts; the excess of tomatoes and the substantial demand for pickles, and turning them into employment opportunities for women, and delivering valuable products out of simple demand and supply logic. Health and safety guidelines were also integrated into the course. The female cooperative of 30 women produced 3 tons of canned products within a month, and each can was sold for 10 L.E. The 30,000 L.E. of revenue was then reinvested to build 3 reproduction lines of pickles, which helped to build a business around the local NGO, Dendera Cultural Center. Each production line is now worth 120,000 L.E.! ! This programme not only managed to enhance the women’s professional skills, but also increased their health and safety awareness. It has turned these women into independent and citizens who are able to make valuable contributions to Egyptian society. In fulfilment of Principle 1 of the UNGC on Human Rights, we believe this programme has served to further the rights of women by giving them the means to provide for themselves and the ability to ensure that both her and her family enjoy a livelihood worthy of human dignity. ! AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY PROGRAMME In addition to our capacity building programme in Cairo, TMA has also provided substantial training resources and equipment to people in Upper Egypt. In response to the need for agricultural skills, we trained 30 trainees in the area of agricultural machinery maintenance. Workshops were offered to trainee groups in the cultural centres, along with feedback sessions. This programme greatly improved the trainees’ employment and income prospects. Many of them even started their own business with the support of microloans from TMA. We also made several donations in (machinery) to the workshop.! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 27 PDF’S 2ND MANDATE: CAPACITY BUILDING THE MAZZICA PROJECT Last year, TMA started the Mazzica Project which is about educating underprivileged! children in the art of music and aims to promote positive social change through classical music ensembles. We hope to inspire youth to develop artistic skills and to teach them the importance of harmony and teamwork. Our purpose is not only to teach children music, but to educate them to become better citizens and leaders of positive change in their communities. ! ! The initiator of this project is Maestro Selim Sahab who was inspired by the Sistema project in Brazil and Argentina and joined forces with TMA and its parent institution HISS to make a difference in our community through music. Maestro Sahab is one of the most admired and recognized musicians in the region. He holds a diploma in orchestral conducting from the Tchaikovsky Moscow Conservatory and he conducted the orchestra of Om Kolthoum. Maestro Selim Sahab is the founder of The National ! Arab Music Ensemble in Cairo that obtained, two months after its foundation, a Golden Medal in Babel Festival (Iraq).! ! For this project TMA is collaborated with 9 orphanages in the region of Giza. Amal Village Association was the one with most children involved in the project (52), followed by River of Giving with 42 children. There were 15 children coming from Ibnaty, 14 from Hana Homes, 13 from Rawada, 11 from Conscious Mind and 10 from Ahalina Home. Last but not least, there were 5 children in this project coming from Rahiua Home and 4 from Fostat. The project was developed successfully this year and we in tend to continue it in the coming years, expecting increasingly better results and a wider impact in our community.! THE TEACHER ETHICS PROJECT The Teacher Ethics project was initiated by TMA with the aim of empowering teachers to become better educators. It consisted of a 5-day self-development course that took place in several locations of Egypt, such as Giza, Haranaya, Kerdessa andEmbaba. This project has been developed in collaboration with the Ministry of Education and the Governorate of Giza.! ! ! ! ! 28 PDF’S 2ND MANDATE: CAPACITY BUILDING KARDESSA POLICE ACADEMY PROJECT This project was initiated in response to the massacre that took place at Kerdessa Police Station in August 2013. This massacre was one of the many violent confrontations between police and Islamists in Egypt. TMA organized a day trip for 65 children from Kerdessa primary school who visited the police academy. The aim of this project was to enhance the relationship between children police officers. The students spent the entire day learning about the importance of the work the police officers do, their training process and the sacrifices they make in order to protect and guarantee social order. This way TMA helped to promote respect for the police and its authority, as well as the work and the important role police officers play in society.! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 29 PDF’S 3RD MANDATE: MICRO-FINANCE “Our micro-loan projects seek to enhance sustainable development by offering financial assistance to members of society who are not eligible for conventional financing methods.” HUMAN RIGHTS THE DANDARA PROJECT ! ! This project began in 2010 in partnership with Dandara Society and Dev Association to help families in the Kena Governorate and Esna and Keft regions to become more economically sustainable. This project amounts to a total of half a million Egyptian pounds to finance micro-businesses. So far, 277 families with around 1000 people have been granted a loan varying from 100 to 500 US dollars via 25 rounds of financing. From recent research it emerged that each family has an average of 5 members and 85% of the entrepreneurs applying for a micro-loan are women. The return rate of this micro-finance programme is 98.4% and small payments are requested weekly to maintain a constant cash flow for micro-businesses. The projects that have been financed are diverse; ranging from restaurants, bakeries, milk shops, coffee shops to mechanical workshops, mobile accessory shops and pottery shops. ! FINANCIAL ENHANCEMENT – THE BALADNA PROGRAMME Capacity building on its own is not always sufficient to transform a person into a selfreliant individual. Since PDF endeavours to bring substantial, lifelong, and sustainable impact to the community, we have launched a micro-finance programme that offers individuals in need of start-up capital to become self-reliant. We seek to enhance sustainable development by offering financial assistance to members of society who are not eligible for conventional financing methods. Our foundation provides micro-loans to single mothers, large families, and recent graduates to assist them in the primary phase of starting up their businesses, which in turn will enhance their financial prosperity.! ! ! ! ! ! ! 30 PDF’S 3RD MANDATE: MICRO-FINANCE PROFILE OF BORROWERS PDF’s BALADNA micro-loan project was launched on January 14th 2011, with an original 28 borrowers. With Women Youths sustainable management, this number was doubled to 15% 60 within six months (85% of the borrowers were women and 15% youths). To date, we have provided a cumulative total of 422 loans to women (1159700EGP) and 492 loans to men (1151200EGP) This is the sixth year we have granted these types of loans to encourage people to start their own businesses and to become 85% economically independent. In 2016, 128 loans were granted to women, which represents a total of 365000 EGP; and 143 loans were offered to men (393000 EGP)! ! One of the most rewarding aspects of this project is to see how our micro-finance loans enable a vast range of people to achieve their aspirations, such as opening a restaurant or a groceries store to name a few. This year we have overseen 50 different projects, which in turn serve the families in the local community, and I am delighted to be able to share with you several stories of success:! ! Selwa Abd el-Raheem Mohammed has been able to expand her pottery business and now exports her products beyond her local province of Kena. She intends to re-finance in order to develop her project even further. Mme Mona Abd el-Raheem’s involvement with the Baladna project has transformed the lives of her whole family. Mme Mona started an initiative to trade clothes and her loan has allowed her to expand this project, which in turn has helped her to provide for her daughter, who is soon to be married, and to buy an electrical washing machine so she no longer has to do it by hand. ! ! The Baladna project is in alignment with our goal of empowering individuals within these demographic segments. The loan’s 12% interest rate is among the lowest in the market, with a constant rate of return and scheduled payment on a weekly basis. We recognize that one of the key aspects of social development rests with the empowerment of women. To build a more fair and stable society, it is necessary to ensure the inclusion of women in business enterprise. In this regard, our micro-loan project seeks to advance and promote the seven Women’s Empowerment Principles set out by the Global Compact and the National Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM); notably, to implement enterprise development that empowers women, advocating equality through community initiatives, and to promote education, training, and professional development for women. ! ! ! ! ! 31 CONTACT US ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 32
