Communication on Progress C&K Management Limited Career Centre, 1-8-303/48/12, Prenderghast Road, Secunderabad 500003, India www.cnkonline.com| Tel: +91-40-66765000 (B) | Fax: +91-40-27893725 CONTENTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY MANAGING DIRECTOR .......................................................... 2 Human Rights Principles ........................................................................................................................... 3 Labour Principles ...................................................................................................................................... 4 Environmental Principles .......................................................................................................................... 5 Anti-Corruption Principles ........................................................................................................................ 7 C&K’s COP on UN Global Compact Principles | 2017 Page | 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY MANAGING DIRECTOR “I am pleased to confirm that C&K Management Limited reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This is our first annual Communication on Progress. It describes our actions to integrate United Nations Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely, B. Ramakrishnan Managing Director C&K Management Limited C&K’s COP on UN Global Compact Principles | 2017 Page | 2 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Policy: C&K’s goal is to influence its employees and business partners to respect the Universal Declaration of Human Principle 1: Businesses should Rights and Environmental Protection. All employees, upon support and respect protection joining, are required to sign an employment contract, which, of internationally proclaimed among other things, lays down the guidelines (Code of human rights Conduct) to help ensure compliance with standards, laws and regulations applicable to all business activities. Principle 2: Ensure that businesses are not complicit in Practical Action: All new employees go through a structured abuse of human rights induction program, which also communicates that unethical business conduct, actions or unethical behaviour of any kind is unacceptable under any circumstance. Suggestion Boxes have been installed in several locations to facilitate employees who want to submit their suggestions, complaints and/or issues including unfair treatment. These complaints are taken up immediately by the top management and discussed for deploying corrective actions where required. Measurement of Outcomes: The annual C&K and TMI Group Town Hall Meeting was conducted on 14th September 2016 from 2 PM to 6 PM at an off-site location, Family World, Begumpet, Hyderabad. All employees have been encouraged to send their queries, doubts, feedback, suggestion or complaints about any function or individual by email or to write the same on a piece of paper and put it in the drop boxes that were made available in each floor. If the employee so desires s/he need not mention his/her name. The TMI annual Town Hall is a forum, where about 30 grievances were addressed or resolved. Issues that are not resolved are generally assigned to the respective functional head for resolution. The COO’s office follows up on the progress of their redressal. One initiative that was implemented is provision of snack/meal to those employees who work beyond office hours to meet client deadlines. Similarly, for female employees who have to leave office at late night hours, the management is providing cabs with security guards to ensure that they reach home safely. Goals for 2017 During the current year, the Management has decided to conduct training sessions for all employees to raise awareness on human rights, likely issues and reporting procedures and processes. C&K’s COP on UN Global Compact Principles | 2017 Page | 3 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Policy: C&K is an equal opportunity employer. It does not discriminate against any employee or job applicant Principle 3: Businesses should because of race, colour, religion, nationality, sex, physical uphold freedom of association or mental disability, or age. and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining The company believes that all employees, including other persons who have dealings with the company, have the Principle 4: Elimination of all right to be treated with dignity. forms of forced and compulsory labour The company follows the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economical Responsibilities of Principle 5: Effective abolition of Business brought out by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, child labour Government of India. The guidelines take into account key learning points from various international and national Principle 6: Elimination of good practices, norms and frameworks. They provide a discrimination in respect of distinctively 'Indian' approach, which enables businesses to employment and occupation balance their way and work through the many unique requirements of India. Practical Actions: Health and Safety of Employees: During the year 2016, the company organised two HEALTH CAMPs for all its employees. The first was conducted on Tuesday, 9th February 2016, in association with DoctorC Advantage. Each interested employee was screened for Diabetes, Hypertension, Obesity, Heart Disease and Thyroid malfunction. Reports were shared with employees by email within 48 hours. th The second medical consultation and awareness camp was organised on 7 May 2016 in association with Urrjjaa. A team of Health Specialists and Doctors came and educated employees on Lifestyle Diseases, such as Hypertension, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Cancer. Discrimination and Sexual Harassment: A panel has been appointed by the Chairman & Managing Director to consider any complaints of sexual harassment, discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, etc. The panel will constitute a Complaint Committee consisting of 4 members (out of which at least one member shall be a third party, not associated with TMI). The members of the company, who form a part of the panel, are: 1. People Productivity Manager 2. Head HR 3. SBU Head 4. Third Party (not employed by C&K who is familiar with the issue) The Complaints Committee shall prepare an annual report at the end of the financial year of the company. The report will give a full account of the committee’s activities during the previous year and forward a copy thereof to the Chairman & Managing Director, who shall direct the HR Department to forward the same to the Ministry of HRD, Government of India. Measurement of Outcomes: No complaints regarding discrimination in respect of employment and occupation have been received during the last year. C&K’s COP on UN Global Compact Principles | 2017 Page | 4 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Policy: Being mostly office based, the nature of its Principle 7: Businesses should operations makes C&K’s direct environmental impact support a precautionary relatively small. C&K fosters a work environment in which approach to environmental employees and associates are encouraged to report and challenges raise environmental issues without fear of retaliation. Principle 8: Undertake We have received through Suggestion Box a wonderful initiatives to promote greater suggestion from one of our colleagues about Go-Green environmental responsibility Initiative , i.e., to use porcelain mugs instead of paper cups. This was in the last week of December. It took a Principle 9: Encourage month and a half to put the suggestion into action by development and diffusion of getting personalized mugs for each employee. The environmentally friendly Foundation Day was an occasion utilised for disbursement technologies of the porcelain mugs to all employees. C&K has also put up posters across the office encouraging employees to save energy and keep the environment clean. A few of the posters displayed in C&K offices are as given. C&K’s COP on UN Global Compact Principles | 2017 Page | 5 (Note: C&K is part of the 26-year old TMI Group) C&K’s COP on UN Global Compact Principles | 2017 Page | 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES “C&K Management Ltd. has not been involved in any legal Principle 10: Businesses should cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and work against corruption in all its bribery. forms, including extortion and bribery C&K has set in motion the process of reviewing and revising the policies that impact all associates when carrying out their work. The Finance Policy is part of such policies, which has been reviewed. The Finance Policy has laid down the process for the following: Local Conveyance Policy Laptop/Data Card Policy Mobile Telephone Policy Travel Policy All claims are subject to audit. In case of any false claims, the instances will be escalated to the Managing Director and it is his discretion to take necessary action against them. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods to identify any suspicious payments that could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. There has been no such incident reported till date. Contact Person for this report NPP Sagar sagar.hyd@cnkonline.com +91-40-66765234 +91-9849193227 C&K’s COP on UN Global Compact Principles | 2017 Page | 7
