Sustainability Report 2016 About this report Reading guide operations, certain indicators are not G4-LA12 only holds data for the Nordic Welcome to Nordea’s Sustainability applicable to all business areas. countries. Full disclosure requires conReport 2016. This is our invitation to People data has been compiled using a solidation of data storage systems and share with you our opportunities, risks Head Count and has been collected from is planned for 2018. Due to privacy reaand progress made in the field of susHuman Resources' systems. Nordea’s sons the three top employee categories tainability at Nordea during 2016. The Annual Report 2016 uses the unit FTE, have been merged in the disclosure of report begins with a statement from our Full Time Employees and because of that G4-LA13, in order to protect individual President and CEO, Casper von Koskull, the People figures differ between the two privacy of female managers. followed by a bird's eye view of the Norreports. From a sustainability perspective We are currently unable do disclose dea Group with highlights and key data. it is advisable to use Head Count as it data for G4-EC3 outside of the Nordics, We then take includes all the employees, regardless of due to insufficient systems. It is cura deeper dive into the sustainability whether or not they work full time. Due to rently not possible to calculate reliimpact in our group functions and busithe split from Retail Banking to Personal able aggregated data for G4-EC4 ness areas. We finish on the way forBanking and Commercial and Business and the monetary value is thus not ward for sustainability at Nordea. Banking, the employee data for the new disclosed. Full disclosure for these Nordea is the largest financial services business areas has been has been calcutwo indicators is planned for 2018. group in the Nordic and Baltic region and lated on the basis of the Q4 data (when Wholesale Banking and Commercial most household customers know us as the split was completed). and Business Banking report G4-SO3 their neighbourhood bank branch in Emissions data was calculated by since the indicator is especially applicawhich they hold a bank or savings emissions factors provided by Nordea’s ble to corporate customers. Personal account. However, Nordea is much more environmental management system, Banking and Wealth Management will than that, we are a Swedish financial Credit 360, the GHG protocol and third develop a reliable method to disclose institution with a global reach. Therefore party reports for air travel. G4-SO3 in the 2018 report. we offer you an insight into how Nordea Because of the organisational split, it operates, and the sustainability challengOmission statement was not possible to disclose reliable es and opportunities that our business We have made omissions for the followdata for Personal Banking’s operations areas face. ing indicators: The total number of operain the Baltics. Estonia, Latvia and Lithutions and the quantity of products and ania have thus been omitted. Further Boundaries services provided have been omitted organisational changes are underway The Sustainability Report 2016 includes from G4-9, as the aggregated information and full disclosure will be investigated data from all countries, with some is currently unavailable due to the organiwhen this has been finalised. exceptions depending on accessibility sational change. The figure for G4-FS11 regards assets to reliable data, due to insufficient sysData on supervised workers for under management for Asset Managetems. This is indicated in conjunction G4-10 cannot be disclosed because Norment (not Wealth Management as a with presented data when applicable. dea currently has multiple incomparawhole). Index funds are excluded from The Sustainability Report refers to the ble systems, full disclosure is planned the screenings since they track index. period from January 1 to December 31, for 2018. The G4-LA1 breakdown in age The figure includes equity funds only. 2016. Nordea has chosen to set a new groups is currently unavailable. There is An omission in regards to UN Global base year for People (HR) data and no data available for a breakdown on Compact COP criterion 20 has been environmental data due to the increase business area level for G4-LA1 for the made pending new reporting approval of scope and changes in the data collecBaltics and Poland. Nordea does not log processes with respect to the Board of tion process. If one were to compare the specific types of injuries or specified Directors. 2016 figures with older figures it is reasons for absence regarding G4-LA6. important to remember that all counFor G4-LA9 we have only been able to Report profile tries of operations are included in the disclose the training data organised on The report is produced in accordance 2016 report. a group level. The training conducted by with the guidelines from the Global When applicable, the indicators are individual business areas and group Reporting Initiative, GRI-G4 (level Core, reported on a business area level. Due to functions is registered in separate and third party assured in its entirety) and is the characteristics of the business areas’ currently incomparable data systems. Nordea’s COP (Communication on Progress) submission to the UN Global Compact. Nordea has adopted the Equator Principles (EP). This report partly fulfils the annual reporting requirements of We have compiled all of the abbreviations, the EP and serves as Nordea’s EP status report for the financial year 2016. definitions and initiatives commonly used Detailed EP statistical information is throughout the report in the Glossary at the end. available at www.nordea.com. Nordea publishes a sustainability If you have any questions about the Sustainability report on an annual basis; the previous Report you are welcome to address them to one was published on February 12, 2016. For more information about sustainability the Head of Sustainability, Åse Bergstedt at at Nordea, please visit our website: sustainability@nordea.com www.nordea.com Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Contents About this Report 3 Contents 4 Statement from the CEO 6 This is Nordea 8 Governance 10 Nordea and sustainability 14 Materiality and stakeholder dialogues 16 People 20 Compliance 22 Responding to civil society 23 Business Area Overview 24 Personal Banking 26 Commercial and Business Banking 28 Wholesale Banking 30 Wealth Management 32 Statement from the Head of Sustainability 33 Stakeholder Address 34 Moving Forward 37 Interacting for sustainable finances 38 GRI Index 42 Glossary 43 Assurance Statement Åse Bergstedt, Head of Sustainability, Casper von Koskull, President & CEO and Rodney Alfvén, Head of Investor Relations photographed at a Sida (Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency) event at Almedalen in July 2016. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Statement from the CEO 4 Statement from the CEO In 2016 Nordea was on a significant change journey to integrate sustainability into all group functions and business areas. This report presents the significant progress made during the year to embed the aspects of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection, anticorruption and ethical business practices into the heart of our core operations. I am very proud to share with you a transparent disclosure of how far we have come. In our 2015 Sustainability Report, we able financial actor. We have answered a stronger link between corporate and presented our approach for enhanced this public call with a number of concrete societal value creation. We have put compliance. During 2016 we have taken actions taken during the year, realising consistent focus on governance and the next step and implemented a pro­ that sustainability is key to success. We implementation, resulting in a number active approach that acknowledges the believe that by taking this into full considof concrete actions and appointments. importance of integrating sustainability eration, we enhance our ability to grow We have established the Business Ethinto all parts of Nordea, defining a unitand strengthen trust. ics & Value Committee, appointed a new ed outlook. Head of Sustainability, a new Chief This year the public agenda has made Enhanced focus in management Compliance Officer, and a new Chief a call for action, demanding that we act Nordea made several significant changPeople Officer – who all represent key more strongly and step up as a sustaines in 2016 to meet the requirements for functions in leading our proactive agenNordea Sustainability Report 2016 Statement from the CEO 5 da. These are welcomed appointments ”This year the public agenda has made a call for action, that strengthen the management in our objective to lead by example. Issues demanding that we act more strongly and step up as a related to sustainability and compliance sustainable financial actor. We have answered this public can never be isolated from the rest of the business, they are intertwined with call with a number of concrete actions taken during the their surroundings and they must be year, realising that sustainability is key to success. We rooted in our organisation to create commitment to the common goal and believe that by taking this into full consideration, we increase business resilience. This new, enhance our ability to grow and strengthen trust.” more distinct leadership will help us to successfully implement new policies, guidelines and frameworks. A diverse workforce clear, well defined goals. Our goals and Earning trust from benefits everyone targets are also set in alignment with the customers and society Every day our approximate 34,500 sustainable development goals (SDGs) Our aim with the measures taken employees are the ones driving Nordea within the Agenda 2030. The adoption of during the year is to consolidate more forward. It is extremely important for us the agenda marks a significant navigation common processes in all our business that our peopl­e are united around a change within the political system, private areas in terms of enhanced compliance, strong culture that stimulates each and sector and civil society. We especially welresilience and transparency. Transparevery one to perform at their best. come the agenda’s emphasis on multi-­ ency and openness are key components During the year, we developed a new stakeholder partnerships to ensure suffito earn trust from society. During the People Agenda, striving for healthy cient sustainability focus across all areas. year, Nordea has encountered incidents people with future-fit competencies in a The UN Global Compact, the UNEP FI that bruised our customers’ trust in us. diverse cultur­­e. We believe that a and Montreal Carbon Pledge are three In April, Nordea was pointed out as one diverse and inclusive workplace stimuconcrete examples of such multi-stakeof several actors in the “Panama lates and benefi­ts everyone, while at holder partnerships, to which Nordea is Papers”, where the media portrayed the same time making us better presignatory. We believe voluntary initiatives financial advice given regarding tax pared for tomorrow’s challenges and like these increase the understanding of structures as unethical. The Nordea opportunities. Our perception of diversieach other’s common challenges and management took this criticism very ty ranges from background, education opportunities, and how by collaborating seriously and a number of actions were and gender. We are dedicated and across sectors and business areas, we carried out to strengthen our compliunderstand the hard work it requires to become better equipped for the future. ance culture and bolster our efforts to achieve diversity on all levels, and we combat any potential financial crime. have therefore combined targets with Nordea can never accept even the training for managers to help recognize slightest doubt in our ethics, as we hold unconscious bias in all our people decitrust and compliance as key considersions. Establishing a balanced workations in all our actions and transitions. force will make us a stronger company We understand that the public percepand better able to serve our diverse Casper von Koskull, President tion of compliance goes beyond regulacustomer base. and Group CEO tory requirements, and re-strengthening customer trust is our very top priority. Listening and partnering for the future Combating climate change The past years have seen increased When we reflect upon 2016 the issue of public demand for long-term sustainclimate change is top of mind with the able, transparent and ethical business historic Paris Agreement that entered practices that benefit everyone. For us into force in November 2016. Climate to be able to meet ever-changing change is one of the biggest threats to demands and expectations on Nordea, humanity, and Nordea is closely moniwe have carried out extensive staketoring the development of the political, holder dialogues with our internal and scientific and industry agenda. We recexternal stakeholders during the year. ognise the need for leaving fossil fuels The result from these dialogues guides in the ground as stranded assets and us strategically in adjusting our busiinstead promoting businesses and innoness practices and adapting a more vations with sustainable solutions on long-term risk management approach, energy and infrastructure. This is a taking complex sustainability issues into priorit­­y in our investment and lending consideration. policies and guidelines. Our stakeholder dialogues display key areas of importance for our stakeholders. These key areas have guided us in clarifying our strategic challenges and to set Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 This is Nordea 6 This is Nordea DENMARK: NORWAY: Nordea is the leading bank in the Nordic PeB PeB countries and a major European bank. We CBB CBB are proud to be a prominent Nordic retail WB WB bank, the number one wholesale bank WM WM and the largest private bank, asset manager and life and pensions provider in the Nordic region. Through our four business areas Personal Banking, Commercial and Business Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wealth Management we serve almost 11 million customers. Nordea is a Swedish bank with a global reach, operating in 22 countries worldwide, including Poland and India where we have operational support centres. This is illustrated by the map to the right. For more information about our business areas, please see their individual chapters. As a financial actor, we provide people UK: and businesses with financial means to WB WM fulfil their dreams, ambitions and plans. USA: Monetary resources provide powerful WB WM SPAIN: means to bring society forward. ThereWM fore, the financial sector has a major responsibility to actively drive society in a sustainable direction. In this report we LITHUANIA: want to give an insight into how Nordea PeB works with sustainability. Formal name: Nordea Bank AB (publ) The Nordea share is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchanges in Stockholm, Helsinki and Copenhagen. Legally registered in Sweden with head office in Stockholm Nordea's Membership of Association Association Type of engagement European Banking Federation Nordea considers membership as strategic Swedish Bankers' Association Nordea holds a position on the governance body Danish Bankers' Association Nordea holds a position on the governance body BRAZIL: FFI Federation of Finnish Financial Services Nordea holds a position on the governance body WB Finance Norway Nordea holds a position on the governance body WM Swedish Security Dealers Association Nordea holds a position on the governance body Danish Security Dealers Association Nordea holds a position on the governance body IIF Institute of International Finance Nordea participates in projects and committees EFR European Financial Round Table Nordea participates in projects and committees IIEB Institut International des Etudes Nordea participates in projects and committees Bancaires Net sales: € 9,927 EFAMA European Fund and Asset Nordea participates in projects and committees Management Association FEAM Forum for European Asset Managers Nordea participates in projects and committees GFMA Global Financial Markets Association Nordea holds a position on the governance body million AFME Association for Financial Markets in Nordea participates in projects and committees Europe ICMA International Capital Markets Nordea participates in projects and committees Association ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Nordea participates in projects and committees Association Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 This is Nordea 7 SWEDEN: FINLAND: RUSSIA: PeB PeB WB PeB Personal Banking CBB CBB CBB  Commerical and WB WB Business Banking WM WM WB Wholesale Banking WM Wealth Management ESTONIA: GERMANY: NOC  Nordea Operations PeB WB Centre WM WM AUSTRIA: WM CHINA/BEIJING: WB CHINA/SHANGHAI: WB INDIA: LATVIA: Support centres PeB ITALY: SINGAPORE: WM WB WM POLAND: LUXEMBOURG: NOC WM FRANCE: SWITZERLAND: WM WM Total capitalisation Breakdown of Nordea’s employees Household customers: 10.1 million broken down in terms by countries of operation of debt and equity: Sweden  23.56% Debt: Denmark  28.41% Employees: 583,249 EURm Norway  9.82% Equity: Finland  Estonia  Latvia  22.92% 1.99% 1.62% 34,507 32,410 EURm Lithuania  1.30% Corporate and Poland  5.39% Institutional customers: Russia  2.56% Intern. offices  2.44% 704,000 Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Governance 8 Governance 2016 saw considerable change in the organisational structure of Nordea: the division of the former business area Retail Banking into the new business areas Personal Banking and Commercial and Business Banking. There was also a consolidation of the Chief Operating Officer organisation. Nordea received approval for a sustainability management system, •• Board Risk Committee changed legal structure, moving from sustainability reporting and risk reportThe Board Risk Committee (BRIC) Nordic bank subsidiaries to Nordic ing are integrated. The Board is ultiassists the Board of Directors in fulfillbranches. mately responsible for ensuring that an ing its oversight responsibilities conAs a lead in our new sustainability adequate and effective system of intercerning the management and control of framework, we enhanced our sustainabilnal control is established and mainrisk management and control frameity governance structure during 2016. A tained. The shareholders at the General works. The Board Risk Committee can clear governance structure creates a solid Meeting elect the Board of Directors. also give recommendations concerning foundation from where the sustainability Each Board member is elected for a strategic policy matters and the develstrategy and targets can be developed one year at a time. There are no restricopment of the credit portfolio. In comand anchored. Group Sustainability is tions to how long a Board member may pliance with the regulations issued by responsible for the strategic agenda and serve on the Board. The board memthe Swedish Financial Supervisory for proposing the sustainability targets for bers elected by the General Meeting Authority, the members of the Board the Group. Each Business Area and Group are collectively to exhibit diversity and Risk Committee are not members of the Function is responsible for implementabreadth of qualifications, experience company’s Executive Management. tion in its respective area, supported and and background. According to the advised by Group Sustainability. For more Swedish Corporate Governance Code, •• Group Internal Audit information about our Corporate Goverthe company is to strive for equal genGroup Internal Audit (GIA) is an indenance, please see the Corporate Goverder distribution on the board. pendent function commissioned by the nance Report in the Annual Report 2016. Board of Directors. The Group Chief •• Board Remuneration Committee Audit Executive (CAE) has the overall •• Policies The Board Remuneration Committee is responsibility for GIA. The CAE reports The Group’s updated Code of Conduct responsible for preparing and presenton a functional basis to the Board of came into force in December 2016. The ing proposals to the Board of Directors Directors and the Board Audit CommitCode is based on the ten principles of on remuneration issues. This duty tee and reports on an administrative the UN Global Compact. Other key poliincludes proposals regarding the basis to the CEO. Group Internal Audit cies are our Sustainability Policy, our Norde­­a Remuneration Policy and annually provides the Board of DirecSupplier Policy and our Policy for remuneration system with participation tors with an assessment of the overall Responsible Investments. All policies of appropriate control functions. effectiveness and governance, and of and guidelines are available on According to the Code, the members of the risk and control framework, togethwww.nordea.com. the BRC are to be independent of the er with an analysis of themes and Company and the executive managetrends emerging from internal audit •• Shareholders ment of the Company. Nordea complies work and its impact on the organisaThe General Meeting is the Company’s with this rule. tion’s risk profile. highest decision-making body, at which shareholders exercise their voting •• Board Audit Committee •• Group Executive Management rights. At the General Meeting, deciThe Board Audit Committee assists the The CEO and the Group Executive sions are taken regarding matters such Board in fulfilling its oversight responsiManagement are charged with the as the annual accounts, dividend, elecbilities by inter alia monitoring the Norday-to-day management of Nordea tion of the Board of Directors and audidea Group’s financial reporting process Bank and the Nordea Group’s affairs in tors, remuneration for Board members and submitting recommendations or accordance with the internal and exterand auditors and guidelines for remuproposals to ensure its reliability, and nal framework. Group Executive Manneration for executive officers. informing the Board of Directors of the agement (GEM) is responsible for outcome of the statutory audit and approving the sustainability strategy •• Nomination Committee explaining how the statutory audit conand goals each year. GEM receives an The AGM 2016 decided to establish a tributed to the reliability of financial update on sustainability topics from the Nomination Committee with the task of reporting and what the role of the BAC Head of Sustainability three to four proposing Board members, the Chairwas in that process. The Board Audit times annually. 90% of GEM members man of the Board and auditor as well Committee receives reports and assessare new in their roles compared to as remuneration for the Board memments from the Group Internal Audit 2016. 78% of the new members come bers and auditor to the AGM 2017. (GIA) and the committee is responsible directly from other positions in the for guidance on and evaluation of GIA bank. •• Board of Directors within the Nordea Group. The Board of Directors annually establishes its working plan, in which the Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Governance 9 Working towards integrating sustainability into the governance model Elected / appointed by Reporting to / informing Auditors Shareholders in General Meeting Nomination Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Code of Conduct Diversity Policy Group Internal Audit Group Compliance President and CEO Business Ethics & Group Risk Management Values Committee GEM and Control Implementation of decisions Implementation of decisions Sustainability Committee Business Areas Chief of Staff and Group Functions Member Support, Group Strategy, Monitoring of implemenMember Group Sustainability tation process Sustainable Finance Implementation of decisions External Framework Internal Framework Legislation, regulation, the Code, Articles of Association, the Charter, Instructions for the CEO, stock exchange rules policies, instructions, guidelines and Nordea’s values •• Business Ethics and is represented in the Sustainability Sustainable Finance also works closely Values Committee Committee, chaired by Head of Wealth with Group Sustainability to ensure The Business Ethics and Values ComManagement,. The Committee formualignment with group strategy and mittee, chaired by the CEO, oversees lates suggestions regarding sustainframework. This work will be further that Nordea’s business is conducted ability policies relevant for one or sevenhanced to ensure that ESG is interesponsibly and in adherence with our eral Business Areas, which are directed grated into all business areas and values and ethical standards. It is the to the BEVC for approval. The Commitgroup functions. primary decision-making body for sustee meets on a quarterly basis. Further tainability related matters in Nordea. In responsibilities include follow-up on •• Working groups addition, the Committee oversees the Nordea's sustainability strategy, ensurIt has been decided to establish workdevelopment of the values of the Group ing executive ownership and organisaing groups on sustainability aspects and ensures that key policies and tional implementation of decisions such as: procurement, community strategie­­s reflect these values, as well taken. engagement, diversity, tax, digitalisaas our ethical standards. tion, investments, lending, and prod•• Business Areas & Group Functions ucts and services advisory. The working •• Group Sustainability The business areas and the group funcgroups should be comprised of a Group Sustainability is responsible for tions are themselves responsible for diverse set of representatives from the the group-wide development of the the integration and implementation of business areas and the group functions. sustainability strategy and policies, susNordea’s sustainability framework, as They are not decision-making bodies tainability initiatives and ensures that well as for their ethical and legal but rather forums for dialogue and the relevant sustainability issues are compliance. competence raising, monitoring risk brought to the attention of senior manand opportunities, reporting to the agement. Group Sustainability rep•• Sustainable Finance Sustainabilit­­y Committee. resents Nordea in numerous public Sustainable Finance units exist in contexts. Wealth Management and Wholesale For more information about the new Banking, and they have been strengthbusiness areas, see their respective •• Sustainability Committee ened in order to provide expertise and chapters. Each business area and group function solid processes for ESG integration. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Nordea and sustainability 10 Nordea and sustainability As a financial institution, our entire business model is built on creating value. For a sustainable business model to succeed, value cannot only include monetary means, but must internalise environmental, ethical and social aspects. All spheres of society, including the financial sector, must address challenges such as climate change. Sustainability must be clearly defined and spread throughout any organisation, and as a financial institution we must interact with our stakeholders in all forums possible. In our 2015 Sustainability Report, we the risks there are positive opportunities the Swedish FSA’s emphasis on climate presented our embarking on a new for society if financial actors and the prichange Nordea will investigate how to journey towards enhanced compliance vate sector decide to answer the call for further this work. and a sharper focus on sustainability. action. At the end of 2015 at the UNFCCC The development of this new, proactive COP21, 194 member states signed the Digitalisation sustainability framework is based on Paris Agreement, pledging to reduce their Digitalisation plays a major role in the the principles of the UN Global Comcarbon emissions with the objective of move to a low carbon economy. It brings pact. The aim is to integrate and keeping the global temperature rise well challenges of its own, but it creates enhance our sustainability approach below 2°C. Nordea signed the Paris opportunities and alternatives to outdatwithin all business areas. In the autumn Pledge for Action launched at the COP21, ed forms of interaction. Nordea is investof 2016 we carried out a materiality in which Nordea Asset Management paring in building in-house competence in analysis that displayed a need to adjust ticipated. During 2016, Nordea continued the area of digital banking offerings, our sustainability strategy to align it its engagement in climate change quesincluding secure payment systems, cuswith stakeholders’ expectations and pritions and was pleased to see when the tomer data protection and cybersecurity. orities. The development of the sustainParis Agreement entered into force in We see the urgent customer need for ability strategy is therefore still in progearly November. In September, prior to more flexible services, not least driven by ress. It is a continuous co-creation prothe COP22 in Marrakech, Morocco, Nordea the digital native “Generation Y” which cess, requiring leadership and was one of 130 investors that signed a letwill make up the largest customer group commitment from all of Nordea. We ter calling on G20 to take steps to meet within the next 20 years. As a lead in this believe that by taking sustainability into the Paris Agreement. Nordea Asset Mannew digital era, we became the first big full consideration, we enhance the abiliagement also participated in COP22. bank to launch a number of online ty to grow. Sustainability thereby generA central aspect in the transition to a branches in 2015, something we continates value in itself. low carbon future is the need for political ued during 2016. This enables more cusAs a lead in the development of our and legislative leadership on environmentomer advice meetings online, more new sustainability framework, we carried tal issues in general and climate change direct and rapid counselling. More and out a number of concrete actions during in particular. Nordea welcomes and supmore customer meetings are being held 2015-2016. These actions include the ports the Swedish Finansinspektionen’s online, reflecting the consolidating digital establishment of a Financial Crime (FSA) demand for a more precautionary landscape of today. From a sustainability Change Programme, appointment of a environmental approach within the finanperspective, an increased number of new Chief Compliance Officer and a new cial sector, and increased focus on climate online meetings is a positive developHead of Sustainability. More information change. ment, whether between the bank and its about our governance structure can be customers or internal meetings within found on page 8-9. Science-based targets for the future our different country offices. When the term sustainability was Climate change demands an approach coined many corporations would place and methodology based on science-­ Nordea and the rights perspective sustainability in a separate box, disconbased targets, societal and global As a signatory to the UNGC, Nordea has nected from the rest of the business. A lot needs, at the same time, as it is flexible pledged to uphold human rights and of progress has been made in this respect and adaptive to developments. Nordea labour rights in our value chain. We and Nordea is determined that sustainis in the process of assessing how sciexpect entities and companies in which ability cannot be treated in a vacuum, but ence-based targets can be applied to we invest to comply with all applicable must encompass not only all business the organisation. As a bank climate laws and to demonstrate that they have areas, but also all group wide functions. change is also a question of risk manthe commitment, capacity and manageOnly then can we strengthen compliance, agement and being prepared for the ment systems to identify, monitor and resilience and transparency in our future, ensuring our financial stability manage the social risks facing their operations. and thus contributing to societal stabilibusiness. We require companies in ty. Nordea applies the precautionary which we invest to carry out thorough Commitment to climate change approach to our operations, facilitated and accurate Environmental Risk The World Economic Forum’s Global Risks through the principles and guidelines of Assessments (where applicable), and Report 2016 ranks failure of climate the sustainability initiatives that we address any environmental and social change mitigation and adaptation as the have signed. Environmental aspects are issues that arise. highest global risk in terms of impact. At included in the supplier risk assessment, Nordea we are following climate research and we have developed an ESG tool with interest and concern, and amongst that is under implementation. Following Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Nordea and sustainability 11 Nordea's environmental impact Total CO2e emissions CO2e emission intensity 43,789 tonnes 4.4 tonnes per million € of total operating income SCOPE 1 direct emissions: Nordea owned cars and gas for heating Direct CO2e emissions 175 tonnes SCOPE 2 indirect emissions: Heating, cooling and electricity Indirect CO2e emissions 30,037 tonnes Total energy consumption: (electricity, district heating and district cooling) MWh Electricity: 54.3% District heating: 43.5% 212,806 District cooling: 2.2% SCOPE 3 other indirect emissions: Travel Other Indirect CO2e emissions Air travel: 94.9% Rail travel: 0.1% Car travel: 5% 13,576 tonnes The total sum of emissions from travel corresponds to 0.4 tonnes CO2e per employee For comparison, please see the Sustainability Report 2015. Please note that the 2016 scope includes all countries of operation. Because of this, the figures are not comparable. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Nordea and sustainability 12 Community Engagement makes it possible for us to make a tanvices tailored to the customers' needs and Community Engagement is an essential gible societal impact. ensure outstanding customer service. element of Nordea’s sustainable busiTackling these issues both in own proIn 2016 tax compliance rose to the top ness strategy. Improving financial skills grammes and in co-operation with partof the sustainability agenda across the and enhancing entrepreneurship make nerships, Nordea contributes to helping sector. Nordea has been well prepared for up the core of Nordea’s group-wide young people to budget and save and this development. During 2016 a Tax Communit­­y Engagement. Our focus on build a successful financial life for themBoard was established on group level, these areas comes naturally from our selves. Nordea also engages with entreand both the ‘Group Tax Policy’ and the employees’ skills and expertise within preneurs and young potential entrepre‘Tax Policy on Customer Advice’ were fureach area. In turn, upholding this focus neurs in many ways. ther enhanced to clarify Nordea’s ethical Our employees benefit hugely from the position in relation to tax compliance. In experience too. They return to work with the ‘Tax Policy on Customer Advice’ we Grievance mechanism greater motivation, deeper understanding state the following for example: Since 2012, we have had a groupof society, as well as enhanced communica• Nordea gives, to its best endeavours, wide whistleblowing system: Raistions skills, all of which improves how they accurate information to its customing Your Concern, which encourages engage with and relate to our customers. ers, consistent with the tax laws and employees to speak up if they have Our community engagement relies on tax practices, regarding tax effects concerns about any misconduct co-operation with partnerships and develto support customer compliance or irregularities. This includes any oping own programmes in all four Nordic with legal and regulatory requireaction that constitutes a violation of countries. It reaches thousands of young ments; laws or regulations, or of Nordea’s people and entrepreneurs and engages • Nordea pays attention to its custominternal policies, instructions or hundreds of employees every year. Our laters’ reputational risks and does not guidelines. It aims to ensure our est programme addresses both financial encourage or facilitate tax schemes compliance with the standards set skills and entrepreneurship and was of its customers that are regarded as out in the UK Bribery Act and Eurolaunched at the end of 2016 as part of Fintax evasion; pean Banking Authority Guidelines. land’s centenary celebrations in 2017. Here • Nordea does not encourage or It also includes actions that could we educate 6th graders in money flow in facilitat­­e tax schemes of its customcause harm to Nordea’s business or economy, 9th graders in business environers that may be legal but perceived reputation, or to the health or secument employment, high school students in as aggressive tax planning or not in rity of our employees or customers. global economy, and assist new entrepreline with Nordea’s internal ethical neurs with mentoring and networking. standards; • Nordea always assumes and supEthical address on tax compliance ports that its customers are required Risk Management As the largest financial institution in the to properly disclose and be transRisk management in Nordea covers Nordic region we have a responsibility to parent with their tax positions all risk types from the traditional ensure that we offer products and services towards the tax authorities; credit, market, and liquidity risks to that follow internal and external require• Nordea continuously assesses that conduct, reputational, and regulaments for high ethical standards and comits product offerings are not in contory risks. The Board of Directors pliance. Equally important is that we do our flict with any of the Group’s interhas the ultimate responsibility for best to promote ethical behaviour among nal rules, specifically with the Norlimiting and monitoring Nordea’s our customers. dea Sustainability Policy and Code risk exposures. The key principle for Our personal bank advisors and corpoof Conduct; the management of risks in Nordea rate relationship advisors advise individuis the three lines of defence (LoD), al and corporate customers to realise their This policy exists since Nordea strongly where the business areas constitute legal and ethical responsibility, facilitated believes this is in the best interest of our the first LoD, Group Compliance by clear and updated policies. In relevant customers, employees, shareholders and Group Risk Management & cases Nordea supports customers with and society at large. Not having a simiControl constitute the second LoD, standard reporting to facilitate their tax lar policy would expose all these stakeand Group Internal Audit constireporting. Furthermore, we support sociholders to reputational risk and ultitutes the third LoD. For more inety by withholding and reporting taxes on mately regulatory consequences. formation on Nordea’s governance behalf of the government. Nordea is an active participant in the and risk management, please refer All customers are subject to statutory development of rules and regulations in to Chapter 1 of the Pillar III report. procedures that are created to prevent collaboration with financial institutions, anti-money laundering and terrorist both private and public. We welcome the financing. demand for increased transparency and At Nordea, our Know Your Customer we are carefully monitoring the legislative Partnering to support (KYC) process is a crucial tool for obtaindevelopments both nationally and interlocal growth and export ing necessary information about customnationally. For information about Nordea’s Nordea has a long history of ers, including key parameters as the own tax payments see page 102 and 106 partnerships with governmental source of funds and wealth to ensure that of the Annual Report 2016. financial support organisations (e.g. they do not have criminal content. The ECAs and agencies for economKYC data is also the foundation for the ic growth) supporting start-up, risk-classification of customers and to growth and export. Nordea appreverify that executed transactions are conciates the opportunity to support sistent with the stated purpose of the local development. The partnership banking relationship. All the information provides parallel/supporting and obtained is confidential. We are confident lending directly to the companies that only by knowing our customers can or guaranteed lending. we provide excellent service, offer the most appropriate bank products and serNordea Sustainability Report 2016 Nordea and sustainability 13 Sustainable Procurement The complexity of global supply chains demands that all to a qualifying sustainability questionnaire. Medium and high procurement partners act with integrity and responsibility. risk suppliers proceeding to bid evaluation must reply to an Nordea is working to strengthen our sustainable procureextended questionnaire, which provides deeper understandment practices, encouraging dialogues internally as well as ing of their conduct. With suppliers still being high-risk we with suppliers to promote compliant behaviour. initiate a dialogue, which may result in a CAP. We have carried out a number of actions to ensure a susIn 2016 we conducted 13 sustainability dialogues with tainable supply chain. We have simplified and strengthened high-risk suppliers, 3 of which resulted in CAPs. Additionally our organisation, so we are now present in Sweden, Denmark three in-depth sustainability reviews were conducted with an and Poland. We have centralised our procurement risk funcIT supplier and with consultancy firms. Our engagements tion, so our Sustainable Procurement Manager now reports have resulted in the termination of a contract with one supdirectly to the Head of Group Procurement to lead our proacplier, increased focus on tier-responsibility and the formalisative sustainability approach. During 2016, we enhanced this tion of the supplier’s whistleblower function. Group Procureapproach further by implementing a Third Party Risk Manment’s measures have led to a much stronger focus on susagement process for extended risk assessments and updated tainability, engaging our suppliers. our governance documents. We screen all new suppliers in While 2016 was the year in which we focused on sustainour external compliance systems before contract signing, and ability coverage of our existing supplier base, the focus for also continuously monitor our existing supplier base. We are 2017 will be on further formalisation of the process and an engaging with industry peers to learn from best practices extension of the scope. This will occur via implementation of and internal training is a fundamental and on-going part of a central Third Party risk system, Standards certification of our work, ensuring that sustainability as a competence is Sustainable Procurement Manager and continuous engagefirmly anchored in the organisation. ment and CAP-discussions with high-risk suppliers. All suppliers entering the procurement process must reply Nordea’s spend map of first tier suppliers Gross Amount (EUR) 1,100,000,000 880,000,000 660,000,000 €2.7 440,000,000 220,000,000 billion paid 700 contracted 0 to suppliers suppliers 53% of new contracted suppliers were screened on environmental protection, labour 21,239 practices, human rights, and anti-corruption criteria suppliers in total 51% of them are suppliers with whom 87% 49% we have interacted with multiple times of them are based of them are suppliers we during 2016. in the Nordics have interacted with only one time during 2016 Total number of suppliers Environmental: Labour rights: Human rights: subject to sustainability impact assessments: 14 15 * 14 * Only 1 supplier was identified as having significant actual and potential negative labour rights impact. The contract (100% of the suppliers with identified labour rights impact) was terminated due to non-compliance with Nordea’s requirements for employee working conditions. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Materiality and stakeholder dialogues 14 Materiality and stakeholder dialogues Holding a regular dialogue with our stakeholders and performing a materiality analysis is essential for Nordea to continuously improve as an organisation. The materiality analysis indicates the material aspects that have a significant influence on Nordea’s stakeholders’ decisions and views. The material aspects are based on environmental, social and economic impact, and their relevance to Nordea’s business practice. The process follows the Global Reporting initiative (GRI), which is an international reporting standard on sustainability that we have followed since 2010. We are proud to present our most extensive materiality analysis so far, with engagement from a total of 176 direct stakeholders, plus media, social media and regulators. Maintaining stakeholder relationships logue and shared their perspective on holders’ prioritisation of sustainability is key for driving Nordea forward as a which sustainability aspects they deem aspects together with how their prioritisustainable actor in society. A continuimportant and what they as stakeholdsation provides a basis for us to develop ous and transparent dialogue with our ers expect of Nordea. our sustainability strategy. The latter stakeholders increases our understandThe result from the dialogues and the part is fundamental to understanding ing of stakeholders’ priorities and desktop analysis were coupled with how the relationship with our stakeexpectations in relation to ESG aspects, internal factors such as Nordea’s strateholders shapes sustainability at Nordea. and of our own sustainable impact. The gy, targets and performance and NorAs can be seen in the Position Pyramid, relationship with our stakeholders aids dea Group’s 2015 Sustainability Report. commitment from the Board and GEM us in concentrating efforts and resourcThis broad mapping enabled Nordea to on sustainability, transparency and es to sustainability aspects that create determine which aspects are material communication, and responsible investthe largest sustainable impact. for the organisation. ment were the most valued material To effectively identify and prioritise aspects, closely followed by aspects key sustainable aspects we regularly In total 18 material aspects such as climate change and conduct a materiality analysis based on were identified. governance. internal and external dialogues. We • Anti-money laundering practices Another important outcome of the always strive to engage as many stake• Commitment from Board and GEM materiality analysis is our renewed and holders as possible, identified based on on sustainability strengthened understanding of sustaintheir relation to Nordea, as well as the • Clear governance of sustainability ability risks that are relevant to Nordea. financial sector at large. In 2016 we and aligned compliance process The stakeholders have identified repudecided to raise the bar even further • Climate knowledge and tational risk, risks related to corruption, and after a challenging and rewarding preparedness climate change and insufficient ESG due process we are proud to display one of • Common set of ethical values diligence processes, amongst others, as our most extensive materiality analyses • Community involvement risks requiring further analysis and in our sustainability journey. • Consequent responsible investment attention. In the autumn of 2016 we conducted practices One overarching conclusion of the stakeholder dialogues with eight key • Digitalisation materiality analysis is that both internal stakeholder groups. The input provided • Implemented responsible lending and external stakeholders are very by the identified key stakeholders was practices interested in sustainability, and eager either ’direct’ or ’indirect’. While ’direct’ • Increase employee diversity to contribute to Nordea’s sustainability input means a dialogue held through • KPI follow-up on targets and actions work. Our employees want to learn forums, surveys and interviews, ’indi• Proactive anti-corruption more about sustainability and consisrect’ input refers to a comprehensive management tently work to strengthen Nordea as a desktop analysis of reports, publica• Ethical and responsible advisory sustainable financial actor. As a bank tions, articles, other published content • Responsible value chain (suppliers, we are considered systemically importand meetings. partners & associates) ant and in order to maintain relevance it To effectively identify the material • Systemised ESG screening is crucial to strive for sustainable pracaspects the dialogues focused on Nor• Training and competence tices. From Nordea’s perspective this dea’s sustainability performance, risks, development implies a long-term perspective where opportunities, communication and gov• Transparent and credible resources are put into awareness and ernance. The survey and interview communication externally and knowledge raising, keeping up with questions were created in collaboration internally research and industry developments, with an external party, the interviews • Transparent tax management and always keeping an ear to the were semi-structured and held by a ground. Our engagement with stakethird party (30-60 minutes in length), This year we have decided to present holders will continue and new ways of and the desktop analysis was conductthe results from the materiality analysis interaction will be investigated. ed by an external party. In total 176 in a Position Pyramid. The Position stakeholders participated in the diaPyrami­d effectively displays the stakeNordea Sustainability Report 2016 Materiality and stakeholder dialogues 15 Position Pyramid: Prioritisation input from stakeholders Results from materiality analysis shown in pyramid form Trust and credibility building Trust aspects. 1. Commitment from Board and GEM on sustanability 2. Transparent and credible communication externally & internally 3. Consequent responsible investment practices Business critical areas that Significant 4. Climate change knowledge and preparedness are prerequisites for trust and 5. KPI follow-up on targets & actions credibility building aspects. 6. Systemised ESG screening 7. Clear governance of sustainability & aligned compliance process 8. Implement responsible lending practices Issues that must be 9. Training and competence development Base addressed to reach 10. Common set of ethical values elementary level. 11. Transparant tax management 12. Responsible value chain (suppliers, partners & associates) 13. Increase employee diversity 14. Digitalisation 15. Proactive anti-corruption management 16. Anti-money laundering practices 17. Ethical & responsible advisory 18. Community involvement Our stakeholders’ priorities Nordea´s stakeholders Stakeholder group Main aspects Customers Commitment from Board and GEM on sustainability Consequent responsible investment practices Proactive anti-corruption management Customers Manage­ NGOs Commitment from Board and GEM on sustainability ment & Consequent responsible investment practices NGOs Board of Climate change knowledge and preparedness directors Owners Commitment from Board and GEM on sustainability Transparent and credible communication externally and internally Regulators Nordea Media Climate change knowledge and preparedness Group Regulators Climate change knowledge and preparedness Transparent and credible communication externally and internally Increase employee diversity Employees Social Media Transparent tax management (current & media Consequent responsible investment practices future) Digitalisation Owners Social Media Climate change knowledge and preparedness Transparent tax management Digitalisation In Q2 2016 Nordea conducted a stakeholder mapping with the Employees, Commitment from Board and GEM on sustainability purpose to define and identify which groups of stakeholders management Transparent and credible communication externally are key to the organisation. The mapping was conducted in and Board of and internally accordance with the AA1000 SES standard for stakeholder Directors: Consequent responsible investment practices/ dialogues. The mapping was done based on the following 4 Implemented responsible lending practices groups; 1. Group Sustainability; 2. Management & Employees; 3. External stakeholders directly affected by Nordea Group’s work with sustainability; and 4. External groups who view themselves as stakeholders. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 People 16 People There is no business transformation without human transformation. The transformation at Nordea and in the financial industry has significant implications for our People Agenda. We are working to create a vibrant learning environment in which our people thrive. To enable embarking on the transforcontinue the strengthening of our promanaging significant changes in the mational journey a new position of cesses across the organisation, which is composition of our workforce, we will Chief People Officer (CPO) was estaba pivotal part of our business transforalso focus on creating a coherent stratelished in Group Executive Management mation and a key priority also for 2017. gic workforce plan for the whole group. (GEM) and the appointment of Karen Our peoples’ perception of Nordea’s Tobiasen as CPO as of 1 July 2016 image has suffered since last year as a Building future-fit-competencies brought considerable expertise in such natural reflection of the change in pubOur aim is to create a vibrant learning a large-scale transformation. Our Peolic opinion. We are addressing this in environment where we also learn from ple Agenda 2016-2018, highlighting the our cultural journey which includes our mistakes, systematically grabbing human dimension of the business transbecoming clearer on our role in society the new competences we need to build formation, was created. and engagement with stakeholders. our future. Internally, we are engaging large parts In 2016, significant ramp-ups were Creating a high performing culture of the organisation in dialogues around made within critical competence areas Our cultural transformation journey these topics in informal meetings where such as compliance and digital banking includes a renewal of our purpose, valour people have open dialogues around by externally recruiting strong internaues, ethics and behaviours. Our People Nordea’s culture with members of exectional talents recognised in the market Agenda plays a significant role in this utive management. for both deep functional and transforjourney, aiming at improving transformational expertise. mational capabilities and creating a Building a fit-for-purpose To shape competences and a new positive, inclusive work culture across organisation culture, we increased our graduate our organisation. Nordea has taken several important inflow from 79 in 2014 to 180 in 2016. In We have conducted an employee steps in establishing a consistent and parallel we are investing in building fitengagement survey to understand how clear organisational design in recent for-future competences amongst all our our people feel about working at Norde­­a. years. To further enable the transformapeople for example by launching a The response rate was 93%. We were tion, we will focus on improving collab‘License to Work’ e-learning. Building happy to see that job content and learnoration across the value chain to ensure competences for the future will remain ing have remained high, whilst the perthat our organisation reflects the coma focus area in 2017. This includes sysception of working conditions has pany we want to be in terms of culture tematically defining which critical comdecreased. Our people see a need to and leadership. As we are currently petencies are needed for the future and building these across all areas of the bank leveraging common learning methods and solutions. Diversity and inclusion To succeed in our cultural transformation journey, and to be able to have a sustainable business now and in the future, building a diverse, inclusive and gender balanced organisation is vital. We will broaden the scope of our efforts into more aspects of diversity such as gender, age, ethnicity, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, approaches and other identity-shaping factors. Our Gender Diversity Initiative has ensured a continued effort to include “As the leading bank in the Nordics, gender awareness in our people prowe have a huge obligation and opporcesses, and has created transparency on tunity to show an example of a more gender aspects among our people. sustainable organisation and way of Progress is measured with two key doing business. Our people can all be performance indicators and other indileaders of that transformation.” cators are followed regularly: As a responsible employer Nordea is Karen Tobiasen, committed to diversity and equality. Chief People Officer Based on our Code of Conduct, ‘We employ, evaluate, promote and compenNordea Sustainability Report 2016 People 17 sate based on merit qualifications, comTargets for increased gender diversity in the recruitment process petencies and performance, and not on bias, prejudice or personal preference’ KPI 2016 2015 Comments (Nordea Code of Conduct) Our firm view Management 76% of final three 73% When we follow this policy, women is that employees are paid based on the recruitment policy. shortlists for manand men are chosen as often. same grounds and we are striving to agement positions had both genders close pay gaps we detect where represented.* employees, irrespective of gender, have When hiring graduates, 31% of graduates 36% We are addressing this by a more a similar role and responsibility. no gender shall make up were women. standardised recruitment process In 2016 we analysed the gender pay more than 60% of the and by targeted efforts especially gap systematically. The data shows that new recruits. towards female graduates. female employees had a basic salary *due to the organisational change the figure discloses information for Q1 and Q2 only amounting to approx. 75% of male basic salary. We are concerned about the sizeable gap and have invested to be Nordea Group: Total number of employees 34,507 able to understand the true explanations for the difference, to be able to launch the relevant and appropriate actions. It is important for us to understand when the gap is explained by structural differences in positions in the two groups, and when the gap has no valid explanation. The analysis shows that the difference mainly relates to the fact that three reported categories, Gender Permanent contract Temporary contract executive management, managers and Women: 18,955 (54.9%) Women: 17,791 (54.9%) Women: 1,164 (55.8%) employees cover managers and Men: 15,552 (45.1%) of which full time: 14,063 Men: 923 (44.2%) employees in different areas of the of which part time: 3,728 bank, with different roles and responsiMen: 14,629 (45.1%) bilities, and with different levels of comof which full time: 13,760 plexity, i.e. situations that should qualify of which part time: 869 for differences in compensation. Further, salaries and remuneration vary considerable regardless of gender, Salary ratio women to men, % dependent on business area, function Executive managers Managers Employees and team within a business area and between countries. Finally, the lack of 77.7 gender balance in senior management 73.7 75.3 69.0 further contributes to the overall gender 64.9 58.1 pay gap. We have a recruitment policy in place guiding us to include both genders in the final three candidates for manager positions to over time be able Hours of employee training* to create a better gender balance across units and at senior manager level. Average female basic salary Female remuneration Total 306,410 We are committed to equal pay for Average 8.9 the same position and we will take the The infographic depicts the basic salary and remuneration relationship of women to men, expressed in the proportion necessary action to start closing the of how much a women earns compared to a man. * Full year data includes employees part of the gender pay that remains For more information please see the text. from Nordic countries and Poland. unexplainable after adjustments based Latvia and international offices started to use the learning module on the above mentioned variables. In 2017 we will raise the awareness 76.9% 8.3% are covered in the autumn 2016. Therefore, data only covers Q3 and Q4 for these on this challenge and drive the actions of Nordea’s by alternative agree­ countries. The number of training needed to close the gap. We also meaemployees are ments of equal or better hours could not be split into sure the difference in perception of covered by colstandard than the employee category or gender due to limitations in the data collection equal opportunities for all employees in lective bargaincollective bargaining process. the employee engagement survey. We ing agreements. agreements. have been pleased to note that the difference has narrowed from last year, indicating that male employees at Noraware of the gender-based inequalities are needed most. With standardised dea are becoming increasingly aware of their female colleagues face. processes we have been better the gender-based inequalities that exist equipped to respond to new regulations in the organisation. Our new People organisation and requirements. We also measure the difference in In 2016, to support the transformation, Going forward, our aim is to become perception of equal opportunities we brought all operational people deliva fully digitalised people service organibetween male and female employees in eries into one service centre to create sation making it easy and effortless for the employee engagement survey. We ‘One HR’ to standardise and automate our people managers to manage all have been pleased to note that the difour people processes to ensure complipeople processes and for our people to ference has narrowed from last year ance, efficiency, consistency and quality. have easy and effortless access to peowhile male colleagues are increasingly Resources were shifted to where they ple support. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 People 18 Composition of Governance Bodies ,% Male Female Age <30 Age 30-50 Age >50 Board of Directors 56 44 – 22 78 Group Executive Management 80 20 – 70 30 Business Ethics and Values Commitee 73 27 – 73 27 Executive managers 79 21 – 73 27 Senior Managers 68 32 1 66 33 Leading Leaders 67 33 1 67 33 Leading Others 57 43 4 66 31 Employee 44 56 18 49 33 Data refers to Nordic countries only. “All employees in the Business Ethics and Value Committee, are also found in other governance bodies. 8 individuals (7 men and 1 women) are also present in GEM, 1 male is an executive manager, 1 female is a senior manager and 1 female is a leading others. Number and rate of sick leave, injuries and robberies, broken down by gender Sick leave is counted in number of days that employees have been absent from work. The rate is calculated on 200,000 worked hours, representing 100 employees working full-time 40 hours/week. Male Female Total number Rate Sick leave 73,890 198,868 272,758 781.1 Injuries 78 314 392 1.1 Robberies 16 14 30 Data on sick leave refers only to Nordic countries, Poland and Latvia due to system limitations. New hires (total 4,037) Employee turnover (total 2,754) 11.7% of the total number of employees 8% of the total number of employees Regions Gender Regions Gender Nordic countries: 2,886 (71.5%) Women: 1,785 (44.2%) Nordic countries: 2,010 (73%) Women: 1,594 (57.9%) Baltics, Poland and Men: 2,090 (51.8%) Baltics, Poland and Men: 1,160 (42.1%) Russia: 1,071 (26.5%) No data breakdown Russia: 682 (24.8%) International offices 80 (2.0%) available* (4.0%) International offices 62 (2.2%) The higher turnover rate for females is related to the higher proportion of females in job categories and positions with higher turnover rate. * Data refers to permanent positions. The total number of employee hires is Data refers to permanent positions. higher than the sum of women and men due to a system change mid-year Age breakdown cannot be disclosed in Poland not allowing gender split. Age breakdown cannot be disclosed due to limitations in the systems due to limitations in the data collection process. logging data. 100% of Nordea’s employees are covered by a retirement plan 35% are covered by a defined benefit plan 65% are covered by a defined contribution plan Estimated value of the liabilites: Denmark Finland Norway Sweden EUR 3,434,000,000 Salary contribution by employer 11.6% 17.8% 22.0% 22.0% 7% of the pension obligation is fully covered by Nordea’s general resources Salary contribution 5.3% 5.7% – 7.2% 0% 0% by employee 93% of the pension obligation is We currently do not have the salary contribution breakdown for countries outside the Nordics. fully covered by assets that have Retirement pension plans include both statutory and occupational pension plans in accordance with local regulations and legislation. been set aside to meet them Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Interacting for sustainable finances 19 Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Compliance 20 Compliance Banks play an important role in society: if they fail there can be a substantial financial impact for individuals as well as for society as a whole and poor conduct by banks can hurt customers. Banks like Nordea are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing aspects like the amount of capital we must hold to be able to meet financial stress, our conduct towards customers and how we combat financial crime. Compliance concerns everyone Code of Conduct. It has been shared with Regulatory interaction At Nordea we are all risk managers, and the business areas and group functions, Being compliant means we need to folmust act accordingly. Group Compliance which have contributed with comments low all these laws and regulations. If we plays an important part in leading the and suggestions. Specific policies have do not comply, then our regulators can way for all of Nordea. Everyone at Northeir starting point in the Code of Conimpose fines, which also creates reputadea is personally accountable for folduct. Our integrated approach is an tional damage. In 2016 Nordea Funds lowing the Code of Conduct and being example of how Nordea works proactiveLtd. received an administrative fee of compliant. The notion of being a risk ly with sustainability, integrating it into 250,000 SEK from the Swedish FSA, for manager implies that compliance risks all areas of the bank. In 2017 Group Comlate notification of changes in major are addressed throughout Nordea. Norpliance will accelerate the work with risk shareholdings. Nordea also received dea has recently initiated a cultural and compliance education, enabling Norfour orders from the Danish FSA regardtransformation: we are emphasising our dea employees to consistently upgrade ing handling of operational risk, credit values and how we talk about our busitheir skills and competencies to better inspections, AML inspections and remuness; how we talk about ourselves. meet the complex regulatory environneration inspections. These orders did In early 2016 the Business Ethics and ment. All Nordea employees have to not bring any monetary fines, but serve Value Committee (BEVC), was estabrenew their mandatory training, includas an example of how the continuous lished, with the purpose of guiding Noring training on the Code of Conduct. interaction with the authorities contribdea’s ethical conduct. A working group We regularly follow up on our internal utes to strengthened compliance. The appointed by the BEVC, consisting of policies and guidelines to ensure comrules provide a framework for operaGroup Compliance, Group HR, Group pliance with laws, regulations, pretions, it means we have enough funds Sustainability and Group Executive Office scribed practices and ethical standards. to absorb unexpected loan losses; it has reviewed and updated Nordea’s means we treat our customers fairly and we can detect and prevent financial crime and terrorist financing. Fundamentally, being compliant is important “Ensuring high standards of conduct and compliance is a key part of our sustainability agenda. We are making good progress in working towards our goal of best in class compliance and we are matching our investment in more rigorous compliance with a commitment to set a higher bar for personal conduct and accountability.” Matthew Elderfield, Chief Compliance Officer Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Compliance 21 to our purpose as a bank. Being compliimplementation. Group AML & Sancpublic reaction to what the media called ant means we can feel proud that socitions Processes (GAS) has increased the “Panama Papers”. Nordea­’s manageety trusts us to do the right thing and capacity to identify suspicious customment has taken the situa­tion very seribeing compliant goes beyond rules and ers and transactions and has signifiously, launching a number of actions regulation. It is about doing the right cantly increased the number of scenariincluding an internal investigation. The things in the right way every time. os that we screen against. Key compliinvestigation showed that employees ance processes, including for example had not initiated the establishment of Progress in the compliance area risk identification and assessment, monoffshore structures, nor that they had In 2016 Nordea initiated changes to the itoring, advice and training have been proactively contributed to customers’ compliance structure to improve interdesigned as part of the “Roadmap to potential tax evasion, but internal polinal processes and address ethical Compliance” programme and were cies were not always adhered to. We aspects, to properly equip us for the launched in October 2016, with training have now ensured that Nordea Bank future. The Financial Crime Change Proof all Group Compliance staff. An initiaS.A. in Luxembourg has all the necesgramme has developed policies, protive to improve processes for investor sary policies and practices in place. cesses and standards within the Finanprotection and financial advice has also cial Crime area, like the new group wide been initiated. In late 2016 a new Chief standards for KYC and Sanctions, to be Compliance Officer was appointed, who followed across the Group. Processes, will lead the work to execute the ambicapacity as well as knowledge are tious compliance agenda. being built up by the establishment of During the past year we have felt that the Business Regulatory Implementasociety’s demands on a responsible tion and Support units (BRIS) in each financial actor are increasing in line with Business Area and Group Function, and a growing awareness of sustainability the Regulatory Change Management and the need for sustainable finance. unit coordinating regulatory change This was demonstrated by the strong In 2016, Nordea’s 88% of all new Anti-Bribery and employees The License to Work Corruption Policy completed their training is mandatory is revised annually, Licence to for everyone, but due to approved by the Work aspects such as system Board of Directors structure and employees and communicated being on leave, 100% to all employees was not reached The Nordea Code of in 2016. Conduct, Anti-Bribery And 93% and Corruption, risk and of all staff compliance awareness renewed their Licence to are part of Nordea’s Work mandatory training Licence to Work Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Responding to civil society 22 Responding to civil society For many years there has been a considerable division between civil society and the corporate sphere. We want to bridge this gap and use a constructive dialogue to find common solutions to problems and challenges facing the current and coming generations. Civil society is the representative of society’s expectations and demands on us as a sustainable financial actor, and we deeply value their input. On this page we address three issues brought up by civil society during 2016. Ethical demands Cross-cutting sector Stance on on investments dialogues to bolster controversial arms sustainability efforts In the spring of 2016 grassroot In September 2016 Fair Finance movements began protesting in A dialogue between the private Guide and Diakonia published reaction to an approved oil pipeline sector and civil society is extremely a report about Swedish banks’ planned to run through indigeimportant to optimise the developinvestments in the controversial nous land at Standing Rock, North ment of sustainable solutions. Fair arms trade. It showed that all seven Dakota. Finance Guide is a Swedish initiabanks included in the survey had The event generated great tive founded to review and monitor investments in the arms industry, media attention, and several banks the financial industry. Nordea included. were pointed out as financiers of A Fair Finance Guide report from We have a clear stance that we the project, including Nordea. An November 2016 mapped overall do not invest in companies that oil pipeline violating human and sustainability performance among manufacture illegal weapons such indigenous peoples' rights is not the seven major banks in Sweden, as biological or chemical weapons, in line with Nordea’s responsible where Nordea was ranked as numantipersonnel mines, cluster bombs investment strategy. When making ber six. Overall feedback concerned and/or nuclear weapons. We do not an investment we assume that the lack of sector specific guideinvest in companies under embargo the projects have been properly lines and policies. or in countries that violate human evaluated. In 2016 we carried out an extenrights. Our ethical guidelines stipuIn this case, an environmental sive policy inventory, and we are late that Nordea may only take part impact assessment had been done, working to update necessary poliin businesses that are in line with audited and approved. However, in cies. Our updated Code of Conduct legislation, agreements and our retrospect, we are reminded of the came into force in December 2016, own business ethical norms. importance of comprehensive diasetting a clear standard for our Our exclusion policy applies to logues with the affected communifuture ambitions to be a top leading actively managed funds where ties and all relevant stakeholders. sustainable financial actor. We have we can make an active choice to Nordea has placed the absolute deestablished 9 sustainability goals exclude companies that do not mand on the companies behind the (see page 35), one which regards meet our criteria. All investments Dakota Access Pipeline that they the establishment of position identified in the report refer to our reroute the oil pipeline so that it is papers. passively managed funds. does not pass close to the Standing Nordea welcomes continuous Rock Sioux Tribe reservation. screenings of the financial industry and encourages an on-going dialogue between the private and public sector, policy makers and civil society to create common ethical guidelines for responsible investments in the arms industry. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Business areas overview 23 Business areas overview In 2016 Nordea went from three to four business areas, establishing Personal Banking and Commercial and Business Banking out of the former Retail Banking. Our business areas provide a consolidated coverage, stretching from the everyday citizen to the large corporate, and everything in between. From our Swedish base to our reprecoverage of services, delivered by highoffering of products and services to all sentative office in Sao Paolo, Brazil, ly skilled professionals. This ensures a of our customers, and a truly global Nordea offers tailored products and serconsolidated approach designed to reach. Through continuous learning we vices to our household customers and offer our customers the best service strive to always strenghten our perforcorporate and institutional customers. possible. mance, and find new ways of doing We are the neighbourhood bank, and As a bank, we want to contribute to business in a changing global world. the international investment advisors. societal progress and sustainable develSustainability is a must for businesses In 2016, Nordea went from three to opment, and can do so through our today, and the sustainability challenges four business areas, establishing Perfacilitation of others’ dreams. The busiand opportunities can differ depending sonal Banking and Commercial and ness areas are diverse and different on who your customers are. Business Banking out of the former from each other, yet they are still interWe invite you to learn more about Retail Banking. Together with the busiconnected in many ways. A product our four business areas and how they ness areas Wholesale Banking and developed by one business area may be work with sustainability in the following Wealth Management we provide a full traded by another, ensuring a wide chapters. Commercial Personal Wholesale Wealth & Business Banking Banking Management Banking Personal Banking serves Commercial and Business Wholesale Banking Wealth Management private customers with Banking serves our provides financial solutions offers savings, investments, everyday banking services corporate customers to large Nordic and and life and pension as well as products suited with financial services international corporate and insurances to our private to customers’ needs and such as financial advisory institutional customers. customers and institutional circumstances, through and transaction banking The offering includes a investors. approx. 600 branches and services, including diverse range of financing, our 24/7 online and remote payments, cards, point cash management and Sweden, Norway, Finland, banking service. of sale financing, capital markets products Denmark, Switzerland, and working capital and services. Luxembourg, Singapore, Sweden, Norway, Finland, management: leasing, Estonia Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, factoring and trade Sweden, Norway, Lithuania finance. Finland, Denmark, Russia, Net interest income: Germany, UK, USA, China, €112 million Net interest income: Sweden, Norway, Finland, Brazil (representative Net fee and commission €2,112 million Denmark office), Singapore income: €1,521 million Net fee and commission Total AuM: €322.7 billion income: €727 million Net interest income: Net interest income: Deposits: €80.5 billion €1,110 million €830 million Lending: €154.9 billion Net fee and commission Net fee and commission income: €413 million income: €629 million Deposits: €39.3 billion Deposits: €47.2 billion Lending: €79.8 billion Lending: €80.5 billion Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Business area 24 Personal Banking Personal Banking serves Nordea private customers with both everyday banking services and advanced products and services to suit the needs and circumstances of the client. Our customer interaction ranges from face to face meetings via remote meetings to online and mobile sales and services. Digitalisation – a driver number of online meetings contributes In the coming year we will: for sustainability to a smaller carbon footprint. • Keep promoting and developing our Digitalisation trends including mobile digital services to reduce our carbon banking, more accurate analytics and Delivering safe customer solutions footprint and ensure financial decentralisation of access are creating We are committed to delivering safe inclusion completely new opportunities. In this and secure customer solutions with the • Continue on-going focus on new reality, we are developing personhighest ethical standard. During the reduction in use of paper alised digital services to meet customyear we updated our KYC and AML • Mature our risk-based approach, ers’ need for fast, flexible and easy-toprocesses. considering the customer access services. We make sure that our We are constantly training our characteristics in terms of digital services are accessible to everyemployees on anti-corruption, human risk, especially related to KYC, one, including our customers with difrights, labour rights and environmental AML, credi­t under-writing and ferent kinds of impairments. issues, certain that this is crucial to our increasingly for pricing when Personal Banking last year made sigcommitment to being a sustainable prioritising and shaping our nificant investments in remote service financial actor. processes and actions and advisory, launching a number of • Continue to develop our “fair valu­e online offices. This enables more cusThe way forward exchange” concept including tomer advice meetings online, more The changes made within Personal dynamic pricing considering a direct and rapid counselling and Banking sets the course for our continnumbe­r of parameters including increased access for people with variaued integration of sustainability within risk, cost and perceived value tions in physical ability. From an enviour core operations. • Enhance compliance and strengthen ronmental perspective, an increased our operational risk assessment process, including alignment with Group processes • Further work to align with the ESG framework on portfolio level ”As Head of Personal Banking I have the responsibility for integrating sustainable business practices into our daily operations with our private customers. The structural changes made during 2016, when Retail Banking was divided in to Personal Banking and Commercial and Business Banking, have been very positive for the organisation. The division enables us to put sharper focus on our private and commercial customers respectively, and integrate sustainability into our operations. Our goal is to be market leading in delivering sustainable customer solutions and I am proud to be leading Nordea Personal Banking in this transformative process.” Topi Manner, Head of Personal Banking Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Business area Personal Banking 25 At Nordea Personal Total number of employees at Personal Banking: 13,591 Banking, our customers’ Men Women Total satisfaction is a top priority. Permanent contract 4,104 8,727 12,831 We measure customer Full-time 3,754 6,506 10,260 satisfaction using various surveys and touch points: Part-time 350 2,221 2,571 o Customer Proposition Survey: Temporary contract 318 442 760 Online survey to representative All countries within the BA sample of own customers and selected segments in the market New hires Employee turnover on various parameters o Experience Management: Number Share Number Share Online survey to sample of own Total number and Total number and customers who have had a % of headcount per % of headcount per meeting with us year end 922 6.8% year end 1,184 8.7% o Experience Management: Women 433 47.0% Women 797 67.3% Telephone survey to a sample of Men 489 53.0% Men 387 32.7% customers who have contacted Data refers to permanent positions from all Nordic our contact centre countries. Results: • Customer Proposition Survey: In 2016 there were 141,619 complaints registered in The dimensions that are most the Nordic countries for the business areas Personal important to customers are the Banking and Commercial and Business Banking. Netbank, the accessibility and the *The system does not distinguish between different types of complaints personal advisors. • Experience Management on meetings: Customers are In Norway we have held 190,000 remote meetings, generally very satisfied with the saving transports and CO2 emissions. meetings. • Experience Management As a responsible bank we are bound on inbound calls: Customers MyMoney to guide our customers to sound generally get a high resolution Choose a picture for your card economic choices. 80% of our level when they contact us and Nordea donates EUR 3 for products and services are covered every card produced to either by requirements to disclose certain the Clean Baltic Fund or the information to customers. Women’s Bank fund Find Nordea Personal 1,367 cards have been When opening a savings account, Banking Finland and issued during 2014-16 current account, or fix term account, Sweden on Snapchat! all customers must be informed about Through the use of social media we 675 donations to the Clean the existing deposit guarantee scheme. are reaching out to young users, Baltic Fund have been made This information is repeated on a contributing to empowerment between 2014-2016 yearly basis to all existing customers. and increased financial skills. We are always working to improve access to our financial services. We have: • In Denmark we are working to ensure that • We are also working to improve access to • introduced a secure chat for our mobile our ATMs and bank offices are accessible to our banking services in Norway, taking in a application. (Sweden) our disabled customers, through ATM height full perspective of needs and disabilities. This • the Code app, mobile bank and E-invoice adjustments, levelling of pavements and applies to all of our Norwegian branches. service. Our online onboarding process installation of ramps. This applies to all of our allows you to become a customer in Nordea Danish branches. without entering the bank office. (Finland) Products and services designed to deliver a social benefit, their total value and the proportion to the specific product or services categories’ total monetary value in each country. Norway Finland Total value: EUR 110 million (13.9% of total Mortgage loan for young customers, enabling Student loan for university students, a stock of consumer loans) young customers to buy their first home. government backed loan for students to allow Credit for Check-in for our young customers Total value: EUR 3,612 million (14.6% of total full focus on their studies instead of working (18-29 yrs), offering them access to markets. stock of mortgage loans) while studying (Finland). Total value EUR 117 million (4.4% of total Total value: EUR 851 million (37.8% of total stock of credits) Housing saving account: enabling young stock of flexicredit) customers to buy their first home. Savings account for Check-in for young Total value: EUR 272 million (2.9% of total customers (18-29 yrs), encouraging them to Denmark stock of savings accounts) establish a savings routine. Consumer loan for Check-in for our young customers (18-29 yrs), helping to establish Total value: EUR 280 million (3% of total themselves on the financial market. stock of savings accounts) Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Business area 26 Commercial and Business Banking Commercial and Business Banking supports Nordea’s customer vision of being the future relationship bank by understanding our customers’ needs, being a proactive business partner and making engagement count. Commercial and Business Banking Strengthening compliance The way forward (CBB) serves a broad range of corpoprocess, resources and focus In the coming years the CBB business rate customers from the small entrepreDuring 2016, a new unit (BRIS) has area will continue to integrate sustain­ neur to large corporates. The business been established. BRIS supports first ability into the business and daily work area consists of: line of defence in managing risk and by continuing and strengthening; • CBB acts as the customer responsicompliance. One example is to ensure • our focus on sustainable customble unit and offers financial ad­­visory our adherence to the AML and CTF poler relationships. Using the experiand financing services. icies and development of the CBB KYC ence from the ESG tool developed • Transaction Banking (TxB) servictool. by Wholesale Banking, CBB is workes household and corporate cusing to integrate the ESG framework tomers, providing payments, cards, Partnerships for sustainable growth into its operations. The ESG evalupoint of sale financing, working capDuring the year, Nordea launched the ation will be part of the customer ital management, leasing, factoring next Nordea Start-up Accelerator; an onboarding process, supplementing and trade finance. intense 12 week programme, welcoming the KYC process. Hence, ESG will • Digital Banking (DB) develops the FinTech start-ups with innovative ideas. be a perspective taken into account new digital platforms for Nordea This programme was initiated by the before entering into a new customer and supports our journey towards Digital Banking division. Participants relationship, not only as part of the new agile ways of internal and include entrepreneurs with innovative credit evaluation process. external collaboration. ideas that can contribute to increased • the active dialogue with our employsocietal sustainability. ees and management around Nordea’s values and ethical principles, in order to ensure them being part of our daily behaviour and decision-­ making processes. • our compliance culture by ensuring all CBB employees are equipped with the right training and necessary support. • focus on AML/CTF and KYC. Planned deliveries include an automated KYC monitoring process to ensure KYC completeness. • our transformation journey to further develop our ways of working and service model, enabling a more digital and agile interaction with our customers and thereby delivering superior customer experience. ”Our business will be run responsibly and in adherence with Nordea’s values and ethical standards. This we achieve by a robust compliance culture with high ethical and professional standards ever present in how we conduct ourselves and our business. Clear policies can support decision making and behaviour, but culture, mind-set and leading by example are key to ensuring sustainability in our daily work. One key element in raising the bar during 2016 was to establish the ‘Business Ethics & Values Committee’ on CBB level to facilitate a structured discussion around these themes and to provide guidance and best practice sharing in case of ethical business dilemmas. ” Erik Ekman, Head of Commercial and Business Banking Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Business area Commercial and Business Banking 27 Total number of employees at Commercial and Business Banking: 6,577 Industry-recognised Men Women Total success Permanent contract 2,899 3,258 6,157 Full-time 2,739 2,671 5,410 Awards received by Nordea Transaction Banking in 2016 Part-time 160 587 747 The Banker Temporary contract 168 252 420 (Financial Times Group) All countries within the BA Awards 2016 Best Transaction Bank in the Nordics New hires Number Share Adam Smith Awards 2016 Total number and % of headcount per year end 119 1.8% Winner – Best Trade Solution with Volvo Cars Women 36 30.3% Winner – Best SWIFT Solution with Men 83 69.7% Kuehne + Nagel Data refers to permanent positions from all Nordic countries. Highly commended – Best Cash Management Solution with Roche Employee turnover Global Finance Awards 2016 Number Share Best Trade Finance Services in Total number and % of headcount per year end 155 2.4% Western Europe Women 91 58.7% Best Overall Bank for Cash Men 64 41.3% Management in the Nordics Best Bank for Financial Risk Data refers to permanent positions from all Nordic countries. Management in the Nordics Treasury Management International (TMI) Awards 2016 The findings from our customer satisfaction surveys show that: Best Bank in the Nordics for Cash & Liquidity Management Best Bank in the Nordics for Payments & Collections Best Bank in the Nordics For our business for Financial Supply Chain customers it is important that Management we are flexible and available Our business in order to simplify their customers express Global Finance The Innovators everyday business operations. a high degree of Awards 2016 In regards to both of these satisfaction regarding Winner – Product Innovation aspects we see potential for their meetings, which & Process Innovation for Trade improvement, towards both tells us that our Finance Global smaller and larger business advisors hold a high customers. degree of commitment Trade and Forfeiting Review and expertise. Excellence in Trade Finance Awards 2016 Best Trade Bank in Sweden 100% Best Trade Bank in Norway The Nordic Business Awards 2016 Best Nordic Bank 2016 Award for Excellence in Financial Services – Nordic & Baltic Region Commercial and Business We have initated four Banking follows MiFID corruption risk assessments processes, which cover 100% of our operations, two have of customers trading with been completed already financial instruments. whilst the other two are to be completed in the beginning of 2017. Risks identified so far concerns certain insider risks. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Business area 28 Wholesale Banking Wholesale Banking provides advice, products, services and financial solutions to our largest Nordic and international corporate and institutional customers. We put great emphasis on creating long-term customer relationships. Understanding our customers' businesses and the risks and opportunities they face forms the basis for creating value for our customers. Sustainability has gained importance we form a customer and credit strategy has senior members from the business, in the political and economic discourse which are reviewed annually or whencredit and sustainability organisation particularly around climate change. ever ESG or other aspects so require. recommends and categorises the projCompanies are transforming their busiIn 2014 we created a Sustainable ects. The documentation typically ness models and strategies to be in a financing expert team within Wholesale includes due diligence follow up. As of position to prosper in the changing Banking that continues to support cusnow it is only a small part of our total environment. In our own organisation, tomers and the business units in creating portfolio that falls under this category. we develop the sustainability approach sustainability driven business and tools The Equator Principles reporting is availin tandem with the business. for ESG risk management. able on our website. Our ESG customer evaluation tool is Sustainable Financing – a an extension of our previous tools for Green bonds cornerstone in our business area risks in lending: environmental risk Green bonds are used to raise finance for Banks play a crucial role in society, by assessment tool (ERAT) and Social and initiatives with positive environmental providing financing and managing Political Risk Assessment Tool (SPRAT). impact. During 2016 we established a financial assets in ways that promote The ESG tool was completed by the end new Green Bond Operative committee, prosperity. Responsible corporate of 2016 and the implementation process which ensures that the green bonds that behaviour is a means to remain successis underway. It has been designed to furwe bring to the market maintain a high ful in a changing global environment. ther optimise a thorough screening of sustainability standard. Nordea’s activity When financing companies we systemeach company’s ESG risks. and recent successes on the Green Bond atically review that they are transparent In project finance we follow the Equaside also contribute to our leading posiabout their business activities, respect tor Principles and ESG experts are tion in the Nordic fixed income market. international standards and comply with involved throughout the process. The The aggregated amount of the Green our ESG guidelines. For each customer Equator Principles Advisory Board that Bonds arranged by us is EUR 1,538 million. Top management, Client executives and product experts in Wholesale Banking consistently interact with customers on environmental and social matters such as Code of Conduct reviews, sustainable finance overviews, strategic discussions and reviews and monitoring of specific transactions. Customer satisfaction is measured annually by third parties and is a key driver for us. These reviews state our position relative to the peer group in terms of relationship and institutional quality and market position. ”Corporate social responsibility will be an integrated part of our society and hence a deciding factor for how successful we can become. We need to integrate our sustainability agenda into our business and our employees' personal values. We are humble towards this journey and needed improvement but equally excited about the opportunities that this will present. The best people want to do work that contributes to society with a company whose values they share. That is our ultimate goal with our sustainability agenda going forward.˝ Martin A Persson, Head of Wholesale Banking Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Business area Wholesale Banking 29 In 2016 we have specifically Recent country specific discussed sustainability with reviews indicate: more than 100 customers around 10% of the • Denmark – top relationship quality corporate customer and market position continued groups in the portfolio • Finland – continued strong market position, albeit some indicators sigNo breaches nalling closer to average performance of customer • Norway – slightly above mean in privacy were performance and market position reported • Sweden – top market position and in 2016. overall strong performance, albe1 it some indicators of closer to mid­ market performance. incident of nonOut of 11 operations, 100% compliance with were assessed for corruption The league table development is ano­ voluntary codes was risks. PEPs and engagement in ther key means to follow up our perforreported. The incident high-risk countries and high-risk mance. We take great pride in the top happened before 2016. industries pose the greatest position in all 12 categories in the Fixed corruption risks Income review, and similar number one position in the Nordic Equity Capital Markets. (Dealogic 2016) Our customers should be accurately informed before doing business. Nordea Wholesale Banking follows national legislation, MiFID processes as well as Products Contributing to society and Risk Descriptions to inform the customers of risks and characteristics of our products. This applies to 100% of our significant products. We leverage our leading capital markets capabilities to benefit small, early stage businesses who otherwise struggle to obtain funding. Nordea Crowdfunding is Total number of employees at Wholesale Banking : 3,527 one of the first equity-based crowdfundMen Women Total ing services offered by a major bank, and as such is expected to give this new kind Permanent contract 2,076 1,149 3,225 of financing the credibility boost it needs Full-time 1,990 956 2,946 to become a viable alternative. Part-time 86 193 279 Since 2013 we are collaborating with My Dream Now, a social entrepreneurship Temporary contract 170 132 302 that creates connections and meeting All countries within the BA points between schools and businesses. The project prioritises areas of high unemployment and aims to make students realNew hires ise their potential and find motivation to Number Share realise their dreams about a career. Total number and % of headcount per year end 409 11.6% The way forward Women 139 34.0% We mainly serve the Nordic market but Men 270 66.0% our customers have a global reach. The Data refers to permanent positions in all Nordic countries and Russia global value chain demands that we consider global issues even though some of Employee turnover them may not be as visible in the Nordics and only then can we properly assess Number Share sustainability risks and opportunities. The Total number and % of headcount per year end 398 11.3% development of commonly agreed meaWomen 192 48.2% surable sustainability standards still has a way to go before reaching an equivaMen 206 51.8% lent level to other more well established Data refers to permanent positions in all Nordic countries and Russia quality standards. As we move forward and mature as a business area, several areas will be important: ESG is integrated into the customer evaluation process • Aggregate sustainability related data in our customer portfolio Commercial KYC, Follow up • Training on sustainability and risk business Sanctions Credit and on-going decisions management for Wholesale Banking screening screening monitoring employees • Continue systematic ESG evaluation • Offering sustainability driven products. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Business area 30 Wealth Management Wealth Management consists of Private Banking, Asset Management and Nordea Life and Pensions. The business area offers savings, investments, and life and pension insurances to both private customers and institutional investors. Our vision is to be the leading Nordic wealth manager, and to create sustainable returns for our customers, constantly advancing environmental and societal progress. The world is challenged by impacts of tions from a long-term perspective, ESG score used in our selection and climate change and increasing resource including risk parameters, and pair this monitoring process. This initiative has scarcity. These challenges are putting with each customer’s needs and expecjust been initiated and thus only a numpressure on natural habitats and people tations. We measure customer satisfacber of the external managers have been as well as on businesses, presenting a tion through surveys distributed to our assessed so far. threat to global prosperity. For us Suscustomers via email and secure emails. During 2016 we worked actively with tainable Finance is about the mobilisaThe overall result shows that customer stewardship and active ownership, tion of capital for businesses with ecosatisfaction decreased slightly during focusing on climate change, water, nomic, social and environmental bene2016, compared to 2015. human rights and corruption. We joined fits. By advising our clients and acting the shareholder coalition “Aiming for A”, on their behalf we can make important Sustainable Finance an investor platform for climate action. contributions to sustainable economic Our Responsible Investment policy is We commissioned an on-the-ground growth and prosperity, through capital based on PRI, which commits us to inteinvestigation in two locations in India, allocation, interaction with companies grating ESG factors into our investment addressing supply chain irregularities and building partnerships. This is not analysis, decision-making processes and wastewater management in the only an opportunity but also part of our and ownership policies and practices. pharmaceutical industry. This engagefiduciary responsibility. During 2016 Nordea introduced a numment continues through our work with ber of measures to enhance the value the industry-led organisation PharmaKnowing Our Customers we are delivering to our clients. For ceutical Supply Chain Initiative. A cornerstone in our business approach example, a new ESG tool was introis proper client advisory. Past years’ duced, used to evaluate external asset The way forward financial fluctuations require our manmanagers. It consists of a self-assessIn August 2016 Nordea Wealth Manageagers to carefully consider asset allocament questionnaire, which results in an ment established the new unit Sustainable Finance. The role of the unit is to set wealth management industry standards for sustainable and responsible investments, savings and investment advice and life and pensions contributions to society. For 2017 we see a big opportunity to fully embed sustainability into our investment advice and tools. For 2017 we are also planning to increase the transparency related to our carbon footprint in our asset management offering. ”Within the area of Wealth Management, we constantly aim to create sustainable returns for our customers and I welcome an increased interest and engagement in responsible advice to our customers. During the year, Nordea encountered incidents that bruised our customers’ trust in us, and which we have taken measures on. To uphold long term, profitable customer relationships, we have embraced a more transparent and open structure, with the aim to integrate sustainability into all operations. By this approach, we can truly live our values˝ Snorre Storset, Head of Wealth Management Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Business area Wealth Management 31 3,281 companies in the portfolio We have interacted on environmental and social issues We have set a number of with 143 companies = sustainability targets for the coming years, including: 4.4% • Strengthen communication and ­client engagement • Integrate sustainability aspects into our investment advice and tools 6 cases of customer privacy breaches, 4 of • Improve sustainability aspect of which are identified product offering leaks, thefts or losses of customer data We follow the Ethical Principles for Marketing Asset Management’s of Funds, ensuring that total AuM: we communicate trans­ Responsible advice In April 2016, Nordea was pointed €217 billion parently and accu­rately to our customers. out as one of several actors in the “Panama Papers”, where the media 1.4% 71%* portrayed financial advice given regarding tax structures as unethical practice. Nordea has taken this information extremely seriously and of total assets have been of total assets have has consequently carried out an subject to positive environ­ been subject to negative internal investigation. It concluded mental and/or social screening environ­mental and/ that Nordea Bank S.A. Luxembourg or social screening (NBSA) offered administrative services to customers, but found no Positive screening Negative screening evidence that employees initiat• Screening/analysis aimed at identifying •S  creening aimed at identifying companies ed the establishment of offshore companies with well managed ESG involved in controversial activities and/or structures, or actively contributed profiles. The aim and ambition is to create sectors (as defined by Nordea i.e. alcohol, to customers’ potential tax evasion. shareholder value through identifying nuclear, coal etc) This case provides an example companies that have strong value creating •S  creening of companies involved in the abilities and integrate environmental, violation of international norms. of where ethical expectations from social and governance metrics into the our stakeholders go beyond legal business decisions. *See page 2 for more information on boundaries of requirements. It is ensured that the indicator NBSA has all relevant policies and instructions on tax and ethical business behaviour in place. Global Climate and Environment Fund BP See also the chapter on = €145,451,110 Compliance, page 20 The fund invests in companies working with environmental protection and climate change. Total number of employees in Wealth Management: 3,870 Men Women Total Permanent contract 2,135 1,579 3,714 Full-time 2,010 1,225 3,235 For more information please see Part-time 125 354 479 sustainablefinance.nordea.com and the Responsible Investments Temporary contract 78 78 156 Annual Report 2016 All countries in Wealth Management New hires Employee turnover Number Share Number Share Total number and Total number and % of headcount per % of headcount per year end 308 8.0% year end 267 6.9% Women 124 40.3% Women 103 38.6% Men 184 59.7% Men 164 61.4% Data refers to the Nordics and Luxembourg. Data refers to permanent positions in the Nordics and in Luxembourg. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Statement from Head of Sustainability 32 Statement from the Head of Sustainability It has become clear that sustainability is on top of the public agenda. Nordea is working to integrate our proactive sustainability approach into all business areas and group functions, addressing the sustainability challenges ahead. The development of our new proactive ful implementation. I am very happy to tational value. I am very pleased with sustainability framework was a top priorbe a part of the BEVC. This clearly the process and the outcome of the ity in 2016, during which we continuously states Nordea’s commitment to intestakeholder dialogues. reviewed all our policies. This work is still grate and implement sustainability in in progress, but I am pleased that we the very core business. Nordea hosted Building a resilient business now have a new, more comprehensive the Nordic launch of the GRI Standards As a bank it is our number one priority Code of Conduct in place. This core docuand we were pleased to see so many to create long-term sustainable value. ment will serve as an ethical compass in interested participants, which we The Swedish FSA published a number our journey ahead towards becoming a believe indicates an increased interest of reports during 2016 regarding sustruly sustainable bank. and demand for comprehensive sustainable finance and taking environtainability reporting guidelines. mental and other long-term externaliEmphasising strong leadership ties into consideration when managing Taking on the role as Head of SustainTransparent communication risk. I was invited to comment on the ability implies and requires responsibiliWe have an obligation to meet the report released in November 2016. I ty – and clear leadership will facilitate needs and expectations of external welcomed the report’s conclusions for a our future work. At the same time, an stakeholders and public opinion. During need of more flexibility concerning the organisation is never stronger than its the year we carried out extensive diadevelopment of financial products, serweakest link. A successful organisationlogues with internal and external stakevices, knowledge, attitudes and strateal change requires acceptance, compliholders, resulting in a materiality analygies. Our actions taken during the year ance and actions from all areas. This sis with top priorities for Nordea in the all strive to embed sustainability into implies a top-down, bottom-up coming years. We believe that respectour organisation. Only then can we conapproach in which our Group Executive ing and listening to our stakeholders tinue to be in line with all the FSA recManagement and our Business Ethics create strong customer relations. Transommendations and be at the forefront and Value Committee are equally parent and attentive communication as a sustainable financial actor. important as our different business strengthens our position as a sustainareas and group functions for successable financial actor with a strong repuA new resilient paradigm We welcome the FSA conclusions and support the need for a new paradigm regarding sustainable finance and longterm risk management. At the same time, we realise the opportunities of integrating sustainable issues into our portfolio. Our proactive approach is, like nature, based on a resilient structure, where the system bounces back after stress. Throughout this report we have given a number of examples on how green bonds, responsible advice and digitalisation all create added value for our business and society in large. We have really taken huge steps in these areas during the year, and of this I am very proud. “2016 was an action oriented year during which we started the implementation of a proactive approach on sustainability in our operations. In particular, the increase in understanding and awareness of our material aspects and the many operative changes in our sustainability processes have set the foundation for the future.” Åse Bergstedt, Head of Sustainability Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Stakeholder address 33 Stakeholder address As a lead in our continuous engagement with external stakeholders, we have invited Fair Finance Guide’s Jakob König and Martin Norman from Greenpeace Nordic’s Sustainable Finance Campaign to share their views on the sustainability challenges and opportunities facing Nordea and the financial sector. Fair Finance Guide Greenpeace Integrating sustainability into financial activities is the The most important aspect right now for the finance most important focus area for the finance sector. Strong sector is to increase the awareness of how dire the curgovernance and measurable targets are key in driving rent environmental situation is. Having worked towards the work forward. In the case of Nordea, the developthe finance industry for 10 years, I now see some growment of clear investment and credit policies needs to be ing awareness around environmental issues. Unfortucompleted. These documents are basic tools to implenately though, too many investment decisions are still ment sustainability within the organisation in a strucmade solely based on economic performance and do tured manner. They further need to be available online not take environmental externalities into account. We to make it clear to stakeholders what Nordea’s posido not have a Planet B, and this constitutes quite a risk tions are and which sustainability principles the bank that too few investors take into account. There are ceraligns its business and investments with. tain environmental boundaries that we must not cross, Transparency is key for the finance sector as a whole. and I strongly believe that all societal actors, including The past years have seen increasing demands on insight the finance sector, must acknowledge the critical cliinto banking businesses from customers, civil society and mate situation and act accordingly. regulators. There is a substantial need for more transparThe age of fossil fuel will end, the question is when. To ency regarding investment and lending practices. Banks stay within the limits agreed upon in Paris it needs to hapneed to find ways to display this type of information and pen fast. The finance industry now have to decide if it will transparency must apply to all operational areas, includbe part of the problem or part of the solution. The last ing how the bank deals with tax avoidance issues. The years we have seen a highly increased focus on sustainpast year has displayed ambiguities on this topic, for Norable development, not least with the Paris agreement and dea and the entire financial industry, which highlights the the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The finance secneed to include tax issues as a sustainability aspect. tor needs to integrate these documents as guiding princiThe financial sector also needs to adapt itself to the ples into their core operations and establish new common sustainable development goals. Climate issues play a investment standards in line with those agreements. central role. The science based target of 1.5° C global I would like to see Nordea take a leading role in temperature rise should be the climate compass for the sustainable investment practices in the Nordics. It is highly finance industry. Investment portfolios must be adapted in recommended that Nordea develops a clear policy on line with this target, where sustainable banking products fossil infrastructure investments post Paris and finds ways available on the market today, such as green obligations to really integrate the UN Sustainable Development goals and funds, can be of great relevance. The increased into all its business areas and group functions. Sustainable customer interest regarding sustainability aspects brings investment is an area that is under rapid development, out the business advantage of developing such products and Nordea should aim to be no less than number one. and services with societal and environmental benefits. These initiatives need to better communicated by the Martin Norman banks, which is yet another challenge for the business in Greenpeace the years to come. Jakob König Fair Finance Guide Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Moving forward 34 Moving forward Last year’s actions indicate a defined change of attention on Nordea’s sustainability agenda. A sustainable future calls on companies everywhere to adjust their business behaviour in the investments they make, the solutions they develop, and the business practices they adopt. In this section we present the way forward for Nordea as a sustainable leader. Embedding sustainability our customers, shareholders, employees key areas where we believe Nordea will into the core operations and from society, serves us well in the have the strongest impact. In 2016 we embarked on a change jourfuture development of our policies, ney. Our transition from a reactive CSR strategies and sustainability efforts. We • Combating climate change approach to a proactive sustainable have reached two out of four environSDG13, Climate Action, urges society framework marks a new direction for mental targets that were set for 2008to take urgent action to combat Nordea. This remodelling aims to 2016 (See Sustainability Report 2015). climate change and its impacts. At embed sustainability into our core stratWe did not reach the target to reduce Nordea, we continuously integrate egies, policies and processes, and prodair travel by 30% per FTE. The fourth climate risks into underwriting ucts and services to help Nordea deliver target was to reduce internal paper use, practices, investment analysis and long-term sustainable economic impact a target that is no longer material to the decision-making. We measure and in society. Nordea is undergoing an organisation rather an on-going mature publicly disclose the carbon footprint overall consolidation into One Nordea, a process. Our environmental targets of our investment portfolio on a unified bank with diverse competencies, have been replaced by our new sustainannual basis in accordance with the and alongside this process the sustainability goals which have been develMontreal Carbon Pledge, aiming ability governance model is being foroped based on the result from the for a carbon neutral Nordea (see mulated, influenced by our internal and materiality analysis (see pages 14-15). www.nordea.com). The past years’ external stakeholders expectations. This The goals are to be addressed during alarming scientific reports on climate is a substantial process in which we 2017 and we believe that these goals change have made us intensify focus must tread carefully yet progressively in are aligned with public demand for to coherently include environmental order to address society’s needs, our responsible financial institutions, and risks in our internal and external customers’ needs, and our employees’ are necessary for Nordea’s business operations. During 2015 and 2016, The needs. With a clearer, structured goverresilience. The sustainability goals are Swedish FSA produced a number of nance model in place, we will be in a presented on page 35. reports on how the financial sector position to move forward as the leading can drive and implement sustainable Nordic sustainable financial actor. This The SDGs – a compass for business practices. One crucial paves the way for an approach where sustainable business practices factor is the need for more longall regions and business areas work In September 2015, the UN member term tools for risk management and aligned to integrate human rights, states signed the Sustainable Developdue diligence, not least considering labour rights, environmental protection ment Goals, applicable for all actors in environmental aspects. To have a and ethical business practices into our all countries worldwide. This unique 50% chance of keeping the global core operations. We will continue our agreement serves to support global temperature rise well below 2°C, work on a number of sustainability risks, development, and has been set by it is estimated that half of the total including reputational risks and corrupactors from all sectors of society, includreserves of coal, oil and natural gas, tion risks. ing the private sector. The final 17 goals can never be burned and released are all crucial for sustainable developinto the atmosphere. We understand Setting goals and building relations ment to take place, and they come with that even though leaving these assets All business transactions are built on a number of cross-cutting effects. in the ground as “stranded assets” trust. Our stakeholder dialogues play a Based on input from our stakeholder indicates a pure financial loss, the key role in the development of our dialogues and global sustainability environmental consequences of products and services. The input from needs, we have identified a number of extracting these resources are high. (continues on page 36) Nordea supports the Sustainable Development Goals Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Moving forward 35 Nordea's 9 sustainability goals Our 9 sustainability goals have been developed based on the result from the materiality analysis. They have been identified as the prioritised targets to help continue to increase business resilience by preparing Nordea for the various sustainability-related opportunities and challenges, now and in the future. 1. Anchor minimum sustainability goals with 2. Map and assess sustainability regulations’, GEM and Board of Directors (prerequisite for successful achievement of following goals) international conventions’ and standards’ relevance and impact on Nordea 3. Clarify sustainability governance model and decide on internal processes 6. Launch a risk assessment framework in order to identify key risks in value chain (focus on human rights, labour rights, anti-corruption measures and environment) 4. Enhance the ESG screening tools to improve the consolidation capabilities for responsible investments, responsible lending and responsible procurement 5. Systemise data collection and verification process 7. Launch position papers 8. Align diversity policy for the Board of Directors on climate change and establish science-based targets and implement as applicable, according to the legislation 9. Establish a KPI frame­work with individual KPIs Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Moving forward 36 Such actions would pose a great threat digital services throughout the year Goals. SDG 17 illustrates this through of escalating negative consequences with the aim of providing solutions for Partnerships for the Goals. An example on environment and climate, when an inclusive economy. of a collaboration initiated during so called “tipping points” could be Digital solutions can further help us the year is the Start-up Accelerator reached in a foreseeable future. to get a clear and rapid message out programme (see page 26). Nordea We evaluate the risk of stranded to the public and facilitate dialogue is also involved in the My Dream assets in all our investment and with our stakeholders, thereby Now project, in which Wholesale lending practices and we welcome enhancing Nordea’s transparency. It Banking employees share knowledge more complex, long-term risk can also simplify banking business for and interest with school children analyses in which environmental our customers, in terms of accessing in areas with high unemployment values are seen as an inclusive part our services online. In this regard, (see page 29). We believe that this in a profitable value chain. Our digitalisation is a democratic tool brings mutual benefits, as we are last addition to our strengthened that offers us a method to make given the opportunity to contribute risk management approach is the financial services accessible at to empowerment of youth and young Group Credit Risk Management, affordable costs to all individuals adults, and can provide an opportunity established in December 2016. and businesses, irrespective of to innovative entrepreneurs, while at net worth and size respectively. the same time positioning ourselves as • Digitalisation – a driver for an Digitalisation can further lower our an attractive workplace. As the world inclusive, low-carbon economy internal carbon footprint substantially, moves closer to an understanding Digitalisation provides a powerful tool reducing our travel emissions when that all systems are connected, it for financial inclusion and economic business and customer meetings is becoming increasingly obvious empowerment. Financial inclusion is can be held online. We will keep that cross-sectorial collaborations a rudimentary requirement for equal using digitalisation as a substantial are a must for societal and opportunities and prosperity for all. tool to lower our CO2 emissions. economic resilience and sustainable If we can achieve financial inclusion, development. It is with great interest we will also contribute to reaching a • Multi-stakeholder partnerships and commitment to the possibilities number of SDGs such as No Poverty Achieving the Sustainable that SDG 17 brings that Nordea will (SDG1), Quality Education (SDG4) and Development Goals requires a look into how we can further develop Reduced Inequalities (SDG10). These revitalised and enhanced global our partnerships with external holistic effects illustrate the power partnership that mobilises all available stakeholders. that comes with financial inclusion, resources from all sectors of society. including access to secure payments Dialogues and partnerships between and remittance facilities, savings, private, public, governmental and noncredit and insurance. We have made governmental actors are necessary to considerable developments in our reach the Sustainable Development Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Interacting for sustainable finances 37 Interacting for sustainable development 2016 was a year of extensive stakeholder engagement for Nordea. With everything from stakeholder dialogues with employees and customers, to roundtables with NGOs and participation in public events we have been learning a lot about the external perceptions and expectations of Nordea. Here are some examples of what we did during the year. Here are some examples of what we have been doing during the year: • Mannheimer-­ Swartling’s event ”Tax and Sustaina­ bility” – presentation • Aktuell Hållbarhet’s event Social Responsibility Day – presentation • SNS’s seminar ”How Panel debate at the GRI Standards launch, hosted by Nordea. From the left: Mats Landén (WWF), can the financial Åse Bergstedt (Nordea), Andreas Blomquist (NASDAQ), Mattias Forsberg (Save the Children market contribute to Sweden) and Malin Lindfors Speace (Ethos International). a more sustainable society?” Åse Bergstedt, – presentation Head of • Nordea IT Manager Sustainability, Summit in Denmark meeting the – sustain­ability inforexecutive mation booth management team • Nordea Bank Russia at Nordea Bank Executive ManageRussia. ment and ­Central Bank of Russia – presentation and meeting • Climate Change Conference (COP22) in Marrakech in Morocco – participation • Supplier visits to Poland and China • Svenska BankföreninSasja Beslik, Head gen’s CSR working of Sustainable group, an industry Finance at Nordea, initiative to increase at COP22 in transparency on how Marrakech, banks work with Morocco in sustainability in its November 2016. corporate lending processes. Nordea has participated in multiple meetings. • GRI Standards launch Nordea hosted the event and participated in the panel debate. Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Index 38 GRI Index Fulfilled Partly fulfilled General standard disclosures GRI Indicator Name Page Fulfillment Comment Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO’s statement 4-5 UNGC Criterion 19 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 23-31 G4-5 Location of headquarters 6 G4-6 Number of countries and location of operations 6-7 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 G4-8 Markets served 6-7 G4-9 Scale of reporting organisation 6-7 G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, 7, 17 and region. G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 17 UNGC Principle 3 agreements. G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain 13 UNGC Criterion 2 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 2, 8-9 G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 10 UNGC Principle 7 principle is addressed G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles, or other initiatives 6, 32, 41 to which the organisation subscribes or endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international 6 advocacy organisations Identified material aspects and stakeholder engagement G4-17 Entities included in the financial statements Annual Report pp. 177-178, 231 G4-18 Process for defining report content 14-15 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 14-15 G4-20 Aspect Boundary of each material Aspect within the organisation 14-15 All identified material aspects are relevant for Nordea’s internal operations under the limitation of contracts, agreements and/or employment. G4-21 Aspect Boundary of each material Aspect outside the organisation 14-15 The material aspects identified are under the control of Nordea, and thus no aspect is relevant solely from an external perspective. G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous 2 reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and 2 aspect boundaries G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 15 UNGC Criterion 21 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 14 UNGC Criterion 21 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 14 UNGC Criterion 21 G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement 14 UNGC Criterion 21 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period 2 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 G4-32 GRI Index and ”in accordance option” 2, 38-40 G4-33 External assurance 2, 43 Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Index 39 Fulfilled Partly fulfilled GRI Indicator Name Page Fulfillment Comment Governance G4-34 Governance structure 8-9 OECD, UNGC Criterion 1, 20 G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 8-10, 12-13, OECD, UNGC Criterion 1, 20 such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 30 Specific indicators ECONOMIC G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 10, 12, 16-17 UNGC Criterion 15-18 Economic performance G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations 18 G4-EC4 Financial assistance recieved from government 12 One of the reasons why there currently is no financial data available is the insignificantly small figures. ENVIRONMENTAL G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 10, 12, 32 UNGC Principle 7, 8, 9, Criterion 2, 9-11, 15-18 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 11 UNGC Principle 7, 8, Criterion 9-11 Emissions G4-EN15 Energy direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 11 UNGC Principle 7, 8, Criterion 9-11 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 11 UNGC Principle 7, 8, Criterion 9-11 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 11 UNGC Principle 7, 8, Criterion 2, 9-11 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity 11 UNGC Principle 7, 8, Criterion 9-11 Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 13 UNGC Principle 7, 8, Criterion 2, 9-11 environmental criteria SOCIAL G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 13, 16-18, 20, UNGC Principle 1, 4, 5, 10, Criterion 25, 27-31 6-8, 12-14, 15-18 Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new emoloyee hires and employee 18 UNGC Principle 6, Criterion 6-8, turnover by age group, gender and region OECD Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 18 UNGC Criterion 6-8, OECD and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by 17 UNGC Principle 6, Criterion 6-8, employee category OECD Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 18 UNGC, Principle 6, Criterion 6-8, category according to gender, age and minority group OECD Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by 17 UNGC, Principle 6, Criterion 6-8, employee category, by significant locations of operation OECD Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Index 40 Fulfilled Partly fulfilled GRI Indicator Name Page Fulfillment Comment Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor 13 UNGC Criterion 2, 6-8 practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices 13 UNGC Criterion 2, 6-8 in the supply chain and actions taken Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights 13 UNGC Principle 2, Criterion 2-5 criteria Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related 27, 29 UNGC Principle 10 to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 20 UNGC Principle 10, Criterion 12-14 procedures Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non20 OECD monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the 25, 27, 29, 31 OECD organsiation’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of signifcant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR5 Results of survey measuring customer satisfaction 25, 27-30 Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 25, 29, 31 OECD customer privacy and lossses of customer data For CBB and PeB the system does not distinguish between different reasons for complaints. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES FOR THE FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SOCIAL G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 24-31 Product Portfolio GR-FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a 25 The proportions have been specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose calculated on the total monetary value for each respective product and service category in each country. G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a 28, 31 specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Active Ownership FS-10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s 29, 31 portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues FS-11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental 29 Our positive screening includes or social screening negative screening and the figure for positive screening (1.4 %) also applies to the ”combined positive and negative screening” part of FS11. Local Communities G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged 25 Only applicable to PeB. people Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Glossary 41 Glossary A A  ML – Nordea’s Anti-Money ESG – This term refers to how and publicly disclose the carbon Laundering (AML) work is based environmental, social, and footprint of our investment on international regulations with governance (ESG) issues can affect portfolios on an annual basis. the ultimate goal of ensuring that the performance of investment funds from illegal sources cannot portfolios (to varying degrees O  ECD Guidelines for Multiple O be laundered through the banking across companies, sectors, regions, Enterprises – The OECD Guidelines system or used to finance terrorism asset classes and over time). ESG are an international economic or illegal operations of any kind. The screenings are used in evaluations forum with 35 member states with purpose of AML is to protect not of partners and suppliers. guidelines consisting of nononly the financial system and our binding principles and standards customers, but also society at large. External managers – Asset for responsible investments  owners (or their investment covering human rights, labour AuM – Assets under management consultants) can assess external rights, environment, anti-corruption, managers’ integration practices consumer interest, science and B B  RIS – Business Risk through their existing selection, technology, competition and tax. Implementation and Support appointment and monitoring (SAM) process in order to identify, P  EP – Politically Exposed P C C  AP – Corrective Action Plan hire and appraise managers that Person: an individual who holds is a tool used to address nonwill be able to comprehensively a prominent public function. The conformities found in the supply meet their mandate. risk of corruption and bribery is chain. considered higher with PEPs due F  SA – Financial Services Authority F to their presumed power and CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project influence. is a global system for companies, G  reen Bond Principles – Green G cities, states and regions to disclose Bond Principles,. of the International PRI – The UN-backed Principles their environmental impact. It Capital Markets Association, are for Responsible Investment is serves as a tool for investors to voluntary process guidelines that an initiative in partnership with access environmental information recommend transparency and UNEP FI and UNGC consisting for use in financial decisions. disclosure and promote integrity in of six principles regarding the development of the Green Bond environmental, social and corporate COP – Communication on Progress market by clarifying the approach governance (ESG) issues. is the report that all signatories to for issuance of a Green Bond. the UNGC have to submit every U  NEP FI – The United Nations U year. K  YC – Know Your Customer (KYC) K Environmental Programme Finance is the practice to identify and Initiative is a global partnership COP – Conference of the Parties know the customer, the nature of between UNEP and the financial is the governning body of an the customer’s business and use sector, working to understand the international convention. In this of services or products, volumes impacts of environmental and Sustainability Report COP refers to and origins of the customer social considerations on financial the UNFCCC COP meetings. funds, wealth and transactions. performance. The KYC process is used to CTF – Our Counter Terrorist give proper client advisory and UNFCCC – United Nations Financing (CTF) guidelines minimise the risk of terrorist Framework Convention on Climate and processes help us prevent financing and money laundering. Change. the risk posed in providing financial services. Protecting M M  iFID – Markets in Financial UNGC – The UN Global Compact Nordea from being used Instruments Directive, is a is a strategic policy initiative for for the purpose of money regulation that increases businesses that are committed laundering, terrorist financing transparency across the EU’s to aligning their operations and and other prohibited activities financial markets. strategies with ten universally is an important part of ensuring accepted principles in the stability and integrity for us. Montreal Carbon Pledge – The areas of human rights, labour, Montreal Carbon Pledge is an environment and anti-corruption. E  quator Principles – The E environmental reporting initiative Equator Principles is a credit supported by the Principles risk management framework for Responsible Investment for determining, assessing and (PRI) and the United Nations managing environmental and social Environment Programme Finance risk in project finance transactions. Initiative (UNEP FI). By signing the Montreal Carbon Pledge, Nordea has committed to measure Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report 42 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report To Nordea AB (publ) Introduction Responsibilities of the Auditor system of quality control including We have been engaged by the Group Our responsibility is to express a documented policies and procedures Executive Management of Nordea AB conclusion on the Sustainability Report regarding compliance with ethical (publ) (“Nordea”) to undertake a based on the limited assurance requirements, professional standards limited assurance of Nordea’s procedures we have performed. and applicable legal and regulatory Sustainability Report for the year 2016. We conducted our limited assurance requirements. engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Our procedures are based on the Responsibilities of the Board Assurance of Sustainability Reports criteria defined by the Board of and Management for the issued by FAR. A limited assurance Directors and the Group Executive Sustainability Report engagement consists of making Management as described above. We The Board of Directors and Group inquiries, primarily of persons consider these criteria suitable for the Executive Management are responsible responsible for the preparation of the preparation of the Sustainability Report. for the preparation of the Sustainability Sustainability Report, and applying We believe that the evidence we Report in accordance with the analytical and other limited assurance have obtained is sufficient and applicable criteria, as explained on page procedures. The procedures performed appropriate to provide a basis for our two of the Sustainability Report and are in a limited assurance engagement vary conclusion below. the parts of the Sustainability Reporting in nature from, and are less in extent Guidelines (published by The Global than for, a reasonable assurance Conclusion Reporting Initiative, GRI) which are engagement conducted in accordance Based on the limited assurance applicable to the Sustainability Report, with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and procedures we have performed, nothing as well as the accounting and other generally accepted auditing has come to our attention that causes calculation principles that Nordea has standards in Sweden. The procedures us to believe that the Sustainability developed. This responsibility includes performed consequently do not enable Report is not prepared, in all material the internal control relevant to the us to obtain assurance that we would respects, in accordance with the criteria preparation of a Sustainability Report become aware of all significant matters defined by the Board of Directors and that is free from material misstatements, that might be identified in a reasonable Group Executive Management. whether due to fraud or error. assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive Stockholm, 13 February 2017 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Catarina Ericsson Isabelle Hammarström Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 43 The Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 has been produced by Nordea in collaboration with: Bold: design Ethos International: project management and content production Åkesson & Curry: layout and production Nordea Sustainability Report 2016 For more information about sustainability at Nordea please visit our website, nordea.com/sustainability. For feedback, contact us at sustainability@nordea.com Nordea Bank AB (publ) Corporate registration no. 516406-0120 Smålandsgatan 17 | SE-105 71 Stockholm Tel +46 8 614 78 00 | Fax +46 8 614 87 70 www.nordea.com
