Marketingmaterial, Entwurf, Text, Bilder HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Dear Readers, HELOG which is well known as a Helicopter operator for over 30 years, has completely changed business and successfully transformed from Helicopter Operation to a reputable academy for TVET vocational training in 2016. It was the first year of operation in the training and education sector. Today we operate as a privately organized charity association, which is also approved for commercial operations. HELOG Academy has been acknowledged recognized as an international education institute for vocational training by the Liberian Ministry of Education, the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research which, also listed HELOG Academy in the program “iMove”. In January 2016 we started the first course “Industrial Mechanics” at our training facility in Shiefflin with 30 students, using basic elements of the German dual system. This course which marked a milestone for our new entity lasted for 12 months 2 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Apart from their technical tasks, it was our preferred commitment to train our students about the 10 principles of the Global Compact. We have committed ourselves to the international principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We are proud to confirm HELOG’s continued support to this important initiative and it is our desire that our students take the idea and it’s principles with them when starting their job career after completing our training. Executing the first course in our school was a learning process not just for the students but also for us in HELOG Academy. Management, teachers and the entire staff realized this exceptional challenge and did their utmost to manage it day by day. Qualified vocational training is something which simply did not exist in Liberia before we made a foot print into the country so far. Some local institutions are also doing a good job in Liberia, but the number they train is like a drop in an ocean. Out of the 4, 6 Million people living in Liberia approx. 2, 5 Million are below the age of 25 years and are the ones seeking for jobs to feed their families. Having a good training is one of the most important elements to reach this goal. It is overwhelming of what we in HELOG Academy have learned during the first year, from our students, about our students, their history, the family problems, health issues, financial pressure and the day by day concerns of how to survive in general. All of these issues are encouraging us to continue what we have started, and to take the experiences we made, as a commitment for our future activities. 3 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Let me take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to our employees, contractors, donors and friends of ours for the ongoing support which will last but not least enable us in achieving the Global Compact objectives. HELOG Academy e.V. Wolfgang Zagel Chairman 4 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights In Germany, where our headquarters are based, the rule of law and the protection of human rights are taken for granted. However, we as a global player in Africa are confronted with the fact that in developing and emerging countries, basic human rights unfortunately do not have the significance they should have. There are many reasons for this lack and I humbly appeal to the large organisations, UN, EU, Governments to work continuously to improve the awareness and the rules and regulations. We as a small organisation unfortunately cannot do much but inform our students about their rights and start little by little to pass on to Africa what is taken for granted in Germany. One of the reasons for corruption and inhumanely behaviour is also a lack in the educational system. That’s why HELOG interprets the educational mandate as to impart and live social manners along with the technical education. 5 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Health and Safety 2016 was the first un-affected year after the catastrophic Ebola epidemic. To start the first course was important to generate an atmosphere of optimism. With the Ebola experience we have realized that protection measures, hygienic standards, hygienic behaviours became a higher value and required more attention in the training syllabuses. On our operation site we provide clean and comfortable workplaces with suitable temperature, ventilation and lighting, We provide clean and functional washing and sanitation facilities with regular cleaning due to the frequent utilisation. Our employees are all certified in First Aid, our base stations are all equipped with high standard First Aid kits and equipment. All students receive an 8 hours first aid course and have to prove the knowledge in an small exam. Hours, Wages and Leave  For the administration personnel HELOG Academy established a system to plan, record and monitor hours worked by each employee in order to control 6 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 the limit of working hours per day and week as well as requested breaks by law. To establish a fair recording HELOG Academy will soon install an electronic fingerprint system which records the working times properly.  It is HELOG’s company policy to provide employees with a living wage sufficient to meet human requirements; even a higher rate is paid. Local personnel on our bases in Africa are paid above average according to the standard in the respective country.  All of HELOG Academy employees are registered with the Social Insurance Authority of each respective country. The social insurance contributions for each employee are paid by HELOG Academy.  Salary Tables are adapted to personnel qualifications and operational needs.  HELOG Academy provides paid holidays according to law requirements; sick leave is not deducted from employee’s vacation time. 7 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Fair Treatment To ensure fair treatment for all, HELOG Academy follows the subsequently listed principles:  The Code of Conduct  The Sphere Standards  Transparency International  The Guidelines of Global Compact  EUWhistleblowing-Policy  Anti-Corruption Codex All these guidelines are written in the HELOG Operation Manual, which is available to all staff members. 8 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses In Africa there are countries where there is a permanent risk of violation against the human rights, HELOG expresses a strong commitment to avoid that employees as well as students become complicit or involved in any breach of our standards. HELOG Academy has an effective reporting system implemented in every country where it operaes. In case of a reasonable suspicion, the CEO of the company immediately intervenes and launches an investigation into the matter. 9 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 The Director of Studies himself is conducting lessons to generate a high awareness of these issues to the students. With various measures, we accept the challenges in this complex subject and we are very happy that we haven’t experienced any case of complication so far. It is our conviction that training helps to create a better future and provides many new perspectives and chances in life. Our education projects help to make learning a reality for young people. It prepares for tomorrow’s world of employment in a practice oriented manner and in an atmosphere that makes learning a pleasure. We at HELOG Academy feel responsible for business practices not only to contribute to the wellbeing of stakeholders, but also to have increasingly become a long term value for business itself. Thus, by introducing the HELOG Academy, it is our aim to include the human resources offered by the African continent in a qualification process to cope with the challenges of the future. Next to their schooling our trainees learn how to be responsible and acquire the necessary self-confidence to leave the “circle of poverty” which exists in most of the “Least Developed Countries”(LDC). 10 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining All personnel, whatever the qualification, level or nationality may be, are entitled to form and join trade unions as long as they operate in compliance with local regulations. Up to now there has been no request or initiative by the employees to form a union or association. According to regulations in Europe HELOG Academy cannot exert any influence. Any initiative in our operating countries would be supported by HELOG.  HELOG Academy recognize the rights of our employees for freedom of association and to bargain collectievely. 11 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016  The company management meets regularly in order to discuss work related problems and any grievances employees may wish to raise, such meetings are held in the headquarter in Germany as well as on the operation bases mentored by the base managers  Confidential and anonym comments can also be inserted and communicated via our new established Safety Management System software. All inserts are being treated with high priority and sensitivity. 12 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor In the HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) Manual, HELOG Academy insists in maintaining the standards which apply in Germany also for the foreign bases. Local management is required to monitor those regulations and report any violation to the CEO. HELOG Academy has always taken all necessary measures to ensure that it does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor, by  Providing employment and freelance contracts prior to starting work for the company as well as staff regulations clearly defining company / operation procedures, notice and trial periods, working hours, etc.  Ensuring that it does not collaborate with personnel leasing companies involved in human trafficking or other forms of bonded labour.  Salary payments to our local staff is being monitored very carefully by our base managers on site and double proved by our Hum Rescources Department in Germany. 13 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016  Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor HELOG Academy is aware that child labor in developing countries is unfortunately very common. One of the conflict areas is the twilight zone between “helping out” with little of minor activities and regular work under adult conditions. Many people in these countries do not feel guilty when engaging children to work. Poverty and the absence from schools is a thriving element to enable child labor. HELOG Academy does not tolerate any kind of child labour. All our foreign bases are instructed not to employ children for any kind of work. The influence of HELOG Academy as an education provider is excellent. As we teach the future workforce and future employer, it is the duty of HELOG Academy to teach the students in this issue. In all our curriculums we remind the students the rejection of any kind of child labor and to promote general campaigns against child labor. Employees are requested to report any violations on the part of our suppliers. It is up to the management to react according to HELOG standards and to convince the suppliers to follow the policy of the principle. HELOG Academy also operates in so-called weak governance zones . So far, we have been able to pursue our business activities without restrictions or limits in these areas. We are also aware that the numerous problems of the weak 14 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 governance zones cannot be resolved quickly. This is where the input of neighboring countries, the UN and other international organizations is needed. However, we can improve the local situation with our investments, even though they are simply measures for fair pay or the disapproval of child labor and discrimination that will not take effect nationwide. Education instead of child labor With its programs HELOG is on the right track to help improve the education sector in general. HELOG Academy has specialized in vocational training. Unfortunately, the vocational training in the regions we are operating, the progress made to meet the tasks of the UN convention on the Rights of the Child, is proceeding very slow. It isn´t still a rarity that these rights are being disregarded. 15 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 However, companies can take their stake in this process and can provide support for any kind of school and training facilities. To warrant youth a vocational perspective, HELOG has founded the HELOG Academy. Those well trained youths should be able to detect any kind of child labor and should be trained by HELOG Academy to become encouraged in reporting any violations but more importantly to educate the people who are stopping child labor in general. HELOG Academy developed a concept to train young people in Industrial Mechanic“ offering them a genuine chance to earn their living and enhance a sustainable development in their country. They also should become advocates against any form of child labor. 16 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation It is part in the curriculums that HELOG Academy promotes the policy of nondiscrimination to the students, with regard to occupation, employment, nationality, race, gender or age. We have realized that cultural diversity with respect to sex, age, ethics/origin, sexual orientation, religion, ideology, career, prospects and lifestyle do not only involves improvement of image, but definitely also raises the school profile. It is the aim of HELOG Academy to raise and benefit from the potentials created by differences and similarities among the employees of our organisation. Cultural diversity has proven to be a great advantage, despite the challenges in terms of language, behaviour and integration. The diversity of different cultures in HELOG Academy has led to a strengthening of the entire Academy. The cultural diversity in relation to gender, age, ethnicity/origin, sexual orientation, disability/illness, religion, ideology, career, lifestyle and performance not only improves the Academies image, but will certainly increase the potential of our organisation. Further measures have been established to improve our working conditions and procedures in respect of non-discrimination: 17 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016  Each job position has a written description stating the salary level and the qualifications required for that job category.  Employment advertisements do not reference discriminatory criteria, such as race, gender or age (unless legal requirements ask for in the position concerned).  Student applicants are not requred to give information about their marital status, pregnancy, intent to have children or similar information that may lead to discriminatory hiring decisions.  Any incidents of workplace discrimination can be anonymously reported to our Safety Management System and will be followed seriously by our Admin Manager.  Our suppliers and business partners are further proved in respect of their labour standards. On the sample of the Recruitment Process for Helog Academy Liberia, Industrial Mechanik Training Program, one can see some of the criteria’s we have to consider. There are hundred thousand young Liberians searching for jobs all over the country. With our Industrial Mechanic program we just could take 30 students for the first course because of limited funding, space workshops and tooling do not allow accommodating more. However, the start-up was a strong sign to the youths in our area that something has happen to improve the hopeless situation. Even if 18 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 only a few have been selected the others realized that there are some chances coming up in the near future. The selection process of candidates remains a challenge to meet the requirements of this PRINCIPLE and at the same time avoiding disappointing experiences when young people cannot take part in the training for reasons which are beyond our responsibility. What we did was to set up a fair, transparent and rigorous selection process where applicants with the most grade points get selected; while being sensitive to the need to admin also young women. 19 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges The environmental issue is a huge problem in almost all of the countries where we are working. Most of the people are not yet aware of, nor were they educated to maintain a certain sustainability level in order to protect the environment. Being an education provider it is our commitment to teach the youths and to direct the students to educate their families, friends, and villagers on this important issue. Environmental protection measures are a significant part in all our curriculums We begin with fundamental directives, like waste separation or enlightenment about the fact that plastic waste has to be disposed of in the right way. It is not productive to make it like most people do – to careless dump it in the environment. The students on in their work places are often in contact with waste, possibly even with noxious substances. The danger and peculiarities of these substances will be pointed out. 20 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 All HELOG employees and students are required to exemplify high standards regarding waste management in our operation. From experience, this approach is very effective and mind changing. It has to be reviewed regularly and it is also an issue in the general audit plan. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmentally friendly technologies Environment-friendly technologies make a huge contribution to preserve our world. The connected issues i.e. climate change and environment protection are two of the most important points of our time. HELOG Academy wants to contribute with its activities in renewable energies as listed below:  HELOG Academy has installed solar energy technology in the workshop and offices in order to reduce the consumption of electricity, which was produced by diesel generators.  Our school bases are asked to keep the operating hours of the generator as low as possible and to turn them off during day time.  This installation work generates a light house effect in the neighbourhood and in the whole community. 21 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016  HELOG Academy is planning to become a competence centre for solar technology. Negotiations with Mercy Corps, GIZ/Endev are established and it is intended that in 2017 HELOG Academy will be a major player in educating young people in this technology.  By end of 2016 HELOG Academy started to equip a workshop for solar technologies. We received strong support from a company in Germany (Fosera GmbH) which is one of the technology leaders worldwide.  For 2017 regular workshops are planned covering a wide area of renewable energies. End of 2016 HELOG Academy was appointed into the task force team “Lighting up Liberia” by the Ministry of Youth and Sports 22 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Within the frame of the theoretical education it is a part of the training schedule to teach eco-friendliness and sustainability. What is self-evident (or at least should be so) for western youths, is new for most of the youths in Africa. That’s why they get a considerable insight into climate protection and what devastating consequences brings the climate change with it, by what it is caused and finally, how we could prevent it. HELOG Academy is continually reducing the power coming from generators to practical lessons only, where, for instance during welding work, high power is required. The experience in the first Industrial Mechanic course was very positive in regard to the interest of the students in these technologies. They quickly understood that also in Africa they have no other option than to focus on these environmentally friendly technologies. 23 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery In the African daily business HELOG Academy is often faced with business practices which do not correspond with HELOG Academy principles of doing business. In our operations we are frequently confronted with unfair and corrupt methods. Our task to avoid and prevent corrupt methods and stand up for a better future without corruption. In order to avoid any misunderstanding and to have clear guidelines for all employees and students HELOG Academy has created an ANTI CORRUPTION CODEX to prevent and avoid methods which inevitably lead to economic, social and political damages. As a training provider HELOG Academy has an extraordinary responsibility to teach the students to prevent and avoid corruption methods which inevitably lead to economic, social and political damages. With our Anti-Corruption Codex we have developed a framework of regulations to help our organisation to avoid all forms of corruption because laws alone are not 24 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 enough to bring an end to this dilemma. We are convinced that every company has to implement its own anti-corruption regulations to avoid corrupt methods within its own ranks. BASIS: INFORMATION The basis of this anti-corruption codex is „information“. By informing our employees and students of what is considered to be a corrupt business practice and how to work against it, everyone in our company is made aware of how to avoid corruption. First of all the question of what is considered to be a “corrupt business practice” needs explaining. A business practice is considered ‘corrupt’ if other than normal legal methods are used to achieve an objective, especially if someone is bribed. According to our German Law, § 334 StGB together with the Law Against International Bribery (IntBestG), the fight against bribery is defined as follows: Bribery is liable to prosecution when  Foreign officials, judges and soldiers or  officials who work for international organisations (e. g. the United Nations or the European Union) or  foreign politicians or Members of Parliament or members of international organisations, are bribed, for example, to  obtain a contract, or 25 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016  an authorisation for a new product, a company, a subsidiary, etc., or  in order to achieve any other kind of economical or financial advantage. This law is not only applicable to foreign officials but also to officials within the European Union. Individuals as well as companies can be called to account for bribery or extortion. Depending on the extent of the misconduct, according to German law it is punishable with a fine, in extreme cases even with a prison sentence of up to five years. The applicable law is not that of the country where the wrong-doing occurred, but in the case of German citizens the German law. In other words: if a German citizen bribes someone far from home, in a country where it is a customary practise, he will be prosecuted according to German law. Our employees as well as our students must be made aware of this fact. Even a small “baksheesh“ can lead to prosecution. HELOG Academy , an organisation which provides its services abroad, mainly in Africa, does not in any way endorse the “baksheesh-tradition”. THE CODEX OF RULES TO AVOID CORRUPTION Within one’s own company as well as while doing business with partners and foreign officials 26 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 1. TRANSPARENCY A basic rule of this codex is that all business processes within the company are handled in a transparent manner. Corruption, for example in the form of extortion or bribery, takes place in seclusion. The procedures and daily business within our company should therefore be transparent for all employees and everyone else involved. It is recommended  to issue reports,  to document all transactions and negotiations,  to file all relevant documents. 2. INCREASE AWARENESS The aim is to make our employees and our students in general and especially in their field of work aware of the topic „corruption“. If everyone keeps an eye on it, the basis for this problem is erased. There is no fertile ground for corruption to arise. 3. DEFINE SECTORS It is important to define which sectors within the company are most at risk from bribery and corruption. The departments which are in charge of new acquisitions and new contracts, as well as the departments which have direct contact with suppliers and clients are considered to be especially vulnerable. Therefore it is important to prepare the managers of these 27 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 departments on the topic “corruption”. If they are aware of the risks, they will be able to focus on acting fair, honest and incorruptible. The following forms of self-control  rota systems between the managers of the departments,  the obligation for every employee to issue reports,  mutual obligation concerning the signature of documents,  the principle of having „more than 2 eyes“ on one topic are an aid to avoid corruption in the relevant departments. 4. EXEMPLARY FUNCTION With these measures it is of great importance that the executive board gives a good example. A corrupt director cannot attain incorruptible staff. Thus the management of HELOG Academy has set a good example and has shown its strict rejection of corruption with every new contract won abroad. 5. REGULATIONS WITHIN THE CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT Furthermore the strict disapproval of any form of corruption is part of the contract of employment. The affirmative character of this rule strengthens the awareness of our employees to act against any form of corruption. 28 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 6. CONSTANT INSPECTIONS However, constant checks are necessary. The management has to make spot checks to verify that the rules of the ANTI-CORRUPTION CODEX are respected. This is also a part of HELOG Academy’s Quality Management. 7. OMBUDSMAN For any suspicious case we have introduced an ombudsman. (See HELOG organizational chart). If an employee or a student notices any suspect behaviour, he or she can contact the ombudsman. The ombudsman is sworn to secrecy but it is his duty to follow up every dubious circumstance and search for evidence. 8. NO CONCEALMENT OF SUSPICIOUS CASES If there should be an accusation for corruption and subsequently proof of corruption within our organization, HELOG Academy is obliged to clarify the case. We do not consent to any concealment of suspicious cases by for example changing the employee’s field of work or place of work. If corruption case is confirmed, we will take suitable measures and act according to the regulations established within the contract of employment. 29 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 FINAL WORDS Control of success It is our aim to review our daily performance in order to go in line with the content of the principles. This should not be limited to the management only but should also apply to all employees, staff and students. The management is asked to address these tasks in their weekly meetings and verify it by random sampling. The annual COP of the previous year should be the guideline for improvements in the following years. Working in the poorest developing countries is a challenge in al sectors and most often one feels lonely when trying to recognize the appreciation of the principles. Being in an environment where the violations against the sense of these principles is common in business and society requires even more efforts to fight every day for improvements, as little they may be. 30 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Measurement – Facts – Figures for 2016 In 38 weekly management meetings issues of the pinciples have been addressed. 64 students have been trained in the awareness of the principles and their tasks. The number of staff reached the lowest figure since 4 years of operation due to the precautionary health care measures. No accident and no serious injuries happened so far, despite extensive handcraft works. Last but not least we want to thank all our staff members, partners and officials who make our work successful and give HELOG the spirit which we are known for. CONTACT 31 HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONTACT Business address: HELOG Academy e.V. Am Kraftwerk 3 83435 Bad Reichenhall Germany Operation Bases Africa HELOG Academy Liberia Reg. NGO Schieffelin Robertsfield Highway Margibi Monrovia / Liberia HELOG Liberia Ltd Schieffelin Robertsfield Highway Margibi Monrovia / Liberia 32
