Renell Communication on Progress Period 2016-2017 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Renell A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. In the coming year, we will continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations and with the UN sustainable development goals 3-Good health and wellbeing, 5Gender equality and 12-Responsible consumption and production. Yours sincerely Simon Elleskov Director Human Rights and Labour Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policies and goals Renell supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Human rights abuses will not be tolerated. Renell will not engage in businesses with any stakeholders where human rights abuses occur. Renell supports the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the United Nations Global Compact and we have adopted sustainable goals 3, 5 and 12. Furthermore we support the fundamental principles that protect workers’ rights defined in ILOsInternational Labour Organisation core conventions. We expect that all our business partners work with human rights issues in a responsible manner and we expect that all our business partners support the fundamental principles described in UDHR and ILOs core conventions as a minimum. In the coming year, our aim is to continue to work with human rights and labour issues to ensure that all employees are treated fairly, with respect and according to the applicable laws covering our industry and to ensure that our influence on our surroundings is positively contributing to human rights support. Assessment Assessment of our policies, procedures, working conditions and employee rights occurs through:  The annual work environment evaluation (APV in Danish). This is both compulsory and a good tool that enables us to look at the work environment, the ergonomics and the psychological aspects associated to our daily operations. A group (AMU) was voted and established with the aim of working with APV and the members have received courses regarding work environment issues. The group meets quarterly to discuss complaints, possible improvements and so on.  The Nordic Ecolabel. A part of the criteria concerns the rights of the workers such as minimum wage assurance, education of employees. The Nordic Swan has become a very useful tool when assessing, implementing and measuring our performance regarding human rights, Labour, anticorruption and environment.  The weekly meetings where workers rights is an open point on the agenda Implementation Our implementation is based on a hands-on/on-going strategy which means we are continuously working to improve the physical and the psychological aspects relating to working conditions in our daily operations. This occurs through one-to-one meetings as well as the general quarterly meetings All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms and conditions including salary rates and overtime arrangements. All employees are furthermore issued with a company handbook and instruction manual which includes: 1. The company’s training and education programs 2. Information on the company such as the company’s philosophy, the company structure and what the company provides in terms of social activities and facilities such as bathing and massage option, provision of computer access, fruit and drinks 3. The company’s standard terms of employment such as salary, sickness leave, holidays etc. 4. The company’s policies, rules and expectations regarding ethical and social issues such as, smoking, alcohol and mobbing policies etc. 5. Work and machine instructions and education activities 6. Minimum wage policy for both Danish and foreign workers 7. Renell’s sponsor program through which we support hospital clowns, children’s cancer foundation, Denmark against injustice and a number of local sports clubs. Regarding gender equality, we are a member of a an industry organisation which requires that all employees receive equal payment regardless of gender. Presently our workforce is devided into 45% men and 55% women. Renell organises and pays for a yearly christmas lunch, a yearly summer and party for all employees. Furthermore, we participate in the annual relay race organised by the Helsingør municipality and with focus on communal health and welfare for all. All employees are now able to train in a recently established fitness room in the cellar and Renell has organised free entrance to all employees who wish to swim at the local swimming hall. Renell prepares an action plan and implements the actions that are a result of the APV evaluation and of employee input. Renell uses external consultants to carry out both assessments and to provide assistance in implementing the planned activities Measurement of outcomes Renell holds a cleaning services licence under the Nordic Swan Ecolabel scheme which is an ISO type I label and we are in the process of applying for a licence covering our window cleaning. Complaints from employees were again non-existent. Renell has an excellent reputation both within the industry, with customers and the local society. Renell has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policies and goals Renell’s environmental policy requires reduction of environmental impacts throughout our operations. Our goal is to reach a stage where our impacts are minimised to the full potential according to available technologies and procedures We have set specific goals regarding chemical use, transport, waste and sourcing of related products we use both in the cleaning and our offices. Assessment Renell uses external consultants to assess our impacts and to suggest actions that could minimise these impacts. The assessments for 2016-2017 period included chemical use, transport, waste and product use in our main cleaning service as well as our window cleaning segment. Implementation Renell continues to hold a Nordic Ecolabel licence and complies with the criteria, which surpasses environmental laws and regulations. We are also in the process of applying for a Nordic Swan licence to cover our window cleaning Measurement of outcomes We are using more that 95% Nordic Swan certified chemicals in our daily cleaning and we are using 0,63 ml/m2 and an average of 5,36 L/100 km. All our paper products are now Nordic Swan certified and our vehicle fleet is washed at a Nordic certified car wash. All printing of information and marketing materials is also done at a Nordic certified printer. Using Goods and services that are Nordic Swan certified is an assurance that we are using the best available in terms of minimal environmental impact, better for health and ethically correct. There have been no environmental incidents due to our operations Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery and that we will not trade with companies that engage in corruption activities. Policies and Assessment Bribery and corruption in any form is strictly prohibited. Business partners must demonstrate a high degree of integrity, honesty, professionalism and compliance with Renell’s anti-bribery policy requirements. Business partners must have a policy that prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. The policy shall be effectively communicated to all workers. Gifts are only acceptable if they are approved by Renell’s management and are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith. Otherwise, it is strictly prohibited to offer or receive gifts. Facilitation payments are not allowed. It is not allowed to select a supplier based on a receipt of gifts, hospitality or payment. It is not allowed to make political contributions from company funds. Contributions made to charities or community projects must be approved by the Renell management and made in good faith. All expenses and transactions must be reported, properly documented and recorded. There has not been any formal assessment. A risk assessment is planned for 2015 Implementation The managing director is ultimately responsible for handling any corruption or bribery issues. As licence holders of for the Nordic Ecolabel, we follow and comply with ethical criteria built into the scheme regarding compliance with laws such as compliance with all applicable laws. Measurement of outcomes Renell has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery External accountants used by Renell have not yet identified any related corruption or bribery
