1 Corporate Social Responsibility Value-adding partnership Table of contents The year gone by 3 Our focus areas 4 People 6 Workplace satisfaction 7 From law student to partner 8 Society 10 A healthy academic life 11 Completion of the YIELD project in collaboration with Save the Children Denmark 12 We share our knowledge 14 Pro bono work 15 Environment 16 Focus on our consumption 17 Ethics & Compliance 18 Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society 19 In 2009, Bech-Bruun joined the United Nations Global Compact. With our commitment we hope to support the ten universal principles of the UNGC in the fields of human rights and labour standards, environment, and anti-corruption. As part of our commitment, we prepare an annual report, Communication on Progress (COP), in which we describe our CSR initiatives. Accordingly, this report, published in 2017, describes our CSR efforts in 2016. 3 The year gone by In 2016, our unique cooperation the new challenges facing our clients, KODEKS, the new code of conduct of model, the Bech-Bruun model, which and they are developed by us in the Association of Danish Law Firms is the common denominator of collaboration with top Danish and (Danske Advokater), is natural for us, everything we do, really came into foreign experts. and we continuously work with the focus. In brief, the model advocates five principles of advokatKODEKS: entering into value-adding partnerIn 2016, Bech-Bruun continued its openness, social responsibility, handships, with colleagues as well as with partnership with Save the Children ling of ethical dilemmas, focus on clients. We believe that cooperation Denmark, and the four-year YIELD clients and employees, and diversity. is the way to reach the best results. project in Uganda, helping children It allows us to attract, nurture and reto better education, has now been For the eighth year running, we tain the best employees and provide completed. Through this project, a confirm our commitment to the UN our clients with the best solutions. total of 2,800 young people joined Global Compact and its ten principles a youth group, and almost 1,000 based on our four focus areas: We continuously strive to create the of them completed a vocational or People, Society, Environment, and best framework for our employees. trainee programme. In addition to Ethics & Compliance. A knowledge-based enterprise such this we are party to various pro bono as Bech-Bruun depends on having partnerships, for instance with the Enjoy the read. the best employees. In 2016, we Red Cross and WWF Denmark, and focused especially on the developwe focus on helping locally in coment of our interns and our partners. operation with Copenhagen Legal Furthermore, we continuously offer Aid, Sisters of Charity, and others. to share our knowledge with our clients, our collaborative partners Responsible business conduct is a and any interested parties. Through basic element in Bech-Bruun and our Bech-Bruun Academy we offer forms the basis of what our clients Michael Honoré various training courses and events and business partners can expect CSR partner in collaboration with leading Danish from us. We pursue a zero-tolerance and international educational policy towards bribery and corrupestablishments. Twenty-sixteen was tion, and we run our business in also the year when we completed an honest and ethical manner. Our our General Counsel Training Proclients and collaborators must always Simon Evers gramme and our Data Protection know that we conduct business in Kalsmose-Hjelmbo Officer programme for the first time. a fair and ethically correct manner. Managing partner These programmes are adapted to Consequently, adhering to advokat4 Our focus areas People Our objectives • We will ensure that our employees obtain the best possible skills and expertise under optimal conditions, and we will support the right development and career paths. • We will ensure diversity across our organisation as well as good management that focuses on the requirements of our clients and the development of our employees. Society Our objectives • We will take corporate responsibility throughout the training and knowledge sharing processes. • We will apply our core competencies to making a difference. 5 Environment Our objectives • We will minimise our resource consumption and optimise sustainable business procedures. • We will use green suppliers. Ethics & Compliance Our objectives • We will guarantee high ethical standards – among ourselves as well as among our clients. • We will ensure openness within the framework of the duty of confidentiality that is the foundation of our client relationships. • We will be the Danish law firm with the highest IT security standards. 6 People Bech-Bruun wants to give everyone the opportunity to develop their talents, and this applies equally to our law students and our partners. As such, career development is an important focus area in Bech-Bruun. We have our own Academy In-house, and we collaborate with top experts, Danish as well as foreign. For a knowledge-based enterprise such as Bech-Bruun it is crucial to be able to attract and retain the best employees. The best way to achieve this is by offering personal and professional development and training. Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will ensure that our employees obtain the best possible skills and expertise under optimal conditions, and we will support the right development and career paths. • We will ensure diversity across our organisation as well as good management that focuses on the requirements of our clients and the development of our employees. Our 2017-2018 targets: • Increased focus on value-adding and holistic collaboration with our clients and internally at Bech-Bruun. • Conducting a mandatory development programme for all our law students. • Nurture individual development and career plans, ensuring increased diversity, etc. 183 20% 80% in-house CPD courses of the courses covered of these courses covered prowere held at personal skills fessional skills, Bech-Bruun in 2016 including language skills 7 Workplace satisfaction Bech-Bruun believes that happy employees create better results. To be able to offer our clients the best advisory services, we must establish a good working environment to ensure that our employees are happy and enjoy working. The well-being and health of our We continuously strive to offer addiSocial unity is a very important factor employees are high priorities at tional benefits at the workplace in in retaining the best people at BechBech-Bruun, and we offer our emline with our massage and dryBruun. We have a monthly Friday Bar ployees a wide range of benefits. cleaning schemes, in order to imevent, which contributes to the spirit For one thing, we have established prove the work/life balance. As part of unity. When you know each other, a healthy and delicious canteen, of this, we also introduced a profesworking together is easier, even which, in addition to fruit and vegesional bike service in 2016, allowing across practice groups, and this is tables, serves breakfast, lunch and employees to have their bikes servicrucial for our being able to offer our dinner, all prepared by skilled chefs. ced while at work. It is important that clients value-adding advisory services your bike works properly when you based on the client’s business as a In Copenhagen we also have an are getting ready to join the annual whole. Interdisciplinary cooperation in-house fitness centre with the Danish campaign ”We cycle to work”! is an important part of Bech-Bruun’s option of having a personal training Strategy 2020. programme designed by a professiThe campaign not only improves onal instructor and joining various participants’ health and the environclasses such as yoga and pulse ment, it also strengthens the social training. In addition, we subsidise unity across Bech-Bruun’s practice various schemes, such as a masgroups and divisions. sage programme, available at the workplace. ” At Bech-Bruun, the average employee seniority is eight years, a testament to Bech-Bruun being a workplace with a high job satisfaction rating. We are incredibly proud of this fact! Anne-Marie Sparre Avnsted Administrative officer and head of Bech-Bruun’s Human Resources Department 8 From law student to partner It is crucial for us that we are able to attract, nurture and retain the best employees. Regardless at what stage our employees are in their careers, we focus on their career development. For us to be able to offer our clients the best solutions, our employees must experience job satisfaction, and as such we continuously make efforts to offer our employees the best development and training options. Our law students are definitely no gramme for all Bech-Bruun law development of the Bech-Bruun exception to this rule. In 2016 we students. Taking inspiration from model, the object of which is to conducted an external survey, this development programme, we ensure that our in-house teamwork revealing that law students in general will upgrade our ambitious training not only benefits our clients to an feel that they are under a lot of programme for our junior associates increasing extent, but also involves stress. We also teamed up with the in 2018, increasing our focus on their them when required. All partners stress clinic SPINE to assist our law personal development as well. have completed a unique Bechstudents in establishing a healthy Bruun Strategy Partner Programme academic life and a better work/ We have also been working on a new at Wharton School of the University life balance. We want to provide our appraisal interview concept for our of Pennsylvania, which has broadenstudents with the tools to deliver a senior associates, to be rolled out in ed the partners’ insight into the best unique performance while allowing 2017, with the object of offering them possible methods of adding value to them a balanced life. increased focus on their individual our clients’ activities. The object was development and career plans. to provide our partners with a solid Twenty-seventeen is seeing an foundation, improving Bech-Bruun’s extension of this effort in the form For Bech-Bruun partners, 2016 ability to establish valuable partnerof a mandatory development profocused particularly on the further ships with our clients. ” We continue our efforts to create diversity, as we know it adds value to a number of different areas. We are also working determinedly to provide our employees with the best tools for success – professionally as well as personally – by increasing our focus on establishing individual development and career paths. Simon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg Managing partner of Bech-Bruun 9 Employees Partners: 57 Associate partners: 17 Associates: 106 Junior associates: 83 Other fee-earners: 54 Students: 57 Other employees: 138 Total: 512 512 Diversity Partners 8 women Associates 44 women Junior associates 38 women 66men 58 men 45men 10 Society In a knowledge-based enterprise such as Bech-Bruun we know that education and upgrading of qualifications are decisive for growth. Consequently, the sharing of knowledge is also one of our main priorities. Every year, through the Bech-Bruun Academy, we share our knowledge with employees, clients and other interested parties, offering a wide range of free courses and events. We want to apply our core competencies to making a difference. With this in mind we have concluded a number of pro bono and cooperation agreements, focusing on training and development. Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will take corporate responsibility throughout the training and knowledge sharing processes. • We will apply our core competencies to making a difference. Our 2017-2018 targets: • Continued support for initiatives and projects that focus on training and development. • Development of our training courses so that they continue to accommodate the requirements of our employees, clients and business partners. • Continued focus on the well-being of law students, including another survey on the subject. 62 4.6 3,496 100 Bech-Bruun Academy was the score of our courses persons attended youth groups received courses, late-afternoon on a satisfaction scale of 1-5 Bech-Bruun Academy’s training in VSLA seminars, and full-day events free courses in 2016 (Village Savings and Loan were arranged free of charge Association) in Uganda in 2016 in 2016 11 A healthy academic life In 2016, Bech-Bruun conducted a survey among law students, focusing on their academic life and well-being. The survey revealed that more than 80% of the students experienced an external pressure to get top grades, and that many had already experienced serious stress symptoms. Bech-Bruun decided to address this administrative officer and head of surroundings, and such self-insight situation. As a result, we teamed up Bech-Bruun’s Human Resources is hard to come by when you are with the stress clinic SPINE in 2016 Department. chasing perfection. With this in mind, in order to help the students to a we want to provide the students healthier academic life. In cooperaThis collaboration is based on the with some tools that will allow them tion with SPINE we invited students premise that a healthy academic life to navigate in a life under stress,” to various events, the object of which is the path to a healthy work life, and says Anne-Marie Sparre Avnsted, was to teach the students to be the object is to help the students administrative officer and head of realistic, to prioritise, plan, and how establish a healthy and balanced life, Bech-Bruun’s Human Resources to gain self-insight. Attendance and increasing their well-being during Department. evaluations were overwhelming. their academic life as well as preparing them for the career awaiting In 2017, we continue to invite law ”The students are actually very aware them in the law industry. students to attend lectures and of the challenges and are relieved to workshops on mental robustness, discover that they are not alone in ”Today, being a skilled professional exam preparation, team work and their experience. However, many of is not enough. You must also be a well-being, and we will follow up with them simply do not have the tools to good team player, able to cooperate, another survey on the academic life finding solutions themselves, and this prioritise, and share knowledge. To and well-being of law students. is where our events may help them,” achieve this, you need a realistic says Anne-Marie Sparre Avnsted, view of yourself, your abilities and 12 Completion of the YIELD project in collaboration with Save the Children Denmark For four years, Bech-Bruun has collaborated with Save the Children Denmark to establish social-economic empowerment of young people in northern Uganda through the YIELD project (Youth Initiative for Employment and sustainable Livelihoods Development). A total of 2,800 young people have Moreover, the young people have In addition to this, the leaders of the joined one of the 100 youth groups been given the opportunity to regroups have been trained in how to established over the four years. They ceive an education, for instance conduct analyses of politics and budhave received training in how to within agriculture, vocational training gets and how to apply these analyses organise themselves democratically, or a trainee programme. Basically, in a local-political context. This way how to make their groups function they have developed their skills and they can help create awareness of on a daily basis, and how to go about improved their chances of getting a the young people’s problems among borrowing funds and establishing job. local authorities. common savings. ” At Bech-Bruun, knowledge is our livelihood, and consequently it has been decisive for our collaboration with Save the Children Denmark that it should focus on education. We are proud of the fact that, since 2008, we have assisted Save the Children Denmark in their work to provide education to thousands of children and young people in several African countries, and most recently in Uganda. Michael Honoré CSR partner at Bech-Bruun 13 14 We share our knowledge In a day and age when artificial intelligence, driver-less cars and high-tech solutions are climbing to the top of the agenda, we focus on sharing knowledge, nurturing skills, and strengthening our relationships, and collaborating through education. As a knowledge-based enterprise, analysis showed that, today, general Some of the topics of our new training and development are imporcounsel must provide much more Academy Client programme are tant elements. Every year through than legal advice in order to create economics, management and comBech-Bruun Academy we invite our value for their organisations. The munication. The lecturers are experts employees, clients, collaborators and new focus of the job function has whom we also employ in the training others to attend qualifying courses, created very different expectations of our own employees. In 2016, more seminars, morning meetings, etc., and requirements to skills that are than 1,000 persons attended our free of charge. This allows us as well more supplementary to the legal non-legal courses. as the attendants the opportunity to expertise. keep a vigilant eye on new legislation, business sector developments, and As a result, we redesigned our to adapt to the time in which we Academy Client programme in 2016 operate. to comprise solely personal and professional strategic development, with In late-2015, we examined the role skills that raise the profile of in-house of general counsel in private enterlawyers and legal departments and prises and public organisations. Our their value to an organisation. 15 Pro bono work As one of Denmark’s leading law firms, it is important that we lead the way and take responsibility for the society and the world we are part of. We believe that the best way for us to contribute is to do what we do best. Consequently, most of our pro bono work is legal advice to organisations that work for a better world – locally as well as globally. Below are listed some of the organisations and initiatives for which we and our employees donate our time. Copenhagen Legal Aid Red Cross to belong. Bech-Bruun is standing Several of our employees volunteer Bech-Bruun works closely with the counsel to the Mary Foundation, and on a weekly basis for the CopenRed Cross (Røde Kors) and assists pro all our work for the Foundation is pro hagen Legal Aid (Københavns Retsbono on several cases every month. bono. hjælp), donating legal assistance to The cases often concern general low-income citizens. Our employees legal advice in areas such as markeBech-Bruun Entrepreneurs’ event render advice on a wide range of ting and fund-raising. For instance, In 2016, our focus reverted to entrelegal issues. A typical case would be we often assist in ensuring that the preneurs. We invited people to freea tenant’s rights towards a landlord, Red Cross observes the many comof-charge entrepreneurs’ events, for instance if a tenant has paid too petitive conditions connected with which were open-house events, much in rent, or if a landlord refuses fund-raising. inviting creative minds to find the to return a tenant’s deposit. answers to the many questions that Missionaries of Charity usually arise when you get a good The Danish Association for Every Christmas our canteen preidea and want to make it a reality. Responsible Construction pares several Christmas meals for Our experts were ready to advise the In 2016, in cooperation with the the Missionaries of Charity, an order entrepreneurs on contract law, comDanish Association for Responsible of nuns founded by Mother Teresa. pany law, intellectual property rights Construction (Foreningen for ByggeTogether with the order we see that and tax issues. riets Samfundsansvar), we have the meals bring some holiday joy to assisted on the drafting of four homeless people, addicts and other WWF Denmark standards for social responsibility. socially challenged Copenhageners. For several years, Bech-Bruun has The objects of the paradigms are to offered WWF Denmark pro bono facilitate construction and property The Mary Foundation assistance in the form of legal advice. companies’ inclusion of sustainable We lend our legal advisory services In 2016, part of our assistance solutions and training opportunities, to the Mary Foundation (Mary Fondregarded issues relating to donations etc., even at the early stage of the en) and contribute to its vision of bequeathed to the foundation. WWF tender process. fighting social isolation, based on the Denmark strives to preserve and premise that everyone has the right protect nature and wildlife. 16 Environment As a modern law firm, it is important for Bech-Bruun to keep abreast of the latest developments in new energy and environmentally sound solutions that benefit the environment, our own business and our clients. We continually strive to reduce our consumption and to improve our resource efficiency. We attach importance to sustainable procurement and to choosing environmentally sound alternatives. Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will minimise our resource consumption and optimise sustainable business procedures. • We will use green suppliers. Our 2017-2018 targets: • To replace – on an ongoing basis – electronic equipment, light-bulbs, etc., with energy-saving alternatives. • To cover even more kilometres on our bikes when we join the ”We cycle to work” campaign for the tenth time. • Continue to reduce our paper consumption by printing in duplex, etc. • Focus on minimising food waste and on increasing ecology in our kitchen. 18.9% 21,367 46.4% reduction in paper kilometres reached by bike of the food in our kitchen consumption on 2015 in 2016 when we joined the is organic annual Danish campaign “We cycle to work” 17 Focus on our consumption We continuously work on reducing our consumption of resources. In 2016, we focused particularly on reducing paper consumption and increasing our sorting of waste. Bech-Bruun’s printers are kept very copiers will be set to automatically Annual consumption of busy – agreements, contracts, and copy in duplex as well. electricity, water, etc. letters. Consequently, at end-2015 In 2016 we saw a marked decline we launched a targeted effort toIn combination with our objective in combustible waste as well as in wards lowering our consumption of using less paper, we also conducrecyclable material. One reason for of paper. The result was very clear ted an in-house campaign in 2016, this is that we have focused on waste in 2016. Our printers are set to aiming to reduce the number of sorting and on using less paper. The automatically print on both sides of physical letters and instead send figures also reveal that we have been the paper (duplex) whenever we print mail electronically. This resulted in busier, as we have seen increased in-house documents. This has rea reduction of approximately 20%. consumption of electricity, water and duced our consumption by 18.9%. heating. This increase is linked to the Still, we want to reduce our conrise in visitors attending meetings, sumption further, and in 2017 our training programmes, etc. 2014 2015 2016 Electricity (kWh) 942,759 907,464 985,454 Heating (MWh) 881 1,068 1,193 Water (m3) 3,998 3,846 4,169 Combustible waste (t) 79.18 76.60 69.62 Recyclable material (t) 31.98 56.51* 22.72 * Owing to discontinued archive, equal to 17.8 metric tons. ” It comes natural to us to protect the environment that constitutes the soil of our raw materials. That is why most of the ingredients we use in our kitchen are organic. We try to be as environmentally conscious as possible, and we are very aware of avoiding food waste and of sorting waste. Giovanni Fico Head chef at Bech-Bruun 18 Ethics & Compliance We carry a large ethical responsibility on our shoulders. Our work and business methods are based on good conduct and respect for our clients, our employees and our surroundings. Responsible business conduct is a basic element in the way we do business, and it forms the basis of what our clients and business partners can expect from us. On the basis of the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society and our own Code of Conduct, we have established a sound corporate governance system. Bech-Bruun’s objectives • We will guarantee high ethical standards – among ourselves as well as among our clients. • We will ensure openness within the framework of the duty of confidentiality that is the foundation of our client relationships. • We will be the Danish law firm with the highest IT security standards. Our 2017-2018 targets: • Continue to set high ethical standards, internally as well as in relation to the rest of the industry. • Continuous improvement of our IT security. 19 Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society Ethical conduct is decisive for the success of our business. As a law firm Bech-Bruun plays an important part in society, particularly in relation to the protection of legal rights. We take this role very seriously, and consequently we have established a solid corporate governance system so that our clients and collaborators may always know us to act fairly and ethically correct. Among other things, our corporate traceable. The expertise we have advanced client searches. In case governance system is based on our achieved in the area of compliof doubt, our in-house Conflict and Code of Conduct. The code describes ance we share with our clients and Ethics Committee decides if a conflict our guidelines for the ethical conduct collaborators, whom we advise on exists. of our employees and determines and train in measures to prevent the framework for our dialogue money laundering and the handling Based on our own ethical rules, it with business associates and other of personal data. was completely natural for us as one stakeholders. of the first law firms to adopt the Our clients must always know where advokatKODEKS of the Association of At Bech-Bruun we pursue a zerowe stand, and as such we refrain Danish Law Firms in 2015. Adopting tolerance policy towards bribery from taking cases connected with the code of conduct means that we and corruption and run our business current or closely related conflicts of will continue to perform our work in an honest and ethical manner. As interest. In each individual case, our based on openness, social respona result, our in-house focus on comin-house procedures and the most sibility, handling of ethical dilemmas, pliance is very high. For one thing, we advanced quality assurance profocus on clients and employees, and have established extensive in-house gramme in the legal industry ensure diversity. procedures to ensure that any transthat we are able to identify potential fer of money must be completely conflicts of interest by means of Copenhagen Aarhus Shanghai T +45 72 27 00 00 Denmark Denmark China www.bechbruun.com
