COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2016-2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) HI FAB AB Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 2016-09-06 To: 2017-09-06 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY HE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) [2017-09-06] To our stakeholders: HIFAB I am pleased to confirm that [HGifab AB its support to the United Nations Global reaffirms Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. This is our Communication on Engagement with the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. In this Communication of Engagement, we describe the actions that our organization has taken to support the UN Global Compact and its Principles as suggested for an organization like ours. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours 3atrik Schelin CEO 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS To start the work with Global Compact HIFAB AB first produced a new code of conduct based on the ten principles. This is being continuously implemented in the company and it will be one of many e-learning lessons within the company. The aim is to have a 100% of the employees educated in the ten principles. The Code of Conduct (CoC) covers all our employees, regardless of position. All managers have a special responsibility to promote the implementation of the code. All employees are educated in our Code of Conduct and we maintain an ongoing dialogue about the circumstances we are facing. Deviations from the code are reported to the nearest line manager or someone in the management group. Anyone who receives a notification is to ensure that it promptly investigated and appropriate action taken. The management group, and the Board if applicable, should follow the ongoing work on the code and follow up on any incidents. The Company has started up a work with e-learning to better implement the CoC etc. In the following chart the 7 principles is translated in to Global Compact. HIFAB / GLOBAL Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption COMPACT Integrity All employees must avoid situations where their personal or financial interests may conflict with the company. Together we must take responsibility for not spreading information that can harm someone or the company, and ensure that the company’s assets are protected from loss, theft and misuse. Equality and Our starting point is that everyone is equal and that all employees diversity should have the same basic opportunities, rights and obligations. Our work environment must be characterized by respect and fair dealings between individuals and groups. No one should be discriminated against. Freedom of speech We respect our employees’ and freedom of right to choose whether to be association represented by unions in collective bargaining or not. No employee should be discriminated against for exercising this right. A good working All employees will be offered a environment sound, safe and healthy working environment in which all can collectively contribute to its comfort, efficiency and safety. A good working environment is not only safe, it also leads to personal development and job satisfaction. HIFAB / GLOBAL Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption COMPACT Personal We want to retain and develop development our employees. By offering continuous opportunities for development, each employee can acquire the skills required to achieve good results and deliver on our business commitments. Communication With us there is an open and constructive dialogue based on respect for each individual. All employees have access to information about the company’s overall objectives and strategies, and dialogue with their line manager about how their own work contributes to the overall wellbeing of the company. All managers and employees have a shared responsibility to ensure access to the information needed for every employee to work effectively. Unfair working We don’t accept any exploitation of children or other vulnerable conditions and groups in the labour market. forced labour Human Rights  HIFAB has in the Code of Conduct (CoC) committed to 7 principles whereof the following is mentioned: Integrity, Equality and diversity.  Training in the Bangladesh office regarding Global Compact. Labour  All employees will be offered a sound, safe and healthy working environment in which all can collectively contribute to its comfort, efficiency and safety. HIFAB AB has a continuous work with the work environment, both in our offices and especially in our projects.  HIFAB AB use collective bargaining and the employees can join any association as they wish. It is written in our Code of Conduct.  Training in the Bangladesh office regarding Global Compact.  HIFAB AB has written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. Environment  HIFAB is implementing an e-learning lesson in promoting friendly technologies as a part of our skills improvement in the company.  Training in the Bangladesh office regarding Global Compact.  HIFAB AB has implemented a goal to measure all transports in the company.  HIFAB AB has done an energy audit for the company and made savings both in kWh and in Swedish krona.  HIFAB AB as a company has an ISO 140001 certified environmental system with processes for evaluating and minimizing negative impacts. Anti-Corruption  Training in the Bangladesh office regarding Global Compact.  As workshops in Bangladesh was held regarding the new Code of Conduct, suppliers was visited in order to discuss our view on Anti-corruption.  Implementation of our new Code of Conduct with principles like integrity explained above. It means that every employee must avoid situations where their personal or financial interests may conflict with the company.  HIFAB AB has under 2017 implemented a whistle-blower function. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES  The international side of HIFAB AB has spot checks in the ongoing projects, especially those that concern relocation in the outskirts in Bangladesh.  In the annual report HIFAB must give a demographic of the management and employees regarding diversity (gender, age etc.)  HIFAB AB is currently measuring the carbon footprint of the company.  HIFAB AB monitor all legal cases and rulings, fines, related to environmental incidents.  HIFAB AB has intensified our internal audits to ensure consistency with anti-corruption commitments. Hifab is also undertaking changes to reduce structural risks of corruption within its project work. Hifab is now striving to engage local consultancy companies as sub-consultants rather than joint venture partners, and to formally establish its Dhaka office (either as a liaison office, branch, or limited company) so that it may directly employ local consultants for projects.
